melissas j, kontakis g, volakakis e, tsepetis t, alegakis a, hadjipavlou a.
vertebrae in the spinal column are separated from each other by small cushions of cartilage known asintervertebral disks.
treatment sessions are conducted in the doctor's office and last about 30 minutes.
adding an injected nsaid may speed resolution of pain.
patients should avoid exercises that put the lower back under pressure  until the back muscles are well toned.
lack of exercise leads to the following conditions that may threaten the back: improper or intense exercise.
the intensive rehabilitation program included both physical and cognitive-behavioral therapy.
it is an emergency condition that can cause severe complications of the bowel or bladder.
while some studies have reported benefit, many consider  the evidence to support the use of this procedure weak.
botox is commonly  used to smooth out wrinkles.
pain caused by inflammation  is duller and more generalized and not affected by lifting a straight leg.)
pressure on the spinal cord may also occur, producing symptoms  of numbness, tingling, or weakness.
beginning after 4 - 8 weeks of pain, however, a rehabilitation program may benefit the patient.
stem  cells are the building blocks of specific cells.
however, other problems,  including infection and birth defects, can sometimes cause spinal stenosis.
the most common reasons for surgery for low back pain are sciatica and spinal stenosis.
a randomized, blinded study published in the  november 2005 journalspine found that idet was no better than a sham  (fake) procedure in relieving chronic back pain due to disk disease.
patients who take muscle relaxants may experience a number of central nervous system side effects such as drowsiness.
epidural injections of saline are  being investigated for breaking up scar tissue.
this approach uses a tube with an  attached device at the tip that cuts away some of the nucleus pulposus.
more studies are needed to confirm its possible benefits.
by the third month, patients who had saline injections experienced  less pain than the steroid group.
each of the two  branches of the sciatic nerve is about as wide as a thumb.
nevertheless, when it is appropriate, surgery can provide great relief.
click the icon to  see an image of the vertebrae and spinal cord.
when performed, it is generally reserved  for patients who did not experience relief from other therapies, including  surgery.
the tube and attached  instruments are inserted through small incisions.
try an over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory such as aspirin or  ibuprofen.
people who do not exercise regularly face an  increased risk for low back pain, especially when they perform sudden,  stressful activities such as shoveling, digging, or moving heavy items.
half of them reported low back pain but only 24% lost time at  work.
their results suggest that surgical  treatment is better, at least over the first 2 years after surgery.
a british study found that young adults who were long-term smokers were nearly twice as likely to develop low back pain as nonsmokers were.
patients should always try all possible non-surgical treatments before opting for surgery.
nonetheless, experts believe there is a useful role  for these drugs that warrants further investigation.
although many may be helpful, evidence is lacking on the specific approaches that would be most successful and which patients would most likely benefit.
etanercept (enbrel) and infliximab  (remicade), anti-inflammatory agents known as tnf-blockers, are proving to be  beneficial.
when osteoarthritis  affects the spine, it may damage the cartilage in the disks, the moving joints  of the spine, or both.
for example, one  study compared truck drivers and bus drivers.
each vertebra is designated by using a letter and number, alllowing the  doctor to determine where it is in the spine.
for others, there may be minimal history of back pain, but at some point in this process any disruption, such as a minor injury that results in disk inflammation, can cause impingement on the nerve root and trigger pain.
recognizing this presence as a strong player in many cases of low back pain, however, can help determine the full range of treatment options.
however, a review,  published in 2006 by a nonprofit health services research agency, found that  the technique does not improve a person's back pain or quality of life.
during  this exam, a small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein.
exercises called  lumbar extension strength training are proving to be effective.
use a low foot stool and alternate resting each foot on top of it.
coxibs block an inflammation-promoting enzyme called cox-2.
some workers wear back support belts, but evidence strongly suggests that they are useful only for people who currently have low back pain.
bone is then removed from the patient's hip and packed inside the cage.
at the end of the sacrum are two to four tiny, partially fused vertebrae  known as thecoccyx, or "tail bone.
exercises for back pain include: perform the following exercises at least three times a week: partial sit-ups.
stretching exercises work best for reducing pain, while strengthening exercises are best for improving function.
back to top most patients should understand that they are likely to improve over the first month after their low back pain begins, often with no treatments.
this condition  typically develops as a person ages and the disks become drier and start to  shrink.
back to top complications certain warning signs should alert a patient to see a doctor immediately  for low back pain.
those with severe fractures or spinal infections should not have kyphoplasty.
back to top symptoms and  causes
some experts  have also raised concerns that even a single injection can cause serious and  painful side effects, including meningitis and inflammation, although such  risks are very low.
back to top the most commonly prescribed medications for the treatment of back pain are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
high dosages of nsaids can cause heart problems such as increased blood pressure, kidney problems, and stomach bleeding.
keeping arms at the  sides, slowly roll the knees over to one side until totally relaxed.
long-term effect of a combined exercise and motivational program on the level of disability of patients with chronic low back pain.
medical evidence has found that they can help relieve non-specific low back pain, but some experts have warned that these drugs should be used cautiously, since they target the brain, not the muscles.
heat  is applied for about 15 minutes.
etanercept (enbrel) and infliximab (remicade), anti-inflammatory agents known as tnf-blockers, are proving to be beneficial.
hypertonic saline (salt water solution).
this means keeping the ears,  shoulders, and hips in a straight line with the head up and stomach pulled in.
one study indicated that patients who planned their own exercise did worse than  those in physical therapy or doctor-directed programs.
some doctors recommend  changing from hot to cold every 3 minutes and repeating this sequence three  times.
early studies suggest that another tnf modifier, etanercept (enbrel), may be useful for treating sciatica and back pain.
repetition is the key to increasing flexibility, building endurance, and strengthening the specific muscles needed to support and neutralize the spine.
unfortunately, rigorous studies of acupuncture are  difficult to perform, and most evidence on its benefits is weak.
piriformis syndrome usually develops after an injury.
medical research has shown that pregnant women who engaged in a  water gymnastics program have less back pain and are able to continue working  longer.
exercise and chronic back pain exercise plays a very beneficial role in chronic back pain.
sherman kj, cherkin dc, erro j, miglioretti dl, deyo ra.
the analysis found back pain cost over $90 billion, of which $26 billion was spent directly on treating the back pain.
quit smoking smokers are at higher risk for back problems, perhaps because smoking  decreases blood circulation.
spine stabilization and strength training.
symptoms include a slow development of back discomfort, with pain lasting for more than 3 months.
there is controversy among physicians who take care of the spine regarding the usefulness of diskography for making decisions about care, particularly surgery blood and urine samples may be used to test for infections, arthritis, or other conditions.
researchers believe that in most cases the cause is  hereditary.
the effect of surgical weight reduction on functional status in morbidly obese patients with low back pain.
a 2002 study reported that  patients with chronic low back pain who participated in an expert-moderated  e-mail support and discussion group had less pain and disability after 12  months.
the exercises help the patient keep the spine in neutral  positions during all daily activities.
medical conditions in children persistent low back pain in children is more likely to have a serious cause  that requires treatment than back pain in adults.
for the  study, patients were randomly selected to receive either idet or a sham  procedure.
a  variant, percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (pens), applies these pulses  through a small needle to acupuncture points.
when the fracture  is the result of osteoporosis, the vertebrae in the thoracic (chest) and lower  spine are usually affected, and symptoms may be worse with walking.
partial sit-ups or crunches strengthen the  abdominal muscles.
an incremental aerobic exercise program (such as walking, stationary biking, and swimming) may begin within 2 weeks of symptoms.
at least 40% ofall adults have bulging or protruding vertebral disks, and most have no back pain.
" click the icon to see  an image of the sacrum.
it can cause nausea, but does not cause the severe gastrointestinal problems that nsaids can.
unfortunately, opioid abuse among young people is a major concern.
in adults, the most common cause is degenerative disease (such as arthritis).
they are also useful to determine if any abnormal structural findings on an mri or other imaging tests have real significance as a cause of back pain.
the gel balloons extensively into the area outside the  vertebrae or breaks off from the disk.
it can cause permanent incontinence if not promptly treated with surgery.
electrical stimulation percutaneous neuromodulation therapy.
it  circulates through the body, and is absorbed by the bones.
narcotics are pain-relieving and sleep-inducing drugs that act on the central nervous system.
between 30 - 70% of cyclists experience low back pain.
cauda equina syndrome is an emergency condition that can cause severe complications to bowel or bladder function.
celecoxib (celebrex) is still available, but patients should ask  their doctor if this drug is appropriate and safe for them.
radiofrequencies are being used  to destroy nerves involved in the facet joints (or z-joints), which connect the  vertebrae.
patients should also be aware that some chiropractors use alternative treatments that have not been proven or rigorously studied.
because most patients with back pain are on the mend or completely  recovered within 6 weeks, imaging techniques such as x-rays or scans
although a 2002 analysis of trials could find no direct evidence of benefit, small studies have reported some relief for chronic low back pain from either tens or pens.
some cases of sciatica pain may occur when a muscle located deep in the buttocks pinches the sciatic nerve.
this device is  implanted under the skin in the abdomen and delivers pulses of pain-relieving  opioids to the spinal canal.
many spinal fusion surgeries use a tiny hollow metal cage, which is  implanted into the disk space.
research has also focused on tears in the annular ring -- the fibrous band that surrounds and protects the disk.
every cell in the human body starts (or "stems") from a stem cell.
a combination of tramadol and acetaminophen  (ultracet) is now available.
an australian massive public-health campaign that educated patients and  doctors about the importance of staying active and dispelled fears about  long-term impairment from back pain dramatically reduced disability and worker  compensation claims.
the  potential for serious adverse effects from low back manipulations is low.
in any case, it may be specifically helpful for certain patients with back pain, such as pregnant women, who must avoid medications.
in one study, therapists also taught relaxation techniques and methods to improve posture.
patients should avoid exercises that put the lower back under pressure until the back muscles are well toned.
press the lower back to the floor, hold for one second, and then relax.
back pain can occur in any area of the back, but it is more common in the  lower part, which supports most of the body's weight.
osteopathy manipulates the bones, muscles,  and tendons to optimize blood circulation.
according to these studies, contraction exercises specifically designed to  retrain these muscles may be effective for patients with both acute and chronic  pain.
however, studies have been mixed on the outcome of company  interventions.
other tests diskography is an x-ray of the disk.
the particular processes form the joints between the vertebrae  themselves, meeting together and interlocking at the zygapophysial joints (more  commonly known as facet, or z-joints).
therapeutic ultrasound.
it is important for any person who has chronic low back pain to have an exercise program.
in 1990, it cost the u.s. $23 billion in direct medical costs and possibly as much as $85 billion in total costs (such as lost productivity).
disk abnormalities in people who have back pain may simply be a coincidence rather than an indication for treatment.
abnormalities in the annular ring.
get plenty of sleep.
(vertebroplasty injects the cement directly into the vertebra.)
some of these conditions include: any abnormality in joints, vertebrae, or nerve roots can cause back pain, including: in most known cases, pain begins with an injury, after lifting a heavy object, or after making a sudden movement.
an artificial cushioning device called the  prosthetic disk nucleus (pdn) replaces only the inner gel-like core (nucleus  pulposus) within the intervertebral space, rather than the entire disk.
aspirin does not contain such warning labels.
click the icon to see an image  of acupuncture.
at the same time, the bones and ligaments of the spine swell or grow larger due to arthritis and chronic inflammation.
back to top exercise and physical therapy the role of physical therapy physical therapy with a trained professional may be useful if pain has not  improved after 3 - 4 weeks.
osteopathy was also founded in the 1800s.
the patients are  barely aware of the sensation.
psychological and social factors psychological factors are known to play a strong influential role in three  phases of low back pain: some evidence suggests preexisting depression and the inability to cope  may be more likely to predict the onset of pain than physical problems.
some patients who take  tramadol experience severe itching.
common side effects of opioids include anxiety, constipation, nausea and vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness, paranoia, urinary retention, restlessness, and labored or slow breathing.
however, a 2005  clinical trial found that spinal fusion surgery worked no better than intensive  rehabilitation in reducing disability.
tnf modifiers block the action of tumor necrosis factor, a protein involved in inflammatory response.
beginning after 4 - 8 weeks of pain, however, a rehabilitation  program may benefit the patient.
the technique implants artificial disks (prodisc, link, sb charite) consisting of two metal plates and a soft core.
cognitive-behavioral therapy.
however, a 2005 clinical trial found that spinal fusion surgery worked no better than intensive rehabilitation in reducing disability.
a correct pattern of stimulation appears to be important for optimal relief and needs to be determined.
although little research has been done on such complications, an english  survey indicated that they are more frequent than commonly thought.
proton-pump inhibitors may help to prevent and heal ulcers caused by  nsaids.
early studies suggest that another tnf modifier,  etanercept (enbrel), may be useful for treating sciatica and back pain.
a procedure called a facet block is also useful in locating areas of specific damage.
the injection is usually an epidural, which  is directed into the spaces between the outer membrane of the spine and the  vertebrae.
the spinous and transverse processes attach to  the muscles in the back and act like little levers, allowing the spine to twist  or bend.
magnetic resonance imaging (mri)  can provide very well-defined images of soft tissue and bone.
the spinous and transverse processes attach to the muscles in the back and act like little levers, allowing the spine to twist or bend.
in appropriate candidates it provides faster immediate relief than medical treatment, but long-term benefits (over 5 years) are uncertain.
the nerve branches, then passes down each hip and along the back of each  thigh to the foot.
mercado ac, carroll lj, cassidy jd, cote p. passive coping is a risk factor for disabling neck or low back pain.
the back is usually stiff in the morning; pain improves with exercise.
a major 2003 analysis, however, reported that current evidence did not support the benefits of spinal manipulation over general medical care or physical therapy for either acute or chronic back pain.
sep 23;333(7569):626.
flexibility exercises may help reduce  pain.
inflammatory conditions and arthritis inflammatory disorders and arthritis syndromes can produce inflammation in  the spine.
most herbal remedies used for back pain have both pain-relief and  anti-inflammatory effects.
tears in the annular ring are a  frequent finding in patients with degenerative disk disease.
there are a number of variations, but one example of a spinal  manipulation technique is the following:
kyphoplasty should only be done if bed rest, medicines, and physical therapy do not relieve back pain.
the facet joints (z-joints) can wear down; in such cases, pain occurs on  arching the back or when walking.
note: no one with low back pain should perform exercises that require  bending over right after getting up in the morning.
it has largely been replaced by ct and mri scans.
spondylolisthesis spondylolisthesis occurs when one of the lumbar vertebrae slips over  another, or over the sacrum.
in some cases they are asked to walk on a treadmill to test for weakness  in toe or heel walking (which may indicate stenosis).
it should be noted that tricyclics can  have severe side effects.
they may also be used to remove  benign tumors on the spine.
using specific tasks and self-observation, patients gradually shift their fixed ideas that they are helpless against the pain that dominates their lives to the perception that pain is only one negative and, to a degree, a manageable experience among many positive ones.
sciatica is not a diagnosis but a description of symptoms that include: causes of sciatica.
many patients with acute and uncomplicated low back pain  believe that plain x-rays of the spinal column are important in a diagnosis.
chronic back pain  has become one of the most expensive causes of disability among workers under  the age of 45.
devil's claw (harpagophytum procumbens) is an african herb  sometimes used to relieve arthritic pain.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing spinal fusion.
the patient lies face down  on a special table, clutching hand grips and wearing a pelvic harness.
often this results in a greater sense of ease and mobility.
specific and regular exercise under the guidance of a trained professional  is important for reducing pain and improving function, although patients often  find it difficult to maintain therapy.
back to top the health care provider should give patients solid information on the expected course of their low back pain and self-care options before discussing surgery.
exercises performed after a simple diskectomy do not seem to provide much added benefit over time.
the emotional effects of such  connections may be as important for healing as the treatments themselves.
jogging is usually  not recommended, at least not until the pain is gone and muscles are stronger.
they  are designed to achieve a physical and mental balance and can be very helpful  in preventing recurrences of low back pain.
it first branches from the nerve roots that travel down from the lowest  part of the spinal cord (in the lumbar and sacral areas).
(note: heat or cold treatments do not  have much effect on sciatica.)
acute  pain is the most common type of back pain.
a small pillow or rolled towel behind the lower back  helps relieve pressure while either sitting or driving.
the incision  requires little more than a band-aid and complications are minimal.
an incremental aerobic exercise program (such as walking, stationary  biking, and swimming) may begin within 2 weeks of symptoms.
although many may be helpful, evidence is lacking on the  specific approaches that would be most successful and which patients would most  likely benefit.
an australian massive public-health campaign that educated patients and doctors about the importance of staying active and dispelled fears about long-term impairment from back pain dramatically reduced disability and worker compensation claims.
it involves inserting small needles or exerting pressure on certain  "energy" points in the body.
another found that  after 3 weeks, patients who were in pain after back surgery had less discomfort  and slept better after practicing relaxation imagery techniques while listening  to music for 25 minutes a day.
kyphoplasty should only be done if bed rest, medicines, and physical therapy do  not relieve back pain.
more studies  are needed to confirm its possible benefits.
an injection of a corticosteroid (commonly called a  steroid) is directed as close to the injured location as possible.
the intensive rehabilitation program  included both physical and cognitive-behavioral therapy.
white willow bark, bromelain, and boswellia have blood-thinning properties  and can interfere with anticoagulant medications such as warfarin (coumadin).
strain and injury to the muscles and ligaments supporting the back are the major causes of low back pain.
hyperlordosis is an inborn exaggerated inward curve in the lumbar  area.
spinal manipulation for uncomplicated acute low back pain.
before having any surgery, it is extremely important that the patient is sure the surgeon has had significant experience with the procedure.
tumor-necrosis factor (tnf) modifiers.
the health care provider may also touch  parts of the body lightly with a pin, cotton swab, or feather to test for  numbness and nerve sensitivity.
high dosages of nsaids can cause heart problems such as increased  blood pressure, kidney problems, and stomach bleeding.
these new techniques are less invasive than standard "open" surgical approaches, which use wide incisions.
according to the bureau of labor statistics, back pain was responsible for 62%  of cases of people missing work due to pain involving the upper body.
smokers are at higher risk for back problems, perhaps because smoking decreases blood circulation.
[for more information, seein-depth report #18:  osteoporosis.]
disk disease, spinal  arthritis, and muscle spasms are the most common diagnoses.
they rely on nearby blood vessels to keep them nourished.
mild and temporary side effects from spinal manipulation are common.
the disks have no blood supply of their own.
discomfort is minimal.
the health care provider injects bone cement into the space surrounding a fractured vertebra.
alternative  means it is done in place of conventional medicine.
a disk in the lumbar area  becomes herniated when it ruptures or thins out, and degenerates to the point  that the gel within the disk (the nucleus pulposus) pushes outward.
those who over-respond to pain and fear for their  long-term outlook tend to feel out of control and become discouraged,  increasing their risk for long-term problems.
magnetic resonance imaging (mri) can provide very well-defined images of soft tissue and bone.
freeman bj, fraser rd, cain cm, hall dj, chapple dc.
neither approach is helpful for relief of acute low back pain in most patients.
exercise plays a very beneficial role in chronic back pain.
others believe ice packs should be applied first.
herniated disk a herniated disk, sometimes (incorrectly) called a slipped disk, is a  common cause of severe back pain and sciatica.
all patients should require objective evidence on the benefits of their treatments.
jobs that involve lifting, bending, and twisting into awkward positions, as well as those that cause whole-body vibration (such as long-distance truck driving), place workers at particular risk for low back pain.
at that time, the disks are  more fluid-filled and more vulnerable to pressure from this movement.
flexibility exercises.
alternatively, rather than performing a bone  graft, the cage is filled with a sponge-like material containing a  genetically-engineered protein called infuse (rhbmp-2) that promotes bone to  grow.
a number of minimally invasive variations are now available.
it has opioid-like properties, but is not as addictive.
nearly all the truck drivers  liked their work.
the resulting condition is called piriformis syndrome.
and  yet another study reported that low rank, low social support, and high stress  in soldiers was associated with a higher risk for disabling back pain.
these new  techniques are less invasive than standard "open" surgical  approaches, which use wide incisions.
serious infections have  been reported with this treatment, however.
improper or intense exercise.
chronic back pain is associated with decreased prefrontal and thalamic gray matter density.
chronic uterine or pelvic infections can cause low back pain in women.
spinal manipulation may be useful for acute back pain that persists beyond 2 - 3 weeks.
percutaneous vertebroplasty involves the injection of a cement-like bone substitute into vertebrae with compression fractures.
back to top diagnosis although most episodes of new back pain, as well as exacerbations of  chronic back pain, clear up or return to a previous level of discomfort, a  medical history and a brief physical examination is always necessary.
there have been a number of reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
vertebral axial decompression (vax-d)  may reduce pain and improve function in patients with chronic low back pain,  including sciatic pain that radiates down the leg.
specific exercises for low back strength perform the following exercises at least three times a week: partial sit-ups.
would the improvements last and, if so, for how long?
the incidence of  low back pain and sciatica increases in women at the time of menopause as they  lose bone density.
only a few randomized trials have compared this procedure with nonoperative treatment.
studies also suggest that patients who reported prolonged emotional  distress have less favorable outcomes after back surgeries.
spread your feet apart to give yourself a wide base of support.
a procedure called a facet block is also useful in locating areas of  specific damage.
it is best not to stand for long periods of time.
however, following numerous reports of  cardiovascular events, gastrointestinal problems, and skin rashes, the fda is  currently re-evaluating the relative risks and benefits of this drug class.
one study indicated that patients who  planned their own exercise program did worse than those in physical therapy or  doctor-directed programs.
it is extremely important that the patient is sure that the health care provider has had significant experience performing the vertebroplasty procedure.
symptoms may include: pain in the thighs and buttocks stiffness muscle tightness tenderness in the slipped area pain generally occurs with activity and is better with rest.
after  26 weeks, those who took yoga had less pain and better back function, and used  fewer pain relievers than the others.
hayden ja, van tulder mw, malmivaara av, koes bw.
tnf modifiers block the  action of tumor necrosis factor, a protein involved in inflammatory response.
serious infections have  been reported.
researchers in england have pioneered a new technique to grow new spinal tissue using the patient's own stem cells.
the bones can then  be seen using x-rays orsingle photon emission computed tomography (spect).
in most known cases, pain begins with an injury, after lifting a heavy  object, or after making a sudden movement.
one-third of adults over 20 show signs of herniated disks (although only 3% of  these disks cause symptoms).
the  numbers start with 1 at the top of a region and count up as the vertebrae  descend within the region.
symptoms depend upon the area of the back that is affected; however, most fractures are stable and do not produce neurological symptoms.
effects on work studies have found that when people stay home because of back injury, only  65% are back at work within a week.
there is controversy among  physicians who take care of the spine regarding the usefulness of diskography  for making decisions about care, particularly surgery blood and urine samples may be used to test for infections, arthritis, or  other conditions.
scoliosis, an abnormal curvature of the spine in children, does not  usually cause back pain.
a study in the journalobesity surgery found that bariatric (stomach stapling) surgery significantly improves the degree of disability in morbidly obese patients who have low back pain.
it is extremely  important that the patient is sure that the health care provider has had  significant experience performing the vertebroplasty procedure.
when performed, it is generally reserved for patients who did not experience relief from other therapies, including surgery.
retraining deep muscles.
each session lasts about 30 minutes.
there are multiple treatments for this potentially disabling disease, including various immune suppressant medications.
frost h, stewart-brown s. acupressure for low back pain.
there are different types of back pain exercises.
twitter digg facebook  more... email print rss description  an  in-depth report on the causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of back  pain, including sciatica.
this procedure requires injections into disks suspected of being the source of pain and disks nearby.
the surgery may not work in obese patients.
in addition, compression fractures are often responsible for  loss of height.
any new or worsening neurological symptoms, such as weakness in a specific  part of the legs or feet history of cancer, or currently being treated for cancer problems emptying the bowels or bladder, including incontinence unexplained weight loss physical examination the main goal of a physical exam is to try and determine the source of the  pain and the limits of movement.
the  technique implants artificial disks (prodisc, link, sb charite) consisting of  two metal plates and a soft core.
a 2003 study found that epidural  corticosteroid injections provided no greater benefit than saline injections  for patients with sciatica.
(the sensation is described as similar to a mosquito  bite.)
some patients consider spinal manipulation to be highly effective for chronic low back pain.
a british study found that young adults who were long-term smokers were nearly twice as likely to develop low back pain as nonsmokers.
some studies have reported positive benefits to idet; others say it does not significantly reduce pain.
stretching lower-back muscles.
the gel has pushed out slightly and asymmetrically in  different places.
vertebral axial decompression (vax-d) may reduce pain and improve function in patients with chronic low back pain, including sciatic pain that radiates down the leg.
however, few studies  have been conducted to determine the procedure's real effectiveness.
avoid  caffeine in the afternoon and evening, and unwind before bed by taking a warm  bath or practicing relaxation techniques.
a randomized clinical trial of continuous low-level heat therapy for acute muscular low back pain in the workplace.
warning: the food and drug administration (fda) has warned consumers that  polymethylmethacrylate bone cement, used during vertebroplasty, could leak.
the disease is more common in men, but about 30% of the cases are in women.
the patient should be able to describe the back pain and its history in the  following manner:
to test nerve function and reflexes, the health care provider will tap the  knees and ankles with a rubber hammer.
the bones can then be seen using x-rays orsingle photon emission computed tomography (spect).
atoims uses an automated mechanical device that vibrates the muscle using a tiny pin.
starting intensive exercise 4 - 6 weeks after a first-time disk  surgery appears to be very helpful for speeding up recovery.
scar tissue is a significant problem, since it can cause persistent low  back pain afterward.
these agents show particular promise in  providing pain relief and reducing the risk for gi problems.
back to top complementary and alternative medicine  a number of  complementary and alternative treatments are used to relieve back pain.
social and psychological factors, as well as job satisfaction, all play a  role in the severity of a person's perception of back pain.
novel ways to deliver pain medicine have been developed.
the procedure is thought to alleviate pain  and enhance healing by relieving pressure within the disks, promoting the  in-flow of oxygen, fluids, and nutrients to the spinal column.
the benefits for chronic back pain are less certain.
it is performed through a small incision (1 to 1-1/2 inch).
the pelvic tilt alleviates tight or fatigued lower back muscles.
for the study, 101 adults with low back pain were randomly assigned to one of  three groups.
there  is also some debate about how pain develops from a herniated disk and how  frequently it causes low back pain.
other causes of spondylolisthesis include stress fractures (commonly seen in gymnasts) and traumatic fractures.
in fact, one analysis in 2003  suggested it may reduce the costs of care.
professionals who understand the  limitations and special needs of back pain, and can address individual health  conditions, should guide this program.
therapeutic ultrasound involves placing a  small wand or probe directly onto the skin.
a survey of records from more than 100 vertebroplasty patients  revealed that most patients are more functional than before the procedure, and  the benefits lasted for up to a year.
some cases of  chronic low back pain may be caused by inward growth of nerve fibers into the  annular ring, which triggers pain within the intervertebral disk.
after identifying and moving the nerve root, the surgeon removes the injured disk tissue under it.
evidence is still weak on its benefits.
it  can cause pain in the sacrum and hip joints of children and young people.
the technique may be useful for early detection of spinal fractures, cancer that has spread to the bone, or certain inflammatory arthritic conditions.
in this way, the positive benefits of exercise not only  affect strength and flexibility but also alter and improve patients' attitudes  toward their disability and pain.
for example, a single jerky golf swing or incorrect use of  exercise equipment (especially free weights, nautilus, and rowing machines) can  cause serious back injuries.
gentle exercise may be recommended  at first.
the column is grouped into three sections: below the lumbar region is the sacrum, a shield-shaped bony structure that connects with the pelvis at thesacroiliac joints.
they may also be used to remove benign tumors on the spine.
many experts now recommend that patients who take nsaids by mouth only do  so for a short period of time.
although some earlier research had suggested  that the use of epidurals for pain relief during labor could lead to chronic  back pain, studies in 2002 reported no increased risk.
because of their anti-inflammatory properties, tnf modifier drugs are being  investigated for the treatment of the nerve dysfunction and pain that occurs in  sciatica.
j occup environ med. 2005
researchers in england have pioneered a new  technique to grow new spinal tissue using the patient's own stem cells.
there are currently a number of video-assisted fusion techniques.
patients may experience pain or numbness, which can occur in both legs, or  on just one side.
laminectomy operations that remove a vertebra (laminectomy) or shave off part of one  (laminotomy) may be used in certain cases of spinal stenosis or  spondylolisthesis to decompress the nerve.
a randomized, blinded study published in the november 2005 journalspine found that idet was no better than a sham (fake) procedure in relieving chronic back pain due to disk disease.
it  has shown some initial promise for relief of chronic back pain and may also  improve mobility and sleep.
the pain is typically more spread out in the muscles next to the spine, and may be associated with spasms in those muscles.
if further studies support its benefits,  the patch could prove to be an important treatment no-nsaids.
lumbar degenerative disk disease/spondylosis osteoarthritis occurs in joints where cartilage is damaged and then  destroyed, usually as a result of aging.
back to top prevention and self-care most patients should understand that they are likely to improve over the  first month after their low back pain begins, often with no treatments.
a herniated disk, sometimes (incorrectly) called a slipped disk, is a common cause of severe back pain and sciatica.
the following are three exercises for stretching the lower back: note: no one with low back pain should perform exercises that require bending over right after getting up in the morning.
it should be  strongly noted that the presence of psychological factors in no way diminishes  the reality of the pain and its disabling effects.
apply heat (104° f) to the painful area.
pregnancy pregnant women are prone to back pain due to a shifting of abdominal  organs, the forward redistribution of body weight, and the loosening of  ligaments in the pelvic area as the body prepares for delivery.
back to top highlights statistics: according to the bureau of labor statistics, in 2006 back pain was  responsible for 62% of cases of people missing work due to pain involving the  upper body.
click the icon to see an image of an intervertebral  disk.
a herniated disk pressing on the sciatic nerve  is the most common cause of sciatica, although spinal stenosis, degenerative  disc disease, spondylolisthesis, or other abnormalities of vertebrae that press  on the sciatic nerve can also cause pain.
radiofrequency nerve destruction.
opioid pain relievers narcotics are pain-relieving and sleep-inducing drugs that act on the  central nervous system.
these arches, aligned to run down the spine, form the spinal canal, which encloses the spinal cord.
incorrect movements or long-term high-impact exercise is often a cause of  back pain in the first place.
symptoms are usually present or will worsen only when the person is standing or walking upright.
the  disks have no blood supply of their own.
one study found that, although severe back pain comprised only 10% of workers compensation cases, it accounted for 86% of compensation costs.
some patients consider spinal manipulation to be highly  effective for chronic low back pain.
trout at, kallmes df, gray la, goodnature ba, everson sl, comstock ba, jarvik jg.
nearly 14% are still absent at one month.
a major 2003 analysis, however, reported  that current evidence did not support the benefits of spinal manipulation over  general medical care or physical therapy for either acute or chronic back pain.
even when symptoms last longer, unless a potentially serious diagnosis is  suspected, mri or ct scans can often be delayed until the time when surgery or  epidural steroid injections come into consideration as treatment options.
tips for lifting and bending anyone who engages in heavy lifting should take precautions when lifting  and bending.
the belts offer little added support for the back and do not prevent back injuries.
depending  on the severity of the symptoms, how long they have been present, and any  associated medical problems, history and physical exam alone may or may not be  sufficient.
patients who have the following symptoms or experience certain events may  need more sophisticated imaging studies: significant pain that lasts more than 1 - 2 months symptoms such as pain, numbness, or tingling extending from the buttocks  down the leg that are very severe or get worse muscle weakness that is significant, persistent, or getting worse a previous accident or injury that might have affected the disks or  vertebra a history of cancer indications of an underlying disease such as fever or unexplained weight  loss pain that occurs in patients over 65 years of age magnetic resonance imaging (mri).
common side effects of opioids include anxiety, constipation, nausea and  vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness, paranoia, urinary retention, restlessness, and  labored or slow breathing.
the spine is a column of small bones, or vertebrae, that support the entire upper body.
in reaction to this destruction, the  bones associated with the joints develop abnormalities.
in a compression fracture of the vertebrae, the bone tissue of the vertebra  collapses.
the damaged  disk can take on many forms: a bulge -- the gel has been pushed out slightly from the disk and is  evenly distributed around the circumference.
although no definitive studies have been done to prove the relationship between  lack of exercise and low back pain, some doctors believe that an inactive  lifestyle may be to blame in some cases.
click the icon to see an image of acupuncture.
anti-scarring agents or certain devices may help reduce surgical scars and thereby postoperative pain.
one 1999 study reported that osteopathy  was as effective as medical treatment in relieving low back pain and patients  required far less medication and physical therapy.
muscle and ligament injuries/lumbar strain strain and injury to the muscles and ligaments supporting the back are the  major causes of low back pain.
imaging techniques imaging tests used to evaluate back pain range from a simple x-ray to a ct  scan or mri of the spine.
in children, spondylolisthesis usually occurs between the fifth bone in the lower back (lumbar vertebra) and the first bone in the sacrum area.
stress fractures (spondylolysis) in the spine are a common cause  of back pain in young athletes.
yoga, tai chi, chi kung.
as people continue to age and the disks lose moisture and shrink, the risk for spinal stenosis increases.
it is often  due to a birth defect in that area of the spine.
some of these conditions include: infection in the bone (osteomyelitis) or the disk (diskitis) cancer that has spread to the spine from another part of the body (most  commonly lung cancer, colon cancer, prostate cancer, and breast cancer) cancer that begins in the bones (the most common diagnosis in adults is  probably multiple myeloma, seen in middle age or older adults); benign tumors  such as osteoblastoma or neurofibroma and cancers, including leukemia, can also  cause back pain in children trauma any abnormality in joints, vertebrae, or nerve roots can cause back pain,  including: fibromyalgia.
2004;24(46):10410-10415.
in fact, one analysis in 2003 suggested it may reduce the costs of care.
for the study, patients were randomly selected to receive either idet or a sham procedure.
in cases where abnormal vertebrae position or movement, such as spinal  stenosis or spondylolisthesis, is responsible for severe and chronic back pain,  surgeons may fuse vertebrae together.
about 20% of people with inflammatory bowel disease and about 20% of people with psoriasis develop a similar form of arthritis involving the spine.
the end result of these changes is a gradual loss of spinal structure and function, as well as chronic pain, muscle spasms, and reduced mobility.
however, the risk for low back pain does not mount steadily with  increasing age, which suggests that at a certain point, the conditions causing  low back pain plateau.
spinal manipulations are typically performed by chiropractors, but  osteopathic doctors also perform them.
the patients are barely aware of the sensation.
another found that after 3 weeks, patients who were in pain after back surgery had less discomfort and slept better after practicing relaxation imagery techniques while listening to music for 25 minutes a day.
since many people have evidence of disk degeneration on their mri scans, it is not always easy to tell if the finding on this mri scan explains pain the patient may be experiencing.
surgery can be an extremely effective  approach, however, for certain patients whose severe back pain does not respond  to conservative measures.
rofecoxib (vioxx) and valdecoxib (bextra) have been withdrawn from the united  states market.
nonetheless, experts believe there is a useful role for these drugs that warrants further investigation.
long-term  benefits are unknown, however.
total disk replacement is an  investigative procedure for some patients with severely damaged disks.
the shifting vertebrae make a cracking or popping sound, indicating that  they have exceeded the normal range of motion.
tears in the annular ring are a frequent finding in patients with degenerative disk disease.
the differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells into chondrocyte-like cells on poly-l-lactic acid (plla) scaffolds.
ulcers caused by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) are  also more likely to bleed than those caused by the bacteriumh. pylori.
never twist from the waist while bending or lifting any heavy object.
a  "passive" coping style (not wanting to confront problems) was  strongly associated with the risk of developing disabling neck or low back pain.
hyperlordosis is an inborn exaggerated inward curve in the lumbar area.
these include: the main goal of a physical exam is to try and determine the source of the pain and the limits of movement.
injury to nerve roots, notably deep root ganglia (nerve cells in the spine  whose fibers extend from skin to muscle tissue), may be important in some  cases; some patients may have scar tissue that traps the nerve roots in the  lower spine and causes sciatica.
in the majority of back pain cases, the causes are  unknown.
after 6 months, there was no difference in pain symptoms between the two groups.
because of their anti-inflammatory properties, tnf modifier drugs are being investigated for the treatment of the nerve dysfunction and pain that occurs in sciatica.
cauda equina syndrome is the impingement of  the cauda equina (the four strands of nerves leading through the lowest part of  the spine).
addiction is a risk, although less than is commonly believed when these medications are used for pain relief.
mind-body techniques
depending on medical diagnoses that are identified by  the history, the patient may need such tests as a dual energy x-ray  absorptiometry (dexa) scan for osteoporosis or a nuclear scan for suspected  arthritis, cancer, or infection.
activities should be done without strain or  stretching.
however,  there have been few well-conducted studies to determine if any type of back  pain surgery works better than others, or if a single procedure is better than  no surgery at all.
in a compression fracture of the vertebrae, the bone tissue of the vertebra collapses.
the way a patient perceives and copes with pain at the beginning of  an acute attack may actually condition the patient to either recover or develop  a chronic condition.
a herniated disk pressing on the sciatic nerve is the most common cause of sciatica, although spinal stenosis, degenerative disc disease, spondylolisthesis, or other abnormalities of vertebrae that press on the sciatic nerve can also cause pain.
gentle exercise may be recommended at first.
lack of exercise leads to the  following conditions that may threaten the back: stiff muscles can make it hard to move, rotate, and bend the back.
a survey of records from more than 100 vertebroplasty patients revealed that most patients are more functional than before the procedure, and the benefits lasted for up to a year.
one-third of adults over 20 show signs of herniated disks (although only 3% of these disks cause symptoms).
whether on-going manipulations relieve pain better that just one visit is a  subject of debate.
there is also some debate about how pain develops from a herniated disk and how frequently it causes low back pain.
the slip usually occurs  between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae.
however, the rate at which these changes develop varies between people, and may be accelerated by trauma or excessive wear and tear.
acute back pain develops suddenly and lasts up to several weeks.
these tests are not used often in the evaluation and management of patients with low back pain.
the affected leg may feel  weak.
there have been a number of  reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
pressure on the spinal cord may also occur, producing symptoms of numbness, tingling, or weakness.
would the  improvements last and, if so, for how long?
some recurrence  of back pain and sciatica occurs in half to two-thirds of postoperative  patients.
it is not known if these effects are long lasting.
this device is implanted under the skin in the abdomen and delivers pulses of pain-relieving opioids to the spinal canal.
it circulates through the body, and is absorbed by the bones.
pain that lasts longer than 30 days, or gets worse with sitting, coughing, sneezing, or straining may indicated a longer recovery.
heat is applied for about 15 minutes.
rofecoxib (vioxx) and valdecoxib (bextra) have been withdrawn from the united states market.
total disk replacement is an investigative procedure for some patients with severely damaged disks.
depending on medical diagnoses that are identified by the history, the patient may need such tests as a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (dexa) scan for osteoporosis or a nuclear scan for suspected arthritis, cancer, or infection.
avoid intense exercise and physical activity, particularly heavy lifting  and trunk twisting, if there is acute back pain.
both approaches cause the muscles to twitch and then relax then the  process is stopped.
it can cause pain in the sacrum and hip joints of children and young people.
mris can detect annular tears, or disk fragments, and non-spinal  causes of back pain, including infection and cancer.
evidence suggests that short-term use of nsaids brings effective relief in patients with acute back pain.
bed rest is no longer  recommended and may delay recovery.
a disk in the lumbar area becomes herniated when it ruptures or thins out, and degenerates to the point that the gel within the disk (the nucleus pulposus) pushes outward.
if possible, the seat  bottom should be tilted slightly upward in front.
still, despite sophisticated techniques, which provide detailed anatomical  images of the spine and other tissues, the cause of most cases of back pain  remains elusive.
the nucleus pulposus is surrounded by a tough, fibrous ring called the annulus.
disk disease, spinal arthritis, and muscle spasms are the most common diagnoses.
the pain is typically more spread out in the  muscles next to the spine, and may be associated with spasms in those muscles.
patients should ask their health care provider about evidence favoring surgery or other (nonsurgical) treatments in their particular case.
spinal manipulations are typically performed by chiropractors, but osteopathic doctors also perform them.
artificial disk replacement.
one in three people with low back pain seek treatment from a chiropractor.
scientists in england are studying whether therapeutic ultrasound may help relieve pain and disability due to sciatica.
changing certain lifestyle factors can help reduce, and possibly prevent,  backaches.
these include: hiv infection or aids
corticosteroids reduce inflammation.
a  vacuum then sucks this gelatinous matter out.
the spinal cord is the central trunk of nerves that  connects the brain with the rest of the body.
it may  feel like a mild tingling, dull ache, or a burning sensation.
there is controversy whether performing a fusion procedure along  with these procedures is needed.
often the symptoms will ease or  disappear when sitting down or leaning forward.
another consideration when surgery is an option is the overall safety of the recommended procedure, weighed against its potential short-term benefits and its benefits in the long run.
the back is highly complex, and pain may result from damage or injury to any of its various bones, nerves, muscles, ligaments, and other structures.
specific conditions can determine the rate of improvement: studies have found that when people stay home because of back injury, only 65% are back at work within a week.
at the end of the sacrum are two to four tiny, partially fused vertebrae known as thecoccyx, or "tail bone.
unless the pain is very severe, experts advise against  routinely prescribing opioids.
pain that is persistently increasing in intensity and cannot be relieved fever that is associated with the back pain
the letter reflects the spinal region where thevertebra is located: c=cervical (neck region) t= thoracic (chest, or middle back, region) l=lumbar (lower back) the number signifies the vertebra's place within that spinal region.
the link may also be due to an unhealthy lifestyle  in general.
cauda  equina syndrome is an emergency condition that can cause severe complications  to bowel or bladder function.
only a few randomized trials have compared  this procedure with nonoperative treatment.
hold this  position for about 20 seconds (while breathing evenly) and then repeat on the  other side.
it can be quite mild, however, and it rarely affects a person's ability to work.
spinal stenosis stabilizes in about 70% of cases and worsens in 15%.
sciatica is not a diagnosis but a description of symptoms that include: leg pain possible numbness or tingling in the buttock and down the back of the leg possible weakness of the leg muscles causes of sciatica.
one study, for example, reported that  meditation was beneficial in reducing pain and improving mood among chronic  pain sufferers who had not responded to traditional care.
many approaches and procedures are available or being investigated.
move  the car seat as far forward as possible to avoid bending forward.
muscle relaxants a combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) and muscle  relaxants such as cyclobenzaprine (flexeril), diazepam (valium), carisoprodol  (soma), or methocarbamol (robaxin) are sometimes used for patients with acute  low back pain.
the spine the back is highly complex, and pain may result from damage or injury to  any of its various bones, nerves, muscles, ligaments, and other structures.
the incidence of low back pain and sciatica increases in women at the time of menopause as they lose bone density.
each vertebra in the spine has a number of bony projections called processes.
frequency, duration, and nature of the pain when the pain occurs what triggered the pain (such as lifting a heavy object) conditions that make the pain worse, such as coughing other relevant symptoms, such as morning stiffness, weakness, or numbness  in the legs previous episodes of back pain severity of the pain and how it affects the person's ability to perform  everyday activities or work activities any situation that relieves the pain any history of injuries or accidents involving the neck, back, or hips other medical conditions, such as arthritis or osteoporosis a patient should report any serious health problems, symptoms, and concerns  that may raise a red flag for a more serious condition.
often the symptoms will ease or disappear when sitting down or leaning forward.
while sitting, the  knees should be a little higher than the hip, so a low stool or hassock is  useful to put the feet on.
sometimes a fracture may not show up for a week or two after an injury.
changing certain lifestyle factors can help reduce, and possibly prevent, backaches.
there are two types of narcotics: opiates are derived from natural opium such as morphine and  codeine.
there is controversy whether performing a fusion procedure along with these procedures is needed.
neither approach is helpful for relief of acute low back pain in  most patients.
complementary means it is used together with conventional medicine.
patient education and support groups.
hold for 3 seconds while tightening the abdominal  muscles.
imaging tests used to evaluate back pain range from a simple x-ray to a ct scan or mri of the spine.
the following are three exercises for  stretching the lower back: lie on the back with knees bent and legs together.
diskography is an x-ray of the disk.
they are the most powerful medications available for the management of pain.
however, other problems, including infection and birth defects, can sometimes cause spinal stenosis.
supportive back belts, braces, or corsets may help some people  temporarily, but these products can reduce muscle tone over time and should be  used only briefly.
the particular processes form the joints between the vertebrae themselves, meeting together and interlocking at the zygapophysial joints (more commonly known as facet, or z-joints).
these changes are age-related to some degree.
celecoxib (celebrex) is still available, but patients should ask their doctor if this drug is appropriate and safe for them.
it occurs mostly in young caucasians in their mid-20s.
however, it is usually not covered  by insurance.
a number of companies are developing programs to protect against back  injuries.
sitting puts the most pressure on the back.
the  health care provider will also move the patient's legs in different positions  and bend and straighten the knees.
these positions may create more  space in the spinal canal, thus relieving pressure on the spinal cord or the  spinal nerves.
kyphoplasty is used to stabilize the spine and return spinal height to as normal as possible.
one study indicated that patients who planned their own exercise program did worse than those in physical therapy or doctor-directed programs.
the benefits for chronic back pain are  less certain.
in fact, overexertion may cause  further harm.
a combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) and muscle relaxants such as cyclobenzaprine (flexeril), diazepam (valium), carisoprodol (soma), or methocarbamol (robaxin) are sometimes used for patients with acute low back pain.
diskography is a test that is used to help determine whether an abnormal disk  seen on mri explains someone's pain.
over time increase this exercise until it is held for 5 seconds.
cauda equina syndrome is the impingement of the cauda equina (the four strands of nerves leading through the lowest part of the spine).
spinal manipulation spinal manipulation for uncomplicated acute low back pain.
a 2003 analysis suggested  that it may be beneficial, however, for relief of neck pain and possibly for  low back pain caused by problems in the facets joints.
the belts offer little added support  for the back and do not prevent back injuries.
warning: the food and drug administration (fda) has warned consumers that polymethylmethacrylate bone cement, used during vertebroplasty, could leak.
the sciatic nerve has an extensive pathway.
however, studies have been mixed on the outcome of company interventions.
studies that measure the benefits of  steroids on sciatica or low back pain are conflicting.
they may be able to ride an exercise bike.
exercise and acute or subacute
some small studies indicate that infliximab (remicade) may help reduce sciatica pain.
some chiropractors may take a lot of x-rays, particularly those of the full  spine, which may have long-term harmful consequences.
proton-pump inhibitors include omeprazole (prilosec), esomeprazole  (nexium), and lansoprazole (prevacid).
every cell in the human body  starts (or "stems") from a stem cell.
a number of investigative surgical procedures  employ lasers.
sciatica of nondisc origin and piriformis syndrome: diagnosis by magnetic resonance neurography and interventional magnetic resonance imaging with outcome study of resulting treatment.
the damaged disk can take on many forms: leg pain may be worse than the back pain in cases of herniated disks.
although a 2002 analysis of trials could find no  direct evidence of benefit, small studies have reported some relief for chronic  low back pain from either tens or pens.
a skin patch containing an opioid called transdermal fentanyl (duragesic) may relieve chronic back pain more effectively than oral opioids.
researchers believe that in most cases the cause is hereditary.
pain may temporarily feel worse, but after healing, the disk shrinks and becomes desensitized to pain.
riding in or driving a car for long periods of time increases stress.
fusion uses a bone graft or some other  device to join the vertebrae together.
percutaneous vertebroplasty.
the most common are the following: many experts now recommend that patients who take nsaids by mouth only do so for a short period of time.
symptoms of the cauda equina syndrome include: the sciatic nerve.
in all cases, patients should never force themselves to exercise if, by doing so, the pain increases.
these drugs block  prostaglandins, the substances that dilate blood vessels and cause inflammation  and pain.
more than  one vertebra may be affected.
stand as close as possible to the object being lifted.
back to top medications
stress reducing techniques, including relaxation methods and meditation, may be helpful.
statistics: overview: back pain is one of the most common reasons people visit their doctor.
inflammatory disorders and arthritis syndromes can produce inflammation in the spine.
filler ag, haynes j, jordan se, prager j, villablanca jp, farahani k, et al.
in the majority of back pain cases, the causes are unknown.
injuries can also cause back pain in children.
the goal is to classify patients into one of three categories nonspecific back pain (back pain that is not due to a specific condition  or abnormality of the spine) back pain associated with nerve roots problems or spinal stenosis back pain associated with another specific cause, which may or may not be  of a serious nature
according to a 2001 review of studies, only intensive programs that include both psychological and physical rehabilitation therapies were successful in reducing chronic low back pain and improving function.
unless the pain is very severe, experts advise against routinely prescribing opioids.
always check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary supplements.
professionals who understand the limitations and special needs of back pain, and can address individual health conditions, should guide this program.
very  small amounts of botox temporarily paralyzes muscle tissue.
some chiropractors may take a lot of x-rays, particularly those of the full spine, which may have long-term harmful consequences.
emotional or  behavioral problems may also contribute to back pain in children.
(pain caused by sciatica can be intensified  by lifting the affected leg straight in the air.
exercise and obesity sedentary lifestyle.
when the pins have been placed  successfully, the patient is supposed to experience a sensation that brings a  feeling of fullness, numbness, tingling, and warmth with some soreness around  the acupuncture point.
practices originating in asia that  combine low-impact physical movements and meditation may be very helpful.
they should weigh even less for very young children.
a number of effective  approaches to low back pain -- collectively called mind-body techniques --  employ psychological, behavioral, or physical methods to promote relaxation and  reduce stress.
although  steroid injections had more immediate benefits, both products offered  improvement.
massage therapy a number of well-conducted studies have supported the benefits of massage  therapy for patients with chronic or acute back pain, especially when it is  combined with exercise and patient education.
each nerve root passes from the spinal column to other parts of the body through small openings, bounded on one side by the disk and on the other by the facets.
the sessions lasted for 2.5 hours each week for 12  weeks.
most patients will report the presence of gradually worsening history of  back pain over time.
according to a 2001 review of studies, only intensive programs that include  both psychological and physical rehabilitation therapies were successful in  reducing chronic low back pain and improving function.
doctors cannot predict which patients taking these drugs will develop bleeding.
employers and workers should make every effort to create a safe working environment.
in adults, the most common  cause is degenerative disease (such as arthritis).
fusion uses a bone graft or some other device to join the vertebrae together.
recognizing this presence as  a strong player in many cases of low back pain, however, can help determine the  full range of treatment options.
the technique is proving useful for stabilizing the spine and relieving pain in patients with spinal compression fractures due to osteoporosis or cancer.
even when symptoms last longer, unless a potentially serious diagnosis is suspected, mri or ct scans can often be delayed until the time when surgery or epidural steroid injections come into consideration as treatment options.
it is important for any person who has chronic low  back pain to have an exercise program.
tnf modifiers are powerful drugs that can cause severe side effects.
in  1990, it cost the u.s. $23 billion in direct medical costs and possibly as much  as $85 billion in total costs (such as lost productivity).
weak stomach muscles can increase the strain on the back and cause an  abnormal tilt of the pelvis.
they should also ask about the long-term outcome of the recommended treatment.
tips for daily movement and inactivity the way a person moves, stands, or sleeps plays a major role in back pain.
radiofrequencies are being used to destroy nerves involved in the facet joints (or z-joints), which connect the vertebrae.
stand up without bending forward from the waist.
in fact, overexertion may cause further harm.
other symptoms include a feeling of weakness or heaviness in the buttocks or legs.
it should be strongly noted that the presence of psychological factors in no way diminishes the reality of the pain and its disabling effects.
aging intervertebral disks begin deteriorating and growing thinner by age 30.
low back pain accounts for significant losses in workdays and dollars.
generally,  these exercises attempt to strengthen the abdomen, improve lower back mobility,  strength, and endurance, and enhance flexibility in the hip, the hamstring  muscles, and the tendons at the back of the thigh.
anyone who engages in heavy lifting should take precautions when lifting and bending.
emergent causes of back pain several serious conditions can also cause back pain.
psychological factors are known to play a strong influential role in three phases of low back pain: studies also suggest that patients who reported prolonged emotional distress have less favorable outcomes after back surgeries.
the thoracic (t) vertebrae are the twelve spinal bones that connect  to the rib cage.
the  resulting condition is called piriformis syndrome.
when osteoarthritis affects the spine, it may damage the cartilage in the disks, the moving joints of the spine, or both.
tests that analyze the electric waveforms of nerves and muscles may be useful for detecting nerve abnormalities that may be causing back pain, and identifying possible injuries.
partial sit-ups or crunches strengthen the abdominal muscles.
in reaction to this destruction, the bones associated with the joints develop abnormalities.
there  are multiple treatments for this potentially disabling disease, including  various immune suppressant medications.
depending on which part and how much  of the spine is involved, symptoms may be similar to that of a herniated disc,  lumbar strain, or spinal stenosis (narrowing of the spinal canal).
research has also focused on  tears in the annular ring -- the fibrous band that surrounds and protects the  disk.
cox-2 inhibitors (coxibs) coxibs block an inflammation-promoting enzyme called cox-2.
sciatica pain may get worse: sciatica pain usually goes away within 6 weeks, unless there are serious underlying conditions.
it can cause nausea, but does not cause  the severe gastrointestinal problems that nsaids can.
the emotional effects of such connections may be as important for healing as the treatments themselves.
perform this exercise slowly 8 - 10 times with the arms across the chest.
serious infections have been reported with this treatment, however.
many patients with acute and uncomplicated low back pain believe that plain x-rays of the spinal column are important in a diagnosis.
ratcliffe j, thomas kj, macpherson h, brazier j. a randomised controlled trial of acupuncture care for persistent low back pain: cost effectiveness analysis.
pain due to sciatica can vary widely.
the health care provider will assess strength in different muscle groups  of the legs.
one study reported  that 70% of cyclists reported improvement simply by adjusting the angle of the  bicycle seat.
apkarian av, sosa y, sonty s, levy rm, harden rn, parrish tb, et al.
click the icon to see an image of the nucleus pulposus.
patients with spinal stenosis are not usually able to walk for long periods of time.
some cases of chronic low back pain may be caused by inward growth of nerve fibers into the annular ring, which triggers pain within the intervertebral disk.
the back should be straight.
diskography is a test that is used to help determine whether an abnormal disk seen on mri explains someone's pain.
still, despite sophisticated techniques, which provide detailed anatomical images of the spine and other tissues, the cause of most cases of back pain remains elusive.
in some cases,  the pain is severe enough to cause immobility.
operations that remove a vertebra (laminectomy) or shave off part of one (laminotomy) may be used in certain cases of spinal stenosis or spondylolisthesis to decompress the nerve.
each vertebra in the spine has a number of bony  projections called processes.
bone is then removed from the patient's hip and  packed inside the cage.
other medical conditions that cause referred back pain, occuring in  conjunction with problems in organs unrelated to the spine (although usually  located near it); such conditions include ulcers, kidney disease (including  kidney stones), ovarian cysts, and pancreatitis.
after standing or sitting for long periods of time when sneezing, coughing, or laughing after bending backwards or walking more than 50 - 100 yards (particularly  if it is caused by spinal stenosis) sciatica pain usually goes away within 6 weeks, unless there are serious  underlying conditions.
with multiple fractures, kyphosis (a forward hump-like curvature of the spine) may result.
treatment sessions are conducted in the doctor's  office and last about 30 minutes.
however, they are not very helpful in most patients with nonspecific back pain.
maintaining good posture is very important.
in about 85% of back pain cases, the origin of the pain is unknown, and imaging studies usually fail to determine its cause.
juvenile chronic arthropathy is an inherited form of arthritis.
boswellia (boswellia serrata) is an herb commonly used in indian  ayurvedic medicine.
spondylolysis can cause spondylolisthesis, a condition in which the spine becomes unstable and the vertebrae slip over each other.
it is not known if these effects are  long lasting.
it should be noted that surgery does not always improve outcome and, in some cases, can even make it worse.
during this exam, a small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein.
bone scintigraphy and spect imaging.
just like a drug, herbs and supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential to produce side effects that may be harmful.
both chiropractors and osteopaths offer verbal assurance and a precise treatment regimen.
in this way, the positive benefits of exercise not only affect strength and flexibility but also alter and improve patients' attitudes toward their disability and pain.
it is sometimes difficult to diagnose.
this approach may temporarily relieve  sciatic pain until the body heals itself.
narcotics are usually  needed for pain relief.
other, less invasive procedures that are available include: it is not clear yet if any of these less-invasive procedures are as effective as the standard microdiskectomy.
such antidepressants  include amitriptyline (elavil, endep), desipramine (norpramin), doxepin  (sinequan), imipramine (tofranil), amoxapine (asendin), nortriptyline (pamelor,  aventyl), and maprotiline (ludiomil).
according to the national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, 8 out of 10 people have some type of backache.
surgery can be an extremely effective approach, however, for certain patients whose severe back pain does not respond to conservative measures.
because it is  considered experimental, it is not yet covered by most insurers.
scar tissue is a significant problem, since it can cause persistent low back pain afterward.
stress reducing techniques, including relaxation  methods and meditation, may be helpful.
hayden ja, van tulder mw, tomlinson g. systematic review: strategies for using exercise therapy to improve outcomes in chronic low back pain.
the annular ring contains a dense nerve network and high levels of  peptides that heighten perception of pain.
before having any  surgery, it is extremely important that the patient is sure the surgeon has had  significant experience with the procedure.
percutaneous kyphoplasty.
this procedure requires injections into disks suspected of being the  source of pain and disks nearby.
however, the risk for low back pain does not mount steadily with increasing age, which suggests that at a certain point, the conditions causing low back pain plateau.
these tests are not used often in the evaluation  and management of patients with low back pain.
hold objects close to the body to reduce the load on the back.
however, healing takes several weeks.
among the groups at high risk for bleeding are elderly people, anyone with a history of ulcers of gi bleeding, patients with serious heart conditions, alcohol abusers, and those on certain medications, such anticoagulants ("blood thinners"), corticosteroids, or bisphosphonates (drugs used for osteoporosis).
office workers should have chairs, desks, and equipment  that support the back or help maintain good posture.
according to one study, about a third of patients with uncomplicated low back pain significantly improved after a week; two-thirds recovered by 7 weeks.
ankylosing spondylitis is a chronic inflammation of the spine that may gradually result in a fusion of vertebrae.
in another study, after 4 years, less than half were symptom-free.
it should be noted that tricyclics can have severe side effects.
scoliosis, an abnormal curvature of the spine in children, does not usually cause back pain.
keep the knees bent and the lower back flat on the floor while raising the  shoulders up 3 - 6 inches.
alternatively, rather than performing a bone graft, the cage is filled with a sponge-like material containing a genetically-engineered protein called infuse (rhbmp-2) that promotes bone to grow.
the slip usually occurs between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae.
just like a drug, herbs and  supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential  to produce side effects that may be harmful.
back  to top surgery and invasive procedures the health care provider should give patients solid information on the  expected course of their low back pain and self-care options before discussing  surgery.
a 2002 study reported that patients with chronic low back pain who participated in an expert-moderated e-mail support and discussion group had less pain and disability after 12 months.
it should be noted that surgery does not always improve outcome and, in  some cases, can even make it worse.
pneumaticos sg, chatziioannou sn, hipp ja, moore wh, esses si.
intradiscal electrothermal treatment (idet).
be sure to breathe evenly.
some medical evidence  suggests that relying on mri images of disk abnormalities to determine  treatment has resulted in many unnecessary surgeries.
one 2001 study compared  targeted injections of saline and steroids directed at the nerve root.
spinal stenosis is the narrowing of the spinal canal, or narrowing of the nerve root canals where spinal nerves leave the spinal column.
spondylolisthesis may occasionally be associated with bone diseases.
a mayo clinic study  found that patients who have the procedure have less back pain during rest and  activity.
researchers are investigating whether injections of botulinum  toxin (botox) in the lower back can safely and effectively relieve pain.
two investigative procedures called automated or electrical twitch obtaining intramuscular stimulation (atoims or etoims) are showing promise.
the procedure  does not change any of the structural supports of the spine, including joints,  ligaments, and muscles.
each nerve root passes from the  spinal column to other parts of the body through small openings, bounded on one  side by the disk and on the other by the facets.
both approaches cause the muscles to twitch and then relax then the process is stopped.
back to top physical therapy with a trained professional may be useful if pain has not improved after 3 - 4 weeks.
the annular ring contains a dense nerve network and high levels of peptides that heighten perception of pain.
it can produce increased  lordosis (swayback), but in later stages may result in kyphosis (roundback) as  the upper spine falls off the lower spine.
the sessions lasted for 2.5 hours each week for 12 weeks.
click the icon to see an image of the spine.
several serious conditions can also cause back pain.
are rarely  recommended in the first month unless the health care provider suspects a  tumor, fracture, infection, cauda equina syndrome, or progressive neurological  disease.
it is not  painful, but some people may feel claustrophobic in scanners that are fully  enclosed.
most patients will report the presence of gradually worsening history of back pain over time.
spinal  manipulation may be useful for acute back pain that persists beyond 2 - 3  weeks.
it is showing promise in early studies.
no-nsaids are drugs that combine nsaids and nitric oxide (no), a substance that enhances blood flow to the stomach and increases levels of protective mucus and bicarbonate.
in april 2005, the fda asked drug manufacturers of prescription nsaids to  place an alert on their medicines warning people that the drugs have been  linked to an increased risk for cardiovascular events and gastrointestinal  bleeding.
there are two types of narcotics: novel ways to deliver pain medicine have been developed.
the specific goal of  chiropractors is to perform spinal manipulations to improve nerve transmission.
not all people have back pain after such injuries, however.
most people with acute low back pain are back at work within a month and fully recover within a few months.
jogging is usually not recommended, at least not until the pain is gone and muscles are stronger.
antidepressants called tricyclics can be effective painkillers in non-depressed people with chronic back pain.
an artificial cushioning device called the prosthetic disk nucleus (pdn) replaces only the inner gel-like core (nucleus pulposus) within the intervertebral space, rather than the entire disk.
when the pins have been placed successfully, the patient is supposed to experience a sensation that brings a feeling of fullness, numbness, tingling, and warmth with some soreness around the acupuncture point.
any very severe back pain warrants attention, particularly if any of the following conditions are present: cauda equina syndrome is the impingement of the cauda equina (the four strands of nerves leading through the lowest part of the spine).
electrodiagnostic tests tests that analyze the electric waveforms of nerves and muscles may be  useful for detecting nerve abnormalities that may be causing back pain, and  identifying possible injuries.
extrusion is very uncommon, however, while sciatic and low-back pain are very common.
patients may experience pain or numbness, which can occur in both legs, or on just one side.
cauda equina syndrome is usually caused by massive extrusion of the disk material.
studies report that a course of cognitive-behavioral therapy helps reduce chronic back pain or at least enhances the patient's ability to deal with it.
the traction-like action alternately decompresses and relaxes the spine over 1-minute intervals.
the degree of disk abnormalities revealed by mris often have very little to do with the severity of the pain or the need for surgery.
healthy sleep plays a vital role in recovery.
the health care provider injects bone  cement into the space surrounding a fractured vertebra.
narcotics are usually needed for pain relief.
as people continue to age and the disks lose  moisture and shrink, the risk for spinal stenosis increases.
in one study, therapists also taught relaxation techniques and  methods to improve posture.
intradiscal  electrothermal treatment (idet) uses electricity to heat a painful disk.
antidepressants a 2002 review of studies concluded that antidepressants may lessen pain  severity in some patients, although they had little effect on daily  functioning.
other causes of spondylolisthesis include stress fractures (commonly seen  in gymnasts) and traumatic fractures.
disk abnormalities in  people who have back pain may simply be a coincidence rather than an indication  for treatment.
it is important for any person who has chronic low back pain to have an  exercise program guided by professionals who understand the limitations and  special needs of back pain and who can address individual health conditions.
it  should be strongly noted, however, that serious complications (including stroke  or spinal cord or neck injury) have been reported with manipulations of the  neck.
but there may be other causes of low back pain.
ann intern med. 2005; 143: 849 - 856.
although some earlier research had suggested that the use of epidurals for pain relief during labor could lead to chronic back pain, studies in 2002 reported no increased risk.
however, there have been few well-conducted studies to determine if any type of back pain surgery works better than others, or if a single procedure is better than no surgery at all.
it is more common in adults over 65 and women.
this routine should be  done two or three times during the day.
office workers should have chairs, desks, and equipment that support the back or help maintain good posture.
while some studies have reported benefit, many consider the evidence to support the use of this procedure weak.
if  you need to move an object to one side, point your toes in that direction and  pivot toward it.
spondylolisthesis occurs when one of the lumbar vertebrae slips over another, or over the sacrum.
back to top certain warning signs should alert a patient to see a doctor immediately for low back pain.
tramadol tramadol (ultram) is a pain reliever that has been used as an alternative  to opioids.
the standard procedure is to give  80 - 100 pulses per second for 45 minutes three times a day.
the back muscles  are lifted and moved away from the spine.
at that time, the disks are more fluid-filled and more vulnerable to pressure from this movement.
it has value only for select patients with pain on  moving and standing.
tighten the buttocks and abdomen so that they tip up slightly.
tall women are at higher risk than short women.
the new tissue will replace damaged spinal tissue and may relieve low back pain.
kyphoplasty is used to stabilize the  spine and return spinal height to as normal as possible.
in about 85% of back pain cases, the origin of the pain is unknown.
friedrich m, gittler g, arendasy m, friedrich km.
they should  also ask about the long-term outcome of the recommended treatment.
as you move up and down, tighten  stomach muscles and tuck buttocks in so that the pelvis is rolled under and the  spine remains in a natural "s' curve.
cauda equina syndrome.
yoga relieves low back pain better than conventional exercise or self-help  books, according to a study published in theannals of internal medicine .
the back muscles are lifted and moved away from the spine.
however, a review, published in 2006 by a nonprofit health services research agency, found that the technique does not improve a person's back pain or quality of life.
the most commonly prescribed medications for the treatment of back pain are  nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
stress fractures (spondylolysis) in the spine are a common cause of back pain in young athletes.
exercise should be  considered as part of a broader program to return to normal home, work, and  social activities.
a number of  minimally invasive variations are now available.
the disease is more common in men, but about 30%  of the cases are in women.
a 2004  study analyzed health care expenses in the united states.
nov 1;30(21):2369-77; discussion 2378.
[it was better than sham (fake) therapy, however.]
they can also be used  together.
however, studies now suggest that up to 75% of patients suffer at least one recurrence of back pain over the course of a year.
a 2004 review published in thebritish  medical journal suggested that long-term use of nsaids does not actually  reduce osteoarthritis pain and may increase patients' risk of experiencing side  effects.
long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) is the second most common cause of ulcers and the rate of nsaid-caused ulcers is increasing.
osteoporosis and compression fractures osteoporosis is a disease of the skeleton in which the amount of calcium  present in the bones slowly decreases to the point where the bones become  fragile and prone to fractures.
ten to 20 sessions on successive days are often required.
small studies are reporting some help in relieving a number of condition the cause chronic pain, including low back pain.
the cause is usually massive extrusion of the disk material.
nsaid-induced ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) is the  second most common cause of ulcers and the rate of nsaid-caused ulcers is  increasing.
over time the bone grows through the holes and around  the device, fusing the vertebrae.
according to one study, about a third of  patients with uncomplicated low back pain significantly improved after a week;  two-thirds recovered by 7 weeks.
after 12 weeks, those who took yoga could better perform  daily activities requiring the back than those in the other two groups.
it should be noted that any nerve injuries that affect these tests may not be present for 2 - 4 weeks after symptoms begin.
the spinal cord is the central trunk of nerves that connects the brain with the rest of the body.
intradiscal electrothermal treatment (idet) uses electricity to heat a painful disk.
percutaneous neuromodulation therapy.
piriformis syndrome usually  develops after an injury.
for example, endoscopic laser foraminoplasty (elf) uses lasers  to locate the likely source of pain and remove diseased tissue.
in older adults, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis are also  common.
anti-scarring agents or certain devices may help reduce  surgical scars and thereby postoperative pain.
avoid lifting or carrying objects immediately  after the ride.
vertebrae in the spinal column are separated from each  other by small cushions of cartilage known asintervertebral disks.
a medical history and physical examination can usually clarify the  classification.
back to top although most episodes of new back pain, as well as exacerbations of chronic back pain, clear up or return to a previous level of discomfort, a medical history and a brief physical examination is always necessary.
other surgical procedures percutaneous vertebroplasty.
various endoscopic approaches  are proving to be useful for back surgery.
"click the icon to see an image of the sacrum.
however, few studies have been conducted to determine the procedure's real effectiveness.
2006 feb;238(2):693-8.
other complications of spinal surgery can include nerve and muscle damage, infection, and the need for another operation.
click the icon to see  an image of the cauda equina.
pain may temporarily feel worse, but after  healing, the disk shrinks and becomes desensitized to pain.
exercise may also be effective when combined with a psychological and motivational program, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy.
the primary goal of this form  of therapy in such cases is to change the distorted perceptions that patients  have of themselves and their approach to pain.
the injection is usually an epidural, which is directed into the spaces between the outer membrane of the spine and the vertebrae.
(dependence and abuse have been reported, however.)
a correct pattern of stimulation appears to  be important for optimal relief and needs to be determined.
percutaneous vertebroplasty involves  the injection of a cement-like bone substitute into vertebrae with compression  fractures.
the  back is usually stiff in the morning; pain improves with exercise.
atoims uses an automated mechanical device that vibrates the  muscle using a tiny pin.
depending on the severity of the symptoms, how long they have been present, and any associated medical problems, history and physical exam alone may or may not be sufficient.
low back pain: prediction of short-term outcome of facet joint injection with bone scintigraphy.
if an object is too heavy or awkward, get help.
click the icon to see an image of a mri machine.
the procedure relieves pressure on the spine.
it has been performed for 40 years, and increasingly less invasive techniques developed over time.
another consideration when surgery  is an option is the overall safety of the recommended procedure, weighed  against its potential short-term benefits and its benefits in the long run.
leg pain may be worse than the back pain in cases of herniated disks.
lie on the back with the knees bent and feet flat on the floor.
it may feel like a mild tingling, dull ache, or a burning sensation.
(the sensation is described as similar to a mosquito bite.)
for example, c4 is the fourth bone down in the  cervical region, and t8 is the eighth thoracic vertebrae.
in another study, after 4  years, less than half were symptom-free.
a technique called  percutaneous neuromodulation therapy (pnt) uses a small device delivers  electrical stimulation to deep tissues and nerve pathways near the spine.
the pain most often occurs on one side.
herbs and supplements generally, manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not  need fda approval to sell their products.
the wand gives off sound waves,  which gently vibration the area.
patients will be requested to bend forward, backward, and sideways and to  twist.
no-nsaids are drugs that combine nsaids and nitric oxide  (no), a substance that enhances blood flow to the stomach and increases levels  of protective mucus and bicarbonate.
with multiple fractures, kyphosis (a forward hump-like curvature of the  spine) may result.
the most common are the following: over-the-counter nsaids include aspirin, ibuprofen (advil, nuprin, motrin  ib, rufen), naproxen (aleve), ketoprofen (actron, orudis kt).
the patient should be able to describe the back pain and its history in the following manner: a patient should report any serious health problems, symptoms, and concerns that may raise a red flag for a more serious condition.
one study, for example, reported that meditation was beneficial in reducing pain and improving mood among chronic pain sufferers who had not responded to traditional care.
most herbal remedies used for back pain have both pain-relief and anti-inflammatory effects.
therapeutic ultrasound involves placing a small wand or probe directly onto the skin.
a study in 2003 was the first to suggest that it may eventually achieve results that are comparable to standard surgeries for disk herniation.
for spinal  stenosis, the traditional approach is a laminectomy and partial removal of the  facet joint.
the procedure does not change any of the structural supports of the spine, including joints, ligaments, and muscles.
physical therapy typically includes the following: the first stage involves patient education and training the patient in  correct movement.
an x-ray myelogram is an x-ray of the spine that requires a spinal injection of a special dye and the need to lie still for several hours to avoid a very painful headache.
a mayo clinic study found that patients who have the procedure have less back pain during rest and activity.
bus drivers, on the other hand, reported much lower job satisfaction than  truck drivers, and these workers with back pain had a significantly higher  absentee rate than truck drivers in spite of less stress on their backs.
in rare cases, doctors may use  bone scintigraphy (bone scanning) to determine abnormalities in the bones.
in severe  cases, the patient must continually stoop over.
any very severe back pain warrants attention, particularly  if any of the following conditions are present: being over 50
injections of different substances are sometimes used to treat low back pain caused by nerve impingement.
if possible, chairs should swivel to avoid  twisting at the waist, have arm rests, and adjustable backs.
sciatica pain may get worse: at night
many spinal fusion surgeries use a tiny hollow metal cage, which is implanted into the disk space.
a number of well-conducted studies have supported the benefits of massage therapy for patients with chronic or acute back pain, especially when it is combined with exercise and patient education.
diskectomy is the surgical removal of the diseased disk.
in a 2001 study of patients with severe long-term back pain, 33% of patients who had spinal fusion had less back pain after 2 years, compared to 7% who received conservative treatment with physical therapy.
they rely on nearby blood vessels to  keep them nourished.
each disk is 80% water and contains two structures.
backpacks should not weigh more than 20% of the child's  body weight.
according to the bureau of labor statistics, back pain was responsible for 62% of cases of people missing work due to pain involving the upper body.
back to top introduction back pain is one of the most common reasons people visit their doctor.
some workers wear back  support belts, but evidence strongly suggests that they are useful only for  people who currently have low back pain.
anyone who undergoes acupuncture  should be sure it is performed in a reputable location by experienced  practitioners who use sterilized equipment.
tnf  modifiers are powerful drugs that can cause severe side effects.
spondylolysis can cause spondylolisthesis, a condition  in which the spine becomes unstable and the vertebrae slip over each other.
pain improved most in the 6 months following surgery.
back to top www.niams.nih.gov -- national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal  and skin diseases www.aaos.org -- american academy of orthopaedic surgeons www.arthritis.org -- arthritis foundation www.spine.org -- north american spine society www.apta.org -- american physical therapy association www.ampainsoc.org -- american pain society www.theacpa.org -- american chronic pain association www.iasp-pain.org -- international association for the study of pain back to top prognosis most people with acute low back pain are back at work within a month and  fully recover within a few months.
a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial: intradiscal electrothermal therapy versus placebo for the treatment of chronic discogenic low back pain.
some patients who take tramadol experience severe itching.
over time the bone grows through the holes and around the device, fusing the vertebrae.
a number of companies are developing programs to protect against back injuries.
patients who take muscle relaxants may experience a number of central nervous  system side effects such as drowsiness.
people who are obese and have low back pain may benefit from surgical  weight loss surgery.
it is often difficult to get a good  night's sleep when suffering from back pain, particularly because the pain can  intensify at night.
exercise may also be effective when combined  with a psychological and motivational program, such as cognitive-behavioral  therapy.
people vulnerable to back pain should avoid  activities that put undue stress on the lower back or require sudden twisting  movements, such as football, golf, ballet, and weight lifting.
osteoarthritis occurs in joints where cartilage is damaged and then destroyed, usually as a result of aging.
lying on the back, hold one knee and pull it gently toward the chest.
when the spinal cord reaches the lumbar region, it splits into four bundled strands of nerve roots called the cauda equina (meaning horsetail in latin).click the icon to see an image of the cauda equina.
because most patients with back pain are on the mend or complete recover  within 6 weeks, imaging techniques such as x-rays or scans are rarely  recommended in the first month of pain -- unless a health care provider  suspects a tumor, fracture, infection, cauda equina syndrome, or progressive  neurologic disease.
however, it is usually not covered by insurance.
if an object can be moved without lifting, pull it, don't push.
however, studies report only a weak association between  obesity and low back pain.
complications and outlook.
using specific tasks and  self-observation, patients gradually shift their fixed ideas that they are  helpless against the pain that dominates their lives to the perception that  pain is only one negative and, to a degree, a manageable experience among many  positive ones.
extrusion is very uncommon, however, while sciatic and low-back  pain are very common.
mris can detect annular tears, or disk fragments, and non-spinal causes of back pain, including infection and cancer.
then, extend the legs a little more so that the feet are further away from the body and try it again.
patients with spinal stenosis are not usually able to walk for  long periods of time.
in severe cases, the patient must continually stoop over.
ulcers caused by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) are also more likely to bleed than those caused by the bacteriumh. pylori.
the  technique may be useful for early detection of spinal fractures, cancer that  has spread to the bone, or certain inflammatory arthritic conditions.
in a 2001 study, the benefits of botox injections for low back pain  subsided within 6 months.
etoims uses an extremely mild electrical current.
exercise, diet, stress, and weight all have a significant influence on back  pain.
it occurs mostly in young  caucasians in their mid-20s.
prescription nsaids include ibuprofen (motrin), naproxen (naprosyn,  anaprox), flurbiprofen (ansaid), diclofenac (voltaren), tolmetin (tolectin),  ketoprofen (orudis, oruvail), nabumetone (relafen), dexibuprofen (seractil),  and indomethacin (indocin).
richardson sm, curran jm, chen r, et al.
inside each disk is a jelly-like substance called the nucleus pulposus.
each branch of the nerve threads through the pelvis and deep into either  side of the buttocks.
exhale on the way up, and inhale on the way down.
(the effect,  however, may be temporary.)
a combination of tramadol and acetaminophen (ultracet) is now available.
none of these substances cure the problem.
percutaneous diskectomy (pad).
vertebral axial decompression.
both chiropractors and osteopaths offer verbal assurance and a precise  treatment regimen.
try alternating between hot and cold packs.
some research suggests that over time, high-impact exercise may increase  the risk for degenerative disk disease.
heat may work better than  ibuprofen or acetaminophen.
it involves inserting small needles or exerting pressure on certain "energy" points in the body.
however, following numerous reports of cardiovascular events, gastrointestinal problems, and skin rashes, the fda is currently re-evaluating the relative risks and benefits of this drug class.
since many people have  evidence of disk degeneration on their mri scans, it is not always easy to tell  if the finding on this mri scan explains pain the patient may be experiencing.
other problems can  also cause back pain, however.
the degree of disk abnormalities revealed by mris often have very little to do  with the severity of the pain or the need for surgery.
the patient first lies on their side.
low back pain accounts for significant losses in work days and dollars.
some people may need medicine to help manage nighttime pain  or treat sleeplessness.
back to top radiofrequency nerve destruction.
symptoms are usually present or will worsen only when the  person is standing or walking upright.
the general direction of osteopathy  over the years has widened to employ a broader range of treatments that now  approach those of standard medicine.
patients are asked to sit, stand, and walk in different ways (flat-footed,  on the toes, and on their heels).
according to the study, the amount of money spent on  health care by people with back pain was 1.6 times higher than the health care  expenses of people without back pain.
it may  take 4 - 6 weeks for full recovery, however.
(vertebroplasty injects  the cement directly into the vertebra.)
microdiskectomy is the current standard procedure.
because most patients with back pain are on the mend or completely recovered within 6 weeks, imaging techniques such as x-rays or scans are rarely recommended in the first month unless the health care provider suspects a tumor, fracture, infection, cauda equina syndrome, or progressive neurological disease.
the most common reasons for surgery for low back pain are  sciatica and spinal stenosis.
the procedure is thought to alleviate pain and enhance healing by relieving pressure within the disks, promoting the in-flow of oxygen, fluids, and nutrients to the spinal column.
improper or excessive exercise may  also increase one's chances for back pain.
the link may also be due to an unhealthy lifestyle in general.
then,  extend the legs a little more so that the feet are further away from the body  and try it again.
chiropractic was founded in the u.s. in the late 1800s.
often, these symptoms  develop over a short period of time, become more severe, and may have other  findings that go along with them.
not all people have back pain after  such injuries, however.
stem cell treatments.
high-risk occupations jobs that involve lifting, bending, and twisting into awkward positions, as  well as those that cause whole-body vibration (such as long-distance truck  driving), place workers at particular risk for low back pain.
a survey of people who played tennis,  however, found no increased risk for low back pain or sciatica.
a skin patch containing lidocaine, a local anesthetic, has been used specifically for herpes zoster pain.
extrusion (which is less common than the other two conditions) is highly associated with back pain, since the gel is likely to extend out far enough to press against the nerve root, most often the sciatic nerve.
the fda also requested manufacturers of otc nsaids to revise their labels to include more specific language concerning potential cardiovascular and gastrointestinal risks.
some studies suggest a link between low  back pain and impaired motor control of deep muscles of the back and trunk.
the analysis found  back pain cost over $90 billion, of which $26 billion was spent directly on  treating the back pain.
the wand gives off sound waves, which gently vibration the area.
people who are obese and have low back pain may benefit from surgical weight loss surgery.
some evidence  supports its benefits, with reported success rates of around 70%.
click the icon to see an image of an intervertebral disk.
bromelain is an enzyme found in pineapple.
investigative agents tumor-necrosis factor (tnf) modifiers.
the direct physical connection through spinal manipulation  reinforces the patient-practitioner relationship.
when the spinal cord reaches  the lumbar region, it splits into four bundled strands of nerve roots called the cauda equina (meaning horsetail in latin).
exercises performed after a simple diskectomy do not seem to provide much  added benefit over time.
many patients still have back pain after  diskectomy, which delays discharge from the hospital.
early studies suggest that this patch, called lidoderm, may provide significant relief for people who suffer from low back pain with very few adverse effects, even with continuous use of four patches a day.
sometimes heat or electro-therapies (such as therapeutic  ultrasound or low-energy lasers) are used, although their benefits are unproven.
one group of researchers found that people with low  back pain who wear low-level heat wraps for 8 hours a day have significantly  less pain and disability.
it can be quite mild, however,  and it rarely affects a person's ability to work.
sometimes a fracture may not show up for a week  or two after an injury.
although no definitive studies have been done to prove the relationship between lack of exercise and low back pain, some doctors believe that an inactive lifestyle may be to blame in some cases.
back to top other treatments radiofrequency nerve destruction.
comparing yoga, exercise, and a self-care book for chronic low back
symptoms depend upon the area of the back  that is affected; however, most fractures are stable and do not produce  neurological symptoms.
this drug class  was initially thought to work as well as nsaids, while causing less  gastrointestinal distress.
click the icon to see an illustrated series  detailing lumbar spinal surgery.
about 20% of people with inflammatory bowel disease and about 20% of people  with psoriasis develop a similar form of arthritis involving the spine.
some doctors are approaching the  problem as one that is not necessarily curable and which needs a consistent  on-going approach.
specific conditions can determine the rate of improvement: in the majority of patients with herniated disks, the condition improves  (although the actual physical improvement may be slower than the reduction in  pain).
researchers attempted to identify factors most likely to predict an  elevated risk for recurrent pain and found that only depression was a  significant factor in the majority of those who had not recovered.
always check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary  supplements.
diskectomy diskectomy is the surgical removal of the diseased disk.
generally, manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not need fda approval to sell their products.
most of the body's weight and stress falls on the lumbar  vertebrae.
some studies have suggested that botox may be very  helpful in relieving chronic low back pain and sciatica caused by piriformis  syndrome.
while supported on hands and knees, lift and straighten right hand and  left leg at the same time.
tramadol (ultram) is a pain reliever that has been used as an alternative to opioids.
back to top risk factors
more than one vertebra may be affected.
subacute back pain is pain that lasts up to three months.
intervertebral disks begin deteriorating and growing thinner by age 30.
symptoms may include: pain generally occurs with activity and is better with rest.
they are also useful to determine if any  abnormal structural findings on an mri or other imaging tests have real  significance as a cause of back pain.
many people have disks that bulge or  protrude and do not suffer back pain.
back pain can be acute, subacute, or chronic.
it is done under endoscopic and x-ray guidance.
acupuncture acupuncture is now a common alternative treatment for certain kinds of  pain.
one group attended yoga classes and lessons; the second did  aerobics, weight training, and stretching; the third group read a self-help  book about back pain.
a 2004 study analyzed health care expenses in the united states.
these medicines often provide significant benefits.
at the same time, the bones and ligaments of the spine swell or grow  larger due to arthritis and chronic inflammation.
the muscle relaxant soma can be  addictive and does little more than produce sleep.
a british study found that young adults who were long-term smokers  were nearly twice as likely to develop low back pain as nonsmokers were.
alternate with the other arm and leg and  repeat on each side 8 - 20 times.
employers and workers should make every effort to create a safe  working environment.
popular herbs for back pain relief include: white willow bark, bromelain, and boswellia have blood-thinning properties and can interfere with anticoagulant medications such as warfarin (coumadin).back to top acupuncture is now a common alternative treatment for certain kinds of pain.
its core approach to healing  also involves physical manipulation.
in addition, compression fractures are often responsible for loss of height.
such exercises include leg lifts done in a facedown position, straight leg sit-ups, and leg curls using exercise equipment.
repeat with the other knee.
tao xg, bernacki ej.
if further studies support its benefits, the patch could prove to be an important treatment no-nsaids.
the affected leg may feel weak.
in some cases, the pain is severe enough to cause immobility.
transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (tens) uses low-level electrical pulses to suppress back pain.
the longer a  person continues such work, the higher their risk.
click the icon to see an image of the vertebrae and spinal cord.
weak back muscles may increase the risk for disk compression.
subacute back pain is pain that lasts up to 3 months.
there are a number of variations, but one example of a spinal manipulation technique is the following: whether on-going manipulations relieve pain better that just one visit is a subject of debate.
after 6 months, there was no difference in pain symptoms between the  two groups.
physical therapy typically includes the following: incorrect movements or long-term high-impact exercise is often a cause of back pain in the first place.
symptoms of the cauda equina syndrome include: dull back pain weakness or numbness in the buttocks, in the area between the legs, or in  the inner thigh, backs of legs, or feet; may cause stumbling or difficulty in  standing an inability to control urination and defecation pain accompanied by fever (can indicate an infection) sciatica the sciatic nerve.
persistent low back pain in children is more likely to have a serious cause that requires treatment than back pain in adults.
chronic back pain has become one of the most expensive causes of disability among workers under the age of 45.
the lumbar (l) vertebrae are the five lowest and largest bones of  the spinal column.
there are dozens of nsaids.
for very severe pain, a  small, patient-controlled pump called synchromed may be used.
in  appropriate candidates it provides faster immediate relief than medical  treatment, but long-term benefits (over 5 years) are uncertain.
in about 85% of back pain cases, the origin of the pain is unknown, and  imaging studies usually fail to determine its cause.
some doctors are approaching the problem as one that is not necessarily curable and which needs a consistent on-going approach.
these arches, aligned to run down the spine,  form the spinal canal, which encloses the spinal cord.
below the lumbar region is the sacrum, a shield-shaped bony  structure that connects with the pelvis at thesacroiliac joints.
the way a person moves, stands, or sleeps plays a major role in back pain.
a number of effective approaches to low back pain -- collectively called mind-body techniques -- employ psychological, behavioral, or physical methods to promote relaxation and reduce stress.
patients now often remain in bed only 3 - 4 days after disk surgery.
researchers expect the  treatment to enter pre-clinical trials in about 1 year.
it should be strongly noted, however, that serious complications (including stroke or spinal cord or neck injury) have been reported with manipulations of the neck.
the patient lies face down on a special table, clutching hand grips and wearing a pelvic harness.
in any case,  it may be specifically helpful for certain patients with back pain, such as  pregnant women, who must avoid medications.
two investigative procedures called automated or  electrical twitch obtaining intramuscular stimulation (atoims or etoims) are  showing promise.
in april 2005, the fda asked drug manufacturers of prescription nsaids to place an alert on their medicines warning people that the drugs have been linked to an increased risk for cardiovascular events and gastrointestinal bleeding.
pain: a randomized, controlled trial.
hold  for 20 seconds.
such exercises include leg lifts done in  a facedown position, straight leg sit-ups, and leg curls using exercise  equipment.
exercises for back pain include: low impact aerobic exercises.
it has been performed for 40 years, and  increasingly less invasive techniques developed over time.
low-impact aerobic exercises, such  as swimming, bicycling, and walking, can strengthen muscles in the abdomen and  back without over-straining the back.
addiction is a risk, although less than is commonly  believed when these medications are used for pain relief.
[for more information, seein-depth report #18: osteoporosis.]
evaluation of vertebroplasty with a validated outcome measure: the roland-morris disability questionnaire.
patients should always try all possible non-surgical treatments before  opting for surgery.
the surgery can be performed using a minimally invasive laparoscopic procedure, which is performed through tiny cuts using miniature tools and viewing devices.
some cases of sciatica pain may occur when a muscle located deep in the  buttocks pinches the sciatic nerve.
minimally invasive variations are under investigation.
some people have sharp pain in one part of the leg or hip and numbness in other parts.
these drugs block prostaglandins, the substances that dilate blood vessels and cause inflammation and pain.
a common cause of temporary back pain in children is carrying backpacks  that are too heavy.
(dependence  and abuse have been reported, however.)
it is  showing promise in early studies.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing lumbar spinal surgery.
for spinal stenosis, the traditional approach is a laminectomy and partial removal of the facet joint.
it may take 4 - 6 weeks for full recovery, however.
early studies  suggest that this patch, called lidoderm, may provide significant relief for  people who suffer from low back pain with very few adverse effects, even with  continuous use of four patches a day.
according to the national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin  diseases, 8 out of 10 people have some type of backache.
the procedure  relieves pressure on the spine.
more than one vertebra may collapse as a result.
the primary goal of this form of therapy in such cases is to change the distorted perceptions that patients have of themselves and their approach to pain.
programs that use strengthening exercises  while swimming may be a particularly beneficial approach for many patients with  back pain.
however,  the rate at which these changes develop varies between people, and may be  accelerated by trauma or excessive wear and tear.
some people have sharp pain in one  part of the leg or hip and numbness in other parts.
it provides more rapid pain relief than tramadol  alone.
lift using the leg muscles, not those in the back.
each vertebra and its processes surround and protect an arch-shaped central opening.
the end result of these  changes is a gradual loss of spinal structure and function, as well as chronic  pain, muscle spasms, and reduced mobility.
although little research has been done on such complications, an english survey indicated that they are more frequent than commonly thought.
symptoms of sciatica.
a 2004 review published in thebritish medical journal suggested that long-term use of nsaids does not actually reduce osteoarthritis pain and may increase patients' risk of experiencing side effects.
similarly, another study found that pilots, who generally reported "loving  their jobs," reported far fewer back problems than their flight crews.
because it is considered experimental, it is not yet covered by most insurers.
a study in 2003 was the first to  suggest that it may eventually achieve results that are comparable to standard  surgeries for disk herniation.
nov-dec;26(10):2652-7.back to top treating major depression meditation and stress cravings and weight loss your rights as a patient flu overview sleep and pain flu prevention the role of a caregiver how to quit for good cold and flu smarts for kids diet & energy choosing bone density tests bmi calculator calcium calculator diabetes risk quiz heart attack risk calculator calories burned calculator colon cancer risk quiz
it  used to be grouped under juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, but is now defined as a  separate problem.
transcutaneous electric nerve  stimulation (tens) uses low-level electrical pulses to suppress back pain.
a traveler should stop and  walk around about every hour.
tall women are  at higher risk than short women.
scientists in england are studying whether  therapeutic ultrasound may help relieve pain and disability due to sciatica.
such antidepressants include amitriptyline (elavil, endep), desipramine (norpramin), doxepin (sinequan), imipramine (tofranil), amoxapine (asendin), nortriptyline (pamelor, aventyl), and maprotiline (ludiomil).
the muscle relaxant soma can be addictive and does little more than produce sleep.
a stretching program may work best when combined with strengthening  exercises.
studies report that a course of  cognitive-behavioral therapy helps reduce chronic back pain or at least  enhances the patient's ability to deal with it.
people who do not exercise regularly face an increased risk for low back pain, especially when they perform sudden, stressful activities such as shoveling, digging, or moving heavy items.
patients will be asked to lift their leg straight up while lying down.
the fda also requested manufacturers of otc nsaids to revise their  labels to include more specific language concerning potential cardiovascular  and gastrointestinal risks.
other symptoms include a feeling of weakness or heaviness in  the buttocks or legs.
there is some evidence  that patients can experience rebound pain within a few months.
obesity puts more weight on the spine and increases pressure on the  vertebrae and disks.
many people have disks that bulge or protrude and do not suffer back pain.
when the fracture is the result of osteoporosis, the vertebrae in the thoracic (chest) and lower spine are usually affected, and symptoms may be worse with walking.
if it is necessary, walk as  much as possible and wear shoes without heels, preferably with cushioned soles.
bend at the knees, not at the waist.
2006 mar 25;332(7543):680-1.
many studies have now confirmed that patients feel more satisfied with their  chiropractic care than with treatment from general practitioners.
pain that lasts longer than 30 days, or gets worse with  sitting, coughing, sneezing, or straining may indicated a longer recovery.
it can produce increased lordosis (swayback), but in later stages may result in kyphosis (roundback) as the upper spine falls off the lower spine.
often, these symptoms develop over a short period of time, become more severe, and may have other findings that go along with them.
this drug class was initially thought to work as well as nsaids, while causing less gastrointestinal distress.
electric nerve stimulation.
it is not clear yet if any of these less-invasive procedures are as  effective as the standard microdiskectomy.
osteoporosis is a disease of the skeleton in which the amount of calcium present in the bones slowly decreases to the point where the bones become fragile and prone to fractures.
this muscle is called the piriformis.
symptoms include a slow  development of back discomfort, with pain lasting for more than 3 months.
it is usually sharp,  localized, and accompanied by numbness or tingling.
it is not painful, but some people may feel claustrophobic in scanners that are fully enclosed.
serious infections have been reported.
starting intensive exercise 4 - 6 weeks after a first-time disk surgery appears to be very helpful for speeding up recovery.
back pain can occur in any area of the back, but it is more common in the  lower back, which supports most of the body's weight.
a skin patch containing lidocaine, a local  anesthetic, has been used specifically for herpes zoster pain.
their results suggest that surgical treatment is better, at least over the first 2 years after surgery.
in children, spondylolisthesis usually occurs between the fifth bone in the  lower back (lumbar vertebra) and the first bone in the sacrum area.
injections of anesthetics such as xylocaine or  bupivacaine may help some patients, although studies on their benefits are  mixed.
it provides more rapid pain relief than tramadol alone.
proton-pump inhibitors include omeprazole (prilosec), esomeprazole (nexium), and lansoprazole (prevacid).
ankylosing spondylitis is a chronic inflammation of the spine that  may gradually result in a fusion of vertebrae.
exercise, diet, stress, and weight all have a significant influence on back pain.
injecting a drug that blocks pain into the nerves in the back helps locate the level in the spine where problems occur.
although this procedure often brings immediate relief from pain, there are small risks to the operation, and it is not always successful.
patients who have the following symptoms or experience certain events may need more sophisticated imaging studies: magnetic resonance imaging (mri).
a 2002 review of studies concluded that antidepressants may lessen pain severity in some patients, although they had little effect on daily functioning.
medical evidence has found that they can help relieve  non-specific low back pain, but some experts have warned that these drugs  should be used cautiously, since they target the brain, not the muscles.
in some cases a segment (consisting of two vertebrae and their common  joint and disk) becomes unstable when its parts wear down.
the practitioner grasps the exposed shoulder and either the hip or knee  and then presses the upper and lower portions of the body in opposite  directions, so that the torso rotates.
people vulnerable to back pain should avoid activities that put undue stress on the lower back or require sudden twisting movements, such as football, golf, ballet, and weight lifting.
depression and a tendency to develop physical complaints in response to  stress also increase the likelihood that acute back pain will become a chronic  condition.
all patients should require objective evidence on  the benefits of their treatments.
endoscopy employs a catheter (a thin tube)  that contains tiny cameras and surgical instruments.
it has shown some initial promise for relief of chronic back pain and may also improve mobility and sleep.
a variant, percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (pens), applies these pulses through a small needle to acupuncture points.
pilates is an exercise practice that uses yoga  principles, and may be specifically helpful for people with back pain.
neurological damage (leg weakness or changes in sensation) may result from pressure on nerve roots, and may cause pain radiating down the legs.
in rare cases, doctors may use bone scintigraphy (bone scanning) to determine abnormalities in the bones.
it has value only for select patients with pain on moving and standing.
the pelvic tilt alleviates tight or fatigued lower back  muscles.
researchers expect the treatment to enter pre-clinical trials in about 1 year.
anyone who undergoes acupuncture should be sure it is performed in a reputable location by experienced practitioners who use sterilized equipment.
a 2003 analysis suggested that it may be beneficial, however, for relief of neck pain and possibly for low back pain caused by problems in the facets joints.
injecting a drug that blocks pain into the nerves in the back helps locate  the level in the spine where problems occur.
randomised controlled trial to compare surgical stabilisation of the lumbar spine with an intensive rehabilitation programme for patients with chronic low back pain: the mrc spine stabilisation trial.
the pain often starts slowly.
a study in the journalobesity surgery found that  bariatric (stomach stapling) surgery significantly improves the degree of  disability in morbidly obese patients who have low back pain.
these positions may create more space in the spinal canal, thus relieving pressure on the spinal cord or the spinal nerves.
more research is needed.
other complications of spinal  surgery can include nerve and muscle damage, infection, and the need for  another operation.
it is often due to a birth defect in that area of the spine.
among the groups at high risk for bleeding are elderly people, anyone with  a history of ulcers of gi bleeding, patients with serious heart conditions,  alcohol abusers, and those on certain medications, such anticoagulants  ("blood thinners"), corticosteroids, or bisphosphonates (drugs used  for osteoporosis).
chairs should either have  straight backs or low-back support.
symptoms of the cauda equina syndrome include: exercise, diet, stress, and weight all have a significant influence on back pain.
patients should ask their health care provider about evidence favoring  surgery or other (nonsurgical) treatments in their particular case.
fairbank j, frost h, wilson-macdonald j, yu lm, barker k, collins r; spine stabilisation trial group.
the back of  the seat should not be reclined more than 30 degrees.
exercise does not help acute back pain.
some studies have reported positive benefits to idet; others say it does  not significantly reduce pain.
improper exercise instruction and inattention to body movements can lead  to back trouble.
they can also be used together.
in older adults, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis are also common.
the standard procedure is to give 80 - 100 pulses per second for 45 minutes three times a day.
these agents show particular promise in providing pain relief and reducing the risk for gi problems.
the health care provider may measure the circumference of the calves and  thighs to look for muscle deterioration.
in cases where abnormal vertebrae position or movement, such as spinal stenosis or spondylolisthesis, is responsible for severe and chronic back pain, surgeons may fuse vertebrae together.
this condition typically develops as a person ages and the disks become drier and start to shrink.
the column is grouped into three sections: the cervical (c) vertebrae are the seven spinal bones that support  the neck.
the surgery can be performed using a  minimally invasive laparoscopic procedure, which is performed through tiny cuts  using miniature tools and viewing devices.
some small studies indicate that infliximab (remicade) may help  reduce sciatica pain.
many patients still have back pain after diskectomy, which delays discharge from the hospital.
it usually does not cause pain unless the  vertebrae collapse suddenly, in which case the pain is often severe.
it should be noted that any nerve  injuries that affect these tests may not be present for 2 - 4 weeks after  symptoms begin.
a technique called percutaneous neuromodulation therapy (pnt) uses a small device delivers electrical stimulation to deep tissues and nerve pathways near the spine.
unfortunately, rigorous studies of acupuncture are difficult to perform, and most evidence on its benefits is weak.
each vertebra is designated by using a letter and number, alllowing the doctor to determine where it is in the spine.
the new tissue will replace  damaged spinal tissue and may relieve low back pain.
the potential for serious adverse effects from low back manipulations is low.
stretching exercises work  best for reducing pain, while strengthening exercises are best for improving  function.
the direct physical connection through spinal manipulation reinforces the patient-practitioner relationship.
stem cells are the building blocks of specific cells.
exercise should be considered as part of a broader program to return to normal home, work, and social activities.
other, less invasive procedures that are available include: endoscopic diskectomy.
it is more common in adults over  65 and women.
some medical evidence suggests that relying on mri images of disk abnormalities to determine treatment has resulted in many unnecessary surgeries.
evidence suggests that short-term use of nsaids brings effective  relief in patients with acute back pain.
changing certain lifestyle factors can help reduce and, possibly, prevent backaches.
improper or excessive exercise may also increase one's chances for back pain.
spondylolisthesis may occasionally be  associated with bone diseases.
to date, however, the newer procedures  have higher complication rates than the open approaches, and some medical  centers have abandoned them.
small studies are reporting some  help in relieving a number of condition the cause chronic pain, including low  back pain.
the pain may move to the buttocks but rarely any farther down the leg.
in fact, when prescribed properly, use of opioids for chronic pain can be safer in some cases than on-going use of nsaids.
in a 2001 study of patients with severe  long-term back pain, 33% of patients who had spinal fusion had less back pain  after 2 years, compared to 7% who received conservative treatment with physical  therapy.
overview: back pain can be acute, subacute, or chronic.
extrusion (which is less common than the  other two conditions) is highly associated with back pain, since the gel is  likely to extend out far enough to press against the nerve root, most often the  sciatic nerve.
spondylolisthesis may vary from mild to severe.
specific and regular exercise under the guidance of a trained professional is important for reducing pain and improving function, although patients often find it difficult to maintain therapy.
topical nsaids delivered in gels, creams, or patches do not appear to  provide any long-term benefits in reducing arthritic pain.
for others, there may be minimal history of back pain, but  at some point in this process any disruption, such as a minor injury that  results in disk inflammation, can cause impingement on the nerve root and  trigger pain.
one study found that, although severe back pain comprised only  10% of workers compensation cases, it accounted for 86% of compensation costs.
popular herbs for back pain relief include: white willow bark (salix alba) contains salicylates, the same  chemicals found in aspirin.
it usually does not cause pain unless the vertebrae collapse suddenly, in which case the pain is often severe.
some experts believe that fewer than 1% of back  pain patients need aggressive medical or surgical treatments.
meta-analysis: exercise therapy for nonspecific low back pain.
after identifying and moving the  nerve root, the surgeon removes the injured disk tissue under it.
other problems can also cause back pain, however.
for very severe pain, a small, patient-controlled pump called synchromed may be used.
sedentary lifestyle.
neurological  damage (leg weakness or changes in sensation) may result from pressure on nerve  roots, and may cause pain radiating down the legs.
if back pain persists beyond 5 weeks, physical therapy is used for  rehabilitation.
a skin patch  containing an opioid called transdermal fentanyl (duragesic) may relieve  chronic back pain more effectively than oral opioids.
although this procedure often brings immediate relief from pain, there are  small risks to the operation, and it is not always successful.
opioids are synthetic drugs and include oxycodone (percodan,  percocet, oxycontin), hydrocodone (vicodin), and oxymorphone (numorphan).
nerve conduction studies and electromyography are the electrodiagnostic tests most commonly performed.
such leakage could cause damage to soft tissues and nerves.
according to the study, the amount of money spent on health care by people with back pain was 1.6 times higher than the health care expenses of people without back pain.
they are the most powerful medications available for  the management of pain.
the goal is to classify patients into one of three categories a medical history and physical examination can usually clarify the classification.
back pain exercise does not help acute back pain.
in fact, when  prescribed properly, use of opioids for chronic pain can be safer in some cases  than on-going use of nsaids.
the longer a person continues such work, the higher their risk.
the  traction-like action alternately decompresses and relaxes the spine over  1-minute intervals.
(even when not lifting an object,  always try to use this posture when stooping down.)
injections injections of different substances are sometimes used to treat low back  pain caused by nerve impingement.
it used to be grouped under juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, but is now defined as a separate problem.
some recurrence of back pain and sciatica occurs in half to two-thirds of postoperative patients.
those with severe fractures or spinal infections should  not have kyphoplasty.
lying curled up in a fetal position with a pillow  between the knees or lying on the back with a pillow under the knees may help.
depending on which part and how much of the spine is involved, symptoms may be similar to that of a herniated disc, lumbar strain, or spinal stenosis (narrowing of the spinal canal).
some experts believe that fewer than 1% of back pain patients need aggressive medical or surgical treatments.
osteopathic treatment was  also far less expensive than traditional back pain treatments.
an x-ray myelogram is an x-ray of the spine that requires a spinal  injection of a special dye and the need to lie still for several hours to avoid  a very painful headache.
nerve conduction studies and electromyography are the electrodiagnostic  tests most commonly performed.
if someone is on disability for more than 6 months, the chance of them returning to work is only 50%.
each vertebra and its processes surround and protect  an arch-shaped central opening.
in all cases, patients should never force themselves to exercise if, by  doing so, the pain increases.
proton-pump inhibitors may help to prevent and heal ulcers caused by nsaids.
spinal stenosis spinal stenosis is the narrowing of the spinal canal, or narrowing of the  nerve root canals where spinal nerves leave the spinal column.
back pain can occur in any area of the back, but it is more common in the lower back, which supports most of the body's weight.
unfortunately, opioid abuse among young people is  a major concern.
to date, however, the newer procedures have higher complication rates than the open approaches, and some medical centers have abandoned them.
patients should also be  aware that some chiropractors use alternative treatments that have not been  proven or rigorously studied.
however, healing  takes several weeks.
if someone is on disability for more than 6 months, the chance of them  returning to work is only 50%.
some evidence supports its benefits, with reported success rates of around 70%.
ten to 20 sessions on  successive days are often required.
the technique is  proving useful for stabilizing the spine and relieving pain in patients with  spinal compression fractures due to osteoporosis or cancer.
pregnant women are prone to back pain due to a shifting of abdominal organs, the forward redistribution of body weight, and the loosening of ligaments in the pelvic area as the body prepares for delivery.
home care tips for relieving pain resume normal activity as soon as possible.
chronic back pain can come on fast or slow, but it lasts longer than 3  months.
doctors cannot predict which patients taking these drugs will develop  bleeding.
however, studies now suggest that up to 75% of patients suffer at least one  recurrence of back pain over the course of a year.
it can cause permanent incontinence if not  promptly treated with surgery.
repetition is  the key to increasing flexibility, building endurance, and strengthening the  specific muscles needed to support and neutralize the spine.