sometimes you will not feel improvement for a number of treatments.
there have been world-wide research efforts undertaken to better understand the many therapeutic benefits of laser therapy.
in  clinical studies patients receiving laser therapy have experienced a  significant reduction in pain.
occasionally one feels a mild, soothing warmth, or tingling.
in clinical studies patients receiving laser therapy have experienced a significant reduction in pain.
high power laser therapy has already helped thousands of people get long-term relief without drugs, needles, side effects, pain or surgery.
st. tereiza physical therapy has had great success at treating all of the  previously mentioned pains.
more chronic problems respond better when treatments are received 2 to 3 times per week tapering to once a week or once every other week, with improvement.
among these there are more than one hundred  rigorously controlled scientific studies that document the effectiveness of  laser for many clinical conditions.
these effects include improved healing time, pain reduction, increased  circulation and decreased swelling.
if a patient is allergic to light then they may get a rash or blister for a few days.
during more than twenty years of use by health care providers all over the world, very few side effects have ever been reported.
patient satisfaction survey laser therapy high power laser therapy has already helped thousands of people get  long-term relief without drugs, needles, side effects, pain or surgery.
laser light therapy has shown promising results and only takes a couple sessions to feel the difference!
occasionally some old injuries or pain syndromes may feel aggravated for a few days, as the healing response is more active after treatment.
yes, laser treatment is often used with other forms of therapy, including physical therapy, massage, soft tissue mobilization, electrotherapy and following surgery.
the laser light directs biostimulative energy to the body's injured cells in a specific location where the cells transform this energy into chemical energy promoting natural healing and pain relief through tissue repair.
conditions such as severe arthritis may require ongoing periodic care to control pain.
in fact, a recent review of over 2500 articles in the medical literature  indicated that many acute and chronic conditions may be improved or eliminated  with therapeutic lasers.
among these there are more than one hundred rigorously controlled scientific studies that document the effectiveness of laser for many clinical conditions.
we're on facebook insurance medical library faq  brochures links centereach ridge medical center why physical therapy?
there are thousands of published studies demonstrating the clinical  effectiveness of laser therapy.
each treatment is cumulative and results are often felt after 3 or 4 sessions.
what health problems have shown benefits from laser therapy?
you may feel improvement in your condition (usually pain reduction) after the very first treatment.
what is laser or light therapy?
low-level and led therapy or "photobiomodulation" is the use of specific wavelengths of light (red and near infrared) to create therapeutic effects.
anodyne® therapy laser therapy kinesio taping golf fitness  acupuncture chiropractic massage therapy internal medicine pain management  sports medicine locations staff patient satisfaction survey doctor  testimonials testimonials
the light may be provided by a low-power  laser or led (light emitting diode).
laser light therapy is used by st. tereiza physical therapy as an effective  treatment for numerous acute and chronic pain.
for some acute conditions 1-6 treatments may be sufficient.
these effects include improved healing time, pain reduction, increased circulation and decreased swelling.
those of a more chronic nature may require 10-15 (or more) treatments.
low level lasers send cold light through skin layers to soft tissue cells to stimulate blood flow and cell metabolism.
click the questions below for the answers.
other healing modalities are complementary and can be used with laser to increase the effectiveness of the treatment.
there have been world-wide research efforts  undertaken to better understand the many therapeutic benefits of laser therapy.
there are thousands of published studies demonstrating the clinical effectiveness of laser therapy.
the laser light directs biostimulative energy to the body's injured  cells in a specific location where the cells transform this energy into  chemical energy promoting natural healing and pain relief through tissue repair.
low-level and led therapy or "photobiomodulation" is the use of  specific wavelengths of light (red and near infrared) to create therapeutic  effects.
st. tereiza physical therapy has had great success at treating all of the previously mentioned pains.
laser light therapy has shown promising results and  only takes a couple sessions to feel the difference!
there is little or no sensation during treatment.
acute conditions may be treated daily, particularly if they are accompanied by significant pain.
the light may be provided by a low-power laser or led (light emitting diode).
low level lasers send cold  light through skin layers to soft tissue cells to stimulate blood flow and cell  metabolism.
the typical course of treatment is five minutes depending on the size of the area being treated.
has effectiveness been demonstrated scientifically?
the application of light therapy is used for soft tissue repair and regeneration.
tendinopathies repetitive strain injuries myofascial trigger points whiplash rotator cuff injuries osteoarthritis herpes zoater (shingles) post-traumatic injury amputee stumps tmj dysfunction hamstring pull bunion pain swelling sprains, strains carpal tunnel syndrome plantar fascitis sciatica arthritis trigeminal neuralgia diabetic neuropathy migraine headaches diabetic foot ulcers hip bursitis shin splints golfer's elbow pain relief back/neck pain chondromalacia patellae epicondylitis (tennis elbow) herniated discs rheumatoid arthritis rsd/crps fibromyalgia venous ulcers burns pinched nerves stress fractures post-operative wounds tendonitis what does the research demonstrate?
the benefits of laser therapy relieves acute and chronic pain stimulates generation of new and healthy tissue promotes faster wound healing and clot forming what health problems have shown benefits from laser therapy?
why choose a doctor of pt?
the application of light therapy  is used for soft tissue repair and regeneration.
laser light therapy is used by st. tereiza physical therapy as an effective treatment for numerous acute and chronic pain.
this depends on the nature of the condition being treated.
in fact, a recent review of over 2500 articles in the medical literature indicated that many acute and chronic conditions may be improved or eliminated with therapeutic lasers.