physical therapy appears to be more effective than medical  care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the magnitude of this  possible benefit is minimal.
objectives: to compare the effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care for low back pain patients in managed care; to assess the effectiveness of physical therapy among medical patients; and to assess the effectiveness of physical modalities among chiropractic patients.
[22] the active approach used by the physical therapy staff  may be responsible for the relatively better 6-month disability outcomes  experienced by the physical therapy patients.
no clinically significant differences in outcomes between chiropractic  and hospital outpatient care were found in the meade et al
chiropractors at the study site use the same general type of spinal manipulation taught in most chiropractic schools and used by most chiropractors in the united states.
cherkin et a [l9]  reported no differences between chiropractic and mckenzie physical therapy  groups during 2 years of follow-up in terms of pain and disability, and these  groups had only slightly better outcomes and much greater costs than did  patients in the control group receiving only an educational booklet.
the authors of a well-designed observational study concluded that among patients with low back pain of less than 10 weeks duration seen by primary care physicians, chiropractors, and orthopedic surgeons, pain and functional status outcomes were similar at 6 months, and costs were higher for patients of orthopedic surgeons and chiropractors.
duration seen by primary care physicians, chiropractors, and orthopedic  surgeons, pain and functional status outcomes were similar at 6 months, and  costs were higher for patients of orthopedic surgeons and chiropractors.
the authors of review papers and treatment guidelines have concluded that acetaminophen, [5,14] nsaids, [ 5,11,14,28,49] muscle relaxants, [11,49] conditioning exercises and certain aerobic activities, [5] and spinal manipulation [5,40] may provide shortterm benefit for patients with acute low back pain; nsaids, [ 49] exercise therapy, [19,49] and spinal manipulation [49] may be of some benefit for patients with chronic low back pain.
[ 36,49] adverse reactions are much more frequent in patients taking medications than in patients receiving nonmedication comparison treatments.
medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical modalities  yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of  follow-up.
despite the burden that low back pain places on patients, providers, and society, the relative effectiveness of common treatment strategies offered in managed care is unknown.
[10,12] the medical providers prescribe nsaids, muscle relaxants, and narcotic analgesics, which is the typical treatment approach used by primary care physicians for patients with low back pain.
medical providers, chiropractors, and physical  therapists outside this network may differ in their approaches to low back pain  care; and patients under fee-for-service, workers’ compensation, personal  injury, and other reimbursement models may differ in ways that affect treatment  outcomes.
physical therapy appears to be more effective than medical care  alone for reducing disability in some patients after 6 months, but the  magnitude of this possible benefit is not large.
conclusions: after 6 months of follow-up, chiropractic care and medical care for low back pain were comparable in their effectiveness.
also, patients who chose not to be randomly assigned may differ from participants on factors that modify treatment effects.
a recent randomized clinical trial comparing osteopathic care with standard  medical care in amanaged care setting found equivalent pain and disability  outcomes among patients with subacute (3 weeks to 6months) low back pain after  12 weeks of care, but there was greater prescription medication use in the  medical care
nevertheless, our study population is similar to other outpatient low back pain populations in terms of average baseline level of back pain [9,29,30] and baseline level of disability resulting from back pain.
[ 4] conclusion medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical modalities yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of follow-up.
the authors of review papers and treatment  guidelines have concluded that acetaminophen, [5,14] nsaids, [ 5,11,14,28,49] muscle relaxants, [11,49] conditioning exercises and  certain aerobic activities, [5] and spinal manipulation [5,40]  may provide shortterm benefit for patients with acute low back pain; nsaids, [ 49] exercise therapy, [19,49] and spinal manipulation [49]  may be of some benefit for patients with chronic low back pain.
[8 ] the findings from prior studies are consistent with our results  showing relatively small differences between medical, chiropractic, and  physical therapy care.
[38] concluded that acute pain patients were  better with chiropractic at 3 weeks; chronic patients were better with physical  therapy at 3 weeks; and there were no differences between groups at 6 months.
the slightly better 6-month disability outcomes observed  for physical therapy patients in our study are consistent with findings  reported recently from physical therapy intervention studies for subacute and  chronic low back pain.
assessment of the costs and potential risks  associated with each treatment strategy would be helpful in more fully  understanding the roles of medical providers, chiropractors, and physical  therapists in the treatment of low back pain.
overall, there are only small differences in low back pain outcomes  between the treatment groups in this population of largely subacute and chronic  pain patients.
[21] because many of the medical care with physical therapy patients in our study did not receive physical therapy, the intention-to-treat analysis may have underestimated the magnitude of this effect.
objectives: to compare the effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care for low  back pain patients in managed care; to assess the effectiveness of physical  therapy among medical patients; and to assess the effectiveness of physical  modalities among chiropractic patients.
no clinically significant differences in outcomes between chiropractic and hospital outpatient care were found in the meade et al
there is little evidence to support the use of bedrest for acute pain [5,49] or physical agents or modalities for acute [5,36,49] or chronic low back pain.
physical therapy  yielded somewhat better 6-month disability outcomes than did medical care alone  (1.26, 0.20-2.32).
overall, there are only small  differences in low back pain outcomes between the treatment groups in this  population of largely subacute and chronic pain patients.
[ 36,49] adverse reactions are much more frequent in patients taking  medications than in patients receiving nonmedication comparison treatments.
- six hundred eighty-one patients presenting to a managed care facility were randomly assigned to medical care with and without physical therapy and chiropractic care with and without physical modalities; 95.7% were followed up through 6 months.
the mean changes in low back pain intensity and  disability of participants in the medical and chiropractic care-only groups  were similar at each follow-up assessment (adjusted mean differences at 6  months for most severe pain, 0.27, 95% confidence interval, -0.32-0.86; average  pain, 0.22, -0.25-0.69; and disability, 0.75, -0.29-1.79).
[2,3,40] four randomized controlled trials have compared chiropractic with physical therapy for low back pain.
our study  is one of many in recent years to compare various treatment approaches for  patients with low back pain.
findings from a national network  of physical therapy practices showed that the combination of modalities and  exercise is the most frequently used treatment strategy for patients with  lumbar impairments.
also, patients who chose not to be randomly assigned may differ from  participants on factors that modify treatment effects.
medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical modalities yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of follow-up.
conclusions: after 6 months of  follow-up, chiropractic care and medical care for low back pain were comparable  in their effectiveness.
nevertheless, our study  population is similar to other outpatient low back pain populations in terms of  average baseline level of back pain
[27] although this study also showed managed care  and fee-for-service reimbursement do not appreciably affect utilization  patterns, [27] an earlier survey of physical therapists demonstrated  differences in treatment preferences and visit frequency by practice setting.
[34] in patients with  chronic pain, physical therapy and medically supervised exercise were found to  be better than unsupervised exercise in terms of pain intensity, functional  status, and cost per sick day after 12 months following 3 months of therapy in  norway.
the  findings suggest that physical therapy patients may have greater reductions in  disability, on average, than do patients in the medical care-only group from 6  weeks to 6 months, resulting in relatively better 6-month disability outcomes;  however, these small differences may be chance findings and may not persist  with continued follow- up.
key points - a randomized clinical trial was conducted among low back pain patients to compare the effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care; to assess the effectiveness of physical therapy among medical patients; and to assess the effectiveness of physical modalities among chiropractic patients.
[48] the greater value of supervised exercise for patients with  chronic low back pain is also supported by another recent trial that followed  patients for 2 years.
[8 ] the findings from prior studies are consistent with our results showing relatively small differences between medical, chiropractic, and physical therapy care.
physical therapy appears to be more effective than medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the magnitude of this possible benefit is minimal.
ehurwitz@ucla.edu study design:
[10,12] the  medical providers prescribe nsaids, muscle relaxants, and narcotic analgesics,  which is the typical treatment approach used by primary care physicians for  patients with low back pain.
return to the low back pain sectionsince 11-12-2002
[ 4] conclusion medical and chiropractic  care without physical therapy or physical modalities yielded similar  improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of follow-up.
despite the burden that low back pain places on patients,  providers, and society, the relative effectiveness of common treatment  strategies offered in managed care is unknown.
- overall, there are only small differences in low back pain outcomes between the treatment groups in this population of largely subacute and chronic pain patients.
because our study was conducted within one managed care  organization, generalization of our findings to patients in other settings  should be viewed with caution.
assessment of the costs and potential risks associated with each treatment strategy would be helpful in more fully understanding the roles of medical providers, chiropractors, and physical therapists in the treatment of low back pain.
[38] concluded that acute pain patients were better with chiropractic at 3 weeks; chronic patients were better with physical therapy at 3 weeks; and there were no differences between groups at 6 months.
spine (phila pa 1976) 2002 (oct 15);   27 (20):    2193–2204 ~ full text hurwitz el, morgenstern h, harber  p, kominski gf, belin tr, yu f, adams ah department of  epidemiology, university of california-los angeles school of public health, los  angeles, california 90095-1772, usa.
methods: low back pain patients presenting to a large managed care facility from  october 30, 1995, through november 9, 1998, were randomly assigned in a  balanced design to medical care with and without physical therapy and to  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities.
our  sponsors become a sponsor join us
[42,43] reported no differences between chiropractic and physical therapy patients at 6 months or 1 year in terms of pain, function, cost, or sick leave, although chiropractic was slightly more favorable for patients with episodes of less than a week and physical therapy more favorable for patients with episodes of more than a month.
[7,29,39,44,47] however, differences on other unmeasured factors and treatment effects that may be relatively larger in certain patient subgroups could potentially limit the studys generalizability.
[2,3,40] four randomized  controlled trials have compared chiropractic with physical therapy for low back  pain.
a randomized trial of medical care with and without physical therapy and chiropractic care with and without physical modalities for patients with low back pain: 6-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain studythis section is compiled by frank m. painter, d.c. send all comments or additions to: frankp@chiro.org from: spine (phila pa 1976) 2002 (oct 15); 27 (20): 21932204 ~ full text hurwitz el, morgenstern h, harber p, kominski gf, belin tr, yu f, adams ah department of epidemiology, university of california-los angeles school of public health, los angeles, california 90095-1772, usa.
the findings suggest that physical therapy patients may have greater reductions in disability, on average, than do patients in the medical care-only group from 6 weeks to 6 months, resulting in relatively better 6-month disability outcomes; however, these small differences may be chance findings and may not persist with continued follow- up.
because our study was conducted within one managed care organization, generalization of our findings to patients in other settings should be viewed with caution.
a recent randomized clinical trial comparing osteopathic care with standard medical care in amanaged care setting found equivalent pain and disability outcomes among patients with subacute (3 weeks to 6months) low back pain after 12 weeks of care, but there was greater prescription medication use in the medical care
- medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical modalities yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of follow-up.
this is the first randomized clinical trial to address  the relative effectiveness of primary medical versus chiropractic care and the  effectiveness of physical therapy or physical modalities for patients with low  back pain within a managed care practice setting with salaried providers.
physical therapy may be marginally more effective than  medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the possible  benefit is small.
physical therapy yielded somewhat better 6-month disability outcomes than did medical care alone (1.26, 0.20-2.32).
[21] because many of the medical care with  physical therapy patients in our study did not receive physical therapy, the  intention-to-treat analysis may have underestimated the magnitude of this  effect.
[ 5,11,28] side effects and complications resulting from spinal manipulation  for low back pain are extremely rare.
this is the first randomized clinical trial to address the relative effectiveness of primary medical versus chiropractic care and the effectiveness of physical therapy or physical modalities for patients with low back pain within a managed care practice setting with salaried providers.
summary of background data:
the authors of a well-designed observational study  concluded that among patients with low back pain of less than 10 weeks’
key points a randomized clinical trial was conducted among low back pain patients to  compare the effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care; to assess the  effectiveness of physical therapy among medical patients; and to assess the  effectiveness of physical modalities among chiropractic patients.
[22] the active approach used by the physical therapy staff may be responsible for the relatively better 6-month disability outcomes experienced by the physical therapy patients.
of 1,469 eligible patients, 681 were enrolled; 95.7% were followed through 6 months.
a randomized trial of medical care with and without physical therapy and  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities for patients with low  back pain: 6-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain study a randomized trial of medical care with and without physical therapy and  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities for patients with low  back pain: 6-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain study this section is compiled by frank m. painter, d.c. send all comments or  additions to: frankp@chiro.org from:
the slightly better 6-month disability outcomes observed for physical therapy patients in our study are consistent with findings reported recently from physical therapy intervention studies for subacute and chronic low back pain.
[9,29,30] and baseline level of  disability resulting from back pain.
physical therapy appears to be more effective than medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients after 6 months, but the magnitude of this possible benefit is not large.
overall, there are only small differences in low back pain outcomes between the treatment groups in this population of largely subacute and chronic pain patients.
the primary outcome  variables are average and most severe low back pain intensity in the past week,  assessed with 0 to 10 numerical rating scales, and low back-related disability,  assessed with the 24-item roland-morris disability questionnaire.
medical providers, chiropractors, and physical therapists outside this network may differ in their approaches to low back pain care; and patients under fee-for-service, workers compensation, personal injury, and other reimbursement models may differ in ways that affect treatment outcomes.
a randomized clinical trial.
join us please read our disclaimer
chiropractors at the study site use  the same general type of spinal manipulation taught in most chiropractic  schools and used by most chiropractors in the united states.
[7,29,39,44,47] however,  differences on other unmeasured factors and treatment effects that may be  relatively larger in certain patient subgroups could potentially limit the  study’s generalizability.
six hundred eighty-one patients presenting to a managed care facility were  randomly assigned to medical care with and without physical therapy and  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities; 95.7% were followed up  through 6 months.
[11,14] the physical therapists emphasize therapeutic exercise and other active care strategies, rather than passive methods that are de-emphasized in modern physical therapy training and practice.
ehurwitz@ucla.edu study  design:
[27] although this study also showed managed care and fee-for-service reimbursement do not appreciably affect utilization patterns, [27] an earlier survey of physical therapists demonstrated differences in treatment preferences and visit frequency by practice setting.
the mean changes in low back pain intensity and disability of participants in the medical and chiropractic care-only groups were similar at each follow-up assessment (adjusted mean differences at 6 months for most severe pain, 0.27, 95% confidence interval, -0.32-0.86; average pain, 0.22, -0.25-0.69; and disability, 0.75, -0.29-1.79).
the primary outcome variables are average and most severe low back pain intensity in the past week, assessed with 0 to 10 numerical rating scales, and low back-related disability, assessed with the 24-item roland-morris disability questionnaire.
there is little  evidence to support the use of bedrest for acute pain [5,49] or physical  agents or modalities for acute [5,36,49] or chronic low back pain.
our study is one of many in recent years to compare various treatment approaches for patients with low back pain.
physical therapy may be marginally more effective than medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the possible benefit is small.
cherkin et a [l9] reported no differences between chiropractic and mckenzie physical therapy groups during 2 years of follow-up in terms of pain and disability, and these groups had only slightly better outcomes and much greater costs than did patients in the control group receiving only an educational booklet.
findings from a national network of physical therapy practices showed that the combination of modalities and exercise is the most frequently used treatment strategy for patients with lumbar impairments.
return to the low back pain section since 11-12-2002 home page visit
medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical  modalities yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6  months of follow-up.
from the full-text article: discussion
an intervention with physical therapist-led exercise classes was found to be more effective than primary medical care for patients with subacute low back pain after 6 and 12 months.
[48] the greater value of supervised exercise for patients with chronic low back pain is also supported by another recent trial that followed patients for 2 years.
methods: low back pain patients presenting to a large managed care facility from october 30, 1995, through november 9, 1998, were randomly assigned in a balanced design to medical care with and without physical therapy and to chiropractic care with and without physical modalities.
[34] in patients with chronic pain, physical therapy and medically supervised exercise were found to be better than unsupervised exercise in terms of pain intensity, functional status, and cost per sick day after 12 months following 3 months of therapy in norway.
[42,43] reported no differences between chiropractic and  physical therapy patients at 6 months or 1 year in terms of pain, function,  cost, or sick leave, although chiropractic was slightly more favorable for  patients with episodes of less than a week and physical therapy more favorable  for patients with episodes of more than a month.
of 1,469 eligible patients, 681 were enrolled; 95.7% were  followed through 6 months.
[11,14] the physical therapists emphasize  therapeutic exercise and other active care strategies, rather than passive  methods that are de-emphasized in modern physical therapy training and  practice.
an intervention with physical therapist-led exercise  classes was found to be more effective than primary medical care for patients  with subacute low back pain after 6 and 12 months.
[ 5,11,28] side effects and complications resulting from spinal manipulation for low back pain are extremely rare.