we utilize this intervention for support and pain relief for post-operative conditions, acute injury, back pain, during pregnancy, with children and adolescents, scoliosis, for postural support, sacroiliac (si) dysfunction and many other conditions.
this method basically stems from the  science of kinesiology, hence the name "kinesio".
the elastic properties of this tape help in many ways: as a part of physical therapy, kinesio taping is best used as an adjunct to therapy and exercise.
kinesio taping alleviates pain and facilitates lymphatic drainage by lifting the skin.
since this introduction of kinesio taping into the u.s., medical practitioners have recognized and embraced this effective, safe, and easy-to-use modality.
it is an adjunct to our manual therapy, neuromuscular re-education, therapeutic exercise and modalities to return people to pain-free living without surgery or medication.
this kinesio taping exhibits its efficacy through the activation of  neurological and circulatory systems.
the first application of kinesio taping was for a patient with  articular disorders.
slowly pressure is taken off the lymphatic system allowing it to drain more freely.
employment of kinesio taping creates a totally new approach to treating nerves, muscles, and organs.
kinesio taping is a method used to help normalize the function of muscles and other connective tissues.
this method basically stems from the science of kinesiology, hence the name "kinesio".
examples include: muscular facilitation or inhibition in pediatric patients, carpal tunnel syndrome, lower back strain/pain (subluxations, herniated disc), knee conditions, shoulder conditions, hamstring, groin injury, rotator cuff injury, whiplash, tennis elbow, plantar fasciitis, patella tracking, pre and post surgical edema, ankle sprains, athletic preventative injury method, and as a support method.
kinesio tape can be best used in conjunction with physical therapy  treatments.
the kinesio taping method involves taping over and around muscles in order  to either: assist and give muscle support, or to prevent over contraction of  the muscles.
the result is that  pressure and irritation are taken off the neural/sensory receptors.
currently, kinesio taping is practiced in clinics, high schools, and by professional sports teams.
a good physical therapy program goes hand-in-hand with good taping.
the method and tape allow the individual to wear and  receive the therapeutic benefits on a 24-hours/day basis, and can be worn for  several days per application.
since this introduction of kinesio taping into the u.s.,  medical practitioners have recognized and embraced this effective, safe, and  easy-to-use modality.
it is an  adjunct to our manual therapy, neuromuscular re-education, therapeutic exercise  and modalities to return people to pain-free living without surgery or  medication.
it can dramatically speed the rehabilitation process by  lessening pain and improving tolerance to exercise and movement.
for instance, the clinician must know if the patient needs taping to assist muscle strengthening or to assist muscle relaxation, as the taping will be different.
elastic tape is water resistant, durable and easy to wear, usually 3-5 days, latex free and generally very well tolerated.
slowly  pressure is taken off the lymphatic system allowing it to drain more freely.
examples include: muscular facilitation or inhibition in pediatric  patients, carpal tunnel syndrome, lower back strain/pain (subluxations,  herniated disc), knee conditions, shoulder conditions, hamstring, groin injury,  rotator cuff injury, whiplash, tennis elbow, plantar fasciitis, patella  tracking, pre and post surgical edema, ankle sprains, athletic preventative  injury method, and as a support method.
patient satisfaction survey kinesio taping kinesio taping is a method used to help normalize the function of muscles  and other connective tissues.
we're on facebook insurance medical library faq  brochures links centereach ridge medical center why physical therapy?
saint tereiza  physical therapy, p.c. all rights reserved.
kineso taping uses elastic tape rather than the rigid tape traditionally used in sports.
the first technique gives the practitioner the opportunity to actually give support with full range of motion that enables the individual to participate in physical activity with functional assistance.
a thorough evaluation  is integral to determine which taping techniques are indicated.
it can dramatically speed the rehabilitation process by lessening pain and improving tolerance to exercise and movement.
elastic tape is water resistant, durable  and easy to wear, usually 3-5 days, latex free and generally very well  tolerated.
the success of  kinesio taping strongly depends on clinician knowledge.
the kinesio taping method involves taping over and around muscles in order to either: assist and give muscle support, or to prevent over contraction of the muscles.
the method and tape allow the individual to wear and receive the therapeutic benefits on a 24-hours/day basis, and can be worn for several days per application.
the taped portion forms  convolutions in the skin this increasing interstitial space.
kineso taping uses elastic tape rather than the rigid tape traditionally  used in sports.
kinesio tape facilitates normal motion, decreases edema, improves pain and facilitates biomechanical alignment.
kinesio taping: what is it?
this technique is most commonly used in the acute state of rehabilitation.
muscles are not only attributed to the movements of the body but also control the circulation of venous and lymph flows, body temperature, etc.
anodyne® therapy laser therapy kinesio taping golf fitness  acupuncture chiropractic massage therapy internal medicine pain management  sports medicine locations staff patient satisfaction survey doctor  testimonials testimonials
using an elastic tape, it was discovered that muscles and other tissues could be helped by outside assistance.
we utilize this intervention for  support and pain relief for post-operative conditions, acute injury, back pain,  during pregnancy, with children and adolescents, scoliosis, for postural  support, sacroiliac (si) dysfunction and many other conditions.
the second  technique helps fight against overuse/contraction and helps provide 24  hours/day facilitation of lymphatic fluid.
elastic taping is not just for athletes.
therefore, the failure of the muscles to function properly induces various kinds of symptoms.
kinesio taping is a technique based on the body's own natural healing process.
the elastic properties of this tape help in many ways: improve contraction of a weakened muscle reduce muscle fatigue and spasm reduce over-stretching and over-contraction of muscles re-educate muscles through sensory feedback lessen edema (swelling) through aiding the lymphatic system minimize post-traumatic or post-surgical bruising through improved  circulation help mobilize scar tissue by enhancing glide between tissue layers help correct joint mechanics through aiding muscle function around the  joint relieve pain by activating the natural analgesic system in our skin  receptors as a part of physical therapy, kinesio taping is best used as an adjunct to  therapy and exercise.
the first technique gives the practitioner the opportunity to  actually give support with full range of motion that enables the individual to  participate in physical activity with functional assistance.
consequently, so much attention was given to the importance of muscle  function that the idea of treating the muscles in order to activate the body's  own healing process came about.
the result is that pressure and irritation are taken off the neural/sensory receptors.
this kinesio taping exhibits its efficacy through the activation of neurological and circulatory systems.
kinesio taping alleviates pain and  facilitates lymphatic drainage by lifting the skin.
currently, kinesio taping is practiced in  clinics, high schools, and by professional sports teams.
kinesio tape facilitates normal motion, decreases edema, improves pain and  facilitates biomechanical alignment.
lastly, there are many types of  correctional techniques such as: myofascial, lymph, and tracking (i.e., patella  [knee cap])
muscles are not  only attributed to the movements of the body but also control the circulation  of venous and lymph flows, body temperature, etc.
employment of  kinesio taping creates a totally new approach to treating nerves, muscles, and  organs.
we may use taping as a part of your therapy, and also offer tape for your ongoing use at home.
lastly, there are many types of correctional techniques such as: myofascial, lymph, and tracking (i.e., patella [knee cap]) kinesio tape can be best used in conjunction with physical therapy treatments.
why choose a doctor of pt?
therefore, the failure of the  muscles to function properly induces various kinds of symptoms.
we may use taping as a part of your therapy, and  also offer tape for your ongoing use at home.
this technique is most commonly used  in the acute state of rehabilitation.
a thorough evaluation is integral to determine which taping techniques are indicated.
the taped portion forms convolutions in the skin this increasing interstitial space.
kinesio tape is used for anything from headaches to foot  problems and everything in between.
kinesio tape is used for anything from headaches to foot problems and everything in between.
kinesio taping is a technique based on the body's own natural healing  process.
dr. kenzo kase nearly 20 years ago developed this taping technique for the sports medicine and rehabilitation clinics in japan.
using an elastic tape, it was discovered that  muscles and other tissues could be helped by outside assistance.
the second technique helps fight against overuse/contraction and helps provide 24 hours/day facilitation of lymphatic fluid.
the first application of kinesio taping was for a patient with articular disorders.
for instance,  the clinician must know if the patient needs taping to assist muscle  strengthening or to assist muscle relaxation, as the taping will be different.
the success of kinesio taping strongly depends on clinician knowledge.
dr. kenzo kase nearly 20 years  ago developed this taping technique for the sports medicine and rehabilitation  clinics in japan.
consequently, so much attention was given to the importance of muscle function that the idea of treating the muscles in order to activate the body's own healing process came about.