whether large or small, a tens  unit can be a helpful therapy.
blood is also needed to remove waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
other aspects of physical therapy
you may be interested in these related articles: chronic pain research and treatment updates chiropractic care for chronic pain opioids for severe back pain and neck pain therapy helps chronic back pain patients sleep easier physical therapy is passive and active physical  therapy includes both passive and active treatments.
remember: your physical therapy program is individualized, taking  into consideration your health and history.
related resources - quiz chronic pain treatments quiz - resource center minimally invasive alternatives to traditional spine surgery sponsored by: - from our sponsor could your low back pain be si-joint related?
in the active part of physical therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to improve your flexibility, strength, core stability, and range of motion (how easily your joints move).
you may be interested in these related articles: - chronic pain research and treatment updates - chiropractic care for chronic pain - opioids for severe back pain and neck pain - therapy helps chronic back pain patients sleep easier physical therapy is passive and active physical therapy includes both passive and active treatments.
as you can read in theexercise and chronic pain article, staying  active is an important part of chronic pain treatment.
whether large or small, a tens unit can be a helpful therapy.
using that information, the physical therapist will develop a therapy plan  for you.
this is all part of the "self-care" or "self-treatment" aspect of physical therapy: through physical therapy, you learn good habits and principles that enable you to take better care of your body.
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a  gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
you could also have spasms or muscle tension because of strains or sprains.
your physical therapy program may start with passive treatments, but the  goal is to get into active treatments.
cold therapy, also called cryotherapy, slows circulation, helping to reduce inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
if needed, you will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate ergonomic principles into your daily activities.
the physical therapist  can help you figure out the best type of exercise for you.
a-z - treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic - drugs and medications - mental & emotional therapy - pain management - physical therapy - spinal bracing - surgery - wellness - ergonomics - exercise - weight loss - resources - back products - clinical trials - exams and tests - links of interest - partners in education - podcasts - recommended books - resource centers - spinal anatomy - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - spineuniverse en español - video directory - community advice - find
these are therapeutic exercises that  strengthen your body and help you deal with the chronic pain.
another cryotherapy option is a  spray called fluoromethane that cools the tissues.
tens (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation):
what would be most helpful to learn in physical therapy?
another cryotherapy option is a spray called fluoromethane that cools the tissues.
- tens (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation): a tens machine stimulates your muscles through variable (but safe) intensities of electrical current.
he  or she can give you a personalized strengthening and exercise plan, in addition  to helping you learn how to manage your "daily life" pain.
learn more » - email page - print - rss - discuss stay informed with spineuniverse sign up to receive free updates on news, research, community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics.
always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem.
they're called passive because you don't have to actively participate.
he or she can give you a personalized strengthening and exercise plan, in addition to helping you learn how to manage your "daily life" pain.
this information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient.
your physical therapist may also suggest a personalized exercise program  for you.
- resource center surgical & non-surgical options for a pain-free life sponsored by: connect with others in the patient community!
updated on: 12/10/09 - continue reading: surgery for chronic pain about chronic pain - what is chronic pain?
cold therapy, also called cryotherapy, slows circulation, helping to reduce  inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
by using heat, the physical therapist  seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow  brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
by using heat, the physical therapist seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
you may have a cold pack placed upon the target area, or even be given an ice massage.
if needed, you  will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate ergonomic principles  into your daily activities.
by increasing blood circulation, an  ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
conditions › chronic pain › text size: a a a physical therapy for chronic pain written by kamiah a. walker; reviewed bysteven richeimer, md tweet you hear that you're supposed to stay active through your chronic pain and you think—'but how?
you may have a cold pack placed upon the  target area, or even be given an ice massage.
remember: your physical therapy program is individualized, taking into consideration your health and history.
text size: a a a physical therapy for chronic pain written by kamiah a. walker;  reviewed bysteven richeimer, md tweet you hear that you're supposed to stay active through your chronic pain and  you think—'but how?
physical therapy is personalized chronic pain comes in many forms, so effectively treatingyour pain requires a plan just for you.
your physical therapy program may start with passive treatments, but the goal is to get into active treatments.
passive physical therapy treatments include: deep tissue massage: this technique targets spasms and  chronic muscle tension that perhaps builds up through daily life stress.
this is all part of the "self-care" or  "self-treatment" aspect of physical therapy: through physical  therapy, you learn good habits and principles that enable you to take better  care of your body.
passive physical therapy treatments include: - deep tissue massage: this technique targets spasms and chronic muscle tension that perhaps builds up through daily life stress.
passive therapies, such as those listed above, are generally done in conjunction with active therapies.
passive treatments help to  relax you and your body.
sometimes, just  getting through the day at work is agony, and now the doctor expects me to do  extra activities after work?'
tens helps reduce muscle spasms, and it may increase your  body's production of endorphins, your natural pain killers.
blood is also needed to remove  waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
your exercises may not be suitable  for another person with chronic pain, especially since chronic pain is such a  subjective, personal experience.
a specialist - expert blogs spine conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - kyphosis - neck pain back pain and neck pain resources - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal stenosis - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - other back problems a-z - spinal anatomy - community advice - clinical trials - exams and tests - expert blogs policy and contact - find a doctor for your back pain - spineuniverse en español - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - back pain resource centers - back pain video directory - about spineuniverse - press releases - our awards - advertising opportunities - editorial board - editorial guidelines - partners and sponsors - privacy policy - advertising policy - terms of use - contact us - for professionals © 1999-2012 vertical health, llc
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
tens helps reduce muscle spasms, and it may increase your body's production of endorphins, your natural pain killers.
the physical therapist can help you figure out the best type of exercise for you.
spineuniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
in the active part of physical  therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to improve your  flexibility, strength, core stability, and range of motion (how easily your  joints move).
however, a smaller machine for "at home" use is also available.
physical therapy is personalized chronic pain comes  in many forms, so effectively treatingyour pain requires a plan just  for you.
passive therapies, such as those listed above, are generally done in  conjunction with active therapies.
this is where a physical therapist can help.
updated on:  12/10/09 continue reading:  surgery for chronic pain about chronic pain
however, a smaller machine  for "at home" use is also available.
by increasing blood circulation, an ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
sometimes, just getting through the day at work is agony, and now the doctor expects me to do extra activities after work?'
for professionals - conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - juvenile rheumatoid arthritis - kyphosis - low back pain - neck pain - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sacroiliac joint dysfunction - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal cord injury - spinal fractures - spinal stenosis - spinal tumors - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - sprains and strains - upper back pain - whiplash - other back problems
the physical therapist will do a detailed physical evaluation to assess your chronic pain and its effect on your life.
- types of chronic pain - anatomy - symptoms - causes - exams and tests chronic pain treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic treatment - medications - exercise - interventional pain management - mental and emotional therapy - physical therapy - surgery chronic pain resources - common chronic pain questions - chronic pain treatments quiz - pain management resources related conditions - degenerative disc disease - fibromyalgia - spondylosis (spinal osteoarthritis) sponsored resources treatment update could my low back pain be si-joint related?
these are therapeutic exercises that strengthen your body and help you deal with the chronic pain.
using that information, the physical therapist will develop a therapy plan for you.
are you eager to start exercising but feel your pain is limiting that?
he or she will also ask about your treatment goals: do you want to learn how to better manage your pain at the office?
the  therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to release the tension in  your soft tissues (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
the therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to release the tension in your soft tissues (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
after cold therapy, your  therapist may work with you to stretch the affected muscles.
he or she will also ask  about your treatment goals: do you want to learn how to better manage your pain  at the office?
- hot and cold therapies: your physical therapist will alternate between hot and cold therapies.
the tens equipment your physical therapist uses is relatively large.
you  could also have spasms or muscle tension because of strains or sprains.
they're called passive because you don't have to  actively participate.
most activities make my pain worse!
a  tens machine stimulates your muscles through variable (but safe) intensities of  electrical current.
passive treatments help to relax you and your body.
the physical therapist will do a detailed physical evaluation to  assess your chronic pain and its effect on your life.
hot and cold therapies: your physical therapist will  alternate between hot and cold therapies.
are you eager to start exercising but feel your pain is limiting  that?
after cold therapy, your therapist may work with you to stretch the affected muscles.
the tens equipment  your physical therapist uses is relatively large.
use of the spineuniverse.com site is conditional upon your acceptance of ouruser agreement steven richeimer, md this article was reviewed by steven richeimer, md.
your exercises may not be suitable for another person with chronic pain, especially since chronic pain is such a subjective, personal experience.
your physical therapist may also suggest a personalized exercise program for you.
as you can read in theexercise and chronic pain article, staying active is an important part of chronic pain treatment.
chronic pain fibromyalgia pain management physical therapy discuss your chronic pain with the patient community.