after  recovering from a foot injury, i am now a better runner than before.
his knowledge and expertise made my treatments very successful.
please accept my compliments.
it was such a gift being relieved of my shoulder and back pain.
since finishing my last physical therapy treatment at your office, i have dropped my race per mile pace back down below 7 minutes and will me running a 24 hour relay race around lake tahoe this coming june.
when asked by my friends at work as to what organization helped me back to running, i always tell them about my great experience at newbury park physical therapy and how much you helped me out.
the therapists make you feel right at home and show a genuine concern for getting you better." "my knee pain is gone, i'm sleeping again and the quality of my life is greatly improved.
when asked by my friends at work as to what organization helped me back to  running, i always tell them about my great experience at newbury park physical  therapy and how much you helped me out.
i highly recommend nppt to my family and friends.
i have been and remain able to do damn near anything i want to do and could do before my arthritis forced my replacements.
i feel better than i have in several years, and, while not pain free, i now know what to do about it and how to keep that beast in its proper cage.
no one, including my surgeon, could tell me what went wrong and why  my neck pain came back after about one year of my operation.
i have progressed from wheelchair to  walker to cane.
my weight is  slightly higher, but my waist size remains the same, indicating to me increased  muscle mass in my legs and upper body, thanks to the exercises you showed me at  the gym.
everyone of them is always smiling, always willing to help any therapist or  patient at any time and always looking for something to do to be helpful,  either to a patient or to the upkeep of the facility.
in addition to alicia, the entire staff were supportive and friendly.
this attribute was noticeable from day one.
jeanne c. "very good experience!
she greatly decreased  my pain immediately and provided exercises that have kept the spasms from  recurring.
it wasn't until i ventured into your office and had your excellent staff work on my legs that they were able to feel normal again.
alicia has been amazing in building up a program for me and graciously supportive through all of it.
thank you sue for your expertise and professionalism."
i have been and remain able to do damn near  anything i want to do and could do before my arthritis forced my replacements.
it  wasn't until i ventured into your office and had your excellent staff work on  my legs that they were able to feel normal again.
the benefits were immediately felt, and i have seen steady and, to my mind at least, remarkable progress since then.
thank you all, i really appreciated the help i got from you and will  recommend your place to others.
they made us, the patients, feel at home in your clinic.
i am forever indebted to his magical hands." ruth fisher "nppt provides the highest standard of service performed by the best therapists and support staff possible.
alicia swan has been a  phenomenal help and blessing to me, working not only on getting my joints and  muscles moving again, but perhaps even more so in rebuilding my confidence and  changing my mindset about reinjuring my lower back.
his knowledge and expertise made my treatments very  successful.
i would highly recommend any of them to you, these people know what they are doing.
professional, courteous, and focused on getting me better in the most appropriate way.
and i plan  to refer more patients who may need your services in the near future.
no one, including my surgeon, could tell me what went wrong and why my neck pain came back after about one year of my operation.
it was such a gift being relieved of my  shoulder and back pain.
thank you all, i really appreciated the help i got from you and will recommend your place to others.
increased mobility, decreased pain, goals achieved.
i want to thankyou very much for providing such superlative care
i feel better than i have in several years, and, while not pain free, i now  know what to do about it and how to keep that beast in its proper cage.
a couple of years ago my  right leg became injured and i spent over a year in and out of other physical  therapy offices, doctor and chiropractic offices with no relief in sight.
i bike, ski and play table tennis as well or better than before.
i am totally satisfied with my experience at nppt.
everyone of them is always smiling, always willing to help any therapist or patient at any time and always looking for something to do to be helpful, either to a patient or to the upkeep of the facility.
alicia swan has been a phenomenal help and blessing to me, working not only on getting my joints and muscles moving again, but perhaps even more so in rebuilding my confidence and changing my mindset about reinjuring my lower back.
i have progressed from wheelchair to walker to cane.
she could not stop talking about your dedication, your attention to  detail and the excellent care you provide her as her physical therapist.
they made us, the  patients, feel at home in your clinic.
" carl adams "excellent rehab and strengthening program, no more ankle pain when i  run.
when i came to your office for my neck pain, i was very worried and confused.
" tyler sebastian "excellent care every visit.
a couple of years ago my right leg became injured and i spent over a year in and out of other physical therapy offices, doctor and chiropractic offices with no relief in sight.
" angela hoogland "i attribute my recovery to the excellent care and attention rich and  the talented support staff have provided.
to me, it has been life altering.
she greatly decreased my pain immediately and provided exercises that have kept the spasms from recurring.
i must mention the staff at nppt, as they are such an excellent team.
so  i can once again run marathons and other road races.
" john cottriel home | location | staff | pt services | pilates/yoga | cross fit about  us | insurance | contact us | testimonials | links | faq medical library |  patient forms | login copyright 2012, newbury park physical therapy.
" james randle "within five minutes alicia determined the cause of my severe neck and back spasms that had eluded proper treatment for years.
being recognized and addressed by name from the moment  you first walk in the door till your last goodbye made nppt a very special  place.
jim jacobs marathon runner from camarillo, ca when i first came to newbury park physical therapy two months ago, i was  constantly in pain from arthritis and inactive because of my fears of  reinjuring my back after two recent surgeries.
gary menger bernardine, words alone can not fully express the tremendous gratitude i  have for both you and the entire staff at newbury park physical therapy in  getting me back into shape after not one but two total hip replacement  operations (both sides) last year.
being recognized and addressed by name from the moment you first walk in the door till your last goodbye made nppt a very special place.
all other people in the office were very friendly.
after visiting newbury park physical therapy, my ankles were more flexible and my feet felt they had more range of motion.
i highly  recommend nppt to my family and friends.
i have full confidence in all of the nppt therapists; they seem to  have a deeper understanding." vicki thon "denis was able to free my body in a way no one else could.
gary menger bernardine, words alone can not fully express the tremendous gratitude i have for both you and the entire staff at newbury park physical therapy in getting me back into shape after not one but two total hip replacement operations (both sides) last year.
i want to thankyou very much for providing such superlative care and i plan to refer more patients who may need your services in the near future.
dear bernie, i am pleased to report the very high praise you received from carole gerbovaz.
" john cottriel home | location | staff | pt services | pilates/yoga | cross fit about us | insurance | contact us | testimonials | links | faq medical library | patient forms | login copyright 2012, newbury park physical therapy.
alan friedman "please send my special thanks to rich heinz and all assistants in  your office.
i am  forever indebted to his magical hands." ruth fisher "nppt provides the highest standard of service performed by the best  therapists and support staff possible.
alicia has been amazing in building up a program for me  and graciously supportive through all of it.
after recovering from a foot injury, i am now a better runner than before.
since finishing my last  physical therapy treatment at your office, i have dropped my race per mile pace  back down below 7 minutes and will me running a 24 hour relay race around lake  tahoe this coming june.
when i came to your office for my neck pain, i was very worried and  confused.
i now function with more comfort, ease, and grace than i have had in years.
i would  highly recommend any of them to you, these people know what they are doing.
rich helped me not only build my muscle strength to reduce the pain, but also to have the confidence of my recovery.
2814 camino dos rios, suite 406 newbury park, ca 91320  ph:  (805) 375-1461 testimonials dear bernie, i am pleased to report the very high praise you received from carole  gerbovaz.
after visiting newbury park physical therapy, my  ankles were more flexible and my feet felt they had more range of motion.
so i can once again run marathons and other road races.
" angela hoogland "i attribute my recovery to the excellent care and attention rich and the talented support staff have provided.
this attribute was  noticeable from day one.
helped me regain full use of my hand.
moustapha abou-samra, m.d. dear newbury park physical therapy, i want to take this time to thank you for getting my legs back is shape
my weight is slightly higher, but my waist size remains the same, indicating to me increased muscle mass in my legs and upper body, thanks to the exercises you showed me at the gym.
she could not stop talking about your dedication, your attention to detail and the excellent care you provide her as her physical therapist.
i have full confidence in all of the nppt therapists; they seem to have a deeper understanding." vicki thon "denis was able to free my body in a way no one else could.
the benefits were  immediately felt, and i have seen steady and, to my mind at least, remarkable  progress since then.
rich helped me not  only build my muscle strength to reduce the pain, but also to have the  confidence of my recovery.
" carl adams "excellent rehab and strengthening program, no more ankle pain when i run.
alan friedman "please send my special thanks to rich heinz and all assistants in your office.
thanks again for getting me back to running.
in  addition to alicia, the entire staff were supportive and friendly.
jim jacobs marathon runner from camarillo, ca when i first came to newbury park physical therapy two months ago, i was constantly in pain from arthritis and inactive because of my fears of reinjuring my back after two recent surgeries.
thank you nppt, keep up the good work.
" james randle "within five minutes alicia determined the cause of my severe neck and  back spasms that had eluded proper treatment for years.
the  therapists make you feel right at home and show a genuine concern for getting  you better." "my knee pain is gone, i'm sleeping again and the quality of my life  is greatly improved.
i am forever grateful to rich and the nppt staff.
professional, courteous, and focused on getting  me better in the most appropriate way.
i now  function with more comfort, ease, and grace than i have had in years.