patient surveys reveal that chiropractors are used more often than any other alternative provider group.
finally, in 1983,  following a decade of litigation with wilk vs. ama (american medical  association), the seventh circuit supreme court upheld a ruling by u.s.  district court judge susan getzendanner that the ama engaged in a  "lengthy, systematic, successful and unlawful boycott" designed to  restrict cooperation between mds and chiropractors in order to eliminate the  profession of chiropractic care as a competitor in the u.s. health care  system.
chiropractic is included in medicare, medicaid, and federal employees health care benefits programs, federal worker’s compensation, and all state workers’ compensation programs.
the manipulation or adjustment of the  affected joint and tissues restores patient mobility, thereby alleviating pain  and muscle tightness, and allowing tissues to heal.
today, doctors of chiropractic are  licensed and recognized in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto  rico.
throughout  the twentieth century, the medical establishment, fearing health care  competition, conspired to destroy chiropractic care.
-meeker and haldeman, annals of internal  medicine 2002.
without  the use of drugs, fevers broke, pain subsided, infections healed, vision  improved, stomach disorders disappeared, and, of course, hearing returned for  many of his patients.
chiropractic education educational requirements for doctors of chiropractic are among the most stringent of any of the health care professions.
like other primary health care doctors, chiropractic students spend a significant portion of their curriculum studying clinical subjects related to evaluating and caring for patients.
chiropractic health care focuses musculoskeletal and nervous system disorders, and their effect on a patient’s general health.
headaches pinched nerves sprains/strains herniated discs whiplash injuries sciatica muscle aches carpal tunnel syndrome fibromyalgia shoulder problems arthritis knee pain sports injuries stenosis fatigue
home | about | meet the doctor | our staff | chiropractic care | services | decompression | nutrition | resources | faq | news | testimonials | contact | disclaimer | sitemap | see us on google earth 15 industrial blvd.
because of the hands-on nature of chiropractic, and the intricate  adjusting techniques, a significant portion of time is spent in clinical  training.
training in orthopedics and anatomy is combined with training in manipulative  techniques to develop an understanding of structural and functional  relationships.
chiropractic adjustments seldom result in patient discomfort.
patient satisfaction with  chiropractic treatment is very high.
-meeker and haldeman, annals of internal medicine 2002.
however, in some cases  patients do experience mild soreness or aches following treatment (as is  typical for most forms of exercise) but discomfort usually resolves itself  within 12 to 48 hours.
herodotus, a contemporary of hippocrates, became famous curing spinal disease through exercise and spinal manipulation.
although the chiropractic profession was not founded until 1895, its roots can be traced back to the beginning of recorded time.
in areas such as anatomy, physiology, and rehabilitation,  chiropractic students receive more intensive education than medical doctors and  physical therapists.
training in orthopedics and anatomy is combined with training in manipulative techniques to develop an understanding of structural and functional relationships.
chiropractors are considered specialty  physicians in pennsylvania.
source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/wilk_v._american_medical_association there is growing support and respect for the chiropractic profession around the world.
suite 202 paoli, pa 19301 | copyright © 2012 www.paolichiro.com.
once in  practice, chiropractic physicians diagnose health care problems, treat the  problems when in their scope of practice, and refer to other health care  practitioners when appropriate.
recent studies reflect the cost effectiveness in those who use  chiropractic treatments as the foundation of their health.
*  chiropractic education the history of chiropractic
patient surveys reveal that chiropractors are used more  often than any other alternative provider group.
before entering practice, doctors of chiropractic  must pass national board examinations and become state-licensed.
he opened the first chiropractic clinic called the palmer school and infirmary of chiropractic.
chiropractic  adjustments seldom result in patient discomfort.
patient use of chiropractic  treatment in the united states is steadily increasing, andhas tripled in the  past two decades.”
once in practice, chiropractic physicians diagnose health care problems, treat the problems when in their scope of practice, and refer to other health care practitioners when appropriate.
d.d. coined the term “chiropractic” from the greek words, chiro, meaning “hand,” and practice, meaning “practice or operation.”
since this trial, mds and dcs are better able to co-manage patients, and with better outcomes.
it was not long before other patients found themselves under d.d.’s care for just about any condition including flu, migraines, epilepsy, sciatica, stomach pain, and heart trouble.
the most common therapeutic procedure performed by chiropractic doctors is known as “spinal manipulation,” also referred to as “chiropractic adjustment.”
the greek physician hippocrates published texts that detail the importance of chiropractic care around 400 b.c.
what is chiropractic * chiropractic education the history of chiropractic
“chiropractic care is the largest, most regulated, and best recognized of the complementary and alternative medicine (cam) professions.
from 2700 to 1500 b.c., the chinese and greeks mention spinal manipulation to ease lower back pain in many writings.
the success rate at seven weeks was twice as high for the manual therapy group (68.3 percent) as for the continued care group (general practitioner).
manual therapy scored better than physical therapy on all outcome measures.
chiropractic health  care focuses musculoskeletal and nervous system disorders, and their effect on  a patient’s general health.
it was in 1895 when daniel david palmer manipulated a deaf man’s spine and restored his hearing.
in many cases, such as with lower back pain, chiropractic care may be the primary method of treatment.
in many cases, such as with lower back pain,  chiropractic care may be the primary method of treatment.
once a student is accepted into an accredited chiropractic college, the requirements become even more demanding with four to five academic years of professional study.
throughout the twentieth century, the medical establishment, fearing health care competition, conspired to destroy chiropractic care.
chiropractic is included in medicare, medicaid, and federal  employees health care benefits programs, federal worker’s compensation,  and all state workers’ compensation programs.
it has been a long and  difficult road developing chiropractic into what it is today.
“chiropractic care is the largest, most regulated, and  best recognized of the complementary and alternative medicine (cam)  professions.
when other medical  conditions exist, chiropractic care may complement or support medical treatment  by relieving the musculoskeletal aspects associated with the condition.
the purpose of chiropractic manipulation is to restore joint mobility by manually applying a controlled force into joints that have become restricted in movement.
* the history of chiropractic *
what is chiropractic care?
like other primary health care doctors, chiropractic  students spend a significant portion of their curriculum studying clinical  subjects related to evaluating and caring for patients.
the greek physician hippocrates published  texts that detail the importance of chiropractic care around 400 b.c.  he  declared, “get knowledge of the spine, for this is the requisite for many  diseases.”
chiropractic education educational requirements for doctors of chiropractic are among the most  stringent of any of the health care professions.
we provide care for:
because of the hands-on nature of chiropractic, and the intricate adjusting techniques, a significant portion of time is spent in clinical training.
once a  student is accepted into an accredited chiropractic college, the requirements  become even more demanding with four to five academic years of professional  study.
applicant sat a  chiropractic college have already acquired four years of pre-medical  undergraduate college education, including courses in biology, inorganic and  organic chemistry, physics, psychology, and related lab work.
before entering practice, doctors of chiropractic must pass national board examinations and become state-licensed.
doctors of chiropractic, often referred to as  chiropractors or chiropractic physicians, practice a drug-free, hands-on  approach to health care that includes an initial patient examination,  diagnosis, diagnostic testing, and treatment.
d.d. coined the term  “chiropractic” from the greek words, chiro, meaning  “hand,” and practice, meaning “practice or  operation.”
he realized that spinal adjustments would correct  for misalignment and motion restrictions, thereby improving upon nerve function  and strengthening the body.
today, doctors of chiropractic are licensed and recognized in all 50 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico.
extensive hours  are spent studying neurology, spine pathology, and spine biomechanics.
since this trial, mds and dcs are better able to co-manage  patients, and with better outcomes.
herodotus, a contemporary of hippocrates, became famous  curing spinal disease through exercise and spinal manipulation.
the  philosopher aristotle was critical of his methods because “he made old  men young and thus prolonged their lives too greatly.”
chiropractors have extensive  diagnostic skills and are trained to recommend appropriate therapeutic and  rehabilitative care and exercises, as well as to provide nutritional, dietary,  and lifestyle counseling.
he realized that spinal adjustments would correct for misalignment and motion restrictions, thereby improving upon nerve function and strengthening the body.
finally, in 1983, following a decade of litigation with wilk vs. ama (american medical association), the seventh circuit supreme court upheld a ruling by u.s. district court judge susan getzendanner that the ama engaged in a "lengthy, systematic, successful and unlawful boycott" designed to restrict cooperation between mds and chiropractors in order to eliminate the profession of chiropractic care as a competitor in the u.s. health care system.
although the chiropractic profession was not founded until 1895, its  roots can be traced back to the beginning of recorded time.
the results of this study concluded that chiropractic care would save hundreds of millions of dollars annually with regard to work disability payments and direct health care costs.
applicant sat a chiropractic college have already acquired four years of pre-medical undergraduate college education, including courses in biology, inorganic and organic chemistry, physics, psychology, and related lab work.
in 1993, the  manga study published in canada investigated the cost effectiveness of  chiropractic care.
the purpose of chiropractic manipulation is to  restore joint mobility by manually applying a controlled force into joints that  have become restricted in movement.
chiropractors have extensive diagnostic skills and are trained to recommend appropriate therapeutic and rehabilitative care and exercises, as well as to provide nutritional, dietary, and lifestyle counseling.
patient satisfaction with chiropractic treatment is very high.
in areas such as anatomy, physiology, and rehabilitation, chiropractic students receive more intensive education than medical doctors and physical therapists.
numerous studies reflect that those who use chiropractic care have less incidence of disease and better knowledge of health.
source:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/wilk_v._american_medical_association there is growing support and respect for the chiropractic profession around the  world.
however, in some cases patients do experience mild soreness or aches following treatment (as is typical for most forms of exercise) but discomfort usually resolves itself within 12 to 48 hours.
recent studies reflect the cost effectiveness in those who use chiropractic treatments as the foundation of their health.
extensive hours are spent studying neurology, spine pathology, and spine biomechanics.
in 1993, the manga study published in canada investigated the cost effectiveness of chiropractic care.
from 2700 to  1500 b.c., the chinese and greeks mention spinal manipulation to ease lower  back pain in many writings.
the philosopher aristotle was critical of his methods because “he made old men young and thus prolonged their lives too greatly.”
numerous studies  reflect that those who use chiropractic care have less incidence of disease and  better knowledge of health.
chiropractic care is used most often to  treat neuromusculoskeletal problems, including but not limited to back pain,  headaches, pinched nerves, neck pain, joint pain in the arms or legs, and other  common disorders.
doctors of chiropractic, often referred to as chiropractors or chiropractic physicians, practice a drug-free, hands-on approach to health care that includes an initial patient examination, diagnosis, diagnostic testing, and treatment.
it has been a long and difficult road developing chiropractic into what it is today.
neck pain lower back pain
the results of this study concluded that chiropractic  care would save hundreds of millions of dollars annually with regard to work  disability payments and direct health care costs.
it was  in 1895 when daniel david palmer manipulated a deaf man’s spine and  restored his hearing.
it was not long before other patients found  themselves under d.d.’s care for just about any condition including flu,  migraines, epilepsy, sciatica, stomach pain, and heart trouble.
patient use of chiropractic treatment in the united states is steadily increasing, andhas tripled in the past two decades.”
he opened the first chiropractic clinic called  the palmer school and infirmary of chiropractic.
chiropractors are considered specialty physicians in pennsylvania.
“in our randomized, controlled trial, we compared the effectiveness of manual therapy, physical therapy, and continued care by a general practitioner in patients with nonspecific neck pain.
chiropractic care is used most often to treat neuromusculoskeletal problems, including but not limited to back pain, headaches, pinched nerves, neck pain, joint pain in the arms or legs, and other common disorders.
the manipulation or adjustment of the affected joint and tissues restores patient mobility, thereby alleviating pain and muscle tightness, and allowing tissues to heal.
he declared, “get knowledge of the spine, for this is the requisite for many diseases.”
without the use of drugs, fevers broke, pain subsided, infections healed, vision improved, stomach disorders disappeared, and, of course, hearing returned for many of his patients.
patients receiving manual therapy had fewer absences from work than patients receiving physical therapy or continued care, and manual therapy and physical therapy each resulted in statistically significant less analgesic use than continued care.”
the most common therapeutic procedure  performed by chiropractic doctors is known as “spinal  manipulation,” also referred to as “chiropractic  adjustment.”
when other medical conditions exist, chiropractic care may complement or support medical treatment by relieving the musculoskeletal aspects associated with the condition.
– hoving et al, annals of internal medicine(2002)