let me explain in more detail.
reconstructive care - to restore the normal alignment of the spine.
in conclusion, you only have to keep going to a chiropractor for a long time if it is your choice.
as to your original question - i believe that you should go to a  chiropractor your whole life, but that has to be your choice.
or that too many adjustments will give you arthritis in your  spine.
if your goal is to  simply get out of pain and come in only when it hurts - fine.
to learn more about chiropractic please take some time and read through this site.
it is a matter of personal choice.
you will find a wealth of information that will help you and your family.
none of these "myths" are true and none of them have any research to substantiate them.
yet i have not received any relief.
to learn more about chiropractic please take some time and read through  this site.
there are many misconceptions about chiropractic  care, and this is a very common one.
you will find a wealth of information that will help you and your  family.
located in carmel valley.
a similar concern is that if you get adjusted a lot, your spine will become "loose" and then you will always need care.
it is what i refer to as a "chiropractic myth."
many of our patients have difficult health care goals.
some people take vitamins their whole life or exercise their whole life.
i have chosen lifetime care for myself and my family and we are healthier because of it.
we educate our patients so that they can make educated decisions in regards  to their health care and their health care goals.
as to your original question - i believe that you should go to a chiropractor your whole life, but that has to be your choice.
if you have any questions please go to ask the doctor and send in your question.
answer: not a week goes by that i am  not asked this question in my practice.
let me explain in  more detail.
answer: not a week goes by that i am not asked this question in my practice.
acute or crisis care - to relieve a specific pain or symptom, such as low back pain.
our job is to educate you so that you make the choice that is right for you.
our job is to educate you so that you make the  choice that is right for you.
yet i have not  received any relief.
it depends on the severity of the condition, the age of the patient, how long the problem has been there, and numerous other factors.
then we respect that decision.
acute or crisis care - to relieve a specific pain or symptom, such as low  back pain.
the  goal in reconstructive care is to get the structure of the spine to function at  its maximum with the least amount of pressure on the nervous system.
maintenance care or wellness care - the goal here is once we have the spine in the best possible shape, now we should maintain that maximum function for the rest of your life?
this type of care may only take a few visits or it may take weeks or even months.
many of our patients have  difficult health care goals.
it is what i refer to as a  "chiropractic myth."
if your goal is to simply get out of pain and come in only when it hurts - fine.
a similar concern is that if you get  adjusted a lot, your spine will become "loose" and then you will  always need care.
©2009 dr. harvey special offer initial visit & exam $235 value for only $25* *new patients with coupon only.
i would like to start, but have heard that once you start  going to a chiropractor you have to keep going the rest of your life, is this  true?
if you have any questions please go to ask the doctor and send in your  question.
this type of care may only take a few visits or it may take weeks or  even months.
i've been having a lot of low back pain and have tried painkillers, physical therapy and massage.
it depends on the severity of the condition, the age of the  patient, how long the problem has been there, and numerous other factors.
i have chosen  lifetime care for myself and my family and we are healthier because of it.
some people take vitamins their whole life or  exercise their whole life.
in conclusion, you only have to keep going to a chiropractor for a long  time if it is your choice.
we find that the educated patient makes a better patient and always gets better results!
call 858-481-4125 services | products | about dr. harvey| about chiropractic | ask the doctor | your first visit | map 3 types of care | addadhd | antibiotic abuse | asthma | carpal tunnel syndrome | chiropractiic education | dr. vs md | dheaa alert don't believe in the benefits of chiropractic |foot and ankle pain | gonstead technique | headaches | high blood pressure how your body heals | kids chiropractic | latrogenic disease | low back pain | spinal arthitis | sciatica | scoliosis | shoulder pain tmj pain | whiplash | why i became a doctor website updates by savvy sites
none of these "myths" are true and none of them have any  research to substantiate them.
this type of care may take months or even years.
or that too many adjustments will give you arthritis in your spine.
in my clinic we do a great deal of education which includes videos,  handouts, report of findings and various lectures, to name a few.
this type  of care may take months or even years.
a very important thing to understand about chiropractic is that there are three main types of care.
i've been having a lot of low back  pain and have tried painkillers, physical therapy and massage.
if your goal is  lifetime care for you and your family to keep their nervous systems functioning  at their maximum - great.
we educate our patients so that they can make educated decisions in regards to their health care and their health care goals.
chiropractic myth question: dear dr. harvey, i have been considering  going to a chiropractor for some time now.
in my clinic we do a great deal of education which includes videos, handouts, report of findings and various lectures, to name a few.
maintenance care or wellness care - the goal here is once we have the spine  in the best possible shape, now we should maintain that maximum function for  the rest of your life?
a very important thing to understand about chiropractic is that there are  three main types of care.
i would like to start, but have heard that once you start going to a chiropractor you have to keep going the rest of your life, is this true?
the goal in reconstructive care is to get the structure of the spine to function at its maximum with the least amount of pressure on the nervous system.
a good analogy of this type of care is to compare it to braces on teeth, which may take two to five years.
remember, the word doctor means teacher.
if your goal is lifetime care for you and your family to keep their nervous systems functioning at their maximum - great.
we find that  the educated patient makes a better patient and always gets better results!
chiropractic myth question: dear dr. harvey, i have been considering going to a chiropractor for some time now.
a good analogy of this type of care is  to compare it to braces on teeth, which may take two to five years.
there are many misconceptions about chiropractic care, and this is a very common one.