this has yet to be definitively proven (1) even though many  chiropractors base their practice on identifying this subluxation with x-ray  and then manipulating the joint ‘back in to place’.
does it give lower back pain relief?
this implies that there is a degree of subluxation or misalignment of the  joint.
we know that fear of movement  increases the risk of you becoming disabled from back pain.
manipulation is performed by several groups of practitioners: chiropractors physiotherapists are also trained in this technique and some use it  frequently.
this has yet to be definitively proven (1) even though many chiropractors base their practice on identifying this subluxation with x-ray and then manipulating the joint ‘back in to place’.
always seek specific advice from a physician or other qualified health provider about your particular problem.
spinal manipulation therapy a type of chiropractic treatment for back pain relief spinal manipulation, also known as chiropractic adjustment, is the  application of a single, high velocity thrust to joints in order to gap or move  the joint very quickly.
therefore a manipulation will often start with the health care professional moving the patient into a certain position before manipulating.
it is very likely that spinal manipulation reduces pain as a result of changes in the nervous system.
this implies that there is a degree of subluxation or misalignment of the joint.
it is usual practice to get the person receiving the manipulation into a position where the joint is already at or near the end of its normal range of movement.
the general information on this web site is designed to support, not replace, specific medical advice or the relationship between you and your health care provider.
read about an interesting research trial that examined spinal manipulation lower back pain toolkit home references 1.
manipulation is performed by several groups of practitioners: the aim of spinal manipulation is to: however, there is some controversy about how it actually works.
if you are interested in taking an active approach to managing your lower  back pain you might like my e-book which has a step approach that shows you how  you can take control of your back pain and keep living a normal life.
the uk beam trial  found that fear of movement lessened more with exercise than with spinal  manipulation which showed only a tiny improvement.
the aim of spinal manipulation is to: reduce pain increase movement of a stiff area and normalise movement and function
by reading this web site you agree to accept our terms and conditions.
some orthopaedic doctors how does spinal manipulation work?
ernst, e. & canter, p. h. 2006, "a systematic review of systematic reviews of spinal manipulation",journal of the royal society of medicine, vol. 99, no. 4, pp.
there has been a great deal of controversy about this
otherwise, perhaps consider both!
however, there is some controversy about how it actually works.
there are some other considerations however, the uk beam trial (2) only  included patients who had had pain for at least a month and excluded patients  who had attended a pain management programme i.e. chronic lower back pain  sufferers.
so, if you are fearful of  movement at all, exercise is better for you than manipulation.
i  meet people all the time who have had their back ‘put back in’.
so, if you are fearful of movement at all, exercise is better for you than manipulation.
there is something else to be aware of too.
click here to find out more about theback
uk beam trial team 2003, "uk back pain exercise and manipulation  (uk beam) trial -
i meet people all the time who have had their back ‘put back in’.
but a large trial undertaken in the uk in 2004 (2) and a newer systematic  review (3)  seem to show that manipulation achieved a small benefit which  improved to a moderate benefit when combined with lower back pain exercise .
the idea that a joint s ‘out of place’ and needs to be  ‘put back in’ is frequently encouraged by some professionals.
grieve g 1988, "principles of treatment," in common  vertebral joint problems, churchill livingstone, p. 521.
national randomised trial of physical treatments for back  pain in primary care: objectives, design and interventions  (isrctn32683578)",bmc health services research, vol.
return to back pain relief
spinal manipulation, also known as chiropractic adjustment, is the application of a single, high velocity thrust to joints in order to gap or move the joint very quickly.
grieve g 1988, "principles of treatment," in common vertebral joint problems, churchill livingstone, p. 521.
it is very likely that spinal manipulation reduces pain as a result of  changes in the nervous system.
click  here to find out more about theback
there are some other considerations however, the uk beam trial (2) only included patients who had had pain for at least a month and excluded patients who had attended a pain management programme i.e. chronic lower back pain sufferers.
the idea that a joint s ‘out of place’ and needs to be ‘put back in’ is frequently encouraged by some professionals.
otherwise,  perhaps consider both!
there has been a great deal of controversy about this but a large trial undertaken in the uk in 2004 (2) and a newer systematic review (3) seem to show that manipulation achieved a small benefit which improved to a moderate benefit when combined with lower back pain exercise .
read about an interesting research trial that examined spinal manipulation lower back pain toolkit home 1.
it is usual practice to get the person receiving the  manipulation into a position where the joint is already at or near the end of  its normal range of movement.
yes, it does seem to.
we know that fear of movement increases the risk of you becoming disabled from back pain.
the uk beam trial found that fear of movement lessened more with exercise than with spinal manipulation which showed only a tiny improvement.
therefore a manipulation will often start with  the health care professional moving the patient into a certain position before  manipulating.
this requires skilful and sympathetic handling.
if you are interested in taking an active approach to managing your lower back pain you might like my e-book which has a step approach that shows you how you can take control of your back pain and keep living a normal life.
click on the image of the book to learn more about what's inside.
uk beam trial team 2003, "uk back pain exercise and manipulation (uk beam) trial - national randomised trial of physical treatments for back pain in primary care: objectives, design and interventions (isrctn32683578)",bmc health services research, vol.
copyright © 2006-2012
ernst, e. & canter, p. h. 2006, "a systematic review of  systematic reviews of spinal manipulation",journal of the royal  society of medicine, vol. 99, no. 4, pp.
26-sep-2011 share |share | the back pain action guide is a six step programme that shows you how you can keep living a normal life and stop worrying about your back pain.