fent and trutalli formed the rehab group, based in murrieta, calif, to specifically work with individuals and families experiencing chronic pain.
the rehab group's pain program is different from other programs because it is abstinence based.
early in his career as a pt, fent recognized that many of his clients exhibited the same thoughts, behaviors, and attitudes as his father.
this program is for individuals with acute trauma, recent surgery, or pain that is less than 6 months in duration; or individuals who received inappropriate or inadequate prior treatment.
in december 2006, the rehab group developed a working relationship with a better tomorrow treatment center, a carf-accredited substance abuse treatment program also based in murrieta, provides both residential and outpatient substance abuse treatment to people from all parts of the united states.
"once stable, they transfer into residential treatment and the pain program."
for more information, contact .
pts use multiple methods designed to ameliorate or manage pain symptoms.
"most of the time, the aftercare plan includes orthogel, biofreeze, thera band, and an empi e-stim," fent says.
additional pain management products
this program is for individuals  whose pain or pain behaviors are interfering with work, activities of daily  living, relationships, or sleep; who are no longer participating in or enjoying  hobbies or recreational activities; who have failed conventional physical  medicine treatment; who have persistent/chronic pain that has existed beyond  the expected healing time; whose physical or mental impairment is greater than  expected on the basis of the diagnosed medical conditions; and who are  chemically dependent on or are abusing medication.
he recognized that health care providers needed education and training in this area.
often, a combination of manual therapy, empi e-stim, thera band, orthogel, and biofreeze are the modalities utilized.
for contact information for the companies that offer pain management, visit our online buyer's guide.
the second option is the pain program.
for more information on the rehab group or a better tomorrow, contact jim fent at.
he recognized that health care providers needed education and  training in this area.
treatment plans are tailored to each individual's needs with four key areas addressed: biological, psychological, social, and spiritual.
according to the american pain institute, approximately 50 million people  in the united states suffer from pain.
"individuals who are chemically dependent may begin their treatment with a better tomorrow's detoxification program," fent says.
this  program is for individuals with acute trauma, recent surgery, or pain that is  less than 6 months in duration; or individuals who received inappropriate or  inadequate prior treatment.
nora volkow, md, director of the national institute on drug addiction, has reported that up to 7% of patients who are prescribed narcotic or opiate analgesics will become addicted.
fent and trutalli  formed the rehab group, based in murrieta, calif, to specifically work with  individuals and families experiencing chronic pain.
in addition to the 12-step program, all residential clients  exercise daily at a national fitness chain; participate in anger management,  stress management, and chemical dependency courses; and participate in  individual and family psychotherapy.
"individuals who are  chemically dependent may begin their treatment with a better tomorrow's  detoxification program," fent says.
in 2002, fent met marcy trutalli, mpt, cscs, and they soon realized their interests and treatment styles were extremely compatible.
in addition to the 12-step program, all residential clients exercise daily at a national fitness chain; participate in anger management, stress management, and chemical dependency courses; and participate in individual and family psychotherapy.
the aftercare plan is also a critical component of patient recovery.
individuals in the pain program are free from all narcotic medications.
the rehab group offers two programs or treatment options.
a future goal for the rehab group is to obtain pain program accreditation through the american academy of pain management.
adroit medical systems (www.adroitmedical.com) offers a  complete line of temperature therapy products, including localized heat and  cold therapy products.
for contact information
by working together, the two companies can provide a broad scope of professional services, including physical therapy, chiropractic, massage therapy, psychiatry, psychology, marriage and family therapy, alcohol and drug counseling, interventions, case management, psychological testing, and more.
"the best treatment we provide is focused attention, hope, education, hands-on care, and positive communication—in essence, excellent customer service," trutalli says.
the rehab group's pain program is different from other programs because it  is abstinence based.
following his passion, fent returned to school and earned a degree in counseling.
early in his career as a pt,  fent recognized that many of his clients exhibited the same thoughts,  behaviors, and attitudes as his father.
many of them are treated with  prescription pain medications.
two worlds meet jim fent, ms, mft, rpt, was raised with a father who suffered from chronic  back pain and prescription pain medication abuse.
often, a combination of manual therapy, empi e-stim, thera band,  orthogel, and biofreeze are the modalities utilized.
in addition to the positive client feedback, the rehab group uses the pain outcomes profile recommended by the american academy of pain management.
fent set out with a goal of helping individuals who suffer from  chronic pain and addiction as well as teaching other health care providers how  to recognize addiction and make appropriate referrals.
no more (www.sorenomore.com) offers a natural  pain-relieving gel for backaches, arthritis, bruises, etc.
so far, the results have been excellent.
the collaboration has proved  extremely beneficial to the clients and staff of a better tomorrow as well as  the rehab group.
in addition to the products mentioned within the article, here are a couple  more to add to your must-have list.
treatment plans are tailored to each individual's needs with four key areas  addressed: biological, psychological, social, and spiritual.
a better  tomorrow's program is 12-step based, which addresses clients' spiritual and  recovery needs.
while most people take prescription medications responsibly, an estimated 48 million people have used prescription drugs for nonmedical reasons in their lifetime.1 some estimates indicate that more than 4.7 million americans are dependent on prescription painkillers.2-4 according to the substance abuse and mental health services administration, there has been a dramatic increase in narcotic analgesic abuse—117%—from 1994 to 2001.5 with these numbers, it is likely that pts will come into contact with individuals abusing and/or dependent on prescription medication.
"we currently have clients from utah, florida, and new york in our program."
the group's collaboration with a better tomorrow offers other advantages, too.
individuals in the pain program are free from all narcotic  medications.
"we develop an extensive and detailed aftercare plan which includes referring people to physical therapists and health care providers in their area.
jeff crider is a contributing writer for physical therapy products.
jim fent, ms, mft, rpt, was raised with a father who suffered from chronic back pain and prescription pain medication abuse.
"once stable, they transfer into  residential treatment and the pain program."
individuals in the pain program have access to the on-site gym and one-on-one exercise instruction with direct supervision by a pt.
while most  people take prescription medications responsibly, an estimated 48 million  people have used prescription drugs for nonmedical reasons in their lifetime.1 some estimates indicate that more than 4.7 million americans are dependent  on prescription painkillers.2-4 according to the substance abuse and mental  health services administration, there has been a dramatic increase in narcotic  analgesic abuse—117%—from 1994 to 2001.5 with these numbers, it is  likely that pts will come into contact with individuals abusing and/or  dependent on prescription medication.
the group's collaboration  with a better tomorrow offers other advantages, too.
a better tomorrow's program is 12-step based, which addresses clients' spiritual and recovery needs.
"we currently have clients from  utah, florida, and new york in our program."
emerging  technologies managing pain by jeff crider a comprehensive approach to treating chronic pain
the collaboration has proved extremely beneficial to the clients and staff of a better tomorrow as well as the rehab group.
in addition to the products mentioned within the article, here are a couple more to add to your must-have list.
fent set out with a goal of helping individuals who suffer from chronic pain and addiction as well as teaching other health care providers how to recognize addiction and make appropriate referrals.
"our next residential client is just as likely to come from new york  or las vegas as they are from california," says jerrod menz, director of  program development for a better tomorrow.
fent recognized that he had the knowledge and skills to help people with their physical issues, but his ability and scope of practice stopped there.
"the best treatment we provide is focused attention, hope, education,  hands-on care, and positive communication—in essence, excellent customer  service," trutalli says.
"our next residential client is just as likely to come from new york or las vegas as they are from california," says jerrod menz, director of program development for a better tomorrow.
the first option is "conventional" or "traditional" physical therapy.
this program is for individuals whose pain or pain behaviors are interfering with work, activities of daily living, relationships, or sleep; who are no longer participating in or enjoying hobbies or recreational activities; who have failed conventional physical medicine treatment; who have persistent/chronic pain that has existed beyond the expected healing time; whose physical or mental impairment is greater than expected on the basis of the diagnosed medical conditions; and who are chemically dependent on or are abusing medication.
"many therapists," he says, "don't want to believe or acknowledge that their patients abuse prescription medications or even use illegal substances, but the data indicates that it is not uncommon."
many of them are treated with prescription pain medications.
in december 2006, the rehab  group developed a working relationship with a better tomorrow treatment center,  a carf-accredited substance abuse treatment program also based in murrieta,  provides both residential and outpatient substance abuse treatment to people  from all parts of the united states.
fent recognized that he had the knowledge and skills to  help people with their physical issues, but his ability and scope of practice  stopped there.
by working together, the two companies can provide a broad scope of  professional services, including physical therapy, chiropractic, massage  therapy, psychiatry, psychology, marriage and family therapy, alcohol and drug  counseling, interventions, case management, psychological testing, and more.
individuals in the pain program have  access to the on-site gym and one-on-one exercise instruction with direct  supervision by a pt.
subscribe | advertise | about us | contact us | home home    |    news     |   buyer's guide     |   product guide     |   pain management     |   practice management     |   rehab & fitness     |   resources     |   expert insight     |   archives subscribe to issue  stories physical therapy products - may 2008
an intense interest in chronic pain and  addiction developed.
an intense interest in chronic pain and addiction developed.
the first option  is "conventional" or "traditional" physical therapy.
"many therapists," he says, "don't want  to believe or acknowledge that their patients abuse prescription medications or  even use illegal substances, but the data indicates that it is not  uncommon."
by jeff crider a comprehensive approach to treating chronic pain
in 2002, fent met marcy trutalli, mpt, cscs, and they soon realized their  interests and treatment styles were extremely compatible.
nora volkow, md, director of the national  institute on drug addiction, has reported that up to 7% of patients who are  prescribed narcotic or opiate analgesics will become addicted.
partnership and collaboration
as a result, we are building a national referral network," fent says.
following his passion, fent returned to school and earned a degree in  counseling.
according to the american pain institute, approximately 50 million people in the united states suffer from pain.