for a second opinion or first time evaluation...call (815) 398-4004.
included on our web site you will find many of the conditions we treat,  methods we use, and general information about our practice.
dr.  christen bowman looking for a rockford chiropractor certified in both chiropractic and  orthopedics?
our motto is "do not withhold  good from those who deserve it, when it is in your power to act. "
we pride  ourselves inquickly rehabilitating routine conditions as well as  difficult conditions such as slipped discs, rotator cuff shoulder injuries,  scoliosis, arthritic problems, neck and back pain, knee, ankle and foot  disorders.
staff members in our office are dedicated to helping patients regain and  maintain the best in health, enabling them to stay more active in their early  and latter years of life.
we pride ourselves inquickly rehabilitating routine conditions as well as difficult conditions such as slipped discs, rotator cuff shoulder injuries, scoliosis, arthritic problems, neck and back pain, knee, ankle and foot disorders.
individuals who attend these classes are instructed in things they can do at home to take stress off their joints to speed up the healing process.
these doctors are  proficient in treating every muscle, bone, and joint throughout the body!
dr  christin bowman is trained in advanced muscular rehabilitation and is  proficient in treating women and childrens health issues.
caraotta chiropractic orthopedics is a full rehabilitation facility offering the best in chiropractic care, non-surgical orthopedic care, physical therapy, sports medicine, occupational medicine, and nutrition.
our motto is "do not withhold good from those who deserve it, when it is in your power to act. "
individuals who attend these  classes are instructed in things they can do at home to take stress off their  joints to speed up the healing process.
jacob caraotta and dr. christen bowman offer metagenics nutritional supplements, nutraceuticals, vitamins, and medical foods for better health.
the first saturday of each month is dedicated in our office as "kid's day" - in which parents can bring their children up to the age of 13 for complementary treatments.
office hours copyright © 2001-2011 dr. jacob caraotta caraotta  chiropractic orthopedics, 4921 e. state st., rockford, il 61108
dr christin bowman is trained in advanced muscular rehabilitation and is proficient in treating women and childrens health issues.
the first saturday of each month is dedicated in our office as "kid's  day" - in which parents can bring their children up to the age of 13 for  complementary treatments.
looking for a rockford chiropractor certified in both chiropractic and orthopedics?
we offer spinal and joint rehabilitation classes at no charge to our patients and their family members.
we are set up to handle emergencies and arrange for same day appointments.
caraotta chiropractic orthopedics staff (815-398-4004)
tel:  815-398-4004  fax: 815-398-4005
dr. caraotta and dr. bowman are consultants to insurance companies and offer second opinions in injury cases.
staff members in our office are dedicated to helping patients regain and maintain the best in health, enabling them to stay more active in their early and latter years of life.
dr. caraotta and dr. bowman are consultants to insurance companies and  offer second opinions in injury cases.
we are set up to  handle emergencies and can arrange for same day appointments.
tel: 815-398-4004 fax: 815-398-4005 www.orthochiro.com
for a second opinion or first time  evaluation...call (815) 398-4004.
(proverbs 3:27) dr. jacob caraotta and dr. christen bowman offer  metagenics nutritional supplements, nutraceuticals, vitamins, and medical foods  for better health.
dr. caraotta is the only physician in rockford board certified in chiropractic and non-surgical orthopedics.
these doctors are proficient in treating every muscle, bone, and joint throughout the body!
included on our web site you will find many of the conditions we treat, methods we use, and general information about our practice.
caraotta chiropractic orthopedics is a full rehabilitation facility  offering the best in chiropractic care, non-surgical orthopedic care, physical  therapy, sports medicine, occupational medicine, and nutrition.
we are set up to handle emergencies and can arrange for same day appointments.
office hours copyright © 2001-2011 dr. jacob caraotta caraotta chiropractic orthopedics, 4921 e. state st., rockford, il 61108