that is a temporary solution whereas seeing a professional and trained chiropractor is going to do a lot more good for you in the short term and in the long run.
for the interactive version of this  infographic and some statistical geekery,click here.
website « 9 most effective anxiety treatments« 9 most effective anxiety treatments © 2012
san francisco chiropractor says: august 24th, 2011 at 12:59 pm i would never suggest using marijuana for back pain.
please tweet, blog, or pass this along to anyone who can benefit or is  interested in back pain.
if you look  at the infographic above,the most popular and effective treatments  reported are on the top right – hot packs, physical therapy, stretching,  exercise, massage.
buzz  never miss an update - subscribe via: ( email / rss) most popular 6 surprisingly effective treatments for depression 62 comment(s) surprising new data: what really helps patients with chronic fatigue  syndrome 29 comment(s) 23 surprisingly effective treatments for depression (one year later) 24  comment(s)
if you look at the infographic above,the most popular and effective treatments reported are on the top right – hot packs, physical therapy, stretching, exercise, massage.
chiropractic goes to the root of the problem, helping patients live pain-free without the use of medication.
contribute to the greater good.
chiropractic goes to the root of the problem, helping patients live  pain-free without the use of medication.
where’s the marijuana?”
they say the majority of symptoms are psychosomatic
chiropractic saves patients money by reducing their need for pain medication.
chiropractic san francisco says: july 6th, 2010 at 5:38 am chiropractic is always better than marijuana, it’s a very wrong thing  to believe that marijuana is better.
so if marijuana takes your mind off your pain it is being  effective.
you canleave a response, or trackback from your own site.
website « 9 most effective anxiety treatments community health  data initiative » about | contact | terms | privacy | blog information on curetogether is submitted by individual members and does not  constitute medical advice.
to thank everyone for their contributions, we’re releasing this result back to the community for free.
i’ve tried so many things to ease the pain – a migraine story  16 comment(s) neuropathy study results: 800 people rate 35 treatments 14 comment(s)
stay tuned and please give your feedback or thoughts on this result in the comments below – or write to me at alexandra@curetogether.com.
the top left quadrant shows below-average usage, but above-average  effectiveness, so presumably if more people tried these, they would be helped ( marijuana, oxycodone, yoga, and pilates).
but back pain is the #2 condition at curetogether, with 1188 people  reporting their experiences, and this is their collective wisdom.
i  have quit smoking marijuana for 3 weeks now- for other reasons- and never had  this much constant pain before.
they say the majority of symptoms are  psychosomatic
leave a comment or question name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
those in the lower-right quadrant have above-average usage but below-average effectiveness, so presumably if fewer people tried these, they would be free to find more effective treatments elsewhere (chiropractic adjustments, ice packs, ibuprofen).
many drugs merely mask pain without addressing its underlying cause.
chiropractic is always better than marijuana, it’s a very wrong thing to believe that marijuana is better.
for the interactive version of this infographic and some statistical geekery,click here.
many drugs merely mask pain without addressing its underlying  cause.
so if marijuana takes your mind off your pain it is being effective.
the winning treatments for fibromyalgia are… (not drugs) 17  comment(s)
those in the lower-right quadrant have above-average usage but  below-average effectiveness, so presumably if fewer people tried these, they  would be free to find more effective treatments elsewhere (chiropractic  adjustments, ice packs, ibuprofen).
when your back hurts, is your first thought, “where’s the  marijuana?”
i have quit smoking marijuana for 3 weeks now- for other reasons- and never had this much constant pain before.
you  canleave a response, or trackback from your own site.
curetogether members have been anonymously  sharing symptoms and treatments for almost 2 years now.
patients say fibromyalgia drugs make things worse, rest is best 24  comment(s) 9 most effective vulvodynia treatments 23 comment(s) migraine symptom predicts response to imitrex 22 comment(s) new study: low-dose naltrexone 21 comment(s)
you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 feed.
4 responses to “marijuana better than chiropractic for back  pain?”
this is the fifth in a series of infographics we’ll be publishing  over the coming weeks.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
curetogether members have been anonymously sharing symptoms and treatments for almost 2 years now.
to thank everyone for their contributions, we’re releasing  this result back to the community for free.
jon laughton says: august 14th, 2010 at 9:40 pm i don’t agree with the chiro above.
a winner of the mayo clinic ispot competition for ideas that will transform  healthcare marijuana better than chiropractic for back pain?
where did this data come from?
stay tuned and please give your feedback or thoughts on  this result in the comments below – or write to me at alexandra@curetogether.com.
but back pain is the #2 condition at curetogether, with 1188 people reporting their experiences, and this is their collective wisdom.
the top left quadrant shows below-average usage, but above-average effectiveness, so presumably if more people tried these, they would be helped ( marijuana, oxycodone, yoga, and pilates).
i would never suggest using marijuana for back pain.
when your back hurts, is your first thought, “
i get regular  treatments and they only last a day or so at best and then the pain is back.
see more research discoveries join curetogether.
may 25th, 2010 alexandra carmichael posted in infographics, research findings | 4 comments
this is the fifth in a series of infographics we’ll be publishing over the coming weeks.
please tweet, blog, or pass this along to anyone who can benefit or is interested in back pain.
i don’t agree with the chiro above.
i get regular treatments and they only last a day or so at best and then the pain is back.
we anonymized, analyzed, and visualized the data into infographic form to make it more accessible.
may 25th, 2010 alexandra carmichael  posted in infographics, research  findings | 4 comments »
that is a temporary  solution whereas seeing a professional and trained chiropractor is going to do  a lot more good for you in the short term and in the long run.
seattle chiropractor says: november 27th, 2010 at 8:13 pm chiropractic saves patients money by reducing their need for pain  medication.
manage  your own health.
curetogether about | contact | terms | privacy | blog information on curetogether is submitted by individual members and does not constitute medical advice.
we anonymized,  analyzed, and visualized the data into infographic form to make it more  accessible.