in a very sophisticated analysis of cost effectiveness the study  “shows consistently that both manipulation alone and manipulation  followed by exercise provide cost-effective additions to care in general  practice.”
they are also the second most costly health care problem 3.
a longer-term follow-up study by meade in 1995 addressed some minor  criticisms and produced the same results and showed longer lasting effects for  the chiropractic group.
exercise alone significantly improved only function/disability, and only  up to the 3 month follow-up.
meade, tw, et al (1995) randomized comparison of chiropractic and  hospital outpatient management for low back pain: results from extended  follow-up.
both of these studies, as well as many other worker’s compensation studies, strongly recommend the utilization of chiropractors in the treatment of low back pain claims.
waagen followed this up in 1991 with a larger study comparing general medical care with sham manipulations and chiropractic care using adjustments.
pran magna was a health economist at  the univeristy of ottawa who undertook this review of the research evidence and  government health statistics.
british medical journal online first, nov 19, 2004:1-6 this is a large multi-disciplinary trial by the british medical research  council looking at the effectiveness of physical treatments for back pain  patients.
the experimental group received forceful spinal manipulations and  injections of a proliferant solution to reduce pain.
the controversy that precipitated this challenge to the profession were the claims made by more than half the british chiropractic websites that good results could be found in the treatment of colic, eneuresis (bed-wetting), ear infections, adhd, asthma and other childhood afflictions.
the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of chiropractic management of low back pain.
while it was small, with only 19 subjects, it  was conclusive.
in utah, jarvis reported patients with back injuries took 10x the number of days off work (20.7 vs 2.4) and used 10x the compensation costs ($668 vs $68) when they chose medical care vs chiropractic care.
lancet, vol. 2, pp 143-6.
manga, p et al (1998)
bigos, s, et al (1994) acute low back problems in adults.
a new approach to the treatment of low  back pain.
(ironically, after commissioning these studies, six years later, in a  budget crisis, the ontario government dropped chiropractic care from its public  health insurance program (ohip) using the savings for increased hip and knee  surgeries and the construction of more mri and ct scanners.)
ongley, mj, et al. (1987)
pran magna and associates.
changed its policy regarding the management of injured workers with low back  pain to strongly recommend a course of treatment with a practitioner thoroughly  trained in manipulation.)
available at www.gcc-uk.org after an organized challenge to claims made on british chiropractic websites in 2010, a team of the most respected chiropractic researchers were commissioned to conduct a literature review of the effectiveness of chiropractic treatments, essentially outlining the effective scope of practice for chiropractic based on the best available evidence.
while both the medical and chiropractic  groups improved in pain and function as compared to the sham group, only the  chiropractic group improved significantly.
in utah,  jarvis reported patients with back injuries took 10x the number of days off  work (20.7 vs 2.4) and used 10x the compensation costs ($668 vs $68) when they  chose medical care vs chiropractic care.
the research supported safety and appropriateness of spinal manipulation for all these conditions.
chiropractic journal of australia, 22(2), 47-53.
meade reported that chiropractic care demonstrated significantly better long-term benefit that started soon after the onset of care.
while both the medical and chiropractic groups improved in pain and function as compared to the sham group, only the chiropractic group improved significantly.
this 1986 study was the first randomized, controlled trial of manipulation  against a placebo sham maneuver.
manual medicine, vol. 2, pp63-7.
generally, the regime is similar in each case: • analgesics or anti-inflammatories only briefly • advice on  staying active, and the earliest possible return to normal activities • manipulation • back education classes with exercises • patient reassurance • focus on the functional as opposed to  structural cause of the pain • consideration of the biopsychosocial  factors associated with the pain
both comments and pings are currently closed.
meade, tw, et al (1995) randomized comparison of chiropractic and hospital outpatient management for low back pain: results from extended follow-up.
the researchers looked  at randomized, controlled trials and “16 widely accepted evidence-based  international clinical guidelines”.
the results showed manipulation was a significantly better treatment on all  measurement scales than general medical care, through the full year of the  trial.
exercise alone significantly improved only function/disability, and only up to the 3 month follow-up.
manniche, c, et al. (1999)
meade reported that chiropractic care demonstrated significantly better  long-term benefit that started soon after the onset of care.
the experimental group (manipulation) showed significantly better improvement in all evaluation modes at all three intervals.
both of these studies, as well as many other worker’s compensation  studies, strongly recommend the utilization of chiropractors in the treatment  of low back pain claims.
mechanical low back pain: a comparison of  medical and chiropractic management within the victorian welfare scheme.
patient satisfaction he made a strong recommendation for the ontario government to utilize chiropractors in the treatment of low back pain patients.
low back pain of mechanical origin: randomized comparison of chiropractic and hospital outpatient treatment.
in summary, about 90% of chiropractic practice is supported by scientific evidence at the most rigorous randomized control trial level.
in 1998, manga published a second study.
patient satisfaction he made a strong recommendation for the ontario government to utilize  chiropractors in the treatment of low back pain patients.
here’s what the researchers found: spinal manipulation is effective in adults for: • acute, subacute and chronic low back pain • migraine and cervicogenic headache • cervicogenic dizziness • acute, subacute and chronic neck pain • several extremity joint conditions there is inconclusive but favourable evidence for chiropractic management of other musculoskeletal conditions: • ankle sprains • sciatica •
doubling the proportion of patients who visit chiropractors from 10% to (only) 20% would save the government $348 million per year in direct costs and $1.85 billion in indirect costs.
doi: 10.1186/174601340018-3.
the medical associations have been very slow in adopting these guidelines, especially in the us where the ama immediately published their own guidelines promoting the traditional protocols of medications and bed rest before a surgical consultation.
(in the mid-1990’s the worker’s compensation board in ontario
manual medicine, vol. 2,  pp63-7.
beam trial: united kingdom back pain and manipulation (uk beam)  randomized trial: cost-effectiveness of physical treatments for back pain in  primary care.
exercise combined with manipulation showed similar  results to manipulation alone.
agency  for health care policy and research, public health service, us department of  health and human services.
also, “that the incidence of serious side effects such as a stroke following chiropractic care is extremely rare and is probably not related to manipulation in most patients but due to the fact that patients develop neck pain or headaches as a result of a dissection of a vertebral artery that progresses through the natural history of dissection to stroke irrespective of the clinician the patient consults”.
doi:  10.1186/174601340018-3.
in this randomized, controlled  format, treatment outcomes were measured by pain and disability questionnaires,  straight leg raise and lumbar flexion, and patients were tracked for 2 years.
medical patients were also 10x more likely to develop chronic low back pain (11.6% vs 1.9%).
the results showed manipulation was a significantly better treatment on all measurement scales than general medical care, through the full year of the trial.
it was a large (741 subjects) and meticulous study comparing treatment outcomes at hospital outpatient clinics and chiropractic clinics.
low back pain of mechanical origin:  randomized comparison of chiropractic and hospital outpatient treatment.
thus both subjective and objective measures supported chiropractic treatment.
this 1986 study was the first randomized, controlled trial of manipulation against a placebo sham maneuver.
in his results he comments that, 1.
cost effectiveness 4.
his summary points are emphatic: as compared to  medical and physiotherapy treatment in ontario, chiropractic care is  significantly better in, 1.
this randomized trial was carried out by mds looking at low back pain  treatments.
waagen, gn, et al. (1986) short term trial of chiropractic adjustments for the relief of chronic low back pain.
it was a large (741  subjects) and meticulous study comparing treatment outcomes at hospital  outpatient clinics and chiropractic clinics.
these  guidelines consistently recommend manipulation by qualified practitioners as an  essential component in treatment strategies for most patients, essentially the  chiropractic protocol of care.
it also noted there was significantly less lost time at  work in the chiropractic group.
university of ottawa, ontario canada.
coccydynia • tmj disorders • tension headache • fibromyalgia • etc … and non-musculoskeletal conditions: • pre-menstrual syndrome • pneumonia in older adults • nocturnal eneuresis in children • hypertension • otitis media (ear infections) in children • etc spinal manipulation was not any more effective than sham manipulation for: • asthma • colic/incessant crying in children
they looked at general medical care, exercise classes, manipulation or a combination of the latter two as the treatments.
the patients receiving chiropractic adjustments showed a significant improvement in pain relief and objective measures of spinal mobility as compared to the sham group.
musculoskeletal disorders are the greatest cause of pain and disability  in ontario.
university of ottawa, ontario, canada.
the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of  chiropractic management of low back pain.
clinical practice guideline no. 14.
in australia ebrall reported chiropractic claim costs were almost 3/5s lower than medical care costs ($963 per claim vs $2308).
chiropractic and osteopathy 18:3 (25 feb 2010).
this was a medical research council study done in england, published in the  british medical journal, looking at low back pain.
in the 1990s governments in the us, uk and denmark established multidisciplinary research agencies to develop guidelines for the treatment of back pain.
a prospective short and long term  comparative trial of general medical practice care, chiropractic manipulation  therapy and sham manipulation in the management of chronic low back pain.
subjects were evaluated for effectiveness of the treatment at onset, one, 3 and 6 month intervals using pain and disability scales and objective evaluation of physical signs.
the trial was a  randomized, controlled design looking at 1334 subjects.
a new approach to the treatment of low back pain.
doubling the proportion of patients who visit chiropractors from 10% to  (only) 20% would save the government $348 million per year in direct costs and  $1.85 billion in indirect costs.
meade also reported that the greatest  benefit in the chiropractic group was with the chronic and severe low back pain  patients.
the traditional medical advice of bed rest and surgery is not generally endorsed before conservative care is first applied.
british medical journal, 311:349.
here’s what the  researchers found: spinal manipulation is effective in adults for: • acute, subacute  and chronic low back pain • migraine and cervicogenic headache • acute, subacute and chronic neck pain • several extremity joint conditions there is inconclusive but favourable evidence for chiropractic management  of other musculoskeletal conditions: • ankle sprains
medical patients were  also 10x more likely to develop chronic low back pain (11.6% vs 1.9%).
this study was commissioned by the ontario government to look at the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of therapy provided for low back pain by mds, chiropractors and physiotherapists.
meade, tw, et al (1990)
a prospective short and long term comparative trial of general medical practice care, chiropractic manipulation therapy and sham manipulation in the management of chronic low back pain.
british medical journal, vol. 300, pp 1431-37.
(ironically, after commissioning these studies, six years later, in a budget crisis, the ontario government dropped chiropractic care from its public health insurance program (ohip) using the savings for increased hip and knee surgeries and the construction of more mri and ct scanners.)
danish health technology assessment.
management guidelines for back  pain appendix b in report of a clinical standards advisory group committee on  back pain, her majesty’s stationary office, london.
he estimated the  savings of “hundreds of millions” of dollars annually if the  treatment of back pain was transferred from mds to chiropractors.
these guidelines consistently recommend manipulation by qualified practitioners as an essential component in treatment strategies for most patients, essentially the chiropractic protocol of care.
waagen, gn, et al. (1991)
these results held at 3 and 24 month follow-ups.
exercise combined with manipulation showed similar results to manipulation alone.
management guidelines for back pain appendix b in report of a clinical standards advisory group committee on back pain, her majesty’s stationary office, london.
these are two of many studies undertaken internally by workers’  compensation boards.
waagen followed this up in 1991 with  a larger study comparing general medical care with sham manipulations and  chiropractic care using adjustments.
available at www.gcc-uk.org after an organized challenge to claims made on british chiropractic  websites in 2010, a team of the most respected chiropractic researchers were  commissioned to conduct a literature review of the effectiveness of  chiropractic treatments, essentially outlining the effective scope of practice  for chiropractic based on the best available evidence.
they looked at general medical care, exercise classes, manipulation  or a combination of the latter two as the treatments.
in the 1990s governments in the us, uk and denmark established  multidisciplinary research agencies to develop guidelines for the treatment of  back pain.
the us and uk led the way in 1994, denmark followed in 1999.
it also noted there was significantly less lost time at work in the chiropractic group.
low back pain: frequency management and prevention from an hda perspective.
jarvis was in the us, ebrall in australia.
this study was commissioned by the ontario government to look at the  effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of therapy provided for low back pain by  mds, chiropractors and physiotherapists.
clinical  practice guideline no. 14.
pran magna was a health economist at the univeristy of ottawa who undertook this review of the research evidence and government health statistics.
these results held at 3 and 24 month  follow-ups.
jarvis, kb and phillips, rb, et al (1991) cost per case comparison of back injury of chiropractic versus medical management for conditions with identical diagnosis codes.
low back pain: frequency management and  prevention from an hda perspective.
subjects were evaluated for effectiveness of the  treatment at onset, one, 3 and 6 month intervals using pain and disability  scales and objective evaluation of physical signs.
these mds concluded manipulation is “a safe and  effective treatment”.
while it was small, with only 19 subjects, it was conclusive.
in australia ebrall reported chiropractic claim costs were almost 3/5s  lower than medical care costs ($963 per claim vs $2308).
mechanical low back pain: a comparison of medical and chiropractic management within the victorian welfare scheme.
the medical care group showed deterioration after 6 months, even though the medical group had more follow-up visits after that stage.
the trial was a randomized, controlled design looking at 1334 subjects.
this randomized trial was carried out by mds looking at low back pain treatments.
journal of occupational medicine, 33(8), 847-852.
responses by government agencies: bigos, s, et al (1994)
a longer-term follow-up study by meade in 1995 addressed some minor criticisms and produced the same results and showed longer lasting effects for the chiropractic group.
enhanced chiropractic coverage under ohip as  a means of reducing health care costs, attaining better health outcomes and  improving the public’s access to cost-effective health services.
in this randomized, controlled format, treatment outcomes were measured by pain and disability questionnaires, straight leg raise and lumbar flexion, and patients were tracked for 2 years.
british medical journal online first, nov 19, 2004:1-6 this is a large multi-disciplinary trial by the british medical research council looking at the effectiveness of physical treatments for back pain patients.
beam trial: united kingdom back pain and manipulation (uk beam) randomized trial: cost-effectiveness of physical treatments for back pain in primary care.
the 10% of unsupported practice (not practiced by the majority of chiropractors) hails from the fundamentalist, pre-scientific era of chiropractic philosophy.
this was a medical research council study done in england, published in the british medical journal, looking at low back pain.
his summary points are emphatic: as compared to medical and physiotherapy treatment in ontario, chiropractic care is significantly better in, 1.
waagen, gn, et al. (1986) short term trial of chiropractic  adjustments for the relief of chronic low back pain.
cost  effectiveness 4.
chiropractic and low back pain: the research evidence x-ray for chiropractic here are just a few of the studies showing chiropractic care being very  effective for the treatment of low back pain.
the researchers looked at randomized, controlled trials and “16 widely accepted evidence-based international clinical guidelines”.
rosen, s, breen, a, et al (1994)
the control group received  “less extensive” manipulation and a local anesthesia injection in  place of the proliferant.
the most recent chiropractic self-analysis of scope and  effectiveness as found in a massive scientific review: bronfort g, haas m et al. (2010) effectiveness of manual therapies:  the uk evidence report.
thus both subjective and objective  measures supported chiropractic treatment.
x-ray for chiropractic here are just a few of the studies showing chiropractic care being very effective for the treatment of low back pain.
ahcpr publication no. 95-0642.
the experimental group  (manipulation) showed significantly better improvement in all evaluation modes  at all three intervals.
jarvis, kb and phillips, rb, et al (1991) cost per case comparison  of back injury of chiropractic versus medical management for conditions with  identical diagnosis codes.
the worker’s compensation board in ontario changed its policy regarding the management of injured workers with low back pain to strongly recommend a course of treatment with a practitioner thoroughly trained in manipulation.)
these are two of many studies undertaken internally by workers’ compensation boards.
enhanced chiropractic coverage under ohip as a means of reducing health care costs, attaining better health outcomes and improving the public’s access to cost-effective health services.
the controversy that precipitated this challenge to the profession were the  claims made by more than half the british chiropractic websites that good  results could be found in the treatment of colic, eneuresis (bed-wetting), ear  infections, adhd, asthma and other childhood afflictions.
the medical associations have been very slow in adopting these guidelines,  especially in the us where the ama immediately published their own guidelines  promoting the traditional protocols of medications and bed rest before a  surgical consultation.
the control group received “less extensive” manipulation and a local anesthesia injection in place of the proliferant.
the most recent chiropractic self-analysis of scope and effectiveness as found in a massive scientific review: bronfort g, haas m et al. (2010) effectiveness of manual therapies: the uk evidence report.
university  of ottawa, ontario canada.
generally, the regime is similar in each case: • analgesics or anti-inflammatories only briefly • advice on staying active, and the earliest possible return to normal activities • manipulation • back education classes with exercises • patient reassurance • focus on the functional as opposed to structural cause of the pain • consideration of the biopsychosocial factors associated with the pain
the experimental group received forceful spinal manipulations and injections of a proliferant solution to reduce pain.
these mds concluded manipulation is “a safe and effective treatment”.
meade also reported that the greatest benefit in the chiropractic group was with the chronic and severe low back pain patients.
manga, p et al (1993)
in a very sophisticated analysis of cost effectiveness the study “shows consistently that both manipulation alone and manipulation followed by exercise provide cost-effective additions to care in general practice.”
the medical care  group showed deterioration after 6 months, even though the medical group had  more follow-up visits after that stage.
the traditional medical advice of bed rest and  surgery is not generally endorsed before conservative care is first applied.
acute low back problems in adults.
agency for health care policy and research, public health service, us department of health and human services.
he estimated the savings of “hundreds of millions” of dollars annually if the treatment of back pain was transferred from mds to chiropractors.
the patients receiving chiropractic adjustments showed a  significant improvement in pain relief and objective measures of spinal  mobility as compared to the sham group.
musculoskeletal disorders are the greatest cause of pain and disability in ontario.