these are therapeutic exercises that strengthen your body and help prevent a recurrence of possible pain from spondylolisthesis.
updated on: 05/18/11 continue reading:  rest: a treatment option for spondylolisthesis about spondylolisthesis
however, a smaller machine for "at home" use is also available.
this is all part of the "self-care" or "self-treatment" aspect of physical therapy: through physical therapy, you learn good habits and principles that enable you to take better care of your body.
a  tens machine stimulates your muscles through variable (but safe) intensities of  electrical current.
the tens equipment  your physical therapist uses is relatively large.
related resources - video series video series: exercises for spondylolisthesis - video series video series: exercises for sciatica (caused by spondylolisthesis) - resource center minimally invasive alternatives to traditional spine surgery sponsored by: - slideshow unusual treatments for back pain - slideshow dealing with stress to deal with back pain - slideshow pain management slideshow - video spinal stenosis
tens helps reduce muscle spasms, and it may increase your body's production of endorphins, your natural pain killers.
blood is also needed to remove waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
after cold therapy, your therapist may work with you to stretch the affected muscles.
however, the goal is to get into active treatments.
text size: a a a physical therapy for spondylolisthesis written by kamiah a. walker;  reviewed byjason m. highsmith, md tweet a physical therapy program is one of the more effective ways to treat  spondylolisthesis for 2 main reasons: it can help strengthen the muscles that  support your spine, and it can teach you how to keep your spine safe and  prevent further and future injury.
your physical therapy program is individualized, taking into consideration your health and history.
these are therapeutic exercises that strengthen your body  and help prevent a recurrence of possible pain from spondylolisthesis.
by increasing blood circulation, an ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
use of the spineuniverse.com site is conditional upon your acceptance of ouruser agreement jason m. highsmith, md this article was reviewed by jason m. highsmith, md.
animation connect with others in the patient community!
the therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to release the tension in your low back's soft tissues (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
passive treatments you may be interested in these related articles: your physical therapist may give you passive treatments such as: - spinal bracing: a treatment option for spondylolisthesis - chiropractic care for spondylolisthesis - hot and cold therapies for pain and discomfort - drugs and medications for spondylolisthesis - deep tissue massage: this technique targets spasms and chronic muscle tension that perhaps builds up as your body readjusts to the slipped vertebra.
if needed, you will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate  ergonomic principles into your daily activities.
your physical therapy program may start  with passive treatments to give your body an opportunity to heal, especially if  you have a pars interarticularis fracture.
hot and cold therapies: your physical therapist will  alternate between hot and cold therapies.
after cold therapy, your  therapist may work with you to stretch the affected muscles.
you may have a cold pack placed upon the  target area, or even be given an ice massage.
this information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient.
for professionals - conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - juvenile rheumatoid arthritis - kyphosis - low back pain - neck pain - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sacroiliac joint dysfunction - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal cord injury - spinal fractures - spinal stenosis - spinal tumors - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - sprains and strains - upper back pain - whiplash - other back problems
learn more » - email page - print - rss - discuss stay informed with spineuniverse sign up to receive free updates on news, research, community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics.
passive treatments help to relax you and your body.
cold therapy, also called cryotherapy, slows circulation, helping to reduce  inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
tens helps reduce muscle spasms, and it may increase your  body's production of endorphins, your natural pain killers.
your physical therapist may also suggest a personalized exercise program for you.
if needed, you will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate ergonomic principles into your daily activities.
whether large or small, a tens unit can be a helpful therapy.
another cryotherapy option is a spray called fluoromethane that cools the tissues.
they're called passive because you don't have to actively participate.
- hot and cold therapies:
always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem.
the therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to  release the tension in your low back's soft tissues (ligaments, tendons,  muscles).
whether large or small, a tens  unit can be a helpful therapy.
blood is also needed to remove  waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
by increasing blood circulation, an  ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
your exercises may not be suitable for another person with spondylolisthesis.
updated on: 05/18/11 - continue reading: rest: a treatment option for spondylolisthesis about spondylolisthesis - what is spondylolisthesis?
physical therapy includes both passive and active treatments.
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
however, a smaller machine  for "at home" use is also available.
the tens equipment your physical therapist uses is relatively large.
your exercises may not be suitable for  another person with spondylolisthesis.
your physical therapy program is individualized, taking into  consideration your health and history.
by using heat, the physical therapist seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
conditions › spondylolisthesis › text size: a a a physical therapy for spondylolisthesis written by kamiah a. walker; reviewed byjason m. highsmith, md tweet a physical therapy program is one of the more effective ways to treat spondylolisthesis for 2 main reasons: it can help strengthen the muscles that support your spine, and it can teach you how to keep your spine safe and prevent further and future injury.
cold therapy, also called cryotherapy, slows circulation, helping to reduce inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
- tens (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation): a tens machine stimulates your muscles through variable (but safe) intensities of electrical current.
you should know before considering spine surgery treatment update could my low back pain be si-joint related?
for spondylolisthesis, the physical therapist will likely recommend abdominal strengthening and hamstring work because both of those muscle groups are crucial to low back support.
another cryotherapy option is a  spray called fluoromethane that cools the tissues.
spineuniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
for spondylolisthesis, the physical  therapist will likely recommend abdominal strengthening and hamstring work  because both of those muscle groups are crucial to low back support.
however, the goal is to get into  active treatments.
your physical therapy program may start with passive treatments to give your body an opportunity to heal, especially if you have a pars interarticularis fracture.
they're called passive because you  don't have to actively participate.
this can help reduce the likelihood of your back pain recurring and can also improve your overall health.
tens (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation):
in the active part of physical  therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to improve your  flexibility, strength, core stability, and range of motion (how easily your  joints move).
this technique targets spasms and  chronic muscle tension that perhaps builds up as your body readjusts to the  slipped vertebra.
- anatomy - symptoms - causes - diagnosis and grades spondylolisthesis treatments - chiropractic treatment - medications - exercise - physical therapy - rest - spinal bracing - surgery spondylolisthesis resources - spondylolisthesis videos and animations - common spondylolisthesis questions related conditions - back pain - degenerative disc disease - spinal stenosis sponsored resources - important info
your physical therapist will alternate between hot and cold therapies.
this can help reduce the likelihood of your back pain recurring and  can also improve your overall health.
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a  gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
passive  treatments help to relax you and your body.
in the active part of physical therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to improve your flexibility, strength, core stability, and range of motion (how easily your joints move).
your physical therapist may also suggest a personalized exercise program  for you.
physical therapy spinal bracing spondylolisthesis discuss your spondylolisthesis with the patient community.
a specialist - expert blogs spine conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - kyphosis - neck pain back pain and neck pain resources - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal stenosis - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - other back problems a-z - spinal anatomy - community advice - clinical trials - exams and tests - expert blogs policy and contact - find a doctor for your back pain - spineuniverse en español - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - back pain resource centers - back pain video directory - about spineuniverse - press releases - our awards - advertising opportunities - editorial board - editorial guidelines - partners and sponsors - privacy policy - advertising policy - terms of use - contact us - for professionals © 1999-2012 vertical health, llc
a-z - treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic - drugs and medications - mental & emotional therapy - pain management - physical therapy - spinal bracing - surgery - wellness - ergonomics - exercise - weight loss - resources - back products - clinical trials - exams and tests - links of interest - partners in education - podcasts - recommended books - resource centers - spinal anatomy - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - spineuniverse en español - video directory - community advice - find
this is all part of the  "self-care" or "self-treatment" aspect of physical therapy:  through physical therapy, you learn good habits and principles that enable you  to take better care of your body.
by using heat, the physical therapist  seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow  brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
you may have a cold pack placed upon the target area, or even be given an ice massage.
passive treatments your physical therapist may give  you passive treatments such as: you may be interested in these related  articles: spinal bracing: a treatment option for spondylolisthesis chiropractic care for spondylolisthesis hot and cold therapies for pain and discomfort drugs and medications for spondylolisthesis deep tissue massage: