bridgeview chiropractor, chiropractor in bridgeview, il bridgeview & romeoville chiropractic centers chiropractic*acupuncture*physiotherapy* massage* weight loss program two locations to better serve you: bridgeview (708) 599-9250 7124 83rd street suite b , bridgeview, il 60455 (harlem & 83rd st.) romeoville (815) 293-3000 600 weber rd suite 9a, romeoville il 60446 (next to provena physical therapy) www.romeovillechiro.com - welcome - e-mail sign up - about chiro - chiropractic helps...
our services microcurrent therapy microcurrent therapy is an exceptional way to help heal the  body, namely soft tissues.
the therapy utilizes very small amounts of current to produce signals  that replicate those occurring in the body naturally.
electrical muscle stimulation is excellent for acute or chronic pain, as well as strains or sprains of the muscles, joints, and soft tissues of the spine and extremities.
- what is chiropractic?
short therapy sessions are excellent at facilitating healing from acute and chronic pain.
this current is very  small and is almost unnoticeable to the patient.
the therapy utilizes very small amounts of current to produce signals that replicate those occurring in the body naturally.
- first visit expectations - history - how does it work?
- subluxation - spinal degeneration phases - wellness tips - our practice - practice information - request an appointment - services - x-rays - adjustments/ manipulation - cold laser therapy - dts therapy - chiropractic massage - therapeutic exercise - acupuncture - custom foot orthotics - x-ray / mri / cat scan - ultrasound - electrical muscle stimulation - cryotherapy - interferential stimulation - microcurrent therapy - manipulation diathermy - weight loss program - meet the doctors and staff - dr. rashid abu-shanab dc, ms, ime - dr. samar shehaiber m.j. d.c.
this is a great  therapy if there is a spasm in a back or neck muscle.
short  therapy sessions are excellent at facilitating healing from acute and chronic  pain.
developed by: onlinechiro.com, chiropractic website design & marketing - chiropractor in bridgeview, il - | - e-mail sign up - | - about chiro - | - our practice - | - services - | - meet the doctors and staff - | - 3d spine - | - faq - | - links - | - testimonials - | - contact us - | - gallery - | - shop - | - educational videos - | - acupuncture and eastern medicine - | - sitemap - | - terms of use we proudly offer microcurrent therapy at our convenient location in bridgeview, il.
it works well in relaxing  the muscle and allowing it to return to its normal state rather quickly.
it is also an effective way to relieve pain within the body.
this current is very small and is almost unnoticeable to the patient.
it is also an effective way to relieve pain within  the body.
chiropractor in bridgeview, il
this is a great therapy if there is a spasm in a back or neck muscle.
it works well in relaxing the muscle and allowing it to return to its normal state rather quickly.
rrt - jeannette rios - fran stenson rn, bsn - massage therapy staff - anna - regina - cynthia - agnes - kattie - 3d spine - faq - links - testimonials - contact us - gallery - shop - educational videos - acupuncture and eastern medicine our services microcurrent therapy microcurrent therapy is an exceptional way to help heal the body, namely soft tissues.