many of our patients are surprised to learn that we treat so many  different conditions besidesback pain, neck pain, and headaches.
- we accept insurance, including most ppo and hmo plans.
our services includechiropractic, massage therapy and myofascial release techniques,acupuncture, physical therapy techniques, sports and spinal rehabilitation, sports medicine, homeopathy, cold laser therapy, nutritional and herbal therapy, orthotics, electrical muscle stimulation, ultrasound, heat and cold therapy.
you will receive friendly, professional, efficient, and  personalized service.
if the qi flow is altered, the resulting deficiency,  excess, or stagnation of qi causes bodily malfunction, illness, and inability  to heal properly.
from our back pain treatments, to our treatment of internal disorders, you will receive care that is custom-tailored to suit your specific needs, lifestyle, and goals.
- many of our patients are surprised to learn that we treat so many different conditions besidesback pain, neck pain, and headaches.
as the popularity of acupuncture increases, researchers have become more interested into proving exactly how acupuncture works.
to date, researchers have been able to measure an increased flow of acupuncture-induced endorphins.
we accept insurance, including most ppo and hmo plans.
we emphasize exercise  and self-treatment to speed recovery and prevent relapse.
- we offer free, valet parking in the parking lot adjacent to our building.
whether you suffer  from acuteback pain or a chronic health problem.
we  respect our patients' schedules, do not double-book appointments, and we  actually run on time.
these low-force adjustments are extremely gentle and precise.
experience has shown us that instrument adjusting can be especially effective when used in combination with manual adjusting.
this helps you get better faster, and stay well longer.
we will discuss which therapy or combination of therapies is right for you and your unique health problem.
acupuncture, in which needles are inserted into specific  points along these meridians, restores the proper qi flow, thereby returning  the body to a state of improved health and decreased pain.
acupuncture, in which needles are inserted into specific points along these meridians, restores the proper qi flow, thereby returning the body to a state of improved health and decreased pain.
important links why choose usprogressive chiropractic as doctors of chiropractic, also specializing in sports and spinal  rehabilitation, acupuncture, and homeopathy, our mission is to  facilitate healing in a caring and friendly environment.
we utilize a common sense  approach in arriving at your diagnosis, educating you about your condition, and  providing you with practical advice and customized care.
qi flows through the body via channels called meridians.
sitemap | resources | customer  review form | rss 2.0 valid progressive health & wellness blog: how acupuncture works : acupuncture and other forms of traditional chinese medicine have been in  existence for over 4,000 years.
we also offer acupuncture, nutritional therapies, and homeopathy, which allows us to provide effective treatment for many other conditions including: anxiety, depression, chronic pain, infections, allergies and asthma, skin conditions, arthritis, headaches, disc herniations, sciatica, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, infertility, heartburn, irritable bowel, infertility, andwomen's health issues.
sitemap | resources | customer review form | rss 2.0 valid progressive health & wellness blog: how acupuncture works :
we utilize a common sense approach in arriving at your diagnosis, educating you about your condition, and providing you with practical advice and customized care.
yet the explanation for how acupuncture works has been largely based on theory.
the basic theory is outlined in a text from 200 b.c. it acknowledges in people and nature a vital energy or life force known as qi (pronounced "chee").
from our back pain treatments, to our treatment of internal disorders,  you will receive care that is custom-tailored to suit your specific needs,  lifestyle, and goals.
you will not be kept waiting to see the doctor.
- you will not be kept waiting to see the doctor.
we will order additional diagnostic studies (lab tests,  x-rays, mri, ct scan, etc.) from the best facilities in chicago, if there is a  legitimate reason to do so.
the basic theory is outlined in a text from  200 b.c. it acknowledges in people and nature a vital energy or life force  known as qi (pronounced "chee").
click here for more information about homeopathy and our chicago area  homeopathy study group.
2835 n. sheffield ave., suite 411, chicago il, 60657
also, functional mri's have measured changes in the activity of key centers of the brain, where pain is interpreted, when certain acupuncture points are treated.
we do not take routine x-rays of every patient with back pain that comes in to see us.
you can expect a prompt referral if your condition would  be better treated, or co-managed, by another healthcare provider.
copyright ©2007-2012 - progressive chiropractic.
we call thispatient-focused care.
while some of our patients with chronic, recurring conditions choose to  receive ongoing care, most of our patients recover within several weeks or  months.
also, functional mri's have measured changes in the activity of  key centers of the brain, where pain is interpreted, when certain acupuncture  points are treated.
but because of our additional training in  sports and spinal rehabilitation and physical therapy techniques, we also treat  a wide variety of musculoskeletal conditions including pain and injuries  involving the ankle, knee, hip, shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand.
whether you suffer from acuteback pain or a chronic health problem.
although most patients receive traditional manual ("hands-on") adjustments,we also offer "low force" adjustments, preformed with a highly advanced instrument.
- you will receive friendly, professional, efficient, and personalized service.
this explains the pain-relieving effect of acupuncture.
this helps you get better faster, and stay well  longer.
we invite you to navigate through our website for more detailed information regarding all that ourback pain treatments and practice has to offer.
while some of our patients with chronic, recurring conditions choose to receive ongoing care, most of our patients recover within several weeks or months.
furthermore, acupuncture has been observed clinically to enhance healing, and provide long-lasting pain relief.
you will not be subjected to any unnecessary tests or procedures.
- you will not be subjected to any unnecessary tests or procedures.
chiropractic acupuncture massage homeopathy physical therapy techniques home contact us - why choose us - services provided - spinal treatment - spinal & sports rehabilitation - acupuncture - massage therapy - nutrition & natural medicine - physical therapy techniques - cold laser therapy - homeopathy - orthotics - psychological services - instrument adjusting - conditions treated
- allergies - ankle sprains - arthritis - asthma - back pain - carpal tunnel - chronic fatigue - dermatologic/skin - disc injuries - fibromyalgia - gastrointestinal/gi - headaches/migraines - hip pain - knee pain - muscular pain - neck pain & whiplash - pinched nerve - shoulder pain - sport injuries - tennis elbow - smoking cessation - women's health - work-related injuries - your first visit - what to expect - your report findings - new patient forms - faqs -
if the qi flow is altered, the resulting deficiency, excess, or stagnation of qi causes bodily malfunction, illness, and inability to heal properly.
there are other beneficial effects of acupuncture also being researched, including the treatment of: nausea, asthma, sinus conditions, colds and the immune system, and other internal disorders.
some patients are familiar with  these instrument adjustment techniques, which are often referred to as  "activator", "pro-adjustor", or "impulse  adjusting".
we have evening and weekend hours.
some patients are familiar with these instrument adjustment techniques, which are often referred to as "activator", "pro-adjustor", or "impulse adjusting".
- we believe in teaching our patients techniques to become as self-reliant as possible and do not encourage over-dependence on the doctor.
we are used  to working closely with medical doctors including a wide variety of  specialists, and have a well-established professional referral network,  throughout the city of chicago and beyond.
2835 n. sheffield ave., suite 411,  chicago il, 60657
to get the results you're looking for, we offer truly  comprehensive natural healthcare at our wellness center in chicago.
we  will file your insurance claims for you electronically and await payment from  your insurance company.
we will file your insurance claims for you electronically and await payment from your insurance company.
we respect our patients' schedules, do not double-book appointments, and we actually run on time.
furthermore,  acupuncture has been observed clinically to enhance healing, and provide  long-lasting pain relief.
as  chiropractic physicians, of course we see excellent results in the treatment of back pain, neck pain and headaches.
- your phone calls will be returned promptly.
experience has shown us that instrument adjusting can be  especially effective when used in combination with manual adjusting.
in other  instances, instrument adjusting may be used as an alternative to manual  adjusting.
as with all of our treatment options, the doctor will be happy to  discuss with you which adjusting techniques would be best for your particular  condition.
we offer free, valet parking in the parking lot adjacent  to our building.
our unique approach to natural, comprehensive healthcare  sets us apart from many other chiropractic physicians and healthcare providers.
this helps us to arrive at a more accurate diagnosis, and formulate an individualized treatment plan.
our unique approach to natural, comprehensive healthcare sets us apart from many other chiropractic physicians and healthcare providers.
- we have evening and weekend hours.
this helps us to  arrive at a more accurate diagnosis, and formulate an individualized treatment  plan.
we also offer acupuncture, nutritional therapies, and homeopathy, which allows us to provide  effective treatment for many other conditions including: anxiety, depression, chronic pain, infections, allergies and asthma, skin conditions, arthritis,  headaches, disc herniations, sciatica, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue,  infertility, heartburn, irritable bowel, infertility, andwomen's health issues.
the following is a summary of what our patients consistently tell us they most appreciate about our practice: - we take the extra time needed to truly listen to our patients, so you will have all the time you need to explain your problem in detail.
the  following is a summary of what our patients consistently tell us they most  appreciate about our practice: we take the extra time needed to truly listen to our patients, so you will  have all the time you need to explain your problem in detail.
we emphasize exercise and self-treatment to speed recovery and prevent relapse.
although most patients receive traditional manual ("hands-on")  adjustments,we also offer "low force" adjustments, preformed  with a highly advanced instrument.
click here for more information about homeopathy and our chicago area homeopathy study group.
- to get the results you're looking for, we offer truly comprehensive natural healthcare at our wellness center in chicago.
as chiropractic physicians, of course we see excellent results in the treatment of back pain, neck pain and headaches.
all  rights reserved.
most phone calls and e-mails to the doctors are returned within a few hours, and all within 24 hours.
as with all of our treatment options, the doctor will be happy to discuss with you which adjusting techniques would be best for your particular condition.
we believe in teaching our patients techniques to become as  self-reliant as possible and do not encourage over-dependence on the  doctor.
but because of our additional training in sports and spinal rehabilitation and physical therapy techniques, we also treat a wide variety of musculoskeletal conditions including pain and injuries involving the ankle, knee, hip, shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand.
in other instances, instrument adjusting may be used as an alternative to manual adjusting.
the doctors - self treatment - deep breathing exercise - what you need to know about back pain - protect your back: proper lifting technique - care of your back - tmj problems - nutrition & natural medicine - how to warm up & stretch - home care for a new injury - dietary recommendations to promote health - natural travel medicine - smoothie recipe - hydrotherapy for headaches - importance of ergonomics - importance of micro breaks - hot and cold therapy - reviews, social media, & more info - patient reviews & testimonials - follow us on facebook - information & studies - important links why choose usprogressive chiropractic as doctors of chiropractic, also specializing in sports and spinal rehabilitation, acupuncture, and homeopathy, our mission is to facilitate healing in a caring and friendly environment.
we will order additional diagnostic studies (lab tests, x-rays, mri, ct scan, etc.) from the best facilities in chicago, if there is a legitimate reason to do so.
chiropractic doctors and other licensed practitioners administer about 10 million acupuncture treatments each year in the us, most commonly for pain control, sports injuries, and smoking cessation.
qi flows through the body via  channels called meridians.
- you can expect a prompt referral if your condition would be better treated, or co-managed, by another healthcare provider.
our services includechiropractic, massage therapy and myofascial  release techniques,acupuncture, physical therapy techniques, sports and spinal  rehabilitation, sports medicine, homeopathy, cold laser therapy, nutritional  and herbal therapy, orthotics, electrical muscle stimulation, ultrasound, heat  and cold therapy.
when you call during business hours, you will be greeted by either our office manager or our chiropractic assistant, and not a computerized "phone tree".
acupuncture and other forms of traditional chinese medicine have been in existence for over 4,000 years.
these low-force adjustments are extremely gentle and  precise.
we invite you to navigate through our website for more detailed information  regarding all that ourback pain treatments and practice has to offer.
there are other beneficial effects of acupuncture also  being researched, including the treatment of: nausea, asthma, sinus conditions,  colds and the immune system, and other internal disorders.
we  will discuss which therapy or combination of therapies is right for you and  your unique health problem.
chiropractic doctors  and other licensed practitioners administer about 10 million acupuncture  treatments each year in the us, most commonly for pain control, sports  injuries, and smoking cessation.
your phone calls will be returned promptly.
when you call during business hours, you will be  greeted by either our office manager or our chiropractic assistant, and not a  computerized "phone tree".
as the popularity of acupuncture increases,  researchers have become more interested into proving exactly how acupuncture  works.
we do not take routine x-rays of every patient with back pain that  comes in to see us.
this explains the pain-relieving effect  of acupuncture.
most phone  calls and e-mails to the doctors are returned within a few hours, and all  within 24 hours.
to date, researchers have been able to measure an increased  flow of acupuncture-induced endorphins.
we are used to working closely with medical doctors including a wide variety of specialists, and have a well-established professional referral network, throughout the city of chicago and beyond.
yet the explanation for how acupuncture works  has been largely based on theory.