at  lake mary chiropractic center, we are 100% committed to your health and  wellbeing.
faq contact at lake mary chiropractic center we provide our patients with an  exceptional rehabilitation experience.
rehabilitation is supervised by a  physician onsite and our staff takes a vested interest in your well-being.
at lake mary chiropractic center, your physical therapy treatment will be supervised by a physician on site in a quiet and comfortable environment.
we believe that a combination of modern  methods and human touch produces optimal results for those seeking the benefit  of physical therapy rehabilitation.
what is physical therapy?
during the initial evaluation, you will discuss your symptoms and desired  outcome with a doctor.
physical therapy involves the diagnosis, treatment, management of movement  dysfunction and enhancement of physical limitations.
what to expect at lake mary chiropractic center, your physical therapy treatment will be  supervised by a physician on site in a quiet and comfortable environment.
stay up to date with our newsletter!
based on your goals and the results  of the evaluation, a treatment plan to maximize your health and function will  be reviewed.
your examination will include a comprehensive testing and hands-on evaluation of your condition.
during the initial evaluation, you will discuss your symptoms and desired outcome with a doctor.
rehabilitation is supervised by a physician onsite and our staff takes a vested interest in your well-being.
3240 west lake mary blvd.
speed up your healing process by beginning a physical therapy program today - call (407) 302-5161 now to schedule an appointment.
treatment for neck/back, upper and lower extremities treatment of pain or restricted range of motion during exercise or  movement treatment for strength loss, poor posture and balance problems fitness evaluation, aerobic conditioning and weight resistance training core strengthening
our lake mary facility offers an  encouraging environment where our friendly and dedicated staff assists patients  in achieving their physical therapy goals.
at lake mary chiropractic center, we are 100% committed to your health and wellbeing.
suite 1300 lake mary, fl 32746 phone: 407.302.5161 email: info@lakemarychiropractic.com
we believe that a combination of modern methods and human touch produces optimal results for those seeking the benefit of physical therapy rehabilitation.
lake mary chiropractic center offers a full range of physical therapy services including treatment for disorders, conditions and injuries.
based on your goals and the results of the evaluation, a treatment plan to maximize your health and function will be reviewed.
services lake mary chiropractic center offers a full range of physical therapy  services including treatment for disorders, conditions and injuries.
email: linkedin youtubelinkedin youtube at lake mary chiropractic center we provide our patients with an exceptional rehabilitation experience.
treatment includes the recovery of current symptoms and the prevention of the  progression of impairments, functional limitations, and disabilities that may  result from diseases, disorders, conditions, and/or injuries.
your examination will include a comprehensive testing  and hands-on evaluation of your condition.
treatment includes the recovery of current symptoms and the prevention of the progression of impairments, functional limitations, and disabilities that may result from diseases, disorders, conditions, and/or injuries.
treatment is directed  toward the restoration, maintenance and promotion of optimal physical function.
our lake mary facility offers an encouraging environment where our friendly and dedicated staff assists patients in achieving their physical therapy goals.
treatment is directed toward the restoration, maintenance and promotion of optimal physical function.
physical therapy involves the diagnosis, treatment, management of movement dysfunction and enhancement of physical limitations.