as a result, he is  encouraging individuals who experience low back pain to reach out to physical  therapists.
with physical therapy, people can get rid of  their back pain and get back to living their lives.”
put prweb on your site pdf print premier health nj urges americans to seek physical therapy for low back  pain despite chronic low back pain, many americans do not seek the services  that physical therapists offer.
turning to physical therapists for pain relief is effective because it gets to the root of the problem: “by determining the cause of a patient’s low back pain, physical therapists get to the source of the problem and develop a treatment plan, which may include a combination of exercises to strengthen the back, manual therapy to improve the mobility of joints and soft tissues, and education about how to take better care of the back to relieve pain in the long term.”
in fact, a recentarticle released by healthnewsdigest.com asserts that as much as two-thirds of the population suffers from this condition.
“i know that physical therapy works for low back pain and i wish that every person in america knew that relief was just a doctor’s appointment away.
hackensack, new jersey (prweb) april 17, 2012 low back pain is a common complaint among the american population.
surprisingly, 37  percent of these individuals do not seek the help of professionals in an  attempt to alleviate this pain.
phillip kim, d.c., urges his patients to take  advantage of the pain relief that physical therapy can provide.
through these various services, premier health nj is able to address a variety  of conditions, ranging from injuries to illnesses.
according to the aforementioned article, “more than one-third of adults say low back pain has affected their ability to engage in tasks of daily living (39 percent), exercise (38 percent), and sleep (37 percent).”
through these treatment options, phillip kim, d.c., and his team are able to help their patients regain their mobility, live a life free of pain, and recover their ability to live their lives to the fullest.
“my goal is to alleviate the pain of each and every patient,”  commented dr. kim.
to learn more about premier health nj, including information pertaining to  the services offered and flexible office hours, visit http://www.premierhealthnj.com.
by addressing the cause of the pain,  and not just the pain itself, physical therapists are able to create treatment  plans that result in lasting pain relief.
through these treatment  options, phillip kim, d.c., and his team are able to help their patients regain  their mobility, live a life free of pain, and recover their ability to live  their lives to the fullest.
call 1-866-640-6397 create account ©copyright 1997-, vocus prw holdings, llc.
dr. kim believes that physical therapy is a wonderful solution because of its ability to achieve long-term results.
additionally, the office provides chiropractic and acupuncture treatment techniques.
“i know that physical therapy works for low back pain
about: a multi-specialty rehabilitation center, premier health nj provides  physical therapy, chiropractic, and acupuncture services to its patients.
phillip kim, d.c., owner of premier health nj,  finds this number both surprising and disappointing.
by addressing the cause of the pain, and not just the pain itself, physical therapists are able to create treatment plans that result in lasting pain relief.
as a result, he is encouraging individuals who experience low back pain to reach out to physical therapists.
with this well-rounded list of available treatment options, patients at premier health nj can receive an individualized care plan that resolves the cause of their pain.
phillip kim, d.c., owner of premier health nj, finds this number both surprising and disappointing.
with this well-rounded list of available  treatment options, patients at premier health nj can receive an individualized  care plan that resolves the cause of their pain.
share: we're here to help.
surprisingly, 37 percent of these individuals do not seek the help of professionals in an attempt to alleviate this pain.
minor, sporadic pain may be accepted by people who live busy, stressful lives; however, pain intense enough to interfere with daily activities should be addressed.
premier health nj, the multi-specialty rehabilitation center that dr. kim founded, offers the physical therapy treatment that patients with back pain need to feel healthy again.
to learn more about premier health nj, including information pertaining to the services offered and flexible office hours, visit http://www.premierhealthnj.com.
turning to physical therapists for pain relief is effective because it gets  to the root of the problem: “by determining the cause of a  patient’s low back pain, physical therapists get to the source of the  problem and develop a treatment plan, which may include a combination of  exercises to strengthen the back, manual therapy to improve the mobility of  joints and soft tissues, and education about how to take better care of the  back to relieve pain in the long term.”
“my goal is to alleviate the pain of each and every patient,” commented dr. kim.
minor, sporadic pain may be accepted by people who live busy, stressful lives;  however, pain intense enough to interfere with daily activities should be  addressed.
through these various services, premier health nj is able to address a variety of conditions, ranging from injuries to illnesses.
premier health nj, the multi-specialty rehabilitation center that dr. kim  founded, offers the physical therapy treatment that patients with back pain  need to feel healthy again.
about: a multi-specialty rehabilitation center, premier health nj provides physical therapy, chiropractic, and acupuncture services to its patients.
with physical therapy, people can get rid of their back pain and get back to living their lives.”
in  fact, a recentarticle released by healthnewsdigest.com asserts that as much as  two-thirds of the population suffers from this condition.
login create account hackensack, new jersey (prweb) april 17, 2012 low back pain is a common complaint among the american population.
vocus, prweb, and publicity wire are trademarks or registered trademarks of vocus, inc. or vocus prw holdings, llc.
according to the aforementioned article, “more than one-third of  adults say low back pain has affected their ability to engage in tasks of daily  living (39 percent), exercise (38 percent), and sleep (37 percent).”
additionally, the office provides chiropractic and  acupuncture treatment techniques.
dr. kim believes that physical therapy is a wonderful solution because of  its ability to achieve long-term results.
and i wish that every person in america knew that relief was just a  doctor’s appointment away.