our  entire staff is dedicated to providing you with excellent quality care with  individualized treatment plans to help you move, work, play and feel better.
take some time to  look around and learn more about us.
take some time to look around and learn more about us.
home about us meet the  providers physical therapy occupational therapy chiropractic treatment  decompression traction testimonials faq medical library request appointment  contact us the science of healing.
i glen burnie, maryland 21061 united therapy associates, p.a. | (410) 787-2229 | fax: (410) 787-0141 | info@unitedtherapyassociates.net | base content copyright © 2008 healthcare web image | additional text content copyright © 2008
our multidisciplinary approach to treatment  sets us apart from other rehabilitation centers in the area.
call us at 410-787-2229 so we can help you start feeling better today!
at united therapy associates, we specialize in providing highly effective  chiropractic, physical and occupational therapy in a state-of-the-art facility  located in glen burnie, maryland.
call us at 410-787-2229 so we can help you  start feeling better today!
that’s where we come in.
thanks for visiting our website.
do pain, stiffness, weakness and loss of movement prevent you from enjoying life?
united therapy associates, p.a. chiropractor websites by healthcare web image | sitemap | resources
the science of healing.
at united therapy associates, we specialize in providing highly effective chiropractic, physical and occupational therapy in a state-of-the-art facility located in glen burnie, maryland.
do pain, stiffness, weakness and loss of movement prevent you from  enjoying life?
i glen burnie, maryland 21061 our patients say it best request an appointment let us help get you  back to doing what you love to do!
our entire staff is dedicated to providing you with excellent quality care with individualized treatment plans to help you move, work, play and feel better.
if you are dealing with back  pain, sports injury, joint replacement or any type of injury, we can help to  manage the pain.
our multidisciplinary approach to treatment sets us apart from other rehabilitation centers in the area.
6714 ritchie highway, suite
if you are dealing with back pain, sports injury, joint replacement or any type of injury, we can help to manage the pain.