the piriformis muscle runs from  the sacrum in
read more... nerve impingement (radiculopathy) radiculopathy is a condition in which injury that occurs near the root of a  nerve located in the spine causes pain, tingling, weakness or numbness in other  locations along the nerve pathway.
even for those that do benefit from chiropractic care, repeated trips to the chiropractor are required in order to maintain a pain-free state and therefore it is not a good long-term solution.
muscle spasms are similar to muscle cramps.
more... piriformis syndrome piriformis syndrome is a condition in which the piriformis muscle  compresses or irritates the sciatic nerve, causing pain along the nerve in the  buttocks, back of the leg and lower back.
...read more... sacroiliac joint dysfunction sacroiliac joint dysfunction refers to pain that is experienced in the sacroiliac joint.
if the vertebra slips too far, there may be nerve impingement or nerve damage.
to display this content, you need a javascript capable browser.
self-management of back pain, on the other hand, is a safe and proven long-term approach to controlling the effects of back pain.
nysm’s approach to treating back pain begins with a thorough medical evaluation.
this provides immediate relief, as well as a long-term approach to living a life as free from back pain as possible.
surgery should always be a last resort option for the treatment of back pain.
read more... degenerative disc disease degenerative disc disease relates to changes that occur in the discs throughout the spine as a person naturally ages.
we also devise comprehensive plans that allow patients to self-manage their pain, under our initial guidance.
at nysm, we are dedicated to helping our patients diminish or eliminate pain, while avoiding surgery.
read more... spondylolisthesis spondylolisthesis is a condition in which a vertebra located in the lumbar spine (lower back) cannot maintain its position and slips forward onto a bone
read more... arthritis there are many type of arthritis, a condition that primarily causes inflammation, pain and limited mobility in the joints.
we offer a variety of cutting-edge non-surgical treatment options to relieve and manage pain.
read more... nerve impingement (radiculopathy)
the ... read more... more in: back pain - back pain - thoracic or lumbar sprain/strain - scoliosis - nerve impingement (radiculopathy) - muscle spasm - degenerative disc disease - arthritis - spondylolisthesis - sacroiliac joint dysfunction - piriformis syndrome - sciatica what we do sports medicine electromyography trigger point injections physical therapy & rehabilitation back pain joint fluid replacement post surgical rehabilitation capsular contracture personal training programs f.i.t.t personal training posture re-education clinical pilates runners resources runner's resources: running without injury download our free e-brochure - 10 key exercises to help prevent running injury.
iliotibial band syndrome-pdf plantarfasciitis-pdf runner's knee-pdf patient voices i love coming to ny sportsmed for my shoulder treatment.
radiculopathy is a condition in which injury that occurs near the root of a nerve located in the spine causes pain, tingling, weakness or numbness in other locations along the nerve pathway.
most cases of scoliosis are mild, but extreme  cases can cause difficulty with lung function and ...
some causes of back pain that can be treated at nysm include: if you have tried any type of treatment for back pain, including chiropractic care, and have seen no improvement after two weeks, it is time to find another approach that will work.
they have all explained my condition very clearly to me.
it carries with it numerous risks, a long recovery time, and even the chance that surgery is not successful.
the ...read more... piriformis syndrome piriformis syndrome is a condition in which the piriformis muscle compresses or irritates the sciatic nerve, causing pain along the nerve in the buttocks, back of the leg and lower back.
read more... scoliosis scoliosis is a condition in which the spine curves sideways or away from the middle of the back.
if the vertebra slips too far, there may be nerve impingement or  nerve damage.
symptoms may be felt in the arm, shoulder, ...
back pain topics read more... thoracic or lumbar sprain/strain a thoracic or lumbar sprain or strain involves an injury to the soft  tissues of the back.
there are many causes of back pain, and unfortunately most adults will experience back pain at some point in their lives.
the ... read more... sciatica sciatica refers to pain, tingling, numbness or weakness felt in the legs  due to compression of or injury to the sciatic nerve in the lower back.
sprains involve injury to ligaments or discs and strains refer to muscle and tendon injuries.
read more... muscle spasm a muscle spasm is an involuntary contraction of a muscle or feeling of muscle tightness that usually occurs suddenly, is often painful, and typically does not last long.
the spinal discs, which function as shock absorbers for the spine, separate the vertebrae, and allow the spine to remain flexible, ...
symptoms may be felt in the arm,  shoulder, ...
muscle spasms have many causes, ...
through a combination of  cutting-edge treatments, as well as a focus on strengthening the body through a  structured physical therapy program, we can provide you with the tools you need  to effectively manage back pain so you can get on with living the life that you  love.
the thoracic  region is located in the upper ...
krista simon, who is working with me dr. liz parrillo, is very knowledgeable, she knew how to help me and introduced me to new exercises that i will continue to use.
although there is no complete cure for most causes of back pain, there are definite ways to reduce pain, improve mobility and flexibility, and avoid the ill-effects caused by prolonged pain and disability.
we offer a number of treatment options to improve or eliminate the effects caused by back pain, no matter what the cause.
read more... sciatica sciatica refers to pain, tingling, numbness or weakness felt in the legs
due to compression of or injury to the sciatic nerve in the lower back.
- arthritis - degenerative disc disease - muscle spasm - nerve impingement (radiculopathy) - piriformis syndrome - sacroiliac joint dysfunction - sciatica - scoliosis - spondylolisthesis - thoracic or lumbar sprain or strain back pain topics back pain read more... thoracic or lumbar sprain/strain a thoracic or lumbar sprain or strain involves an injury to the soft tissues of the back.
we address the cause of the pain, how long it has been going on, what makes it better or worse, and how the pain affects the patient’s daily activities.
the thoracic region is located in the upper ...
pain begins in the lower back and radiates through the buttocks and down
the spinal discs, which  function as shock absorbers for the spine, separate the vertebrae, and allow  the spine to remain flexible, ... read more... arthritis there are many type of arthritis, a condition that primarily causes  inflammation, pain and limited mobility in the joints.
back pain saturday, 03 march 2012 - contact us - newsletter - make a payment - nysm cares live help software - what we treat - sports & performance injury - neck pain - back pain - shoulder - elbow - hand & wrist
read more... scoliosis scoliosis is a condition in which the spine curves sideways or away from  the middle of the back.
in addition to non-surgical medical treatments performed by dr. neely, nysm also offers one of the most effective and proven ways to improve back pain – physical therapy.
show all carla dimittina's biomedical knowledge is above reproach and combined with her innate sense of the body make her the best physical therapist that i have ever had.
the joint sits next to the spine, connecting the sacrum  (the triangular bone at the bottom of the spine) to the iliac bones of the  pelvis.
read more... sacroiliac joint dysfunction sacroiliac joint dysfunction refers to pain that is experienced in the  sacroiliac joint.
read more... degenerative disc disease degenerative disc disease relates to changes that occur in the discs  throughout the spine as a person naturally ages.
at nysm, we offer non-surgical options for effectively and safely managing back pain.
chiropractic care is another option, but is not helpful for all people or all types of back pain.
read more... spondylolisthesis spondylolisthesis is a condition in which a vertebra located in the lumbar  spine (lower back) cannot maintain its position and slips forward onto a bone  below.
read more... muscle spasm a muscle spasm is an involuntary contraction of a muscle or feeling of  muscle tightness that usually occurs suddenly, is often painful, and typically  does not last long.
dr. michael neely is experienced in the treatment of back pain and customizes treatment programs with the aim of getting patients back to the level of activity and type of lifestyle they are accustomed to – without being sidelined by acute or chronic pain.
the ... read more...
we also take into account each individual patient’s goals, limitations and concerns before devising a customized treatment plan.
as a 75 year-old woman, i often come 2007-2011 © copyright ny sportsmed & physical therapy | physical therapy nyc - become a member - contact us - press room - work@/intern@ - the smooth operator manual - site map practice management by clinic logic join us on facebook follow us on twiter online payments
if you have tried any type  of treatment for back pain, including chiropractic care, and have seen no  improvement after two weeks, it is time to find another approach that will  work.
through a combination of cutting-edge treatments, as well as a focus on strengthening the body through a structured physical therapy program, we can provide you with the tools you need to effectively manage back pain so you can get on with living the life that you love.
the joint sits next to the spine, connecting the sacrum (the triangular bone at the bottom of the spine) to the iliac bones of the pelvis.
sprains involve injury to ligaments or  discs and strains refer to muscle and tendon injuries.
most cases of scoliosis are mild, but extreme cases can cause difficulty with lung function and ...
at nysm, we are dedicated to helping our patients diminish or  eliminate pain, while avoiding surgery.
symptoms of arthritis are caused by a breakdown of cartilage surrounding the joint, which normally acts like a shock absorber ...
supervised exercise and strengthening through a comprehensive physical therapy program is one of the best ways to control back pain and diminish the effects of any disability caused by the pain.
the type of pain experienced, as well as the duration and severity of the pain, will differ depending on the cause, as well as the individual.
our experienced physical therapy staff works one-on-one with patients, providing the greatest chance for a successful outcome.
the piriformis muscle runs from the sacrum in the ...
symptoms of arthritis  are caused by a breakdown of cartilage surrounding the joint, which normally  acts like a shock absorber ...
assistant - petros angagnostakisphysical therapy assistant - jason millingenexercise specialists / coach - julissa cortezexercise specialists / coach - steve vouyiouklisexercise specialist / coach - jay hachadoorianexercise specialist - coach - jeff jacobsexcercise specialist/ coach - david lopezexcercise specialist/ coach - shelby frantzexcercise specialist/ coach - kathy l. tatedpt - our locations - west sidecolumbus circle @ 60th street - east sidegrand central / roc center - downtownunion square @ 14th st. - patient education - patient stories - press live support what we treatback pain back pain back pain javascript is disabled!
- hip - knee pain - ankle & foot - capsular contracture - who we are - dr. michael j. neelyboard certified physician - luke bongiornophysical therapist director - edward l. capla, m.d.director of molecular cell orthopaedics - allison linddoctor of physical therapy - benjamin goldphysical therapist - edyta friendphysical therapist - john jezequeldoctor of physical therapy - krista simonphysical therapist - stephen horneyphysical therapist - claude hillelphysical therapist - eric munozpt, dpt, nasm-cpt - francis dianophysical therapist - patrick lyonsphysical therapist - alina prescornitaphysical therapy
spondylolisthesis thoracic or lumbar sprain or strain
everyone there makes me feel very comfortable.