this leads to many things: frustration, increased costs on medication and physician visits, lost time from work, inability to do the things you enjoy, etc.
this is a very important myth or misunderstanding to address.
also, pain is caused by an underlying problem,  but not the problem itself.
an common analogy to help us better  understand this is the problem of a flat tire.
chiropractic patients will find that with the assistance of physical therapy they “hold” there spinal alignment for longer periods.
for it brings two specialties together.
some underlying problem (dysfunction) with the human body causes the signaling of pain.
the profession ofphysical therapy addresses a wide variety of conditions: yes strokes and surgeries… but alsosprains/strains , tendonitis, bursitis, back pain, shoulder pain, tmj, urinary incontinence, headaches, dizziness , etc.
the best scenario is to obtain comfort from your pain by using  medication while correcting the problem causing the pain; in the end you have  no pain and no problem.
also, pain is caused by an underlying problem, but not the problem itself.
contrary to belief, this can be one of the most beneficial forms of care; why??
physical therapists, when working in tandem with a chiropractor can then focus intently on the “stabilization” of the spine or joint which involves ensuring that the soft tissue that support the joints and spine (tendons/ligaments/muscles) are adequately flexible/strong to maintain the proper alignment of the joint/spine.
pain is a protective mechanism, it simply is a “sign” or “signal” that something is wrong.
some underlying problem  (dysfunction) with the human body causes the signaling of pain.
now the symptom of the  flat tire is no air, but the problem is that there is a hole in the tire.
contact peak physical therapy today for your  free consultation.
so if you have pain, physical therapycan help.
boise idaho physical therapy clinic eagle idaho physical therapy clinic emmett idaho  physical therapy clinic middleton idaho physical therapy  clinic mountain home idaho physical therapy clinic colorado springs  physical therapy clinic durango colorado physical therapy clinic peakphysicaltherapy.net- boise physical  therapy, colorado springs, physical therapist, idaho physical therapy, durango  colorado & rehabilitation.
when you handle the  problem causing the pain, the pain goes away.
this is really is more of a misunderstanding than a myth.
chiropractic patients will find that with the assistance of  physical therapy they “hold” there spinal alignment for longer  periods.
physical therapy is centered  around identifying and correcting dysfunctions that cause pain.
the first thing that needs to be understood is pain and the role of pain.
the first thing that needs to be understood is  pain and the role of pain.
chiropractors are known for  their great manual and manipulation (“mobilization”) skills of the  joints, especially the spine.
physical therapy and chiropractic treatments can’t be done together.
© 2010  peakphysicaltherapy.net-physical therapy boise, idaho | web design provided by urbandesignfirm.com.
you can treat the symptom of the flat tire (no air) all you want, but until you  fix the problem (the hole)
when you handle the problem causing the pain, the pain goes away.
medication controls my pain, so i don’t need physical therapy!
now the symptom of the flat tire is no air, but the problem is that there is a hole in the tire.
chiropractors are known for their great manual and manipulation (“mobilization”) skills of the joints, especially the spine.
physical therapy is just for people who have had strokes or surgery.
so the fact that you can control your pain with medication can in actuality do you more harm for you are “numbing” your pain signal, and by only treating the pain, you allow the problem causing the pain to remain, giving you future issues.
the best scenario is to obtain comfort from your pain by using medication while correcting the problem causing the pain; in the end you have no pain and no problem.
physical  therapy and chiropractic treatments can’t be done together.
physical therapy is designed to identify and handle the underlying problem so that your pain has no reason to exist.
this leads to many things: frustration, increased costs on  medication and physician visits, lost time from work, inability to do the  things you enjoy, etc.  now medication does provide us comfort, so that is  good!
the concept to grasp here is...”mobilize and stabilize”.
pain is a protective mechanism, it simply is a  “sign” or “signal” that something is wrong.
contrary to belief, this can be one of the most beneficial forms of care;  why??
physical therapy is designed to identify and handle the underlying  problem so that your pain has no reason to exist.
if you are having pain, just know that you don’t have to live with it.
contact peak physical therapy today for your free consultation.
now medication does provide us comfort, so that is good!
the concept to understand is that pain is just merely a symptom…it is not the problem.
the concept to grasp here  is...”mobilize and stabilize”.
physical therapy myths physical therapy is just for people who have had strokes  or surgery.
physical therapy is centered around identifying and correcting dysfunctions that cause pain.
this is a very important myth or  misunderstanding to address.
contact  peak physical therapyand get it handled.
the  profession ofphysical therapy addresses a wide variety of  conditions: yes strokes and surgeries… but alsosprains/strains , tendonitis, bursitis, back pain, shoulder pain, tmj, urinary incontinence, headaches, dizziness , etc.  the concept to understand is that pain is just merely a  symptom…it is not the problem.
boise idaho physical therapy clinic eagle idaho physical therapy clinic emmett idaho physical therapy clinic middleton idaho physical therapy clinic mountain home idaho physical therapy clinic colorado springs physical therapy clinic durango colorado physical therapy clinic
if you  are having pain, just know that you don’t have to live with it.
physical therapists, when  working in tandem with a chiropractor can then focus intently on the  “stabilization” of the spine or joint which involves ensuring that  the soft tissue that support the joints and spine (tendons/ligaments/muscles)  are adequately flexible/strong to maintain the proper alignment of the  joint/spine.
you can treat the symptom of the flat tire (no air) all you want, but until you fix the problem (the hole)
pain prevents us from doing things that we shouldn’t, so we don’t cause more harm to ourselves.
so  the fact that you can control your pain with medication can in actuality do you  more harm for you are “numbing” your pain signal, and by only  treating the pain, you allow the problem causing the pain to remain, giving you  future issues.
the scope ofphysical therapy is broad.
an common analogy to help us better understand this is the problem of a flat tire.
pain  prevents us from doing things that we shouldn’t, so we don’t cause  more harm to ourselves.
we have several locations throughoutidaho andcolorado to serve your physical therapy needs!
your symptom will continue to exist.
contact peak physical therapyand get it handled.