no smoke, no potions, just a combination of talented and caring individuals who enjoy what they do, and do it well.
there are times when i leave his office after being  treated and not feeling well and he has called to find out how i am.
…well i found  it at "rehability"!
the treatment plan he set up  for me not only focused on pain relief, but also on helping me regain some of  my lost strength due to injury.
we have recommended him to several of our friends and family and they have nothing but praise for the level of care they received.
thank you for giving me my life (and my golf game) back!" alan goeltz, freehold "six years ago i moved from staten island to freehold and in need of a chiropractor.
i really feel the integrated therapy helped and i continue to do the exercises i was taught.
i went from it being questionable to be able to return to work, to being all but pain free and back to work, not being "afraid" to resume all activities.
to take part in this introductory on-line promotion, please  enter your name, phone number, and email address into the form below and click  submit.
“the entire staff at rehability is super friendly, caring, and professional.
i was very interested because his  method of treatment is very "hands on" which is what i was familiar  with.
after a few months of a combination of chiropractic treatments and physical  therapy, i'm 95% pain free.
i would have never imagined i’d get the  results that i have, in just 8 weeks.
i was treated by dr chickara and the physical  therapy staff.
michele and ralph marinello, freehold "after a very serious motor vehicle accident in which i herniated  5 discs (2 of which required surgery), i was referred to rehability by my  surgeon for rehabilitative care.
however, once we learned how physical therapy and chiropractic care can provide such great relief, we understood why dr. chickara’s practice came so highly recommended.
i never feel dismissed or rushed but comfortable in knowing he and his  staff are truly concerned.
joseph b., manalapan "dr. chickara, you and your group make a difference!
i can honestly say that the quality of professionalism and care was second to none.
contact robert chickara dc please complete the form below and a representative wil be in touch with  you within 1 business day.
shannon and mike g., freehold “i was referred to dr. chickara by my neurologist after  undergoing a significant mount of diagnostic tests for my low back and leg  pain.
larry a.; manalapan home i about us i services i our office i contact us i pain management  inon-surgical decompression | low back
…well i found it at "rehability"!
i really feel the integrated therapy helped and i  continue to do the exercises i was taught.
732-780-6230 address: 3585 us highway 9 north freehold, nj view larger map this special on-line offer will include: a one-on-one consultation with the doctor to discuss your health concerns  and view the rehability facility an evaluation of your present condition to determine if you are a  candidate for our pain management and rehabilitative services.
i have never felt more welcome in any doctor’s office as i  do there.
michele and ralph marinello, freehold "after a very serious motor vehicle accident in which i herniated 5 discs (2 of which required surgery), i was referred to rehability by my surgeon for rehabilitative care.
beside the chiropractic care, dr. chickara has taught me so much about my injury, and how best to prevent such recurrences down the road.
after a few months of a combination of chiropractic treatments and physical therapy, i'm 95% pain free.
the treatment i received was top notch, and the pain relief i have  experienced has been amazing.
i was now 52 years old and not happy about finding someone  new.
i am so thankful i was referred to his office.”
you are your staff  are aces with us!!!
you are your staff are aces with us!!!
beside the chiropractic care, dr. chickara has taught me  so much about my injury, and how best to prevent such recurrences down the  road.
i have never felt more welcome in any doctor’s office as i do there.
please complete the form below and a representative wil be in touch with you within 1 business day.
*some exclusions apply last updated: february 21, 2012 there are no better compliments than direct referrals and positive experiences shared by our patients.
free evaluation form
thank you for your trust!
the treatment plan he set up for me not only focused on pain relief, but also on helping me regain some of my lost strength due to injury.
there are times when i leave his office after being treated and not feeling well and he has called to find out how i am.
we met and had a long conversation about my condition.
thank you for giving me my life (and  my golf game) back!" alan goeltz, freehold "six years ago i moved from staten island to freehold and in need  of a chiropractor.
we have recommended him to  several of our friends and family and they have nothing but praise for the  level of care they received.
he takes the time to explain each new piece of equipment and always makes it clear that he will do what you are comfortable with or whenever you are ready to try something new.
over the last 3 years of being with dr. chickara, i not only respect his knowledge but the fact that is also concerned about his patient's overall well being.
no smoke, no potions, just a combination of  talented and caring individuals who enjoy what they do, and do it well.
justin m., marlboro "the rehability pain and injury center has been a terrific  experience for both my husband and i. suffering from back pain for many years,  we would always rely on pain medication because it was easy and available.
we thank you dr. chickara.
shannon and mike g., freehold “i was referred to dr. chickara by my neurologist after undergoing a significant mount of diagnostic tests for my low back and leg pain.
i can honestly say that the quality of professionalism and care  was second to none.
he takes the time to explain each new piece  of equipment and always makes it clear that he will do what you are comfortable  with or whenever you are ready to try something new.
larry a.; manalapan home i about us i services i our office i contact us i pain management inon-surgical decompression | low back pain
you will be contacted asap to schedule the best available time.
from the time i walked through your door, a stranger coming in looking for the "magic" potion that would make me feel better.
“the entire staff at rehability is super friendly, caring, and  professional.
however, once we learned how physical therapy and chiropractic care can provide  such great relief, we understood why dr. chickara’s practice came so  highly recommended.
i never feel dismissed or rushed but comfortable in knowing he and his staff are truly concerned.
justin m., marlboro "the rehability pain and injury center has been a terrific experience for both my husband and i. suffering from back pain for many years, we would always rely on pain medication because it was easy and available.
judy w., freehold “i have been to many chiropractors in the past, but the overall analysis and treatment of my condition by dr. chickara and his colleagues has been second to none.
dr. chickara is always finding new ways to improve his patients well being with updated equipment and technology.
your office is a class act.”
thank you rehability for giving me my activity filled  life back!"
i came across an advertisement of dr. chickara's who was just starting his practice in freehold and offering a complementary consultation.
i was treated by dr chickara and the physical therapy staff.
we met and had  a long conversation about my condition.
the treatment i received was top notch, and the pain relief i have experienced has been amazing.
my husband and i are truly grateful for having found dr. chickara.
comment last updated: february 21, 2012 there are no better compliments than direct referrals and positive  experiences shared by our patients.
judy w., freehold “i have been to many chiropractors in the past, but the overall  analysis and treatment of my condition by dr. chickara and his colleagues has  been second to none.
the exam i received, and the explanation he had given me on the results was more thorough than anything i can remember.
732-780-6230 address: 3585 us highway 9 north freehold, nj (shoprite plaza) view larger map this special on-line offer will include: to take part in this introductory on-line promotion, please enter your name, phone number, and email address into the form below and click submit.
thanks again for all your help!”
want to make an appointment?
my husband and i are  truly grateful for having found dr. chickara.
thank you rehability for giving me my activity filled life back!"
from the time  i walked through your door, a stranger coming in looking for the  "magic" potion that would make me feel better.
over the last 3 years of being with dr. chickara, i not only respect his  knowledge but the fact that is also concerned about his patient's overall well  being.
pain copyright © 2009  rehability llc, all rights reserved, 3585 us highway 9 north, freehold, nj,  phone: 732-780-6230 chiropractic website developed by medical web experts a  new wave enterprises llc company | as seen in doctor pages chiropractic  care and physical therapy doctor in freehold, nj, dr robert chickara, pain  management, spinal correction, rehability pain and injury center
i was now 52 years old and not happy about finding someone new.
dr.  chickara is always finding new ways to improve his patients well being with  updated equipment and technology.
i would have never imagined i’d get the results that i have, in just 8 weeks.
" cye jacobson, marlboro "i came to your facility seeking relief from lower back pain.
call our office today!
i was very interested because his method of treatment is very "hands on" which is what i was familiar with.
i went from it being questionable to be able to return to  work, to being all but pain free and back to work, not being "afraid"  to resume all activities.
i came across an advertisement of dr. chickara's who was just starting his  practice in freehold and offering a complementary consultation.
the exam i received, and the explanation he had given me on the results  was more thorough than anything i can remember.