however, there is some evidence that the  technique may be beneficial when combined with other therapies.
for example, a single-blind, controlled study of 84 people suffering from low back pain compared manipulation to treatment with a diathermy machine (a physical therapy machine that uses microwaves to create heat beneath the skin) that was not actually functioning.16
laitinen j. acupuncture and transcutaneous electric stimulation in the  treatment of chronic sacrolumbagia and ischialgia.
one year later, massage and education were nearly equivalent, and both were superior to acupuncture.
call your healthcare provider  immediately
a randomised controlled trial of  spinal manipulative therapy in acute low back pain.
cherkin dc, deyo ra, battie m, et al.
cited by: ernst e, white ar.
a prospective randomized three-week trial of spinal manipulation, transcutaneous muscle stimulation, massage and corset in the treatment of subacute low back pain.
when cayenne is applied to the skin, it  causes such an intense sensation that participants could hardly fail to notice  it.
however, the results have been less than  impressive.
the only significant side effect seen was an allergic reaction in one participant given willow.
note: white willow should not be combined with standard anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen.
both real and simulated acupuncture were, however, associated with improved function at one year.80other studies have failed to find benefit as well; in several controlled studies enrolling a total of over 300 people, real acupuncture again failed to prove more effective than sham-acupuncture or other placebo treatments.19,29,32,53 one study compared the effects of acupuncture, massage, and education (such as videotapes on back care) for 262 people with chronic back pain over a 10-week period.28 the exact type of acupuncture and massage was left to practitioners, but only 10 visits were permitted.
acupuncture for back pain.
for example, a single-blind, controlled study of 84 people suffering from  low back pain compared manipulation to treatment with a diathermy machine (a  physical therapy machine that uses microwaves to create heat beneath the skin)  that was not actually functioning.16
invented in the 1950s by george hackett, prolotherapy is based on the  theory that chronic pain is often caused by laxness of the ligaments that are  responsible for keeping a joint stable.
ahcpr publication 95-0642.
in a detailed review of 7 randomized trials, researchers were unable to draw any conclusions regarding the effectiveness of lllt for nonspecific low back pain.73 many other studies have compared acupuncture to such treatments as transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens), physical therapy, chiropractic care, and massage.14,33-37,59in many of these trials, acupuncture provided benefits comparable to the other options tested.
cochrane database of systematic reviews.
in the case of arthritic joints, increased ligament strength would allow the joint to function more efficiently, reducing pain.
however, there was only a minimal difference between real and  fake acupuncture.
another ingredient of white willow, tremulacin, may also be important.
when cayenne is applied to the skin, it causes such an intense sensation that participants could hardly fail to notice it.
other herbs and supplements sometimes recommended for back pain, but with  no real supporting evidence, include:boswellia, butterbur, chondroitin, ginger,  glucosamine, and turmeric.
treatment of low back pain by acupressure  and physical therapy: randomised controlled trial.
however, the results have been less than impressive.
glover jr, morris jg, khosla t. back pain: a randomized clinical trial of rotational manipulation of the trunk.
a comparison of the effects of 2 types of massage and usual care on chronic low back pain: a randomized, controlled trial.
treatment of low back pain by acupressure and physical therapy: randomised controlled trial.
these results do not, in fact, indicate that acupuncture is  effective per se; rather, it shows the significant power of acupuncture as a  placebo.
extract of the herb white willow appears to be helpful for acute and chronic back pain, presumably because of its similarity to aspirin.
identifiable causes includeosteoarthritis, fracture, or injury to the discs  between the vertebrae.
spinal manipulation for  low back pain.
gobel h, heinze a, ingwersen m, et al.
surgery may be recommended in certain cases, such as when there are severe disc problems, but most forms of back surgery also lack reliable supporting evidence.
the  little-known injection technique known as prolotherapy may be effective for  back pain as well.
a comparison between chiropractic  management and pain clinic management for chronic low-back pain in a national  health service outpatient clinic.
identifiable causes includeosteoarthritis, fracture, or injury to the discs between the vertebrae.
however, thus far, research has not  produced clear evidence of acupuncture’s effectiveness for back pain.52in  a review of 23 randomized trials involving over 6,000 patients with chronic low  back, researchers concluded that acupuncture is more effective than no  treatment for short-term pain relief, but there was no significant difference  between the effects of true and sham.79 a 6-month, double-blind trial of 1,162 people with back pain compared real  acupuncture, fake acupuncture, and conventional therapy.72 both real and fake  acupuncture were twice as effective as conventional therapy according to the  measures used.
the outcomes and costs of care for  acute low back pain among patients seen by primary care practitioners,  chiropractors, and orthopedic surgeons.
dechow e, davies rk, carr aj, et al.
when back pain persists over months or years, it is called chronic back pain.
rockville, md: agency for health care policy and research, us dept of health and human services; 1994.
farrell jp, twomey lt.
hsieh ll, kuo ch, lee lh, et al.
spine j 2008 jan-feb;8(1):203-12.
but unlike the previous review, there were no differences, though, at weeks 26 and 52.
acupuncture st lombosciatique a la phase aigue.
lesser evidence supports the use of chiropractic and acupuncture.
related terms backache;back strain;lower back pain principal proposed natural treatmentsacupuncture ; chiropractic ; white willow other proposed natural treatmentsbalneotherapy (spa therapy) ; boswellia ; butterbur ; chondroitin ; comfrey (topical cream) ; devil's claw ; ginger ; glucosamine ; magnet therapy ; osteopathic manipulation ; prolotherapy ;proteolytic enzymes ; turmeric ; relaxation therapies ; yoga low back pain is one of the most common health conditions today.
other therapies biofeedback,21balneotherapy,66-67hatha yoga,62, 63,75magnet therapy,70,71 andrelaxation therapies69,83 have also shown at least a hint of promise for treating back pain.
when people in a study know whether they are getting real treatment or placebo treatment, the validity of the study's results is greatly decreased.
chronic back pain requires a  medical workup to make sure there are no serious underlying causes, although  evidence suggests that, in most cases, x-rays are not necessary.4 treatment may  also include physical therapy and a gradedexerciseprogram.
a comparison of physical therapy, chiropractic manipulation, and provision of an educational booklet for the treatment of patients with low back pain.
santilli v, beghi e, finucci s. chiropractic manipulation in the treatment  of acute back pain and sciatica with disc protrusion: a randomized double-blind  clinical trial of active and simulated spinal manipulations.
the total cost of back pain has been estimated to reach $25  billion per year in the us.3 when back pain occurs suddenly (after lifting a heavy object, for example),  it is called acute back pain or sprain.
spinal manipulation and  mobilisation for back and neck pain: a blinded review.
copyright © ebsco publishing.
van tulder mw, koes b, malmivaara a,
andersson gb, lucente t, davis am, et al.
the little-known injection technique known as prolotherapy may be effective for back pain as well.
a randomized clinical trial  comparing chiropractic adjustments to muscle relaxants for subacute low back  pain.
osteopathic manipulative  treatment for chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
an updated systematic review of randomized clinical trials.
comparing yoga, exercise, and a  self-care book for chronic low back pain.
the north carolina back pain project.
acupuncture treatment of chronic back pain.
giles lg, muller r. chronic spinal pain syndromes: a clinical pilot trial  comparing acupuncture, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and spinal  manipulation.
juni p, battaglia m, nuesch e, et al.
other proposed natural treatments herbal treatments
rheumatology (oxford).
ferreira ml, ferreira ph, et al. efficacy of spinal manipulative therapy  for low back pain of less than three months' duration.
balogh z, ordogh j, gasz a, et al.
the alexander technique is a special method of postural training popular  among dancers and other performers.
koes bw, assendelft wj, van der heijden gj, et al.
schiller l. effectiveness of spinal manipulative therapy in the treatment  of mechanical thoracic spine pain: a pilot randomized clinical trial.
a comparison between chiropractic management and pain clinic management for chronic low-back pain in a national health service outpatient clinic.
in one interesting study, 444 people with acute low back pain were randomly  assigned to receive either usual care or usual care plus a choice of  alternative therapies (chiropractic, acupuncture, or massage).68 the results  showed that while the use of alternative therapies improved patient  satisfaction, it did not significantly improve symptoms.
for more information on this potential risk, see the  individual drug article in thedrug interactions section of this database.
a review of the literature found no more  than weak preliminary evidence that alexander may help with back pain, but  concluded that further research is warranted.56a subsequent controlled trial  involving 579 patients with chronic or recurrent low back pain found that  alexander technique lessons, particularly when combined with exercise, was more  effective than normal care or massage after one year.78 prolotherapy the use of prolotherapy to treat back pain has had mixed results in  clinical studies.
rockville, md: agency for health care policy and research, us dept  of health and human services; 1994.
extract of the herb white willow appears to be helpful for acute and  chronic back pain, presumably because of its similarity to aspirin.
effectiveness of balneotherapy in  chronic low back pain—a randomized single-blind controlled follow-up  study.
exercise therapy for  treatment of non-specific low back pain.
other herbs and supplements sometimes recommended for back pain, but with no real supporting evidence, include:boswellia, butterbur, chondroitin, ginger, glucosamine, and turmeric.
the higher-dose group received extract supplying 240 mg of  salicin daily; in this group, 39% were pain-free for at least the last 5 days  of the study.
j manipulative physiol ther.
in another single-blind, placebo-controlled study, researchers assigned 209 participants to one of three groups: a high-velocity, low-amplitude (hvla) spinal manipulation; a sham manipulation group; or a back education program.17 though this has been reported as a positive study,18 most of the differences seen between the groups were too small to be statistically significant.
nielson wr, weir r. biopsychosocial approaches to the treatment of chronic pain.
chiropractic chiropractic spinal manipulation is one of the most popular treatments for acute and chronic back pain in the us, and it may provide at least modest benefit; however, as yet, research evidence has failed to find chiropractic manipulation convincingly more effective than standard medical care.49,50,76 chiropractic does seem to be more effective than placebo, if not by a great deal.
acupuncture the ancient technique of acupuncturehas become increasingly popular as a  treatment for pain and other conditions.
edelist g, gross ae, langer f. treatment of low back pain with acupuncture.
yelland mj, glasziou pp, bogduk n, et al.
comparison of two conservative  treatment approaches.
hayden ja, van tulder mw, malmivaara a, et al.
spinal manipulative therapy for low back pain.
these solutions are believed to cause  tissue to proliferate (grow), increasing the strength and thickness of  ligaments.9,10,11 this presumably serves to tighten up the joint and allow the  associated muscles to stop having spasms.
the researchers asked the participants to  assess their own pain levels within 15 minutes of the first treatment, then 3  and 7 days after treatment.
other therapies biofeedback,21balneotherapy,66-67hatha yoga,62, 63,75magnet therapy,70,71  andrelaxation therapies69,83 have also shown at least a hint of promise for  treating back pain.
however, because  tens, physical therapy, and so forth, have not been proven effective for back  pain, studies of this type cannot be taken as evidence that acupuncture is  effective.
triano jj, mcgregor m, hondras ma, et al.
both real and simulated acupuncture were, however, associated with improved  function at one year.80other studies have failed to find benefit as well; in  several controlled studies enrolling a total of over 300 people, real  acupuncture again failed to prove more effective than sham-acupuncture or other  placebo treatments.19,29,32,53 one study compared the effects of acupuncture, massage, and education  (such as videotapes on back care) for 262 people with chronic back pain over a  10-week period.28 the exact type of acupuncture and massage was left to  practitioners, but only 10 visits were permitted.
harpagophytum  procumbens li 174 (devil's claw) on sensory, motor and vascular muscle  reagibility in the treatment of unspecific back pain.
acupuncture in the management of chronic low  back pain: a blinded randomised controlled trial [abstract].fact.
it is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice.
although om has shown some promise for the treatment of back pain, 15,20,40one of the best-designed trials failed to find it a superior alternative to conventional medical care.
at the 10-week point, evaluations showed benefit with massage but not with acupuncture.
for more information, see the full chiropractic article.
one double-blind study found a topical cayenne treatment more effective than placebo in 320 people with low back pain.54 however, on the face of it, one finds it difficult to believe that this study was truly double-blind.
[epub ahead of print] collacot ea, zimmerman jt, white dw, et al.
can anaesth soc j. 1976;23:303-306.
cochrane database syst rev. 2005;cd000335.
carey ts, garrett j, jackman a, et al.
last reviewedoctober 2011by ebsco cam review board please be aware that this information is provided to supplement the care provided by your physician.
a randomized, controlled trial.
randomised controlled trial of  alexander technique lessons, exercise, and massage (ateam) for chronic and  recurrent back pain.
a meta-analysis of  randomized controlled trials.
always seek the  advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting  any new treatment or with any questions you may have regarding a medical  condition.
(chiropractic had better results at that point.)
a comparison of osteopathic  spinal manipulation with standard care for patients with low back pain.
effectiveness of acupuncture for low  back pain: a systematic review.
radiography of the lumbar spine in primary care patients with low back pain: randomised controlled trial.
treatment of low back pain  exacerbations with willow bark extract: a randomized double-blind study.
et al. effect of iyengar yoga therapy for chronic low back pain.
prolotherapy treatment involves injections of chemical irritant solutions into the area around such ligaments.
effectiveness of acupuncture for low back pain: a systematic review.
acupuncture treatment of chronic  back pain.
acupuncture in patients with chronic  low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
santilli v, beghi e, finucci s. chiropractic manipulation in the treatment of acute back pain and sciatica with disc protrusion: a randomized double-blind clinical trial of active and simulated spinal manipulations.
ferreira ml, ferreira ph, et al. efficacy of spinal manipulative therapy for low back pain of less than three months' duration.
effects of harpagophytum procumbens li 174 (devil's claw) on sensory, motor and vascular muscle reagibility in the treatment of unspecific back pain.
these results do not, in fact, indicate that acupuncture is effective per se; rather, it shows the significant power of acupuncture as a placebo.
forsch komplementarmed klass naturheilkd.
always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
chiropractic chiropractic spinal manipulation is one of the most popular treatments for  acute and chronic back pain in the us, and it may provide at least modest  benefit; however, as yet, research evidence has failed to find chiropractic  manipulation convincingly more effective than standard medical care.49,50,76 chiropractic does seem to be more effective than placebo, if not by a great  deal.
jayson miv, sims-williams h, young s, et al. mobilization and manipulation  for low-back pain.
american academy of orthopaedic surgeons website.
in the majority of cases, the cause of chronic back pain is unknown.
spinal manipulation for low back pain.
a randomized, double-blind,  placebo-controlled trial of sclerosing injections in patients with chronic low  back pain.
the alexander technique is a special method of postural training popular among dancers and other performers.
though for some of these, there have been as many negative as positive studies, and for many of them only short-term benefits were shown.
grant dj, bishop-miller j, winchester dm, et al.
if you think you may have a medical emergency.
a prospective randomized study comparing  acupuncture with physiotherapy for low-back and pelvic pain in pregnancy.
a prospective randomized three-week  trial of spinal manipulation, transcutaneous muscle stimulation, massage and  corset in the treatment of subacute low back pain.
similarly poor results were seen in an earlier 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 118 individuals with acute back pain.39however, a 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 63 people with mild to moderate chronic muscular tension in the neck, back, and shoulders did find some benefit.27 the herb cayennecontains capsaicin, a substance that produces an immediate burning sensation but later reduces pain.
a new approach to the treatment of  chronic low back pain.
j pain symptom manage.
several studies evaluated the effectiveness of chiropractic manipulation  combined with a different kind of treatment called mobilization, but they too  found little to no benefit.43,45,46 on a positive note, one study of 100 people with back pain and sciatica  symptoms (pain down the leg due to disc protrusion) found that chiropractic  manipulation was significantly more effective at relieving symptoms than sham  chiropractic manipulation.57 for low back pain, several studies have found that chiropractic is at  least as helpful as other commonly used therapies, such as muscle relaxants,  soft-tissuemassage, and physical therapy.22-26,51,74furthermore, in one  well-designed study, 2 months of chiropractic spinal manipulation produced  somewhat greater pain relief than exercise therapy, and this relative  superiority endured to the 1-year follow-up point.41
acupuncture the ancient technique of acupuncturehas become increasingly popular as a treatment for pain and other conditions.
chrubasik s, zimpfer ch, schutt u, et al.
hadler nm, curtis p, gillings db, et al.
in most cases, acute back pain  eventually improves by itself, but there may be weeks of discomfort, time lost  from work, and impaired function at home.
the researchers asked the participants to assess their own pain levels within 15 minutes of the first treatment, then 3 and 7 days after treatment.
a randomized double-blind trial of dextrose-glycerine-phenol injections for chronic, low back pain.
acta obstet gynecol scand.
a comparison of the effects of 2  types of massage and usual care on chronic low back pain: a randomized,  controlled trial.
see the article  onmassage for more details.
newswanger dl, patel at, ogle a. osteopathic medicine in the treatment of low back pain.
a  subsequent large study involving 401 adults (aged 20-65 years old) with  nonspecific back pain also supports the use of massage.84
an in situ study of the influence of  a sclerosing solution in rabbit medial collateral ligaments and its junction  strength.
hoiriis kt, pfleger b, mcduffie fc, et al.
although om has shown some promise for the treatment of back pain, 15,20,40one of the best-designed trials failed to find it a superior  alternative to conventional medical care.
dagenais s, mayer j, haldeman s, borg-stein j. evidence-informed  management of chronic low back pain with prolotherapy.
cherkin dc, eisenberg d, sherman kj, et al.
in a review of five studies, three found prolotherapy to be no more effective than control treatments for treating low back pain.
for more information, including  dosage and safety issues, see the fullwhite willow article.
preliminary evidence suggests that proteolytic enzymesmight be helpful for  back pain.44 herbs and supplements to use only with caution various herbs and supplements may interact adversely with drugs used to  treat back pain.
osteopathic manipulative treatment for chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
however, there was only a minimal difference between real and fake acupuncture.
esmer g, blum j, rulf j, pier j. mindfulness-based stress reduction for  failed back surgery syndrome: a randomized controlled trial.
randomised controlled trial of alexander technique lessons, exercise, and massage (ateam) for chronic and recurrent back pain.
low level laser therapy (lllt) is a technique similar to  electro-acupuncture that uses precision laser energy instead of electricity  conducted through a needle.
a benefit of spinal manipulation as adjunctive therapy for acute low back pain: a stratified controlled trial.
a randomized clinical trial comparing chiropractic adjustments to muscle relaxants for subacute low back pain.
a prospective randomized study comparing acupuncture with physiotherapy for low-back and pelvic pain in pregnancy.
in the lower-dose group (120 mg of salicin daily), 21% became  pain-free.
topical symphytum herb concentrate cream against myalgia: a randomized controlled double-blind clinical study.
glover jr, morris jg, khosla t. back pain: a randomized clinical trial of  rotational manipulation of the trunk.
at 10 weeks, those in the massage groups had improved function and fewer symptoms compared to the usual care group.
bipolar permanent magnets for  the treatment of chronic low back pain: a pilot study.
little p, lewith g, webley f, et al.
in a review of 13 randomized trials, researchers concluded that massage may be effective for nonspecific low back pain, and the beneficial effects can last for up to 1 year in patients suffering from chronic pain.77they also noted that exercise and education appear to enhance the effectiveness of massage.
acupuncture in the management of chronic low back pain: a blinded randomised controlled trial [abstract].fact.
the net result, according to prolotherapy theory, is muscle spasms and pain.
low level laser therapy for nonspecific low-back pain.
but unlike the previous  review, there were no differences, though, at weeks 26 and 52.
aure of, hoel nilsen j, vasseljen o. manual therapy and exercise therapy  in patients with chronic low back pain: a randomized, controlled trial with  1-year follow-up.
j am osteopath assoc.
hoehler fk, tobis js, buerger aa.
in a 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlledstudy of 210 individuals with  chronic back pain, two different doses of willow bark extract were compared  against placebo.5
addition of choice of  complementary therapies to usual care for acute low back pain: a randomized  controlled trial.
when ligaments and associated tendons  are loose, the body is said to compensate by using muscles to hold the joint  stable.
kerr dp, walsh dm, baxter d. acupuncture in the management of chronic low  back pain: a blinded randomized controlled trial.
a benefit of spinal manipulation  as adjunctive therapy for acute low back pain: a stratified controlled trial.
leibing e, leonhardt u, koster g, et al.
sherman kj, cherkin dc, erro j, et al.
at 10 weeks, those in the massage groups had improved function and  fewer symptoms compared to the usual care group.
a randomized trial comparing acupuncture, simulated acupuncture, and usual care for chronic low back pain.
et al. effect of iyengar yoga therapy  for chronic low back pain.
yuan j, purepong n, kerr dp, et al.
acupuncture treatment of chronic  low-back pain—a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial with  9-month follow-up.
morone ne, greco cm, weiner dk.
dagenais s, yelland m, del mar c, schoene m. prolotherapy injections for  chronic low back pain.
the only significant side effect  seen was an allergic reaction in one participant given willow.
in a detailed review of 7 randomized trials,  researchers were unable to draw any conclusions regarding the effectiveness of  lllt for nonspecific low back pain.73 many other studies have compared acupuncture to such treatments as  transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens), physical therapy,  chiropractic care, and massage.14,33-37,59in many of these trials, acupuncture  provided benefits comparable to the other options tested.
in most cases, acute back pain eventually improves by itself, but there may be weeks of discomfort, time lost from work, and impaired function at home.
kendrick d, fielding k, bentley e, et al.
dagenais s, yelland m, del mar c, schoene m. prolotherapy injections for chronic low back pain.
chronic back pain requires a medical workup to make sure there are no serious underlying causes, although evidence suggests that, in most cases, x-rays are not necessary.4 treatment may also include physical therapy and a gradedexerciseprogram.
however, because tens, physical therapy, and so forth, have not been proven effective for back pain, studies of this type cannot be taken as evidence that acupuncture is effective.
furlan ad, imamura m, dryden t, irvin e. massage for low-back pain.
all rights reserved.
a review of the literature found no more than weak preliminary evidence that alexander may help with back pain, but concluded that further research is warranted.56a subsequent controlled trial involving 579 patients with chronic or recurrent low back pain found that alexander technique lessons, particularly when combined with exercise, was more effective than normal care or massage after one year.78 prolotherapy the use of prolotherapy to treat back pain has had mixed results in clinical studies.
references clinical practice guideline number 14: acute low back problems in adults.
randomized trial comparing traditional chinese medical acupuncture, therapeutic massage, and self-care education for chronic low back pain.
liu yk, tipton cm, matthes rd, et al.
in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolling 215 people with back  pain, use of a topical cream made from the herbcomfreyproduced statistically  significant benefits as compared to placebo.61 the herb devil's claw is used for the treatment of osteoarthritis, and has  been tried for back pain as well.
treating chronic pain with prolotherapy.
a randomized double-blind trial of  dextrose-glycerine-phenol injections for chronic, low back pain.
the outcomes and costs of care for acute low back pain among patients seen by primary care practitioners, chiropractors, and orthopedic surgeons.
williams ka, petronis j, smith d,
in the case of arthritic joints,  increased ligament strength would allow the joint to function more efficiently,  reducing pain.
chrubasik s, eisenberg e, balan e, et al.
wedenberg k, moen b, norling a.
for more information on this potential risk, see the individual drug article in thedrug interactions section of this database.
in the lower-dose group (120 mg of salicin daily), 21% became pain-free.
effectiveness of balneotherapy in chronic low back pain—a randomized single-blind controlled follow-up study.
the higher-dose group received extract supplying 240 mg of salicin daily; in this group, 39% were pain-free for at least the last 5 days of the study.
the net result, according to prolotherapy theory, is muscle spasms and  pain.
low intensity permanent magnets in the treatment of chronic lumbar radicular pain.
[epub ahead of print] khoromi s, blackman mr, kingman a, et al.
in another single-blind, placebo-controlled study, researchers assigned 209  participants to one of three groups: a high-velocity, low-amplitude (hvla)  spinal manipulation; a sham manipulation group; or a back education program.17
though this has been reported as a positive study,18 most of the differences  seen between the groups were too small to be statistically significant.
prolotherapy: present and future applications in soft tissue  pain and disability.
however, there is some evidence that the technique may be beneficial when combined with other therapies.
a meta-analysis of randomized controlled  trials.
an in situ study of the influence of a sclerosing solution in rabbit medial collateral ligaments and its junction strength.
a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
eisenberg dm, post de, davis rb, et al.
giles lg, muller r. chronic spinal pain syndromes: a clinical pilot trial comparing acupuncture, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and spinal manipulation.
pope mh, phillips rb, haugh ld, et al.
prolotherapy: present and future applications in soft tissue pain and disability.
a review of the evidence for the  effectiveness, safety, and cost of acupuncture, massage therapy, and spinal  manipulation for back pain.
klein g, kullich w. reducing pain by oral enzyme therapy in rheumatic diseases [translated from german].wien med wochenschr.
available at:  http://www.orthoinfo.aaos.org.
[epub ahead of print] pittler mh, karagulle mz, karagulle m, et al.
stomach distress did not occur in this study.
cochrane database syst rev. 2008;cd001929.
spinal manipulation for low back  pain.
cited by: ernst e,  white ar.
topical symphytum herb concentrate  cream against myalgia: a randomized controlled double-blind clinical study.
according to some estimates, each year nearly 15% to 20% of the united states population experiences low back problems, and as many as 80% of all adults experience significant low back pain at some point during their lives.1,2back pain is the second most common reason adults under age 45 miss days from work (after the common cold).
klein g, kullich w. reducing pain by oral enzyme therapy in rheumatic  diseases [translated from german].wien med wochenschr.
mendelson g, selwood ts, kranz h, et al.
according  to some estimates, each year nearly 15% to 20% of the united states population  experiences low back problems, and as many as 80% of all adults experience  significant low back pain at some point during their lives.1,2back pain is the  second most common reason adults under age 45 miss days from work (after the  common cold).
the only statistically significant difference between the two groups was within 15 minutes of the manipulation.
cherkin dc, sherman kj, kahn j, et al.
aure of, hoel nilsen j, vasseljen o. manual therapy and exercise therapy in patients with chronic low back pain: a randomized, controlled trial with 1-year follow-up.
prolotherapy injections, saline injections, and exercises for chronic low-back pain: a randomized trial.
last reviewedoctober 2011by ebsco cam review board please be aware that this information is provided to supplement the care  provided by your physician.
baxter gd, kerr dp, walsh dm.
schiller l. effectiveness of spinal manipulative therapy in the treatment of mechanical thoracic spine pain: a pilot randomized clinical trial.
the patients were  randomized to one of three groups: structural massage, relaxation massage, or  usual care.
unimpressive results were also seen in a well-designed study of 321 people  with back pain, comparing chiropractic manipulation, a special form of physical  therapy (the mackenzie method), and the provision of an educational booklet in  treating low back pain.25 all groups improved to about the same extent.
comparing yoga, exercise, and a self-care book for chronic low back pain.
white willow willow bark has been used as a treatment for pain and fever in china since  500 bc.
call your healthcare provider immediately
manipulative therapy versus education programs in chronic low back pain.
dagenais s, mayer j, haldeman s, borg-stein j. evidence-informed management of chronic low back pain with prolotherapy.
when back pain persists over months or years, it is called chronic back  pain.
in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolling 215 people with back pain, use of a topical cream made from the herbcomfreyproduced statistically significant benefits as compared to placebo.61 the herb devil's claw is used for the treatment of osteoarthritis, and has been tried for back pain as well.
invented in the 1950s by george hackett, prolotherapy is based on the theory that chronic pain is often caused by laxness of the ligaments that are responsible for keeping a joint stable.
acupuncture massage vs swedish  massage and individual exercise vs group exercise in low back pain  sufferers—a randomized controlled clinical trial in a 2×2 factorial  design [in german; english abstract].forsch komplementarmed klass  naturheilkd.
acupuncture in patients with chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
mindfulness meditation for the treatment of chronic low back pain in older adults: a randomized controlled pilot study.
accessed november 20, 2000.
when people in a study know whether they are getting real treatment or  placebo treatment, the validity of the study's results is greatly decreased.
[epub ahead of print] hsieh ll, kuo ch, lee lh, et al.
bipolar permanent magnets for the treatment of chronic low back pain: a pilot study.
see the article onmassage for more details.
effectiveness of harpagophytum procumbens in treatment of acute low back pain.
radiography of the lumbar spine  in primary care patients with low back pain: randomised controlled trial.
for more information, see the full prolotherapy article.
surgery may be recommended in certain cases, such as when there are  severe disc problems, but most forms of back surgery also lack reliable  supporting evidence.
a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 197 individuals with chronic back pain found devil's claw only marginally effective at best.38
when ligaments and associated tendons are loose, the body is said to compensate by using muscles to hold the joint stable.
the results showed that while the use of alternative therapies improved patient satisfaction, it did not significantly improve symptoms.
the total cost of back pain has been estimated to reach $25 billion per year in the us.3 when back pain occurs suddenly (after lifting a heavy object, for example), it is called acute back pain or sprain.
mindfulness meditation for the treatment  of chronic low back pain in older adults: a randomized controlled pilot study.
manual therapies osteopathic manipulation(om) is a form of treatment related to  chiropractic manipulation, but it tends to use gentle, extended movements (low  velocity, high amplitude) rather than the quick, short, cracking movements of  chiropractic.
in this 12-week study of 178  individuals, osteopathic manipulation proved no more effective than standard  treatment for back pain.40another study failed to find om more effective than  sham manipulation.55
cherkin dc, sherman kj, avins al, et al.
newswanger dl, patel at, ogle a. osteopathic medicine in the treatment of  low back pain.
spine j 2008  jan-feb;8(1):203-12.
spine j. 2006;6:131-137 brinkhaus b, witt cm, jena s, et al.
unimpressive results were also seen in a well-designed study of 321 people with back pain, comparing chiropractic manipulation, a special form of physical therapy (the mackenzie method), and the provision of an educational booklet in treating low back pain.25 all groups improved to about the same extent.
ongley mj, klein rg, dorman ta, et al.
acupuncture treatment of chronic low-back pain—a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial with 9-month follow-up.
a subsequent large study involving 401 adults (aged 20-65 years old) with nonspecific back pain also supports the use of massage.84
education for chronic low back pain.
(chiropractic  had better results at that point.)
the other two studies suggested that prolotherapy was more effective than control treatments when used with therapies such as spinal manipulation and exercise.81another review suggested prolotherapy may be effective when used with other therapies, but not when used alone.82 what can one make of this contradictory evidence?
the alexander technique: a systematic review of  controlled clinical trials.
manual therapies osteopathic manipulation(om) is a form of treatment related to chiropractic manipulation, but it tends to use gentle, extended movements (low velocity, high amplitude) rather than the quick, short, cracking movements of chiropractic.
haake m, muller hh, schade-brittinger c, et al.
nielson wr, weir r. biopsychosocial approaches to the treatment of chronic  pain.
a randomized comparative trial of acupuncture versus transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation for chronic back pain in the elderly.
prolotherapy treatment involves injections of chemical irritant solutions  into the area around such ligaments.
these solutions are believed to cause tissue to proliferate (grow), increasing the strength and thickness of ligaments.9,10,11 this presumably serves to tighten up the joint and allow the associated muscles to stop having spasms.
although two studies have suggested prolotherapy may be effective,12,13two more recent studies found prolotherapy to be ineffective.47,48
tekur p, singphow c, nagendra hr, et al. effect of short-term intensive  yoga program on pain, functional disability and spinal flexibility in chronic  low back pain: a randomized control study.
when used alone prolotherapy is probably no more effective than a placebo injection for the treatment of chronic low back pain.
similarly, in a single-blind, sham-acupuncture, and no-treatment controlled  study of 298 people with chronic back pain, use of real acupuncture failed to  prove significantly more effective than sham-acupuncture.58also, in a fairly  large randomized trial involving 638 adults with chronic back pain, there was  no difference in pain at one year in patients receiving real compared to fake  acupuncture (with neither group improving significantly over standard care).
one double-blind study found a  topical cayenne treatment more effective than placebo in 320 people with low  back pain.54 however, on the face of it, one finds it difficult to believe that  this study was truly double-blind.
manipulative therapy versus  education programs in chronic low back pain.
a randomized comparative  trial of acupuncture versus transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation for  chronic back pain in the elderly.
frerick h, keitel w, kuhn u. topical treatment of chronic low back pain with a capsicum plaster.
however, there is little reliable evidence that these treatments actually provide much benefit.
a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 197 individuals with  chronic back pain found devil's claw only marginally effective at best.38 similarly poor results were seen in an earlier 4-week, double-blind,  placebo-controlled study of 118 individuals with acute back pain.39however, a  4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 63 people with mild to  moderate chronic muscular tension in the neck, back, and shoulders did find  some benefit.27 the herb cayennecontains capsaicin, a substance that produces an immediate  burning sensation but later reduces pain.
j am osteopath  assoc.
white willow willow bark has been used as a treatment for pain and fever in china since 500 bc.
acupuncture st lombosciatique a la  phase aigue.
the only statistically significant difference  between the two groups was within 15 minutes of the manipulation.
references clinical practice guideline number 14: acute low back problems in  adults.
in a review of five studies, three found prolotherapy to be no more  effective than control treatments for treating low back pain.
a meta-analysis of effectiveness relative to other therapies.
it contains the substance salicin, which is chemically related to aspirin.
phys med rehab clin north am.
at the 10-week point,  evaluations showed benefit with massage but not with acupuncture.
frerick h, keitel w, kuhn u. topical treatment of chronic low back pain  with a capsicum plaster.
franke a, gebauer s, franke k, et al.
chrubasik s, junck h, breitschwerdt h, et al.
in a review of 13 randomized trials, researchers concluded that massage may  be effective for nonspecific low back pain, and the beneficial effects can last  for up to 1 year in patients suffering from chronic pain.77they also noted that  exercise and education appear to enhance the effectiveness of massage.
2010;110(11):646-652.
laitinen j. acupuncture and transcutaneous electric stimulation in the treatment of chronic sacrolumbagia and ischialgia.
effectiveness of  harpagophytum extract ws 1531 in the treatment of exacerbation of low back  pain: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study.
the alexander technique: a systematic review of controlled clinical trials.
though for some of these, there have been as many negative  as positive studies, and for many of them only short-term benefits were shown.
et al. outcome of non-invasive treatment modalities on back pain: an evidence-based review.
wilkey a, gregory m, byfield d, et al.
it is neither intended nor implied to be a  substitute for professional medical advice.
addition of choice of complementary therapies to usual care for acute low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
j altern complement med.
one study did find acupressure massage more effective than standard  physical therapy; however, it was performed in a chinese population that may  have had more faith in this traditional approach than in physical therapy.60 for more information, see the full acupuncture article.
baby on the way club | bones, joints & muscle | emergency care | pregnancy & childbirth | weight-loss surgery rocky mountain hospital for children | healthone| site map © 2012 hca-healthone llc.
however, there is  little reliable evidence that these treatments actually provide much benefit.
the other two  studies suggested that prolotherapy was more effective than control treatments  when used with therapies such as spinal manipulation and exercise.81another  review suggested prolotherapy may be effective when used with other therapies,  but not when used alone.82 what can one make of this contradictory evidence?
shekelle pg, adams ah, chassin mr, et al.
a randomized trial comparing  acupuncture, simulated acupuncture, and usual care for chronic low back pain.
in a 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlledstudy of 210 individuals with chronic back pain, two different doses of willow bark extract were compared against placebo.5
in contrast, only 6% of those given placebo became pain-free.
j  manipulative physiol ther.
comparison of two conservative treatment approaches.
low level laser therapy (lllt) is a technique similar to electro-acupuncture that uses precision laser energy instead of electricity conducted through a needle.
yousefi-nooraie r, schonstein e, heidari k, et al.
tekur p, singphow c, nagendra hr, et al. effect of short-term intensive yoga program on pain, functional disability and spinal flexibility in chronic low back pain: a randomized control study.
a double-blind placebo controlled trial.
randomized trial comparing  traditional chinese medical acupuncture, therapeutic massage, and self-care
spa therapy and balneotherapy for treating low back pain: meta-analysis of randomized trials.
low level laser therapy  for nonspecific low-back pain.
in one interesting study, 444 people with acute low back pain were randomly assigned to receive either usual care or usual care plus a choice of alternative therapies (chiropractic, acupuncture, or massage).68
however, thus far, research has not produced clear evidence of acupuncture’s effectiveness for back pain.52in a review of 23 randomized trials involving over 6,000 patients with chronic low back, researchers concluded that acupuncture is more effective than no treatment for short-term pain relief, but there was no significant difference between the effects of true and sham.79 a 6-month, double-blind trial of 1,162 people with back pain compared real acupuncture, fake acupuncture, and conventional therapy.72 both real and fake acupuncture were twice as effective as conventional therapy according to the measures used.
a review of the evidence for the effectiveness, safety, and cost of acupuncture, massage therapy, and spinal manipulation for back pain.
preliminary evidence suggests that proteolytic enzymesmight be helpful for back pain.44 various herbs and supplements may interact adversely with drugs used to treat back pain.
cherkin dc, sherman kj, deyo ra, et al.
et al. outcome of non-invasive  treatment modalities on back pain: an evidence-based review.
it contains the substance salicin, which is chemically related to  aspirin.
one year  later, massage and education were nearly equivalent, and both were superior to  acupuncture.
kerr dp, walsh dm, baxter d. acupuncture in the management of chronic low back pain: a blinded randomized controlled trial.
klein rg, eek bc, delong wb, et al.
one study did find acupressure massage more effective than standard physical therapy; however, it was performed in a chinese population that may have had more faith in this traditional approach than in physical therapy.60 for more information, see the full acupuncture article.
jayson miv, sims-williams h, young s, et al. mobilization and manipulation for low-back pain.
conventional treatment of acute back pain involves anti-inflammatory drugs , muscle relaxants, and the passage of time.
prolotherapy injections, saline  injections, and exercises for chronic low-back pain: a randomized trial.
effectiveness of harpagophytum extract ws 1531 in the treatment of exacerbation of low back pain: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study.
lesser evidence supports the use of chiropractic and  acupuncture.
although two studies have suggested prolotherapy may be effective,12,13two  more recent studies found prolotherapy to be ineffective.47,48
when used alone  prolotherapy is probably no more effective than a placebo injection for the  treatment of chronic low back pain.
a comparison of physical therapy,  chiropractic manipulation, and provision of an educational booklet for the  treatment of patients with low back pain.
several studies evaluated the effectiveness of chiropractic manipulation combined with a different kind of treatment called mobilization, but they too found little to no benefit.43,45,46 on a positive note, one study of 100 people with back pain and sciatica symptoms (pain down the leg due to disc protrusion) found that chiropractic manipulation was significantly more effective at relieving symptoms than sham chiropractic manipulation.57 for low back pain, several studies have found that chiropractic is at least as helpful as other commonly used therapies, such as muscle relaxants, soft-tissuemassage, and physical therapy.22-26,51,74furthermore, in one well-designed study, 2 months of chiropractic spinal manipulation produced somewhat greater pain relief than exercise therapy, and this relative superiority endured to the 1-year follow-up point.41
esmer g, blum j, rulf j, pier j. mindfulness-based stress reduction for failed back surgery syndrome: a randomized controlled trial.
a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of sclerosing injections in patients with chronic low back pain.
similarly, in a single-blind, sham-acupuncture, and no-treatment controlled study of 298 people with chronic back pain, use of real acupuncture failed to prove significantly more effective than sham-acupuncture.58also, in a fairly large randomized trial involving 638 adults with chronic back pain, there was no difference in pain at one year in patients receiving real compared to fake acupuncture (with neither group improving significantly over standard care).
natural treatments for back pain principal proposed natural treatments herbs and supplements to use only with caution back, neck & spine spine & neck conditions we treat protecting your back natural treatments for back pain neck pain acupuncture ; chiropractic ;  white willow other proposed natural treatments balneotherapy (spa therapy) ;  boswellia ; butterbur ; chondroitin ; comfrey (topical cream) ; devil's claw ;  ginger ; glucosamine ; magnet therapy ; osteopathic manipulation ; prolotherapy  ;proteolytic enzymes ; turmeric ; relaxation therapies ; yoga principal  proposed natural treatments herbs  and supplements to use only with caution references low back pain is one of the most common health conditions today.
duplan b, cabanel g, piton jl, et al.
licciardone jc, stoll st, fulda kg, et al.
german acupuncture trials  (gerac) for chronic low back pain: randomized, multicenter, blinded,  parallel-group trial with 3 groups.
a comparison of osteopathic spinal manipulation with standard care for patients with low back pain.
[epub ahead of print] kucera m, barna m, horacek o, et al.
spa therapy and  balneotherapy for treating low back pain: meta-analysis of randomized trials.
in this 12-week study of 178 individuals, osteopathic manipulation proved no more effective than standard treatment for back pain.40another study failed to find om more effective than sham manipulation.55
german acupuncture trials (gerac) for chronic low back pain: randomized, multicenter, blinded, parallel-group trial with 3 groups.
spinal manipulative therapy for  low back pain.
j manipulative  physiol ther.
a randomised controlled trial of spinal manipulative therapy in acute low back pain.
spinal manipulation and mobilisation for back and neck pain: a blinded review.
note: white willow should not be combined with standard  anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen.
a new approach to the treatment of chronic low back pain.
acupuncture massage vs swedish massage and individual exercise vs group exercise in low back pain sufferers—a randomized controlled clinical trial in a 2×2 factorial design
exercise therapy for treatment of non-specific low back pain.
for more information, including dosage and safety issues, see the fullwhite willow article.
assendelft wjj, morton sc, yu ei, et al.
the patients were randomized to one of three groups: structural massage, relaxation massage, or usual care.
available at: http://www.orthoinfo.aaos.org.
low intensity permanent magnets  in the treatment of chronic lumbar radicular pain.
[in german; english abstract].forsch komplementarmed klass naturheilkd.
treatment of low back pain exacerbations with willow bark extract: a randomized double-blind study.