ligaments connect bones of the shoulder and tendons join the bones to the surrounding muscles.
we now have available a special type of cervical (neck) traction, called the posture pump.
give me a call if you have any questions or concerns about these changes… i’d love to hear from you.
you would love to get out and enjoy the spring weather.
the top of the diagram is where things begin.
if ignored, these problems usually worsen and become more permanent.
your injury may be mild, severe, or somewhere in between.
exercise feet food foot health injury insurance laser massage mission natural  neck news nutrition orthotics pain philosophy plantar fasciitis recipe risks  seniors sleep specials stress subluxation superfood supplement symptoms therapy  tips vegetarian vision wellness wellness stories wellness strategies wellness  strategies whiplash whole recent comments
this helps our clients quit smoking and/or lose weight.
even motor  vehicle accident injuries.
the birth process can be a source of physical stress on both mom and baby.
i may recommend diagnostic studies (x-ray or mri) if i need more information.
i’ve been able to provide natural care for my wife, laura, through  four pregnancies.
the scapula extends up around the shoulder joint at the rear to form the roof called the acromion, and around the shoulder joint at the front to form the coracoid process.
imagine  if you were driving your car and a red flashing light appeared on the  dashboard.
the tough gristle areas are the adhesions that can develop in and around your muscles.
we are frequently getting “beat up” in life.
laser therapeutic effects during each painless treatment, laser energy increases circulation, drawing water, oxygen, and nutrients to the damaged area.
what is pain anyway?
after a patient’s initial exam
drugs can offer  temporary relief, but they can’t correct structural or functional  problems – such as spinal joint dysfunction (subluxation) or muscular  problems.
this creates an optimal healing environment that reduces inflammation, swelling, muscle spasms, stiffness, and pain.
first, for pain-relief.
more and more people are choosing  natural therapy first.
it all starts with coming in to our center for a visit.
when you have a loss of normal motion for some time, two things happen: unfortunately, chronic pain results in fatty infiltration into the supporting muscles.
four short muscles originate on the scapula and pass around the shoulder where their tendons fuse together to form the rotator cuff.
unfortunately, the problem that lies below the surface of the pain still exists.
examples of how this could manifest include: any of your joints can suffer a loss of motion if there’s local swelling, pain, or muscle spasm.
some people choose to just cover up the pain instead of correcting the true cause.
i’ve been adjusting my kids spines since they were born, and they  enjoy it.
chiropractic,  massage, exercise and good nutrition can help you and your family attain  superior health.
the shoulder consists of three major bones and over twenty different muscles.
we follow a very effective treatment strategy based on the letters asr.
we’re looking  forward to discussing how you can feel great and be your best through natural  therapies such as chiropractic, massage, exercise, and superior nutrition.
other major muscles that make up the shoulder girdle are the deltoids, the biceps, the triceps, the pectoralis, the rhomboid, the trapezius, the latisimus dorsi, the teres major, the levator scapula, and others.
the natural  therapy we provide is good for your health.
if i had a serious knife wound, i wouldn’t drop in to a fellow chiropractor’s office to get an adjustment!
all of these activities can cause physical damage and pain… sometimes called growing pains.
correcting the problems while still relatively new is wise.
click here dr ken on spine-health.com new patient scheduler dr. kenneth goldman proud member  since 2011  trusted information for back pain and neck pain relief www.spine-health.com tags adjustment adjustments balance body care chiropractic drugs
among them is to tell others about your experience.
with the help of natural therapies we can: if you’re in pain due to a big or little injury, don’t ignore the problem.
april 22, 2008   no comments
or begin that new exercise class.
we can help by greatly reducing the stress and body pains common  at this time.
you can learn more on the posture pump web site by clicking here.
regardless of your age or current health condition, just remember…  it’s never too late to begin to pursue superior health.
when you suffer a loss of motion, adhesions and spasm, your normal blood flow will be restricted.
or start going to the gym.
march 22, 2008   1 comment navigation home visit our other web sites main practice site pain relief blog new  patients / m.d.s
physical therapy is an option that many people choose.
we welcome clients ranging from one end of the  spectrum to the other.
no comments by dr. ken i get this question several times a week in the office.
i’ve been able to provide natural care for my wife, laura, through four pregnancies.
the natural therapy we provide is good for your health.
they can be extremely creative… sometimes  dangerously creative!
if ignored, these problems usually worsen and  become more permanent.
our k-laser has been proven to bio-stimulate tissue repair and growth.
during this period of weight gain and hormonal changes, many mother’s become very uncomfortable.
seniors want to enjoy their retirement and want superior health.
these three events then lead to a cascade of beneficial effects increasing cellular energy and health.
drugs can offer temporary relief, but they can’t correct structural or functional problems – such as spinal joint dysfunction (subluxation) or muscular problems.
jumping over towers of pillows, bouncing off the couch  and slamming off a chair and bouncing onto the floor.
this diagram explains the process of an injury and the reasons why you may not be healing properly.
first we would start with a thorough case history, consultation, and examination.
as the injured area returns to normal, function is restored and pain is relieved.
even motor vehicle accident injuries.
imagine if you were driving your car and a red flashing light appeared on the dashboard.
would it be wise to take a black marker and scribble over the light  so that it wouldn’t shine in your eyes?
natural therapy just makes sense.
we hope you’ll find our new  site friendly, insightful, and life-changing!
it’s your body’s way of telling you that a limit has been reached.
chiropractic, massage, exercise and good nutrition can help you and your family attain superior health.
like a smoke alarm, it’s not the alarm  that’s the problem.
some physical therapy facilities do adjustments like us.more  than guide patients in an exercise program, but none offer the combination of  natural therapies that we have.
would it be wise to take a black marker and scribble over the light so that it wouldn’t shine in your eyes?
our focus is to find and correct the underlying cause of your problem.
choosing to numb or cover up the pain with a chemical.
the adverse reactions to drugs is well known and has been making front-page news more and more lately.
unfortunately, the problem that lies below the  surface of the pain still exists.
they stand for: my approach that works so well with the spine can be applied to other joints of the body.
by dr. ken welcome to our exciting new health and wellness blog!
especially when it comes to health care.
they end up believing that they’re totally fine because they feel fine.
if i had a serious knife wound,  i wouldn’t drop in to a fellow chiropractor’s office to get an  adjustment!
as you personally benefit from natural therapy, you have some new responsibilities.
why not start with the ones you love?
in my very own home, i’ve seen some of the  craziest things our kids do.
we’re planning on creating a fun and useful site for sharing nuggets of wellness wisdom from our “world”.
muscle fibers tear, ligaments stretch, discs bulge, etc.
correcting the problems while still relatively new is  wise.
we  handle acute or chronic conditions.
some people choose to just cover up the pain instead of  correcting the true cause.
the laser therapy device that we use in the office is a class iv therapeutic laser.
newborns, infants, and children can also benefit from natural therapy.
i’ve been adjusting my kids spines since they were born, and they enjoy it.
many of our patients report  more energy, less pain, more vitality and better overall health.
and with increased motion, you have less stability.
the marbling of fat is the “fatty infiltration” into the muscle.
we can help by greatly reducing the stress and body pains common at this time.
no comments by dr. ken with all this talk about pursuing a lifestyle of wellness, i want to address the number one reason people consult our office.
our laser treatments are safe and painless.
the neuromusculoskeletal (nerve, muscle and bone) system is our first line of defense and bears most of the stress.
we hope you’ll find our new site friendly, insightful, and life-changing!
cellular effects of laser therapycellular effects occur when a therapeutic laser light interacts with cells, higher atp levels are produced which then boosts dna production, this improves cell membrane permeability and initiates the release of nitric oxide.
it is critical that healing start as soon as possible.
making natural therapy a main part of your life is wise.
as you age, your body can need a great deal of attention.
just covering up the symptoms of a problem can be dangerous.
the two main bones of the shoulder are the humerus and the scapula (shoulder blade).
we, at spectrum wellness, accept clients with big pains or little ones.
this can  be the cause of our first subluxation (a spinal bone misalignment that causes  nervous system interference).
when it comes to  emergency care, nothing beats western medicine.
we handle acute or chronic conditions.
while there may be times when surgery makes sense, they are risky.
also, many drugs have dangerous  side-effects and also have a long-term toxic effect on the whole body…  just check out the back page of a drug advertisement in a magazine.
the alarm has a cause, just like nearly every ache or pain has a cause.
our approach is to use chiropractic care and other natural therapies (such as massage or rehab exercises) to correct your shoulder problem quickly and naturally.
so how can you get out of this cycle if you feel you’re trapped?
also, many drugs have dangerous side-effects and also have a long-term toxic effect on the whole body… just check out the back page of a drug advertisement in a magazine.
with natural therapies you can finally be free of your pain and be the best you can be.
this device provides effective relief and lasting correction for: in many cases, the posture pump device adds a needed complement to your in-office care.
and we’ve been blessed with four natural and healthy births… and four healthy and energetic kids.
as a pain management device, our k-laser is a side-effect-free and non-addictive treatment that provides dramatic results.
march 22, 2008 1 comment
however, exercising  spinal joints that are misaligned is like continuing to drive your car with  misaligned wheels!
the cost of health insurance and health care  continues to rise.
families want safe and natural solutions.
and we’ve been blessed with four natural and healthy  births… and four healthy and energetic kids.
pregnant mothers and their babies can greatly benefit from our care.
pregnant mothers  and their babies can greatly benefit from our care.
if you are interested in this device or have any questions about it, just ask.
we’re looking forward to discussing how you can feel great and be your best through natural therapies such as chiropractic, massage, exercise, and superior nutrition.
car accidents, work injuries, and the stress and strains of our busy lives can produce all sorts of physical problems.
by getting treatment early, you can prevent abnormal chronic pain patterns from taking root.
our laser treatment accelerates wound healing, decreases inflammation, reduces pain, and lessens scar tissue formation.
however, shoulder injuries can be easily caused by many normal everyday activities.
the posture pump is safe, easy to use, and is covered by most insurance carriers.
many of our patients report more energy, less pain, more vitality and better overall health.
it’s not for cosmetic purposes… it doesn’t cut.
regardless of your age or current health condition, just remember… it’s never too late to begin to pursue superior health.
the neuromusculoskeletal (nerve, muscle and bone) system is our first  line of defense and bears most of the stress.
it may be the missing piece of the puzzle to your optimal recovery.
my usual answer… “life.”
perhaps you have an injury that has become “chronic”.
the combination of chiropractic,  massage and exercise therapy is the wise choice.
car accidents, work injuries, and the  stress and strains of our busy lives can produce all sorts of physical  problems.
“according to the centers for disease control and prevention, about 13.7 million people in the united states sought medical care in 2003 for shoulder problems.”
more and more people are choosing natural therapy first.
we also welcome seniors in our practice.
we provide gentle and relaxing care that is safe for people of all ages.
some physical therapy facilities do adjustments like us.more than guide patients in an exercise program, but none offer the combination of natural therapies that we have.
when it comes to emergency care, nothing beats western medicine.
the alarm has a cause, just like nearly every ache or  pain has a cause.
many patients see me as their family doctor.
the combination of chiropractic, massage and exercise therapy is the wise choice.
many of our patients have even  reported easier births.
but whatever your injury, cellular death occurs at the tissue level.
this is the most drastic of all measures.
limited blood flow means that your injured site is receiving less oxygen and less nutrition than normal.
this leads to more tissue death, and the cycle starts all over again.
february 13, 2010 5 comments by dr. ken shoulder pain is a common complaint that is often associated with neck pain and upper back pain.
i’d get to an er stat.
jumping over towers of pillows, bouncing off the couch and slamming off a chair and bouncing onto the floor.
the adverse reactions to drugs is well known and  has been making front-page news more and more lately.
our focus is to find and  correct the underlying cause of your problem.
we specialize in natural care for pregnant moms – using gentle chiropractic adjustments and massage.
sport or work-related injuries.
it can include: please understand that we can’t make you heal, but we can ensure that as you heal, you’ll heal more perfectly.
even better, natural therapy is safe.
seniors want to enjoy their  retirement and want superior health.
the cost of drugs, surgery and other medical procedures has  become overwhelming for many.
physically, mentally, and emotionally.
we have a variety of other treatment options to help you recover quickly and completely.
go to a hospital for sickness  care… come to us for health care.
the diagram describes a concept called “the vicious cycle of injury or trauma”.
the end of the scapula, called the glenoid, meets the head of the humerus to form a glenohumeral cavity that acts as a flexible ball-and-socket joint.
march 28, 2008   no comments welcome to our new health and wellness site!
my patients tend to be a curious lot.
you can get a sense of this by inspecting a cheap cut of meat.
like a smoke alarm, it’s not the alarm that’s the problem.
maybe it’s a “bad” back… or a stiff neck… or a sore shoulder.
family care at our office can start at the very beginning.
to appreciate the incredible design of the shoulder itself and to understand the complexities in caring for shoulder problems we have to first take a look at the basic anatomy of the shoulder.
a ring of fibrous cartilage surrounding the glenoid is called the labrum, which stabilizes the joint.
the cost of drugs, surgery and other medical procedures has become overwhelming for many.
what a pain by dr. ken with all this talk about pursuing a lifestyle of wellness, i want to  address the number one reason people consult our office.
what’s your approach to dealing with pain?
the joint cavity us cushioned by articular cartilage covering the head of the humerus and face of the glenoid.
the shoulder is so susceptible to injury because it has the greatest range of motion of all the joints of the body.
we use it in two different ways.
in your care, we’ll use natural techniques to “attack” each area of the vicious cycle.
quoted from www.k-laserusa.comquoted from www.k-laserusa.com k-laser class iv therapy promotes - increased circulation - immune stimulation - muscle relaxation - improved vascular activity - accelerated cell reproduction and growth - stimulation of nerve regeneration positive effects of k-laser on the body - improves and promotes healing - reduces pain and spasm - increases joint flexibility - reduces symptoms of osteoarthritis - improves peripheral microcirculation - detoxifies and eliminates trigger points - advanced pain relief benefits to patient - faster patient satisfaction - deeper penetration than class iii lasers - delivers more laser energy to the target tissues - faster treatment time - effective treatment in 3-8 minute - increased metabolic activity may 1, 2008
click here for more answers to common questions about laser therapy.
no comments by dr. ken natural therapy has been a great help to families for years.
this can be the cause of our first subluxation (a spinal bone misalignment that causes nervous system interference).
always remember that physical problems can be best fixed with physical solutions.
does it have a purpose?
as children grow they learn to walk, run, jump, climb stairs, and ride bikes.
the cost of health insurance and health care continues to rise.
as you personally benefit from natural therapy, you have some new  responsibilities.
, the next circle shows that your injury results in pain, inflammation, and spasm: next you suffer a loss of range of motion.
whatever it is, you know that something’s wrong.
and i explain everything that i’ve found, i’m often asked, “how could this have happened?
cutting through layers of skin and muscle tissue to cut, scrape, fuse, remove or alter body parts.
many of our patients have even reported easier births.
and i explain everything that  i’ve found, i’m often asked, “how could this have happened?
we provide gentle and  relaxing care that is safe for people of all ages.
never be afraid to ask your doctor questions about the safety and efficacy of a treatment.
all of these activities can cause physical damage and pain…  sometimes called growing pains.
so why isn’t your body healing normally?
they can be extremely creative… sometimes dangerously creative!
you should be feeling better by now.
go to a hospital for sickness care… come to us for health care.
periodic checkups at our office can be very helpful to maintain superior health.
periodic checkups at our office  can be very helpful to maintain superior health.
while there  may be times when surgery makes sense, they are risky.
it’s your body’s way of telling you  that a limit has been reached.
at this point, if i determine that care is appropriate and you decide to begin care, i will design a treatment plan for you.
we specialize in natural care for pregnant moms – using  gentle chiropractic adjustments and massage.
as children grow they learn to walk, run, jump,  climb stairs, and ride bikes.
i put together the simple diagram at the top of this post to help you understand why.
it’s called the k-laser.
deeper penetration than class iii lasers delivers more laser energy to the target tissues faster treatment time effective treatment in 3-8 minute increased metabolic activity may 1, 2008   no comments family care – how natural therapy can help by dr. ken natural therapy has been a great help to families for years.
we have found that the combination of natural therapies works the best to break the vicious cycle because we target multiple points of the cycle at once.
virtually every articulation of your skeletal system is susceptible to fixations that can impair function and range of motion.
during this period of  weight gain and hormonal changes, many mother’s become very  uncomfortable.
we’re looking forward to helping you meet your health goals in 2011!
the  birth process can be a source of physical stress on both mom and baby.
why not  start with the ones you love?
if at any time i discover something beyond the scope of my practice, i won’t hesitate to contact your primary care provider to discuss a possible referral to another healthcare provider.
i’m excited about this new year!
some of our other treatment options could include: we don’t want you to have to resort to dangerous medicines, injections, or surgery.
in my very own home, i’ve seen some of the craziest things our kids do.
all of these anatomical components, along with the muscles of your upper body, work together to manage the stress your shoulder receives as you lift, extend, flex, and throw.
no comments by dr. ken have you ever wondered why some physical problems never seem to get better?
the only complaint we see more frequently in our office is low back pain.
we welcome clients ranging from one end of the spectrum to the other.
making natural therapy a main  part of your life is wise.
a thorough evaluation will provide the necessary information to determine if the posture pump is right for you.
we treat injured areas directly to aid in the healing process.
some days you feel like there’s an improvement, but then the pain is back again.
as you  age, your body can need a great deal of attention.
however, exercising spinal joints that are misaligned is like continuing to drive your car with misaligned wheels!
but you hurt too much.
when you think of shoulder injuries, you probably think of sports-related injuries seen in baseball or tennis.
by dr. ken wow, are we excited about the recent changes in our wellness center!
no comments by dr. ken welcome to our exciting new health and wellness blog!
pain is a warning sign.
and second, as an auriculotherapy tool to diminish patients’ chemical cravings.
they end up believing that they’re totally  fine because they feel fine.
we’re planning on creating a fun and useful site for sharing nuggets of  wellness wisdom from our “world”.
after a thorough exam, i will develop a reasonable wellness strategy to help you break the cycle.
two major tendons of the shoulder are the biceps tendon, which attaches the biceps muscle to the shoulder and helps stabilize the joint, and the supraspinatus tendon, which helps form the rotator cuff.
cutting through layers of skin  and muscle tissue to cut, scrape, fuse, remove or alter body parts.