also, patients who chose not to be randomly assigned may differ from  participants on factors that modify treatment effects.
[22] the active approach used by the physical therapy staff may be responsible for the relatively better 6-month disability outcomes experienced by the physical therapy patients.
methods: low back pain patients presenting to a large managed care facility from october 30, 1995, through november 9, 1998, were randomly assigned in a balanced design to medical care with and without physical therapy and to chiropractic care with and without physical modalities.
assessment of the costs and potential risks associated with each treatment strategy would be helpful in more fully understanding the roles of medical providers, chiropractors, and physical therapists in the treatment of low back pain.
[9,29,30] and baseline level of  disability resulting from back pain.
of 1,469 eligible patients, 681 were enrolled; 95.7% were followed through 6 months.
[7,29,39,44,47] however, differences on other unmeasured factors and treatment effects that may be relatively larger in certain patient subgroups could potentially limit the studys generalizability.
overall, there are only small differences in low back pain outcomes  between the treatment groups in this population of largely subacute and chronic  pain patients.
[7,29,39,44,47] however,  differences on other unmeasured factors and treatment effects that may be  relatively larger in certain patient subgroups could potentially limit the  study’s generalizability.
[2,3,40] four randomized controlled trials have compared chiropractic with physical therapy for low back pain.
duration seen by primary care physicians, chiropractors, and orthopedic  surgeons, pain and functional status outcomes were similar at 6 months, and  costs were higher for patients of orthopedic surgeons and chiropractors.
medical providers, chiropractors, and physical therapists outside this network may differ in their approaches to low back pain care; and patients under fee-for-service, workers compensation, personal injury, and other reimbursement models may differ in ways that affect treatment outcomes.
physical therapy appears to be more effective than medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the magnitude of this possible benefit is minimal.
- medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical modalities yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of follow-up.
because our study was conducted within one managed care  organization, generalization of our findings to patients in other settings  should be viewed with caution.
a randomized trial of medical care with and without physical therapy and  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities for patients with low  back pain: 6-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain study a randomized trial of medical care with and without physical therapy and  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities for patients with low  back pain: 6-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain study this section is compiled by frank m. painter, d.c. send all comments or  additions to: frankp@chiro.org from:
summary of background data:
ehurwitz@ucla.edu study  design:
[ 5,11,28] side effects and complications resulting from spinal manipulation  for low back pain are extremely rare.
[8 ] the findings from prior studies are consistent with our results showing relatively small differences between medical, chiropractic, and physical therapy care.
the slightly better 6-month disability outcomes observed for physical therapy patients in our study are consistent with findings reported recently from physical therapy intervention studies for subacute and chronic low back pain.
[38] concluded that acute pain patients were  better with chiropractic at 3 weeks; chronic patients were better with physical  therapy at 3 weeks; and there were no differences between groups at 6 months.
nevertheless, our study population is similar to other outpatient low back pain populations in terms of average baseline level of back pain [9,29,30] and baseline level of disability resulting from back pain.
[34] in patients with  chronic pain, physical therapy and medically supervised exercise were found to  be better than unsupervised exercise in terms of pain intensity, functional  status, and cost per sick day after 12 months following 3 months of therapy in  norway.
the authors of a well-designed observational study  concluded that among patients with low back pain of less than 10 weeks’
key points a randomized clinical trial was conducted among low back pain patients to  compare the effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care; to assess the  effectiveness of physical therapy among medical patients; and to assess the  effectiveness of physical modalities among chiropractic patients.
a recent randomized clinical trial comparing osteopathic care with standard  medical care in amanaged care setting found equivalent pain and disability  outcomes among patients with subacute (3 weeks to 6months) low back pain after  12 weeks of care, but there was greater prescription medication use in the  medical care
cherkin et a [l9] reported no differences between chiropractic and mckenzie physical therapy groups during 2 years of follow-up in terms of pain and disability, and these groups had only slightly better outcomes and much greater costs than did patients in the control group receiving only an educational booklet.
return to the low back pain sectionsince 11-12-2002
the mean changes in low back pain intensity and disability of participants in the medical and chiropractic care-only groups were similar at each follow-up assessment (adjusted mean differences at 6 months for most severe pain, 0.27, 95% confidence interval, -0.32-0.86; average pain, 0.22, -0.25-0.69; and disability, 0.75, -0.29-1.79).
[27] although this study also showed managed care and fee-for-service reimbursement do not appreciably affect utilization patterns, [27] an earlier survey of physical therapists demonstrated differences in treatment preferences and visit frequency by practice setting.
cherkin et a [l9]  reported no differences between chiropractic and mckenzie physical therapy  groups during 2 years of follow-up in terms of pain and disability, and these  groups had only slightly better outcomes and much greater costs than did  patients in the control group receiving only an educational booklet.
a recent randomized clinical trial comparing osteopathic care with standard medical care in amanaged care setting found equivalent pain and disability outcomes among patients with subacute (3 weeks to 6months) low back pain after 12 weeks of care, but there was greater prescription medication use in the medical care
[11,14] the physical therapists emphasize  therapeutic exercise and other active care strategies, rather than passive  methods that are de-emphasized in modern physical therapy training and  practice.
medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical  modalities yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6  months of follow-up.
of 1,469 eligible patients, 681 were enrolled; 95.7% were  followed through 6 months.
objectives: to compare the effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care for low  back pain patients in managed care; to assess the effectiveness of physical  therapy among medical patients; and to assess the effectiveness of physical  modalities among chiropractic patients.
our  sponsors become a sponsor join us
an intervention with physical therapist-led exercise  classes was found to be more effective than primary medical care for patients  with subacute low back pain after 6 and 12 months.
[42,43] reported no differences between chiropractic and  physical therapy patients at 6 months or 1 year in terms of pain, function,  cost, or sick leave, although chiropractic was slightly more favorable for  patients with episodes of less than a week and physical therapy more favorable  for patients with episodes of more than a month.
[8 ] the findings from prior studies are consistent with our results  showing relatively small differences between medical, chiropractic, and  physical therapy care.
the mean changes in low back pain intensity and  disability of participants in the medical and chiropractic care-only groups  were similar at each follow-up assessment (adjusted mean differences at 6  months for most severe pain, 0.27, 95% confidence interval, -0.32-0.86; average  pain, 0.22, -0.25-0.69; and disability, 0.75, -0.29-1.79).
also, patients who chose not to be randomly assigned may differ from participants on factors that modify treatment effects.
the authors of a well-designed observational study concluded that among patients with low back pain of less than 10 weeks duration seen by primary care physicians, chiropractors, and orthopedic surgeons, pain and functional status outcomes were similar at 6 months, and costs were higher for patients of orthopedic surgeons and chiropractors.
chiropractors at the study site use  the same general type of spinal manipulation taught in most chiropractic  schools and used by most chiropractors in the united states.
join us please read our disclaimer
medical providers, chiropractors, and physical  therapists outside this network may differ in their approaches to low back pain  care; and patients under fee-for-service, workers’ compensation, personal  injury, and other reimbursement models may differ in ways that affect treatment  outcomes.
[10,12] the  medical providers prescribe nsaids, muscle relaxants, and narcotic analgesics,  which is the typical treatment approach used by primary care physicians for  patients with low back pain.
nevertheless, our study  population is similar to other outpatient low back pain populations in terms of  average baseline level of back pain
[22] the active approach used by the physical therapy staff  may be responsible for the relatively better 6-month disability outcomes  experienced by the physical therapy patients.
[27] although this study also showed managed care  and fee-for-service reimbursement do not appreciably affect utilization  patterns, [27] an earlier survey of physical therapists demonstrated  differences in treatment preferences and visit frequency by practice setting.
conclusions: after 6 months of  follow-up, chiropractic care and medical care for low back pain were comparable  in their effectiveness.
[48] the greater value of supervised exercise for patients with chronic low back pain is also supported by another recent trial that followed patients for 2 years.
findings from a national network of physical therapy practices showed that the combination of modalities and exercise is the most frequently used treatment strategy for patients with lumbar impairments.
an intervention with physical therapist-led exercise classes was found to be more effective than primary medical care for patients with subacute low back pain after 6 and 12 months.
our study  is one of many in recent years to compare various treatment approaches for  patients with low back pain.
[10,12] the medical providers prescribe nsaids, muscle relaxants, and narcotic analgesics, which is the typical treatment approach used by primary care physicians for patients with low back pain.
physical therapy  yielded somewhat better 6-month disability outcomes than did medical care alone  (1.26, 0.20-2.32).
six hundred eighty-one patients presenting to a managed care facility were  randomly assigned to medical care with and without physical therapy and  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities; 95.7% were followed up  through 6 months.
ehurwitz@ucla.edu study design:
the  findings suggest that physical therapy patients may have greater reductions in  disability, on average, than do patients in the medical care-only group from 6  weeks to 6 months, resulting in relatively better 6-month disability outcomes;  however, these small differences may be chance findings and may not persist  with continued follow- up.
conclusions: after 6 months of follow-up, chiropractic care and medical care for low back pain were comparable in their effectiveness.
there is little evidence to support the use of bedrest for acute pain [5,49] or physical agents or modalities for acute [5,36,49] or chronic low back pain.
[38] concluded that acute pain patients were better with chiropractic at 3 weeks; chronic patients were better with physical therapy at 3 weeks; and there were no differences between groups at 6 months.
chiropractors at the study site use the same general type of spinal manipulation taught in most chiropractic schools and used by most chiropractors in the united states.
the authors of review papers and treatment  guidelines have concluded that acetaminophen, [5,14] nsaids, [ 5,11,14,28,49] muscle relaxants, [11,49] conditioning exercises and  certain aerobic activities, [5] and spinal manipulation [5,40]  may provide shortterm benefit for patients with acute low back pain; nsaids, [ 49] exercise therapy, [19,49] and spinal manipulation [49]  may be of some benefit for patients with chronic low back pain.
medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical modalities yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of follow-up.
return to the low back pain section since 11-12-2002 home page visit
there is little  evidence to support the use of bedrest for acute pain [5,49] or physical  agents or modalities for acute [5,36,49] or chronic low back pain.
[ 4] conclusion medical and chiropractic  care without physical therapy or physical modalities yielded similar  improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of follow-up.
[ 36,49] adverse reactions are much more frequent in patients taking medications than in patients receiving nonmedication comparison treatments.
objectives: to compare the effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care for low back pain patients in managed care; to assess the effectiveness of physical therapy among medical patients; and to assess the effectiveness of physical modalities among chiropractic patients.
physical therapy may be marginally more effective than medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the possible benefit is small.
[ 5,11,28] side effects and complications resulting from spinal manipulation for low back pain are extremely rare.
[ 4] conclusion medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical modalities yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of follow-up.
[11,14] the physical therapists emphasize therapeutic exercise and other active care strategies, rather than passive methods that are de-emphasized in modern physical therapy training and practice.
physical therapy may be marginally more effective than  medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the possible  benefit is small.
findings from a national network  of physical therapy practices showed that the combination of modalities and  exercise is the most frequently used treatment strategy for patients with  lumbar impairments.
the primary outcome variables are average and most severe low back pain intensity in the past week, assessed with 0 to 10 numerical rating scales, and low back-related disability, assessed with the 24-item roland-morris disability questionnaire.
physical therapy appears to be more effective than medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients after 6 months, but the magnitude of this possible benefit is not large.
from the full-text article: discussion
because our study was conducted within one managed care organization, generalization of our findings to patients in other settings should be viewed with caution.
key points - a randomized clinical trial was conducted among low back pain patients to compare the effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care; to assess the effectiveness of physical therapy among medical patients; and to assess the effectiveness of physical modalities among chiropractic patients.
physical therapy yielded somewhat better 6-month disability outcomes than did medical care alone (1.26, 0.20-2.32).
- six hundred eighty-one patients presenting to a managed care facility were randomly assigned to medical care with and without physical therapy and chiropractic care with and without physical modalities; 95.7% were followed up through 6 months.
no clinically significant differences in outcomes between chiropractic  and hospital outpatient care were found in the meade et al
[2,3,40] four randomized  controlled trials have compared chiropractic with physical therapy for low back  pain.
physical therapy appears to be more effective than medical  care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the magnitude of this  possible benefit is minimal.
spine (phila pa 1976) 2002 (oct 15);   27 (20):    2193–2204 ~ full text hurwitz el, morgenstern h, harber  p, kominski gf, belin tr, yu f, adams ah department of  epidemiology, university of california-los angeles school of public health, los  angeles, california 90095-1772, usa.
[42,43] reported no differences between chiropractic and physical therapy patients at 6 months or 1 year in terms of pain, function, cost, or sick leave, although chiropractic was slightly more favorable for patients with episodes of less than a week and physical therapy more favorable for patients with episodes of more than a month.
medical and chiropractic care without physical therapy or physical modalities  yielded similar improvements in pain severity and disability after 6 months of  follow-up.
methods: low back pain patients presenting to a large managed care facility from  october 30, 1995, through november 9, 1998, were randomly assigned in a  balanced design to medical care with and without physical therapy and to  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities.
[ 36,49] adverse reactions are much more frequent in patients taking  medications than in patients receiving nonmedication comparison treatments.
the primary outcome  variables are average and most severe low back pain intensity in the past week,  assessed with 0 to 10 numerical rating scales, and low back-related disability,  assessed with the 24-item roland-morris disability questionnaire.
a randomized clinical trial.
no clinically significant differences in outcomes between chiropractic and hospital outpatient care were found in the meade et al
a randomized trial of medical care with and without physical therapy and chiropractic care with and without physical modalities for patients with low back pain: 6-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain studythis section is compiled by frank m. painter, d.c. send all comments or additions to: frankp@chiro.org from: spine (phila pa 1976) 2002 (oct 15); 27 (20): 21932204 ~ full text hurwitz el, morgenstern h, harber p, kominski gf, belin tr, yu f, adams ah department of epidemiology, university of california-los angeles school of public health, los angeles, california 90095-1772, usa.
our study is one of many in recent years to compare various treatment approaches for patients with low back pain.
this is the first randomized clinical trial to address the relative effectiveness of primary medical versus chiropractic care and the effectiveness of physical therapy or physical modalities for patients with low back pain within a managed care practice setting with salaried providers.
the authors of review papers and treatment guidelines have concluded that acetaminophen, [5,14] nsaids, [ 5,11,14,28,49] muscle relaxants, [11,49] conditioning exercises and certain aerobic activities, [5] and spinal manipulation [5,40] may provide shortterm benefit for patients with acute low back pain; nsaids, [ 49] exercise therapy, [19,49] and spinal manipulation [49] may be of some benefit for patients with chronic low back pain.
- overall, there are only small differences in low back pain outcomes between the treatment groups in this population of largely subacute and chronic pain patients.
overall, there are only small differences in low back pain outcomes between the treatment groups in this population of largely subacute and chronic pain patients.
this is the first randomized clinical trial to address  the relative effectiveness of primary medical versus chiropractic care and the  effectiveness of physical therapy or physical modalities for patients with low  back pain within a managed care practice setting with salaried providers.
despite the burden that low back pain places on patients,  providers, and society, the relative effectiveness of common treatment  strategies offered in managed care is unknown.
[21] because many of the medical care with  physical therapy patients in our study did not receive physical therapy, the  intention-to-treat analysis may have underestimated the magnitude of this  effect.
[21] because many of the medical care with physical therapy patients in our study did not receive physical therapy, the intention-to-treat analysis may have underestimated the magnitude of this effect.
the findings suggest that physical therapy patients may have greater reductions in disability, on average, than do patients in the medical care-only group from 6 weeks to 6 months, resulting in relatively better 6-month disability outcomes; however, these small differences may be chance findings and may not persist with continued follow- up.
overall, there are only small  differences in low back pain outcomes between the treatment groups in this  population of largely subacute and chronic pain patients.
[48] the greater value of supervised exercise for patients with  chronic low back pain is also supported by another recent trial that followed  patients for 2 years.
assessment of the costs and potential risks  associated with each treatment strategy would be helpful in more fully  understanding the roles of medical providers, chiropractors, and physical  therapists in the treatment of low back pain.
the slightly better 6-month disability outcomes observed  for physical therapy patients in our study are consistent with findings  reported recently from physical therapy intervention studies for subacute and  chronic low back pain.
[34] in patients with chronic pain, physical therapy and medically supervised exercise were found to be better than unsupervised exercise in terms of pain intensity, functional status, and cost per sick day after 12 months following 3 months of therapy in norway.
despite the burden that low back pain places on patients, providers, and society, the relative effectiveness of common treatment strategies offered in managed care is unknown.
physical therapy appears to be more effective than medical care  alone for reducing disability in some patients after 6 months, but the  magnitude of this possible benefit is not large.