nevertheless, physical therapy may be helpful for vertigo but more  study is needed to make a firm recommendation.
c there is insufficient available evidence in this area.
due to the many kinds of techniques  used by physical therapists and multiple conditions treated, this section only  provides selected examples of adverse effects and is not a comprehensive list.
in one study, physical  therapy did not show better effects when compared with hypnotherapy.
c tendonopathies (tendon dysfunctions) posterior tibial tendon dysfunction is a relatively common problem of  middle-aged adults that usually is treated operatively.
although studies  indicate that some kind of rehabilitation and movement are beneficial, the sum  of the evidence does not favor physical therapy over traditional home therapy  or other treatments.
in addition, before starting a new technique or engaging a practitioner, it is recommended that patients speak with their primary healthcare provider(s).
tradition/theory physical therapy is tailored to the patient's condition and health issues.
note: this monograph does not focus on evidence where physical therapy was used in combination with drugs, such as pain killers.
both morning stiffness and  bone erosion have been reported in the physical therapy literature although  causality is unclear.
a patient's cardiac and pulmonary  risk factors should be assessed to determine whether heart rate and blood  pressure should be monitored.
more  high-quality studies are needed before a firm recommendation can be made.
according to the american physical therapy association, the goal of physical therapy (pt) or physiotherapy is to improve mobility, restore function, reduce pain, and prevent further injury by using a variety of methods, including exercises, stretches, traction, electrical stimulation, and massage.
based on one study, no significant differences were found between treatments or compared with control groups.
additional research is needed in this area.
users should consult with a qualified healthcare provider for specific questions regarding therapies, diagnosis and/or health conditions, prior to making therapeutic decisions.
physical therapy is often used in patients recovering from surgery whose postoperative pain may be severe.
examples of treatments used include knee braces, shoe lifts, custom-fitted shoe inserts, electrical stimulation, peroneal nerve releases, and botox® injections.
certain aspects of physical therapy, such as progressive agility, trunk stabilization exercises, and icing, may be more beneficial than static stretching, but results are unclear.
more study is needed to drawn any firm conclusions.
studies often include combination treatment with drug therapy or are not well-designed, which make it difficult to assess the magnitude of benefit, if any, of physical therapy alone.
studies have found benefit of physical therapy and active exercises over standard of care.
physical therapy in this population may improve aerobic capacity and muscle force and reduce fatigue.
c muscle atrophy there is insufficient evidence for the treatment of muscle atrophy with  pt.
erectile dysfunction has also been reported.
a common goal of physical therapy is to increase how the patient functions at  home and at work.
they often have not been thoroughly tested in humans, and safety and effectiveness have not always been proven.
more research is necessary prior to physical therapy  being recommended for this use.
however, physical therapy interventions may alter absorption and distribution  of drugs that are administered transdermally (through the skin), subcutaneously  (under the skin), or intramuscularly (injected into the muscle).
view abstract anttila h, autti-rämö i, suoranta j, et al.
examples of specific techniques used include home-based exercise programs, mobilization and extension techniques, flexion exercise, breathing therapy, masai barefoot technology, and the mckenzie method.
however, well-designed studies that compare physical therapy to placebo or other interventions are lacking.
physical therapy appeared more effective than biofeedback techniques based on one trial.
in addition to medications, physical therapy aims to improve balance, postural control, walking, and to reduce falls.
at the first visit, a physical therapist reviews medical records, examines the patient, and talks with the patient.
brought to you by grape juice boosts brain power alpha-lipoic  acid improves blood sugar levels fish is a natural antidepressant more news top 3 dance fitness trends the bar method
in the united states, all states require physical therapists to graduate from an accredited physical therapy program and pass a licensing exam before they practice.
for example, patients  who return to physical therapy after a deep vein thrombosis are more likely to  develop a pulmonary embolism than patients who return later (no sooner than 48  to 72 hours).
c there is not enough available evidence.
further well designed studies are needed before a firm recommendation can be made.
reports of major adverse effects are lacking in the available  literature, but caution is advised nonetheless.
additional high-quality studies are needed in this area.
2008 mar;44(1):47-63.view
nevertheless, physical therapy may be helpful for vertigo but more study is needed to make a firm recommendation.
more research is needed in this area.
it has been proposed that modified manipulative therapy regimens  are more effective than traditional physiotherapy in reducing pain and  increasing function in many of these conditions.
higher-quality trials are needed to make a firm recommendation.
in  addition, before starting a new technique or engaging a practitioner, it is  recommended that patients speak with their primary healthcare provider(s).
additional study is needed in this  area.
however, physical therapy interventions may alter absorption and distribution of drugs that are administered transdermally (through the skin), subcutaneously (under the skin), or intramuscularly (injected into the muscle).
depending on the patient's health, abilities, and goals,  the physical therapist outlines a treatment plan, including the anticipated  outcomes and a timetable for reaching goals.
c thyroiditis there is insufficient available information on physical therapy as a treatment for thyroiditis.
the modern discipline of  physical therapy emerged to treat soldiers wounded in world war ii.
additional higher-quality research is needed in this area.
overall, it is difficult to compare treatment outcomes across the various studies.
c knee pain (rehabilitation) physical therapy programs such as independent home exercise, supervised exercise, and open and closed kinetic chain exercises have been studied for their effect on decreasing recovery time following anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction or traumatic dislocation of the knee.
c rehabilitation (geriatric) one-on-one physical therapy has been compared to structured social visits for geriatric rehabilitation.
studies often  include combination treatment with drug therapy or are not well-designed, which  make it difficult to assess the magnitude of benefit, if any, of physical  therapy alone.
a long-term  high-intensity exercise program has been suggested by some, and beneficial  effects may last up to one year.
physical therapists work in hospitals, clinics, nursing homes,  schools, sports facilities, and patients' homes.
furthermore, physical therapy is often used as a control group in these studies and rarely do studies find a significant difference between physical therapy and other interventions.
results are mixed and it is unclear whether certain physical therapy shows benefits over standard drug therapy alone or over placebo treatments.
however, well-designed studies that compare physical therapy to placebo or  other interventions are lacking.
c headache physical therapy has been used to treat chronic headache, migraines,  tension-type headaches, and cervicogenic headaches.
physical therapy was first documented in china around 3000 bc with the use of joint manipulation and massage to relieve pain.
based on one study, no  significant differences were found between treatments or compared with control  groups.
more research  with similar outcomes measures is needed to confirm these findings.
they often  have not been thoroughly tested in humans, and safety and effectiveness have  not always been proven.
home-based programs, gait retraining programs, high vs. low-intensity programs, early vs. late interventions, and multicomponent rehabilitation have all been studied with mixed results.
interferential current  versus biofeedback results in urinary stress incontinence.
there may be a beneficial effect of respiratory rehabilitation in terms of improved tolerance to exercise and improved quality of life for copd patients.
despite some mixed evidence, there are several trials that compare physical therapy techniques to placebo controls for the treatment of patellofemoral pain syndrome that have found beneficial effects.
c hip fractures physical therapy appears beneficial as a method of shortening the duration of healing time from hip fracture recovery after surgery, improving quality of life, or as preparation for hip replacement surgery in the elderly.
however, complications are possible.
however, there is no consensus regarding a rehabilitation program for these patients and the literature often suggests individually-tailored programs.
c muscle spasticity there is insufficient evidence showing physical therapy's effect  (specifically, ultrasound techniques) on reducing muscle spasticity.
phys ther 2007 sep;87(9):1132-43.view abstract bellamy sg, gibbs k, lazaro r. physical therapy intervention for an  adolescent with a knee flexion contracture and diagnosis of multiple pterygium  syndrome.
c congestion both manual and mechanical respiratory physiotherapies have been studied  in cystic fibrosis and lobectomy patients.
according to some studies, patients may not follow a physical therapist's  instructions for at-home exercises or other interventions, such as shoe  inserts.
additional high-quality  studies are needed.
more study is  warranted.
in the united states, all states require physical therapists to graduate  from an accredited physical therapy program and pass a licensing exam before  they practice.
abscess, acute infections, acute myocardial infarction, allergy,  amenorrhea (lack of menstrual period), amputation, amyotrophic lateral  sclerosis (als), angina (chest pain), angioma (angioma in childhood), arterial  emboli, arthritis (bacterial suppurative, osteonecrosis (humeral head)),  arthrogryposis, artificial heart transplant, ataxia (early onset), axillary  node dissection, balance disorders (mal de debarquement syndrome), bladder  disorders (cystitis), blood disorders (gaucher disease), bone disease  (algodystrophy, aseptic necrosis), breathing problems (hyperventilation),  burns, bursitis, cancer, collagen-vascular disease, connective tissue  disorders, contusions, de quervain's disease, deconditioning, dermatitis  (chronic), diabetes, diabetic complications (muscle infarction, myonecrosis),  dialysis, digeorge anomaly, drug addiction, drug penetration (percutaneous),  duchenne muscular dystrophy (dmd), dyspareunia (pain with intercourse),  dysphagia, dystonia, ear pain (middle ear effusion (mee)), eating disorders,  edema (bone marrow edema syndrome (bmes), idiopathic), elderly housing  transition, epilepsy, exercise-induced asthma, fetal development, fever,  gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), general health maintenance (overall  fitness and health), genital disorders (induratio penis plastica (ipp)),  gynecologic disorders, hair growth (hirsutism), hearing damage, heel spur,  hemophilia, hemorrhage, herpes zoster, hodgkin's disease, hormonal imbalances  (hyperandrogenism), iliotibial band friction syndrome (itbfs), impetigo, infant  development/neonatal care (neonatal assessment), inflammation, inflammatory  bowel disease, inflammatory conditions, intermittent claudication, interstitial  cystitis, intractable cervical dystonia, legg-calve-perthes disease, leprosy  (hansen's disease), limb lengthening, lyme disease, malaria, mother-child  interactions, muscle pain (delayed onset muscle soreness (doms)), muscle  weakness (postpolio syndrome (pps)), myopathy, neuromuscular disorders  (neuromuscular diseases (chronic), neuromuscular ventilatory failure), obesity,  obstetric and gynecological disorders (obstetric brachial palsy, obstetrical  paralysis), osteochondrosis, osteoporosis, pancreatitis, paralysis, pelvic  floor dysfunction, pelvic lymphadenectomy, percutaneous cervical nucleoplasty,  perianal hidradenitis suppurativa, pericranial muscle tension, peripheral  enthesitis, pes planus (adult acquired flat foot deformity), peyronie's  disease, physical work capacity (work-injured patients, work-related upper  extremity disorders), piriformis syndrome, plagiocephaly, pompe disease,  postherpetic neuralgia, postpartum discomfort, post-polio pain, posttraumatic  dystrophy, postural stability, pre-arthritic deformities, promoting flow of  breast milk, psychiatric disorders (catatonic syndrome), pulmonary embolism,  pusher syndrome, recalcitrant achillodynia (chronic), recovering from head  trauma, relaxation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, renal failure,  renal impairment, respiratory disorders (mitochondrial encephalomyopathies,  respiratory function after gallbladder removal, oxygen transport deficits,  rheumatic diseases (juvenile dermatomyositis), scar healing, scleroderma,  scoliosis, sensory disturbances (paresthesias), sexual dysfunction, shin  splints, sinusitis, sjogren's syndrome, skin graft healing, sleep disorders  (obstructive sleep apnea (osa)), spinal cord injury (brown-sequard syndrome),  sports injuries, stress/stress-related problems, sudeck's dystrophy, suicide  prevention, swelling (fingers, dactylitis), systemic sclerosis, teething  (bruxism (grinding of the teeth)), thrombosis, tooth disease, torticollis  (congenital muscular (cmt)), trauma, varicose veins, vein clots (deep venous  thrombosis), vulvodynia, weight loss, wilson's disease.
mechanism of action are limited or controversial for most therapies.
c down's syndrome based on early study, orofacial physical therapy may be beneficial in  treating oral motor function, facial expression, the occurrence of  malocclusions, and hypertrophic tonsils in down's syndrome children.
c brain injury patients with chronic traumatic brain injury often have gait (movement)  disorders.
besides the lack of benefit, available studies show a risk of causing fractures in preterm infants.
c brain injury patients with chronic traumatic brain injury often have gait (movement) disorders.
physical therapy has been shown to be an effective  treatment for dysfunctional voiding in children.
according to some studies, patients may not follow a physical therapist's instructions for at-home exercises or other interventions, such as shoe inserts.
for  comprehensive information about alternative and complementary therapies on the  professional level, go towww.naturalstandard.com.
safety and effectiveness  have not always been proven.
c myofascial pain (tmj) there do not appear to be any distinguishing effects on myofascial pain, tempromandibular disorders (tmj), or function impairment in the available literature between arthroscopic surgery, arthrocentesis, and physical therapy.
c chronic prostatitis there is insufficient evidence in this area.
patients may be referred to a physical therapist by a doctor or may directly contact a physical therapist.
home-based  programs, gait retraining programs, high vs. low-intensity programs, early vs.  late interventions, and multicomponent rehabilitation have all been studied  with mixed results.
c ankylosing spondylitis several clinical trials have compared supervised group physical therapy to unsupervised daily exercises at home for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis.
available studies have used combination treatments of standard physical therapy in addition to psychotherapy, medications, or adjusting dental occlusion.
although early study is promising, more  studies are needed in this area.
c facial palsy facial palsy is commonly treated by physical therapy with various  therapeutic strategies and devices.
patients range in age from newborns to the elderly.
a physical therapy program includes supervised clinical  experience and coursework in biology, chemistry, anatomy, and therapeutic  techniques.
this information is based on a systematic review of scientific literature  edited and peer-reviewed by contributors to the natural standard research  collaboration (www.naturalstandard.com).
overall, short-term improvements have been seen with pelvic floor exercises and vaginal balls.
studies have investigated the use of physical therapy with drugs, as well as  the difference between manual and mechanical techniques; few studies have  compared respiratory physiotherapy to control groups.
aside from orthosis, exercise,  stretching, and extracorporeal shock wave therapy may be of use for tendonitis  of the shoulder.
b achilles tendonitis physical therapy (crutches, orthoses, and eccentric exercise training) has  been used in the management of pain for achilles tendinopathy and tendon  ruptures.
there is not enough scientific evidence to  make a firm recommendation for this use.
c lung function there is inconclusive evidence in this area.
view abstract demirtürk f, akbayrak t, karakaya ic, et al.
moreover, the physical therapy method of  inversion (placing the heart above the head) may increase blood pressure (both  systolic and diastolic).
in premature infants, improvements were seen in weight gain, growth, bone mineral content, bone mineral density, bone area, and bone mass following physical therapy.
c surgical recovery many studies have shown that when physical therapy is used before or  immediately after a long period of immobilization, such as bed rest associated  with hospitalization, the result is a shorter overall hospital stay with fewer  complications.
c cerebral palsy children with cerebral palsy are frequently referred for physical therapy,  yet the effectiveness of treatment has not been well-documented.
debido a la limitada investigación existente, en algunos casos solamente hay poca información disponible sobre la seguridad del tratamiento.
sep;28(9):624-31.view
c acute lymphoblastic leukemia based on limited study, the combined use of physical therapy plus a home  exercise program may be beneficial in children with acute lymphoblastic  leukemia.
c rehabilitation (cardiac) physical therapy has been used during cardiac rehabilitation with or without beta-blocker medication.
additional study is needed in this area.
physical therapy may aggravate pre-existing conditions.
physical therapy, especially home-based  programs, may also be more cost-effective.
one study found that acupuncture showed more benefit on reducing the severity of tinnitus and improving quality of life than physical therapy.
depending on the patient's health, abilities, and goals, the physical therapist outlines a treatment plan, including the anticipated outcomes and a timetable for reaching goals.
other therapies such as extracorporeal shockwave treatment have been studied, but low-quality study designs prevent a strong recommendation from being made.
higher quality studies are needed to make a firm recommendation.
in addition  to medications, physical therapy aims to improve balance, postural control,  walking, and to reduce falls.
however, additional study is needed in this area.
c pregnancy problems (pelvic girdle pain) physical therapy with a focus on specific stabilizing exercises may be  more effective than a regimen without specific stabilizing exercises in the  treatment of pelvic girdle pain, functional status, and quality of life.
hemophilia a patients may have a greater bleeding risk after blood  transfusion when physical therapy is started within eight hours of a blood  transfusion.
neurological physical therapy works to restore balance, coordination, and motor function through repeated exercises for patients with spinal injury, parkinson's disease, alzheimer's disease, and other brain and nerve disorders.
results are generally positive, but more  well-designed studies are needed before a firm conclusion can be drawn.
one study suggested  that early stages of tendonopathies could be effectively treated nonoperatively  with an orthosis and structured exercises.
2008 jul;22(7):601-9.view abstract roche g, ponthieux a, parot-shinkel e, et al.
pain and anxiety may occur  during the rehabilitation of patients with burns.
available studies have used a variety of exercises, which  makes it nearly impossible to compare the evidence.
physical therapy has also been suggested as a possible treatment for a genetic disorder called multiple pterygium syndrome (mps).
c thyroiditis there is insufficient available information on physical therapy as a  treatment for thyroiditis.
more study is needed to make any firm conclusion.
physical therapy has been used in pregnancy, specifically to treat women with pelvic girdle pain during pregnancy, and at three, six, and 12 months postpartum.
the modern discipline of physical therapy emerged to treat soldiers wounded in world war ii.
c nerve pain physical therapy has been used to treat diabetic nerve pain and chemotherapy-induced nerve pain.
c vertigo physical therapy has been used to treat vertigo (specifically, benign  paroxysmal positional vertigo).
c cerebral palsy children with cerebral palsy are frequently referred for physical therapy, yet the effectiveness of treatment has not been well-documented.
more study using consistent treatment protocols and outcomes measures would be helpful.
c down's syndrome based on early study, orofacial physical therapy may be beneficial in treating oral motor function, facial expression, the occurrence of malocclusions, and hypertrophic tonsils in down's syndrome children.
the below monograph is designed to provide historical  background and an overview of clinically-oriented research, and neither  advocates for or against the use of a particular therapy.
according to  one study, manipulative treatment may shorten recovery time faster than  physiotherapy treatment.
an introduction to physical  therapy modalities.
physical therapists work in hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, schools, sports facilities, and patients' homes.
safety los profesionales de la salud que tienen instrucción formal  practican muchas técnicas complementarias, de acuerdo con los  estándares de organizaciones nacionales.
caution is advised when using inversion as a treatment technique for low back pain.
physical therapy, especially home-based programs, may also be more cost-effective.
some of these conditions are potentially serious,  and should be evaluated by a qualified healthcare provider.
in premature infants, improvements were seen in  weight gain, growth, bone mineral content, bone mineral density, bone area, and  bone mass following physical therapy.
physical therapy is tailored to the patient's condition and health issues.
safety precautions are advised when performing challenging tasks in populations with risk factors.
c fall prevention early study of individually tailored programs of physical therapy in the home appears promising for the reduction of falls in elderly women.
oct;88(10):1229-35.view abstract teixeira lj, soares bg, vieira vp, et al.
integumentary physical therapy uses wound cleaning, scar prevention, and scar reduction to help patients with wounds, burns, and other skin-related problems.
c congestion both manual and mechanical respiratory physiotherapies have been studied in cystic fibrosis and lobectomy patients.
examples of manual  respiratory physical therapy techniques include postural drainage, chest  percussion, vibration, chest shaking, directed coughing, or forced exhalation  technique.
c rehabilitation (geriatric) one-on-one physical therapy has been compared to structured social visits  for geriatric rehabilitation.
physical therapy, especially early physical therapy, can be painful, and many patients use medications for pain during therapy.
c hypertension (high blood pressure) there is insufficient available evidence in this area.
one study suggested that immediate postoperative physical therapy may  increase shoulder range of motion, but more high quality trials are needed.
one successful exercise program used a sling suspension system.
top 3 dance fitness trends the bar method nia zumba one of the least lauded of the lettered vitamins, vitamin k is no less of a key nutrient than the others.
available studies have used a variety of exercises, which makes it nearly impossible to compare the evidence.
certain aspects of physical  therapy, such as progressive agility, trunk stabilization exercises, and icing,  may be more beneficial than static stretching, but results are unclear.
a patient's cardiac and pulmonary risk factors should be assessed to determine whether heart rate and blood pressure should be monitored.
you should consult with a qualified healthcare provider before making decisions about therapies and/or health conditions.
c peripheral artery disease there is insufficient evidence available in this specific area.
the below monograph is designed to provide historical background and an overview of clinically-oriented research, and neither advocates for or against the use of a particular therapy.
home-based physical therapy programs have also  found modest benefits in walking, bathing, upper- and lower-body dressing,  transferring from a chair, using the toilet, eating, and grooming in elderly  patients.
c sprains and strains physical therapy has been studied to reduce the healing time of acute  ankle ligament sprains and acute hamstring sprains.
additional information is needed in this area.
higher-quality trials with control groups would help make a stronger recommendation.
physical therapy in this population may  improve aerobic capacity and muscle force and reduce fatigue.
some of these conditions are potentially serious and should be evaluated by a qualified health care professional.
outcome measures studied have included  bladder volume, vaginal palpation, and perceptions of improvement.
compared with corticosteroid injections,  physical therapy appears less effective for treating tennis elbow, but studies  are mixed and a firm recommendation cannot be made at this time.
c lymphedema various types of physical therapy have been employed in the treatment of  lymphedema, such as complex physical therapy (cpt), self home maintenance  therapy (bandage/wearing of elastic garment and exercise), and pneumatic  compression.
the physical therapist may also conduct tests to establish a baseline, to see how much the patient improves during therapy.
c plantar fasciitis
adolesc med state art rev 2007 may;18(1):11-23, vii-viii.
c pulmonary conditions lung hyperinflation is a technique used by physiotherapists to mobilize and remove excess lung secretions, reinflate areas of pulmonary collapse, and improve oxygenation.
physical therapy, either as an individually delivered treatment or in a small  group format, appears effective.
additionally, a supervised physical therapy program has been used in children  with osteogenesis imperfecta, a genetic disorder in which bones are abnormally  fragile and may fracture easily.
early evidence suggests that physical therapy may have a better effect than occupational therapy or no treatment for the reduction of pain in some patients.
physical therapy was first documented in china around 3000 bc with the use  of joint manipulation and massage to relieve pain.
physical therapy techniques are often used following  cardiopulmonary bypass surgery, abdominal surgery, and other surgical  procedures, as well as for the prevention of pulmonary complications.
additional evidence is needed in this area.
c knee pain (rehabilitation) physical therapy programs such as independent home exercise, supervised  exercise, and open and closed kinetic chain exercises have been studied for  their effect on decreasing recovery time following anterior cruciate ligament  (acl) reconstruction or traumatic dislocation of the knee.
c headache physical therapy has been used to treat chronic headache, migraines, tension-type headaches, and cervicogenic headaches.
c tendonopathies (tendon dysfunctions) posterior tibial tendon dysfunction is a relatively common problem of middle-aged adults that usually is treated operatively.
c heart failure both supervised and home-based exercise training can enhance exercise capacity in patients with chronic heart failure.
also, continuous low-level heat wrap therapy may be helpful in common conditions causing wrist pain and impairment.
musculoskeletal physical therapy uses massage and joint movement to increase  strength, motor control, and flexibility.
c breast cancer physical therapy programs are often used following mastectomy (breast  cancer surgery).
however, there is no consensus  regarding a rehabilitation program for these patients and the literature often  suggests individually-tailored programs.
c wound care physical therapy techniques such as laser treatment have been used to  clean and heal wounds.
c asthma chest physical therapy and physiotherapy breathing retraining have been studied in both children and adults to improve quality of life and improve lung function in severe and acute asthma.
although studies indicate that some kind of rehabilitation and movement are beneficial, the sum of the evidence does not favor physical therapy over traditional home therapy or other treatments.
whenever possible, it is recommended that practitioners be licensed by a recognized professional organization that adheres to clearly published standards.
c musculoskeletal conditions there is not enough evidence to support the role of physical therapy for  the treatment of meralgia paresthetica (a musculosketetal condition).
c fractures physical therapy has been primarily studied as a method of shortening the duration of healing time following cast immobilization of fractures.
c muscle atrophy there is insufficient evidence for the treatment of muscle atrophy with pt.
no obstante, este no es el caso universal; es posible que se presenten efectos adversos.
musculoskeletal physical therapy uses massage and joint movement to increase strength, motor control, and flexibility.
c rehabilitation (vestibular) patients with chronic vestibular disorders typically have complaints of unsteadiness, imbalance, and/or motion intolerance.
cardiopulmonary physical therapy treats lung and heart conditions, such as cerebral palsy, asthma, and post-heart attack rehabilitation, by clearing the lungs of mucus, ventilating the lungs to ease breathing, or exercising to increase a patient's ability to move.
selected references are listed below.
references natural standard developed the above evidence-based information based on a  thorough systematic review of the available scientific articles.
grade* incontinence a variety of techniques have been used to improve incontinence (loss of  urinary control), such as pelvic-floor neuromuscular electrostimulation  combined with exercises, pelvic floor muscle exercises alone (kegel exercises),  vaginal cones, and vaginal balls.
a la limitada  investigación existente, en algunos casos solamente hay poca  información disponible sobre la seguridad del tratamiento.
one method of physical therapy, infrared, short-wave diathermy-pulsed patterns and interferential therapy, showed more effectiveness than intra-articular hyaluronan drugs in two studies.
potential benefits, risks (including financial costs), and alternatives should  be carefully considered.
one  study found that acupuncture showed more benefit on reducing the severity of  tinnitus and improving quality of life than physical therapy.
arch phys med rehabil 2008
early evidence is promising, but additional study is needed to make a firm recommendation.
in  addition to physical therapy, treadmills have also been used to help reduce the  delay in walking onset in infants.
there is considerable study investigating whether physical therapy should be initiated immediately or following a waiting period.
return to top wellness times does not provide medical advice or information about the diagnosis and treatment of specific conditions.
this information should not be interpreted as specific medical advice.
there is not enough scientific evidence to make a firm recommendation for this use.
special tools are used, such as hot or cold packs, crutches, braces,  treadmills, prosthetics, compression vests, computer-assisted feedback, lasers,  and ultrasound.
physical therapy, especially  early physical therapy, can be painful, and many patients use medications for  pain during therapy.
c facial palsy facial palsy is commonly treated by physical therapy with various therapeutic strategies and devices.
based on one large study, there were no reported adverse events resulting from the physical therapists' diagnoses or management during a 40-month period.
c spine problems there is insufficient available evidence supporting a role for physical  therapy in improving spinal mobility, treating chronic spine disorders, or in  treating myelomeningocele.
more research is warranted.
sign up to receive newsletter you are here ambulatory physical therapy physical therapy natural standard bottom line monograph, copyright © 2011 ( www.naturalstandard.com).
long-term studies with more  standardized outcomes measures would help make a stronger recommendation.
you should consult with a qualified healthcare  provider before making decisions about therapies and/or health conditions.
c surgical recovery many studies have shown that when physical therapy is used before or immediately after a long period of immobilization, such as bed rest associated with hospitalization, the result is a shorter overall hospital stay with fewer complications.
c parkinson's disease management of parkinson's disease typically aims to obtain symptom control, reduce clinical disability, and improve quality of life.
c nerve pain physical therapy has been used to treat diabetic nerve pain and  chemotherapy-induced nerve pain.
more research is needed in this area to draw a  firm conclusion.
this monograph is intended for informational purposes only, and should not be interpreted as specific medical advice.
additional study is needed.
besides the lack of benefit, available  studies show a risk of causing fractures in preterm infants.
while some complementary and alternative techniques have been studied scientifically, high-quality data regarding safety, effectiveness, and mechanism of action are limited or controversial for most therapies.
c quality of life there is insufficient available evidence in this specific area.
c muscle tension there is conflicting evidence regarding physical therapy's ability to lengthen hamstring muscles or increase hamstring flexibility.
c cardiovascular conditions physical therapy has been studied to improve peak oxygen consumption, work  rate, general cardiovascular health, and distance walked during six minutes.
techniques studied in combination  with conservative physical therapy include gymnastics, strengthening exercises,  electrotherapy, thermotherapy, massage, cervical traction, and tissue  mobilization.
due to malpractice concerns, it is possible that not all adverse effects have been reported in the available literature.
both  video-tape and personal instruction approaches have been studied with no  apparent differences in results.
more research with similar outcomes measures is needed to confirm these findings.
medication adjustments may be necessary.
the ancient greek doctor  hippocrates wrote about massage and hydrotherapy in 460 bc, and splints and  exercises were used to treat wounded roman gladiators.
c rheumatoid arthritis
special tools are used, such as hot or cold packs, crutches, braces, treadmills, prosthetics, compression vests, computer-assisted feedback, lasers, and ultrasound.
some of these conditions are potentially serious, and should be evaluated by a qualified healthcare provider.
physical therapy techniques are often used following cardiopulmonary bypass surgery, abdominal surgery, and other surgical procedures, as well as for the prevention of pulmonary complications.
various types of  rehabilitation have been tried, although vestibular rehabilitation, a specific  approach to physical therapy aimed at reducing dizziness and imbalance by  facilitating central nervous system compensation for peripheral vestibular  dysfunction, has been used the most.
patients with high blood pressure may need to  avoid this technique.
c bronchitis (chronic) respiratory therapy has been used in the treatment of bronchitis, and the flutter device has been studied for its beneficial effects.
some studies have found  short-term benefits of manual therapy over general medical care.
c cystic fibrosis cystic fibrosis is a genetic disorder affecting the mucus lining of the lungs, leading to breathing problems and other difficulties.
one meta-analysis indicated that physical therapy is beneficial when used in combination with medications, but the effects of physical therapy alone are unknown.
c chronic venous insufficiency (cvi) there is insufficient evidence in this area.
spine 2008 sep 15;33(20):e721-7.
although not following instructions may be due to illness or disease, not following instructions may slow or reduce progress.
chest physical therapy, among other kinds of physical therapy, may increase metabolic rate, oxygen consumption, heart rate, and blood pressure.
one meta-analysis indicated  that physical therapy is beneficial when used in combination with medications,  but the effects of physical therapy alone are unknown.
physical therapy techniques such as cold pack use, progressive strengthening, or stretching exercises may be helpful for reducing the recurrence of symptoms.
due to the lack of standardization, duration of treatment, and various outcomes measures, more study is needed before a firm recommendation can be made.
c fractures physical therapy has been primarily studied as a method of shortening the  duration of healing time following cast immobilization of fractures.
it has been proposed that modified manipulative therapy regimens are more effective than traditional physiotherapy in reducing pain and increasing function in many of these conditions.
may;22(5):365-73.view  abstract rauscher l, greenfield bh.
c low birth weight physical therapy does not appear to help motor performance in infants born  very preterm with very low birth weight.
cochrane database syst rev. 2008 jul  16;(3):cd006283.view
additional  studies are needed.
there is good evidence that low-intensity laser irradiation, a widespread but controversial physical therapy agent, is not an effective treatment of plantar fasciitis when compared with sham laser treatment for plantar fasciitis.
c strength enhancer physical therapy has been used with biofeedback training to enhance  strength in patients with foot drop (a birth disorder where the foot is twisted  out of shape or position), and has also been used in elderly patients  recuperating from acute illnesses.
physical therapy has been combined with music therapy to treat children with erb's palsy.
grade* incontinence a variety of techniques have been used to improve incontinence (loss of urinary control), such as pelvic-floor neuromuscular electrostimulation combined with exercises, pelvic floor muscle exercises alone (kegel exercises), vaginal cones, and vaginal balls.
physical therapy may increase the duration of pain or cause limitation of motion.
c multiple sclerosis (ms) there is insufficient evidence for the treatment of multiple sclerosis with pt.
due to the many kinds of techniques used by physical therapists and multiple conditions treated, this section only provides selected examples of adverse effects and is not a comprehensive list.
an alternative approach to treating lateral  epicondylitis.
physical therapy techniques may have short-term  benefits, but the available evidence is unclear.
several  studies do not show any difference between various chest physiotherapy  treatments, such as incentive spirometry, intermittent positive pressure  breathing (ippb), or deep breathing exercises.
in addition to physical therapy, treadmills have also been used to help reduce the delay in walking onset in infants.
more research is needed in this area to draw a firm conclusion.
additional  study is needed.
additional study is needed before a recommendation can be made.
abstract van vlimmeren la, van der graaf y, boere-boonekamp mm, et al. effect of  pediatric physical therapy on deformational plagiocephaly in children with  positional preference: a randomized controlled trial.
physical therapists may spend up to  25% of a visit speaking or listening to a patient to identify current and  potential problems.
c hip pain there is little available research on the physical therapy treatment of hip pain.
b knee osteoarthritis physical therapy for osteoarthritis of the knee may provide short-term  benefits, but long-term benefits do not appear better than standard treatments.
c complex regional pain syndrome complex regional pain syndrome involves persistent pain, allodynia (light touch causing pain), and vasomotor signs.
physical therapy techniques may have short-term benefits, but the available evidence is unclear.
c kashin-beck osteoarthropathy early evidence shows that physical therapy may be better than multivitamins for treating kashin-beck osteoarthropathy, although results are unclear.
c fibromyalgia early research indicates that a self-management based program of pool exercises and education may improve the quality of life of patients with fibromyalgia and their satisfaction with treatment.
a common goal of physical therapy is to increase how the patient functions at home and at work.
c spine problems there is insufficient available evidence supporting a role for physical therapy in improving spinal mobility, treating chronic spine disorders, or in treating myelomeningocele.
there is emerging evidence that physical therapy may be beneficial for reducing the time to heal following whiplash injury.
effects of motor physical therapy on bone  mineralization in premature infants: a randomized controlled study.
c acute lymphoblastic leukemia based on limited study, the combined use of physical therapy plus a home exercise program may be beneficial in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
based on one study, there were no differences between giving patients information, doing at home physical therapy, or in-clinic physical therapy.
c rehabilitation (cardiac) physical therapy has been used during cardiac rehabilitation with or  without beta-blocker medication.
c carpal tunnel syndrome carpal bone mobilization and median nerve mobilization have both been  studied for the treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome.
ahlqwist a, hagman m, kjellby-wendt g, et al.
based  on one study, there were no differences between giving patients information,  doing at home physical therapy, or in-clinic physical therapy.
studies have investigated the use of physical therapy with drugs, as well as the difference between manual and mechanical techniques; few studies have compared respiratory physiotherapy to control groups.
repetitive  exercises can have cardiovascular effects.
there is inconclusive evidence on whether physical therapy may help reduce  cancer-related fatigue.
there is good evidence that low-intensity laser irradiation, a widespread  but controversial physical therapy agent, is not an effective treatment of  plantar fasciitis when compared with sham laser treatment for plantar  fasciitis.
results are unclear and additional research is needed.
additional high-quality studies are needed in  this area.
d *key to grades: a: strong scientific evidence for this use; b: good scientific evidence for this use; c: unclear scientific evidence for this use; d: fair scientific evidence against this use (it may not work); f: strong scientific evidence against this use (it likely does not work).
additional studies are needed.
results are unclear  and additional research is needed.
stretching, strengthening, and aerobic exercise may improve ankle  dorsiflexion active range of motion and knee extension strength.
due to the various methods studied across trials, comparison is difficult and a firm conclusion cannot be reached at this time.
the patient may be instructed on exercises to do at home.
examples of treatments used include  knee braces, shoe lifts, custom-fitted shoe inserts, electrical stimulation,  peroneal nerve releases, and botox® injections.
c there is inconclusive evidence in this area.
physical therapists may spend up to 25% of a visit speaking or listening to a patient to identify current and potential problems.
physical therapy appeared more effective than biofeedback techniques  based on one trial.
safety and effectiveness have not always been proven.
higher-quality trials and comparisons with placebo are needed to confirm these results.
c tennis elbow lateral epicondylitis (commonly known as tennis elbow) is one of the most  common upper extremity pain syndromes.
not all physical therapy programs are suited for everyone, and patients should discuss their medical history with a qualified healthcare professional before beginning any treatments.
in some very low birth weight premature infants and young children,  physical therapy techniques, such as passive motion and chest percussion  therapy, may increase the likelihood of bone fractures.
more evidence is needed to clarify these  findings.
further research is needed.
c tinnitus there is limited study on the effects of physical therapy in tinnitus.
c fall prevention early study of individually tailored programs of physical therapy in the  home appears promising for the reduction of falls in elderly women.
the below uses are based on tradition or scientific theories.
patients with high blood pressure may need to avoid this technique.
physical therapy has been used in pregnancy, specifically to treat women  with pelvic girdle pain during pregnancy, and at three, six, and 12 months  postpartum.
moreover, the physical therapy method of inversion (placing the heart above the head) may increase blood pressure (both systolic and diastolic).
c there is insufficient evidence in this area.
c musculoskeletal conditions there is not enough evidence to support the role of physical therapy for the treatment of meralgia paresthetica (a musculosketetal condition).
c there is insufficient available evidence in this specific area.
compared with corticosteroid injections, physical therapy appears less effective for treating tennis elbow, but studies are mixed and a firm recommendation cannot be made at this time.
at the first visit, a physical therapist reviews medical records, examines  the patient, and talks with the patient.
in the elderly, walking backwards during physical therapy has resulted in falls and considerable morbidity.
both morning stiffness and bone erosion have been reported in the physical therapy literature although causality is unclear.
additional study is needed before a recommendation  can be made.
all therapies during pregnancy  and breastfeeding should be discussed with a licensed obstetrician/gynecologist  before initiation.
based on one large study, there were no reported adverse  events resulting from the physical therapists' diagnoses or management during a  40-month period.
b pain physical therapy has been used to treat a wide variety of pain syndromes  including patellofemoral pain syndrome, wrist pain, post-operative pain, and  chronic pain.
various types of physical therapy address specific problems.
most studies stress early intervention to speed recovery, although studies that compare early intervention to later intervention, spontaneous healing, and other modalities, including sham treatments, are lacking.
c heart failure both supervised and home-based exercise training can enhance exercise  capacity in patients with chronic heart failure.
a physical therapy program includes supervised clinical experience and coursework in biology, chemistry, anatomy, and therapeutic techniques.
chest physical therapy, among other kinds of physical therapy, may increase  metabolic rate, oxygen consumption, heart rate, and blood pressure.
physical therapy is often used in patients recovering from surgery whose  postoperative pain may be severe.
c skin ulcers early evidence suggests that high voltage stimulation or pulsed electrical stimulation may speed the healing of some types of skin ulcers.
due to malpractice concerns, it is possible that not all adverse effects have  been reported in the available literature.
there is limited study of physical therapy for the treatment of guillain-barre syndrome (gbs), a self-limiting autoimmune disorder that causes neuromuscular deficits.
content is scientifically valid and written by leading natural health experts and journalists.
more studies are needed in this area.
sensory integrative therapy, vestibular stimulation, and neurodevelopmental therapy are other techniques studied.
more evidence is needed to clarify these findings.
long-term high-intensity  weight-bearing exercise programs have also been used in rheumatoid arthritis  patients with some success.
additional study is needed to make a firm recommendation.
c joint problems (rotator cuff, sijd)
more study is needed in this area.
2008  may 31;138(21-22):317-21.view
the american physical therapists association recommends that a patient feel comfortable asking the physical therapist any questions about expectations and the proposed plan of care.
in the elderly, walking backwards during physical therapy has resulted in  falls and considerable morbidity.
c low birth weight physical therapy does not appear to help motor performance in infants born very preterm with very low birth weight.
overall, it is difficult to  compare treatment outcomes across the various studies.
it’s essential for blood clotting and bone building, and it’s in short supply in modern american diets.
oct;89(10):1873-9.view abstract chapman bl, liebert rb, lininger mr, et al.
c pneumonia early evidence suggests that chest physiotherapy techniques such as postural drainage, external help with breathing, percussion, and vibration are not better that receiving advice of deep breathing instructions in the treatment of pneumonia.
c multiple sclerosis (ms) there is insufficient evidence for the treatment of multiple sclerosis  with pt.
more study is needed to drawn any firm  conclusions.
additional research is needed in this  area.
based on the available literature, physical  therapy appears generally safe when practiced by a qualified physical  therapist.
outcome measures studied have included bladder volume, vaginal palpation, and perceptions of improvement.
physical therapy is commonly used for musculoskeletal injuries, joint pain  or disorders, low back pain, cerebral palsy, and rehabilitation after injury or  surgery, including heart surgery or mastectomy.
also, continuous low-level heat wrap therapy may be helpful in common  conditions causing wrist pain and impairment.
the american physical therapists association recommends that a patient feel  comfortable asking the physical therapist any questions about expectations and  the proposed plan of care.
results are mixed and it is unclear  whether certain physical therapy shows benefits over standard drug therapy  alone or over placebo treatments.
abstract hellweg s, johannes s. physiotherapy after traumatic brain injury: a  systematic review of the literature.
c skin ulcers early evidence suggests that high voltage stimulation or pulsed electrical  stimulation may speed the healing of some types of skin ulcers.
arch pediatr adolesc med.
studies using extracorporeal shock wave therapy or low-frequency electrical stimulation found conflicting results.
for comprehensive information about alternative and complementary therapies on the professional level, go towww.naturalstandard.com.
most studies using physical therapy use it in combination with educational instruction.
additional high-quality studies are needed.
commercial distribution prohibited.
this monograph is  intended for informational purposes only, and should not be interpreted as  specific medical advice.
physical therapy has also been used in combination with sodium selenite application.
in  particular, physical therapy has been used to treat coronary syndrome x  (syndrome x), which is a chronic pain disorder with exercise-induced chest  pain.
long-term high-intensity weight-bearing exercise programs have also been used in rheumatoid arthritis patients with some success.
home-based physical therapy programs have also found modest benefits in walking, bathing, upper- and lower-body dressing, transferring from a chair, using the toilet, eating, and grooming in elderly patients.
the physical therapist may also  conduct tests to establish a baseline, to see how much the patient improves  during therapy.
c pneumonia early evidence suggests that chest physiotherapy techniques such as  postural drainage, external help with breathing, percussion, and vibration are  not better that receiving advice of deep breathing instructions in the  treatment of pneumonia.
there is considerable study investigating whether physical therapy should  be initiated immediately or following a waiting period.
c hip fractures physical therapy appears beneficial as a method of shortening the duration  of healing time from hip fracture recovery after surgery, improving quality of  life, or as preparation for hip replacement surgery in the elderly.
c chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd)
c muscle spasticity there is insufficient evidence showing physical therapy's effect (specifically, ultrasound techniques) on reducing muscle spasticity.
there are questions in the literature as  to whether physical therapy regimens should be tailored to fit the individual's  back pain, as not all back pain is alike.
overall, however, the evidence is still mixed and more study is needed.
evidence of beneficial effect  of physical therapy after lower-extremity trauma.
physical therapy may increase  the duration of pain or cause limitation of motion.
results are inconclusive.
early evidence is promising, but additional study is needed to make a  firm recommendation.
safety precautions are advised when  performing challenging tasks in populations with risk factors.
mobilization and manipulation techniques have been studied.
despite the large amount of research conducted on physical therapy cost-effectiveness and treatments for back pain (including chronic and acute low back pain, lumbar disc herniation, pregnancy-related back pain, work-related back pain), there is a lack of conclusive evidence that physical therapy is more effective than other treatments or placebo.
c guillain-barre syndrome
however, studies are lacking that  compare physical therapy to placebo or other interventions.
c breast cancer physical therapy programs are often used following mastectomy (breast cancer surgery).
c fibromyalgia early research indicates that a self-management based program of pool  exercises and education may improve the quality of life of patients with  fibromyalgia and their satisfaction with treatment.
better-designed  trials of pt alone are needed before it can be recommended.
physical therapy techniques such as treadmill training and  weight-bearing gait training have been used with mixed results.
potential benefits, risks (including financial costs), and alternatives should be carefully considered.
while some complementary and alternative techniques have been studied  scientifically, high-quality data regarding safety, effectiveness, and
c stroke physical therapy is a popular choice for patients undergoing stroke  rehabilitation.
wellness times provides compelling, trusted natural health information to the progressive health-conscious consumer.
c circulatory disorders various types of supervised and unsupervised physical therapy programs  such as compression, cold-temperature stimuli, gymnastics, walking, and sauna  have been used to improve circulation in the legs.
several studies do not show any difference between various chest physiotherapy treatments, such as incentive spirometry, intermittent positive pressure breathing (ippb), or deep breathing exercises.
although not following instructions may be due to illness or disease,  not following instructions may slow or reduce progress.
c knee replacement surgery physical therapy has been used to treat complications and/or help with  recovery after knee replacement surgery.
physical therapy protocols are not well  outlined, and there is limited study comparing physical therapy vs. other  modalities.
c cardiovascular conditions physical therapy has been studied to improve peak oxygen consumption, work rate, general cardiovascular health, and distance walked during six minutes.
c there is insufficient evidence available in this specific area.
available studies have used  combination treatments of standard physical therapy in addition to  psychotherapy, medications, or adjusting dental occlusion.
additional research is needed.
c osteoarthritis physical therapy has been used in the treatment of gonarthritis and hand, hip, and knee osteoarthritis.
instruction in kneeling is  a useful addition to physical therapy following knee replacement.
pediatr phys ther 2007 summer;19(2):140-7.view abstract castillo rc, mackenzie ej, archer kr, et al.
numerous physical therapy techniques have been used to treat movement/motor disorders associated with cerebral palsy, including hippotherapy (physical therapy utilizing the movement of a horse), sensory-perceptual-motor training, neurodevelopmental physical therapy, and functional physical therapy.
additional  research is needed in this area.
higher-quality trials with control groups would help  make a stronger recommendation.
a cochrane systematic review.
abstract copyright © 2011 natural standard (www.naturalstandard.com) the information in this monograph is intended for informational purposes  only, and is meant to help users better understand health concerns.
some of these conditions are potentially serious and  should be evaluated by a qualified health care professional.
there is emerging evidence that physical therapy may be beneficial for  reducing the time to heal following whiplash injury.
pain associated with athletic injuries, such as groin pain, are often treated with physical therapy.
early evidence does not show a strong benefit of physical therapy.
this information should not be interpreted as specific  medical advice.
both video-tape and personal instruction approaches have been studied with no apparent differences in results.
copyright © 2011 natural standard (www.naturalstandard.com) the information in this monograph is intended for informational purposes only, and is meant to help users better understand health concerns.
cardiopulmonary physical therapy  treats lung and heart conditions, such as cerebral palsy, asthma, and  post-heart attack rehabilitation, by clearing the lungs of mucus, ventilating  the lungs to ease breathing, or exercising to increase a patient's ability to  move.
additional study is warranted.
c bone density supervised or home-based physical therapy has been used in combination with resistance and endurance training in physically frail elderly women taking hormone replacement therapy to improve bone density.
hemophilia a patients may have a greater bleeding risk after blood transfusion when physical therapy is started within eight hours of a blood transfusion.
neurological physical therapy works to restore balance, coordination, and  motor function through repeated exercises for patients with spinal injury,  parkinson's disease, alzheimer's disease, and other brain and nerve disorders.
sensory integrative therapy, vestibular  stimulation, and neurodevelopmental therapy are other techniques studied.
d a: strong scientific evidence for this use; b: good scientific evidence for this use; c: unclear scientific evidence for this use; d: fair  scientific evidence against this use (it may not work); f: strong scientific evidence against this use (it likely does not work).
integumentary physical therapy uses wound cleaning, scar prevention, and scar  reduction to help patients with wounds, burns, and other skin-related problems.
eur j phys  rehabil med.
uses these uses have been tested in humans or animals.
in particular, physical therapy has been used to treat coronary syndrome x (syndrome x), which is a chronic pain disorder with exercise-induced chest pain.
arch phys med rehabil  2007
pain medications may be given, which in turn may carry risk factors for anti-inflammatory-drug- or aspirin-induced gastrointestinal complications.
results are generally positive, but more well-designed studies are needed before a firm conclusion can be drawn.
most studies using physical therapy use it in combination with educational  instruction.
users should consult with a qualified healthcare provider for  specific questions regarding therapies, diagnosis and/or health conditions,  prior to making therapeutic decisions.
there is limited study of physical therapy for the treatment of  guillain-barre syndrome (gbs), a self-limiting autoimmune disorder that causes  neuromuscular deficits.
there may be a beneficial effect of respiratory rehabilitation in terms of  improved tolerance to exercise and improved quality of life for copd patients.
this can complicate early physical therapy.
visitors will find cutting-edge, timely information about wellness and ways to improve their lives.
c pregnancy problems (pelvic girdle pain) physical therapy with a focus on specific stabilizing exercises may be more effective than a regimen without specific stabilizing exercises in the treatment of pelvic girdle pain, functional status, and quality of life.
persistent pain and  fractures of unknown origin have been reported.
physical  therapy techniques such as cold pack use, progressive strengthening, or  stretching exercises may be helpful for reducing the recurrence of symptoms.
furthermore, physical  therapy is often used as a control group in these studies and rarely do studies  find a significant difference between physical therapy and other interventions.
additional evidence is needed to make a firm recommendation.
pain associated with athletic injuries, such as groin pain, are  often treated with physical therapy.
c asthma chest physical therapy and physiotherapy breathing retraining have been  studied in both children and adults to improve quality of life and improve lung  function in severe and acute asthma.
although early study is promising, more studies are needed in this area.
numerous  physical therapy techniques have been used to treat movement/motor disorders  associated with cerebral palsy, including hippotherapy (physical therapy  utilizing the movement of a horse), sensory-perceptual-motor training,  neurodevelopmental physical therapy, and functional physical therapy.
c wound care physical therapy techniques such as laser treatment have been used to clean and heal wounds.
2009 jan;89(1):91-100.view  abstract reza nourbakhsh m, fearon fj.
c cystic fibrosis cystic fibrosis is a genetic disorder affecting the mucus lining of the  lungs, leading to breathing problems and other difficulties.
early evidence suggests  small benefits when physical therapy is used in combination with drugs.
studies using extracorporeal shock wave therapy or low-frequency electrical  stimulation found conflicting results.
better-designed trials are needed before a firm recommendation can be made.
in contrast, it is thought that keeping areas immobilized for  long periods of time may also carry risk factors.
other therapies such as extracorporeal shockwave treatment have been  studied, but low-quality study designs prevent a strong recommendation from  being made.
effectiveness of  physical therapy interventions for children with cerebral palsy: a systematic  review.
one study suggested that early stages of tendonopathies could be effectively treated nonoperatively with an orthosis and structured exercises.
abstract dumoulin c, hay-smith j. pelvic floor muscle training versus no treatment  for urinary incontinence in women.
achilles tendon lengthening, achilles tendon-lengthening (atl) procedure, aclr rehabilitation, active lumbar exercises, active physical therapy, active range of motion exercises, active rom, acupuncture, acute ankle inversion sprains, acute care for elders, adaptive device and equipment use, adaptive devices, adjusting joint subluxations, aeh, aerosol therapy, afferent stimulation, aggressive physical therapy, aggressive spine rehabilitation, airway clearance devices, airway clearance regimens, airway suctioning, alexander technique, allopathic medicine, ambulation exercises, ambulation training, ambulatory physical therapy, ambulatory respiratory rehabilitation, american physical therapy association, amputation alternative, analytic physiotherapy, anatomic ranges of mobility, anatomy, ancillary services, antalgic electrotherapy, applications of cold, applications of physical agents such as heat or cold, aquatic physical therapy, aquatic therapy, arm care, arterial emoblization hyperthermia, arthrographic distension, arthrolysis, arthroscopic distension, assessment, assisted coughing, assistive device and equipment use, athletic trainer, atraumatic recurrent posterior shoulder subluxation, augmented feedback, autotraction, balance, balance reactions, balance techniques training, balance training, balneology, balneotherapy, behavior-oriented physical therapy, behavioral medicine (bm) rehabilitation program, behavioral modification techniques, biofeedback, biofeedback therapy, biomechanics, bobath, bobath physical therapy, bobath therapeutic exercises, body weight-supported treadmill training, botulinum toxin a (btxa), bracing, breath therapy, breathing exercises, breathing training, bronchopulmonary hygiene physical therapy, burn rehabilitation, bwstt, cai simulation program, canalith repositioning, cardiopulmonary assessment, cardiopulmonary physical therapy, cardiopulmonary physical therapists, cardiopulmonary physiology, cardiopulmonary rehabilitation, central neural blockade, cervical collar, cervical electrostimulation, cervical manipulation, cervical spinal manipulation, cervical traction, chest percussion, chest physical therapy, chest physiotherapy (cp), chest pt, chest shaking, chest vibration, chest wall oscillation, chiropractic education and technique, chiropractic health, chiropractic manipulation, chiropractic radiology education, chiropractic profession, chiropractic therapy, chiropractors, chronic disability prevention, ci therapy, ckc, classification-based physical therapy, climatology, clinic-based rehabilitation, clinic-centered rehabilitation, clinical evaluation, closed chain rehabilitation, closed kinetic chain exercise (ckc), cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt), cold agent application, cold bath, cold compress, cold therapy, combination therapy, communication, complex decongestive physiotherapy, complex physical therapy, compression bandages, compression bandaging, compression garments, compression pump, compression stockings, compression therapy, conservative therapy, constraint-induced movement therapy (ci therapy), continuous passive motion, continuous positive airway pressure (cpap), continuous traction, controlled breathing, controlled cough, conventional chest physical therapy, conventional physical therapy procedure, coordination, coordination exercises, coordinative training, cough stimulation techniques, coughing, counter irritation, cpm, cpt, crutches, cryotherapy, cyphosis, dance, debridement of wounds and burns, deep heating agents, deep-tissue massage, diadynamic currents, diagnosis of pathology, diagnosis of musculoskeletal system functional disorders, diaphragmatic breathing, differentiated rehabilitation, dih, direct injection hyperthermia, directed coughing, disability prevention treatment techniques, distally fixated knee extensor resistance training, documentation and coordination, dressings, dutch low back pain guideline, dynamic exercise stress testing, eccentric exercises, education, education through repetition of functional tasks, effective listening, electric muscle stimulation, electrical stimulation, electromedicine, electromyographic biofeedback, electromyography, electrophysical agents, electrostimulation, electrotherapeutic agents, electrotherapeutic modalities, electrotherapy, emg, energy conservation techniques training, epley maneuver, ergonomics, evidence-based physical therapy, examination, exercise, exercise physiology, exercise prescription, exercise program, exercise therapy, exercise training, exercise treatment, exercises, exercises and physical training, extension closure, extension-mobilization, external vibrations, extracorporeal shock wave therapy, fall recovery techniques training, fear-avoidance-based physical therapy, fitness program, fitting for assistive devices, flexion closure, foot orthotics, first-contact nonphysician care, fitness, florida physical therapy association, flutter vrp1, forced exhalation technique, forced expiratory maneuvers, french approach, french physical therapy methods, french technique, function restoring treatment techniques, functional anatomy, functional electrical stimulation (fes), functional independence measure (fim), functional limitations, functional rehabilitation, functional retraining techniques, functional training, functional training in self-care and home management, gaitrite computerized gait analysis system, galvanization, gerentological physical therapy, geriatric rehabilitation, gestural improvement of the patient (notions of ergonomics, lifting techniques), goniometry, gross motor function measure (gmfm), group balance skills, group exercises, gymnastics, hand therapist, hands-on treatment techniques, health education, heat, heat agent application, heat and cold treatment, heat therapy, hfcc, high frequency chest compression (hfcc), high-frequency chest wall oscillation, high-frequency oral airway oscillation, high-velocity thrust manipulation, hip extensors, home based rehabilitation, home-based physical therapy (pt), home rehabilitation, hospital-based physical therapist, hospital physical therapy, hospital physical therapy outpatient departments, hot pack, hot/ice thermal blanket, hydrocollator pack, hydrotherapy, hyperthermia, hypnotherapy, ih, iih, immersive virtual reality (vr), immobilization, impulse galvanization, infrared, infrared heating, innocuous mechanical stimulation, inpatient rehabilitation programs, instructed coughing, instrumental chest physiotherapy, integumentary physical therapy, intensive cognitive rehabilitation program (icrp), intensive passive mobilization techniques, intensive physical therapy, interference current, interferential current, internal vibrations, interrupted traction, interstitial implant hyperthermia, interventions, intracellular hyperthermia, inversion traction, iontophoresis, isoinertial trunk extensor strength, isometric trunk extensor strength, joint manipulation, joint mobilization, joint play, joint movement, joint replacement therapy, kegel exercises, kinebalneotherapy, kinesiology, kinesitherapy, kinetic chain training, kinetron isokinetic exerciser, kite and lovell technique, knee extensor resistance training, knee extensors, knee taping techniques, knowledge of functional anatomy, knowledge of results (kr), laser, laser therapy, leg extensor training, lifestyle modifications, light-therapy, lifting techniques, limb-load monitor, listening, long-duration passive stretch, low energy laser, low-frequency currents, low-intensity home-based physical therapy, low-intensity laser irradiation, lower extremity endurance training, lower extremity training, lumbar posture modification, lumbo-pelvic thrust manipulation, lymph drainage, lymphatic massage, magnetic field, magnetic field therapy, magnetically mediated hyperthermia, maitland mobilization, manipulation, manipulation package, manipulation under joint anesthesia/analgesia, manipulative therapy, manipulative techniques, manipulative therapists, manual diagnosis, manual handling, manual interventions, manual lymph drainage, manual medicine, manual mobilization, manual physical therapy, manual techniques, manual therapy, manual therapy techniques, masai barefoot technology, massage, massage therapists, matrix composition, mckenzie method, mechanical agents, mechanical interventions, mechanical modalities, mechanical stimulation, mechanical techniques, mechanical vibration, mechanotherapy, medium-frequency currents, mental imagery, microwave treatment, mmh, mobilization, modified constraint-induced movement therapy (mcimt), motor function, motor program theory, motor restriction, motor training techniques, movement enhancement, movement dysfunction, movement science, movement therapy, movement treatment techniques, muja, multicomponent intervention, muscle relaxation training, muscle relaxation techniques, muscle strength training, muscle strength techniques training, muscle strengthening exercises, musculoskeletal exam, musculoskeletal physical therapy, musculoskeletal system functional disorders diagnosis, musculoskeletal system functional disorders therapy, myofascial release physical therapy, needle suspension, neonatal physical therapy, neurodevelopmental therapy, neurology, nerve conduction testing, neurological physical therapy, neuromodulation, neuromuscular electrical stimulation (nmes), neuromuscular physical therapy, neuromuscular stimulation, neuromuscular stretching principles, neuropsychological knowledge, nondistally fixated knee extensor resistance training, noninvasive respiratory muscle aids, noninvasive ventilation, nonoperative treatment, nonpharmacologic pain reduction, nonpharmacologic therapy, nonpharmacologic treatments, nonsteroidal agents, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (nsaids), nonsurgical options, nonsurgical techniques, nonsurgical treatment methods, nonthermal physical therapy, nsaid, nutrition, nutritional intervention, occupational health, occupational therapy, okc, open kinetic chain exercise (okc), oral airway oscillation, orthopaedic physical therapy, orthopedic appliances, orthopedic physical therapy, orthopedic sports medicine, orthotic device and equipment use, orthotics, osteopathic medicine, outpatient physical therapy, outpatient physical therapy treatment, outpatient vascular exercise, overground mobility therapy, pain reduction treatment techniques, palatal plate therapy, parenteral opioids, passive joint mobilization, passive dorsiflexion range of motion, passive modalities, passive muscle stretch tests, passive range of motion (prom), passive range of motion exercises, passive range of motion (prom) on intracranial pressure (icp) and cerebral perfusion pressure (cpp), passive static principles, passive stretching, pathologic ranges of mobility, pathophysiology, patient education, patient related instruction and counseling, pediatric physical therapy, pelvic floor muscle (pfm) training, pelvic floor neuromuscular electrostimulation, pelvic floor physical therapy, pelvic physical therapy, percussion, percutaneous peripheral afferent nerve stimulation, perioperative physical therapy, pharmaceutical treatment, phototherapy, physical agents, physical diagnosis, physical examination, physical medicine, physical medicine specialists, physical modalities, physical performance test (ppt), physical rehabilitation, physical stress theory, physical therapeutic procedures, physical therapist, physical therapist assistants, physical therapist management, physical therapy care, physical therapy clinics, physical therapy consultation, physical therapy-including exercises, physical therapy intervention, physical therapy modalities, physical therapy patient simulator, physical therapy practice, physical therapy program, physical therapy services, physical therapy techniques, physiological ranges of mobility, physiology, physiotherapeutic modalities, physiotherapeutic techniques, physiotherapeutic treatment, physiotherapist, physiotherapy, pneumatic compression, ponseti casting, pool exercises, position specific drainage and expectoration exercises, positional feedback stimulation training, positioning treatments, postoperative ambulation, postoperative pain relief, ponseti technique, postoperative physical therapy, postoperative rehabilitation, post-stroke inpatient rehabilitation, post-stroke pt, postural drainage, postural draining, postural training, posturography, power and stamina training, preoperative pt, pressure therapy, pret, prevention, prevention education, preventive care, pricemm, primary care providers, primary physical therapist, productive activities, progressive resistance exercise (pre), progressive resistance exercise in physical therapy, progressive resistance exercise training, progressive resistance muscle strength training, progressive resistance strengthening exercises, proliferation therapy, prolotherapy, prostheses, prosthetic device and equipment use, prosthetic rehabilitation, provision of aids and appliances, psychosocial support, pt, public school physical therapy, pulmonary function tests (pft), pulmonary rehabilitation, pulsed magnetotherapy, pulsed ultrasound, pursed-lip breathing, quadriceps strengthening exercises, quantitative progressive exercise muscle rehabilitation program (qpe), range of motion exercises, rational physical therapy, reducing nuclear protrusion, regenerative injection therapy (rit), regular physiotherapy, rehabilitation, rehabilitation exercises, rehabilitation program, rehabilitation specialists, rehabilitation technology, rehabilitation therapy, relaxation, remedial gymnastics, replacement therapy, respiratory exercises, respiratory medicine, respiratory physical therapy, respiratory physiotherapy, respiratory pt, respiratory rehabilitation, respiratory therapy, restoring bony alignment, robot device, safe performance techniques training, sagittal-plane mobility, sauna therapy, scar prevention and reduction, selective dorsal rhizotomy, semont manoevre, sequential pneumatic compression, serial manipulation, short-duration passive stretch, short-duration stretch, shortwave diathermy, shoulder pendulum exercises, side-lying positions, skin care, smoking cessation, soft tissue massage, spa-therapy, spa therapy, specific therapeutic exercise, spinal cord stimulation, spinal extension, spinal flexion, spinal injury units, spinal manipulation, spinal manipulative therapy, spinal palpation, sport physiotherapy, sports medicine, squat lifting, stabilizing exercises, standard neurorehabilitation (srp), static balance, stimulation training, strength augmentation, strength training, strengthening of rotator cuff and thoracic musculature, strength-training exercises, stroke rehabilitation, suctioning via the endotracheal tube, superficial agents, supervised outpatient physical therapy, supervised rehabilitation program, supported-sitting positions, surface emg, task-oriented physical therapy, tens, therapeutic exercise, therapeutic exercise program, therapeutic management, therapeutic ultrasound, therapy of musculoskeletal system functional disorders, thermal modalities, thermotherapy, three-dimensional imaging of biochemical functions, tissue adaptation, tissue stress model, total contact casting (tcc), total rehabilitative care, traction, training, transcranial electrostimulation (tces), transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens), transcutaneous electrical stimulation (tens), treadmill, treadmill gait retraining, tru-trac traction, trunk strengthening exercise, two and three wheeled walker, three legged walker, ultrasonic diathermy, ultrasonic therapy, ultrasonography, ultrasound, ultrasound intervention, ultrasound therapy, ultrasound treatment, unilateral total knee arthroplasty rehabilitation, unsupervised home exercise knee rehabilitation program, upper extremity training, upper extremity endurance training, upper extremity strength training, us, vascular training, ventilatory muscle training, vestibular rehabilitation, vestibular rehabilitation exercises, vibration, virtual reality (vr) technology, virtual reality physical therapy, vocational rehabilitation, vr physical therapy, walking, walking backwards, water treatments, weight bearing exercises compression therapy, weight distribution, wellness program, whirlpool, wheelchairs, whole body vibration, willed-movement therapy, work reintegration, work integration.
c myofascial pain (tmj) there do not appear to be any distinguishing effects on myofascial pain,  tempromandibular disorders (tmj), or function impairment in the available  literature between arthroscopic surgery, arthrocentesis, and physical therapy.
c neck and shoulder pain physical therapy has been studied for various neck and shoulder pains,  shoulder dysfunction, adhesive capsulitis, quadriplegic shoulder pain, acute  neck pain, cervical radiculopathy, cervico-brachial pain syndrome, and shoulder  impingement syndrome among other conditions.
several studies have indicated that treatment of rheumatoid arthritis should be conducted by a specially trained physical therapist and that physical therapy may help improve morning stiffness and grip strength.
due to the lack of standardization,  duration of treatment, and various outcomes measures, more study is needed  before a firm recommendation can be made.
c complex regional pain syndrome complex regional pain syndrome involves persistent pain, allodynia (light  touch causing pain), and vasomotor signs.
reports of major adverse effects are lacking in the available literature, but caution is advised nonetheless.
physical therapy techniques have been used in adults, children, and the elderly for a wide variety of conditions.
additionally, a supervised physical therapy program has been used in children with osteogenesis imperfecta, a genetic disorder in which bones are abnormally fragile and may fracture easily.
more study  is warranted in this area before a stronger recommendation can be made.
treatment options should be considered carefully.
physical therapy for bell s  palsy (idiopathic facial paralysis).
c lymphedema various types of physical therapy have been employed in the treatment of lymphedema, such as complex physical therapy (cpt), self home maintenance therapy (bandage/wearing of elastic garment and exercise), and pneumatic compression.
studies have compared manual vs. mechanical interventions and found no differences between the two.
one study suggested that immediate postoperative physical therapy may increase shoulder range of motion, but more high quality trials are needed.
well-designed studies are needed before a  recommendation can be made.
physical therapy has been shown to be an effective treatment for dysfunctional voiding in children.
c vertigo physical therapy has been used to treat vertigo (specifically, benign paroxysmal positional vertigo).
early evidence is mixed.
scientific evidence uses these uses have been tested in humans or animals.
overall, however,  the evidence is still mixed and more study is needed.
caution is advised when using inversion as a treatment  technique for low back pain.
however,  additional study is needed in this area.
in some very low birth weight premature infants and young children, physical therapy techniques, such as passive motion and chest percussion therapy, may increase the likelihood of bone fractures.
c osteoarthritis physical therapy has been used in the treatment of gonarthritis and hand,  hip, and knee osteoarthritis.
treatment options should be  considered carefully.
based on the available literature, physical therapy appears generally safe when practiced by a qualified physical therapist.
pain medications may be given, which in turn may carry risk factors for  anti-inflammatory-drug- or aspirin-induced gastrointestinal complications.
c nerve disorders there is insufficient available evidence.
long-term studies with more standardized outcomes measures would help make a stronger recommendation.
instruction in kneeling is a useful addition to physical therapy following knee replacement.
additional studies are needed  before a recommendation can be made.
one method of physical therapy,  infrared, short-wave diathermy-pulsed patterns and interferential therapy,  showed more effectiveness than intra-articular hyaluronan drugs in two studies.
stretching, strengthening, and aerobic exercise may improve ankle dorsiflexion active range of motion and knee extension strength.
all therapies during pregnancy and breastfeeding should be discussed with a licensed obstetrician/gynecologist before initiation.
physical therapy techniques have been used in adults, children, and the  elderly for a wide variety of conditions.
c frozen shoulder intensive physical rehabilitation treatment, including passive stretching and manual mobilization (stretching group), has been compared with supportive therapy and exercises within the pain limits for the treatment of frozen shoulder.
early evidence suggests small benefits when physical therapy is used in combination with drugs.
there is conflicting evidence of significant benefit or harm from physical therapy treatments for this condition.
the ancient greek doctor hippocrates wrote about massage and hydrotherapy in 460 bc, and splints and exercises were used to treat wounded roman gladiators.
physical therapy, either as an individually delivered treatment or in a small group format, appears effective.
some studies have found short-term benefits of manual therapy over general medical care.
no obstante, este no es el caso  universal; es posible que se presenten efectos adversos.
manual therapy has sometimes shown better  outcomes on pain, stiffness, hip function, and range of motion, although it is  unclear whether sham treatment or other modalities would be comparable to  physical therapy.
additional research  is needed.
overall,  short-term improvements have been seen with pelvic floor exercises and vaginal  balls.
selected references are  listed below.
whenever  possible, it is recommended that practitioners be licensed by a recognized  professional organization that adheres to clearly published standards.
examples of manual respiratory physical therapy techniques include postural drainage, chest percussion, vibration, chest shaking, directed coughing, or forced exhalation technique.
c kashin-beck osteoarthropathy early evidence shows that physical therapy may be better than  multivitamins for treating kashin-beck osteoarthropathy, although results are  unclear.
better-designed trials of pt alone are needed before it can be recommended.
c carpal tunnel syndrome carpal bone mobilization and median nerve mobilization have both been studied for the treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome.
physical therapy protocols are not well outlined, and there is limited study comparing physical therapy vs. other modalities.
no high-quality trials show benefit of these therapies over other  therapies or controls.
more  research is needed in this area.
repetitive exercises can have cardiovascular effects.
more large studies of higher-quality are needed.
according to the american physical therapy association, the goal of  physical therapy (pt) or physiotherapy is to improve mobility, restore  function, reduce pain, and prevent further injury by using a variety of  methods, including exercises, stretches, traction, electrical stimulation, and
more study is warranted in this area before a stronger recommendation can be made.
c circulatory disorders various types of supervised and unsupervised physical therapy programs such as compression, cold-temperature stimuli, gymnastics, walking, and sauna have been used to improve circulation in the legs.
c strength enhancer physical therapy has been used with biofeedback training to enhance strength in patients with foot drop (a birth disorder where the foot is twisted out of shape or position), and has also been used in elderly patients recuperating from acute illnesses.
b knee osteoarthritis physical therapy for osteoarthritis of the knee may provide short-term benefits, but long-term benefits do not appear better than standard treatments.
physical therapy is commonly used for musculoskeletal injuries, joint pain or disorders, low back pain, cerebral palsy, and rehabilitation after injury or surgery, including heart surgery or mastectomy.
additional  study is needed in this area.
c rehabilitation (vestibular) patients with chronic vestibular disorders typically have complaints of  unsteadiness, imbalance, and/or motion intolerance.
better-designed trials are needed before a firm  recommendation can be made.
most studies stress early intervention to speed  recovery, although studies that compare early intervention to later  intervention, spontaneous healing, and other modalities, including sham  treatments, are lacking.
c ankylosing spondylitis several clinical trials have compared supervised group physical therapy to  unsupervised daily exercises at home for the treatment of ankylosing  spondylitis.
for example, patients who return to physical therapy after a deep vein thrombosis are more likely to develop a pulmonary embolism than patients who return later (no sooner than 48 to 72 hours).
abstract bassett sf, prapavessis h. home-based physical therapy intervention with  adherence-enhancing strategies versus clinic-based management for patients with  ankle sprains.
studies have compared manual vs. mechanical interventions  and found no differences between the two.
no high-quality trials show benefit of these therapies over other therapies or controls.
additional research  is needed in this area.
there is not enough available evidence.
c hip pain there is little available research on the physical therapy treatment of  hip pain.
these may include arm mobilization, shoulder strengthening,  prevention and treatment of upper extremity edema, and education about arm  function.
c frozen shoulder intensive physical rehabilitation treatment, including passive stretching  and manual mobilization (stretching group), has been compared with supportive  therapy and exercises within the pain limits for the treatment of frozen  shoulder.
further well designed studies are needed before a firm  recommendation can be made.
physical therapy treatment  of back complaints on children and adolescents.
a long-term high-intensity exercise program has been suggested by some, and beneficial effects may last up to one year.
chest physical therapy (postural drainage, percussion, and vibration) may be used to clear bronchial secretions, as well as mechanical devices, such as the flutter valve.
several studies have indicated that treatment of rheumatoid arthritis  should be conducted by a specially trained physical therapist and that physical  therapy may help improve morning stiffness and grip strength.
it aims to strengthen weakened muscle groups through repetitive motion, increase overall function including cognitive function, and improve gait and walking.
however, studies are lacking that compare physical therapy to placebo or other interventions.
examples of  specific techniques used include home-based exercise programs, mobilization and  extension techniques, flexion exercise, breathing therapy, masai barefoot  technology, and the mckenzie method.
manual therapy has sometimes shown better outcomes on pain, stiffness, hip function, and range of motion, although it is unclear whether sham treatment or other modalities would be comparable to physical therapy.
c neurological disorders there is insufficient evidence in this area.
there are questions in the literature as to whether physical therapy regimens should be tailored to fit the individual's back pain, as not all back pain is alike.
due  to the various methods studied across trials, comparison is difficult and a  firm conclusion cannot be reached at this time.
c orthostatic hypotension there is insufficient evidence in this area.
note: this monograph does not focus on evidence where physical  therapy was used in combination with drugs, such as pain killers.
sign up to receive newsletter
early evidence suggests that physical  therapy may have a better effect than occupational therapy or no treatment for  the reduction of pain in some patients.
despite promising early evidence, better-designed studies are needed to draw a firm conclusion.
c bone density supervised or home-based physical therapy has been used in combination  with resistance and endurance training in physically frail elderly women taking  hormone replacement therapy to improve bone density.
c tennis elbow lateral epicondylitis (commonly known as tennis elbow) is one of the most common upper extremity pain syndromes.
sign up to receive newsletter natural standard bottom line monograph, copyright © 2011 ( www.naturalstandard.com).
higher-quality trials and  comparisons with placebo are needed to confirm these results.
chest physical  therapy (postural drainage, percussion, and vibration) may be used to clear  bronchial secretions, as well as mechanical devices, such as the flutter valve.
it aims to strengthen weakened muscle groups through repetitive  motion, increase overall function including cognitive function, and improve  gait and walking.
b pain physical therapy has been used to treat a wide variety of pain syndromes including patellofemoral pain syndrome, wrist pain, post-operative pain, and chronic pain.
various types of rehabilitation have been tried, although vestibular rehabilitation, a specific approach to physical therapy aimed at reducing dizziness and imbalance by facilitating central nervous system compensation for peripheral vestibular dysfunction, has been used the most.
additional studies are needed before a recommendation can be made.
c sprains and strains physical therapy has been studied to reduce the healing time of acute ankle ligament sprains and acute hamstring sprains.
conservative physical therapy regimens have also been used in combination with  electrical stimulation, infant stimulation, botulinum toxin a, and selective  dorsal rhizotomy.
more study is warranted.
physical therapy has been compared with acupressure, the feldenkrais method, and drug interventions although it is still unclear whether physical therapy is better or worse than short-term spontaneous healing or long-term healing.
better-designed trials are needed to make a firm conclusion.
c pulmonary conditions lung hyperinflation is a technique used by physiotherapists to mobilize  and remove excess lung secretions, reinflate areas of pulmonary collapse, and  improve oxygenation.
these may include arm mobilization, shoulder strengthening, prevention and treatment of upper extremity edema, and education about arm function.
c muscle tension there is conflicting evidence regarding physical therapy's ability to  lengthen hamstring muscles or increase hamstring flexibility.
only one available study compared physical therapy to a sham group (subtherapeutic ultrasound) and found that a combination of manual physical therapy and supervised exercise was beneficial for patients with osteoarthritis of the knee.
only one available study compared physical  therapy to a sham group (subtherapeutic ultrasound) and found that a  combination of manual physical therapy and supervised exercise was beneficial  for patients with osteoarthritis of the knee.
in contrast, it is thought that keeping areas immobilized for long periods of time may also carry risk factors.
medication  adjustments may be necessary.
more  study is needed to make any firm conclusion.
physical therapy techniques such as treadmill training and weight-bearing gait training have been used with mixed results.
more  large studies of higher-quality are needed.
in one study, physical therapy did not show better effects when compared with hypnotherapy.
c joint problems physical therapy has been used to treat a variety of joint problems, including chronic ankle instability, clubfoot (a birth defect of the ankle/foot), impingement syndrome, and knee, thumb, elbow, shoulder, wrist, and ankle movement disorders.
patients may be referred to a  physical therapist by a doctor or may directly contact a physical therapist.
physical  therapy has also been suggested as a possible treatment for a genetic disorder  called multiple pterygium syndrome (mps).
los profesionales de la salud que tienen instrucción formal practican muchas técnicas complementarias, de acuerdo con los estándares de organizaciones nacionales.
information is based on review of scientific research data, historical practice patterns, and clinical experience.
c knee replacement surgery physical therapy has been used to treat complications and/or help with recovery after knee replacement surgery.
more research is necessary prior to physical therapy being recommended for this use.
this information is based on a systematic review of scientific literature edited and peer-reviewed by contributors to the natural standard research collaboration (www.naturalstandard.com).
studies have found benefit  of physical therapy and active exercises over standard of care.
c bronchitis (chronic) respiratory therapy has been used in the treatment of bronchitis, and the  flutter device has been studied for its beneficial effects.
conservative physical therapy regimens have also been used in combination with electrical stimulation, infant stimulation, botulinum toxin a, and selective dorsal rhizotomy.
pain and anxiety may occur during the rehabilitation of patients with burns.
more study  using consistent treatment protocols and outcomes measures would be helpful.
more high-quality studies are needed before a firm recommendation can be made.
physical  therapy has been compared with acupressure, the feldenkrais method, and drug  interventions although it is still unclear whether physical therapy is better  or worse than short-term spontaneous healing or long-term healing.
comparison of a functional  restoration program with active individual physical therapy for patients with  chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
b achilles tendonitis physical therapy (crutches, orthoses, and eccentric exercise training) has been used in the management of pain for achilles tendinopathy and tendon ruptures.
2008 aug;162(8):712-8.view abstract vignochi cm, miura e, canani lh.
additional  higher-quality research is needed in this area.
c parkinson's disease management of parkinson's disease typically aims to obtain symptom  control, reduce clinical disability, and improve quality of life.
advancements in contemporary physical therapy  research: use of mixed methods designs.
well-designed studies are needed before a recommendation can be made.
there is conflicting evidence of  significant benefit or harm from physical therapy treatments for this condition.
more study is  needed in this area.
physical therapy has been  combined with music therapy to treat children with erb's palsy.
c joint problems physical therapy has been used to treat a variety of joint problems,  including chronic ankle instability, clubfoot (a birth defect of the  ankle/foot), impingement syndrome, and knee, thumb, elbow, shoulder, wrist, and  ankle movement disorders.
despite some mixed evidence, there are  several trials that compare physical therapy techniques to placebo controls for  the treatment of patellofemoral pain syndrome that have found beneficial  effects.
a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study.
c neck and shoulder pain physical therapy has been studied for various neck and shoulder pains, shoulder dysfunction, adhesive capsulitis, quadriplegic shoulder pain, acute neck pain, cervical radiculopathy, cervico-brachial pain syndrome, and shoulder impingement syndrome among other conditions.
despite the large amount of research conducted on physical therapy  cost-effectiveness and treatments for back pain (including chronic and acute  low back pain, lumbar disc herniation, pregnancy-related back pain,  work-related back pain), there is a lack of conclusive evidence that physical  therapy is more effective than other treatments or placebo.
physical therapy has also been used in combination with  sodium selenite application.
c stroke physical therapy is a popular choice for patients undergoing stroke rehabilitation.
techniques studied in combination with conservative physical therapy include gymnastics, strengthening exercises, electrotherapy, thermotherapy, massage, cervical traction, and tissue mobilization.
aside from orthosis, exercise, stretching, and extracorporeal shock wave therapy may be of use for tendonitis of the shoulder.
according to one study, manipulative treatment may shorten recovery time faster than physiotherapy treatment.
despite promising early evidence,  better-designed studies are needed to draw a firm conclusion.
not all physical therapy programs are suited for everyone, and patients  should discuss their medical history with a qualified healthcare professional  before beginning any treatments.
results are inconclusive and more study is needed.
related terms achilles tendon lengthening, achilles tendon-lengthening (atl) procedure,  aclr rehabilitation, active lumbar exercises, active physical therapy, active  range of motion exercises, active rom, acupuncture, acute ankle inversion  sprains, acute care for elders, adaptive device and equipment use, adaptive  devices, adjusting joint subluxations, aeh, aerosol therapy, afferent  stimulation, aggressive physical therapy, aggressive spine rehabilitation,  airway clearance devices, airway clearance regimens, airway suctioning,  alexander technique, allopathic medicine, ambulation exercises, ambulation  training, ambulatory physical therapy, ambulatory respiratory rehabilitation,  american physical therapy association, amputation alternative, analytic  physiotherapy, anatomic ranges of mobility, anatomy, ancillary services,  antalgic electrotherapy, applications of cold, applications of physical agents  such as heat or cold, aquatic physical therapy, aquatic therapy, arm care,  arterial emoblization hyperthermia, arthrographic distension, arthrolysis,  arthroscopic distension, assessment, assisted coughing, assistive device and  equipment use, athletic trainer, atraumatic recurrent posterior shoulder  subluxation, augmented feedback, autotraction, balance, balance reactions,  balance techniques training, balance training, balneology, balneotherapy,  behavior-oriented physical therapy, behavioral medicine (bm) rehabilitation  program, behavioral modification techniques, biofeedback, biofeedback therapy,  biomechanics, bobath, bobath physical therapy, bobath therapeutic exercises,  body weight-supported treadmill training, botulinum toxin a (btxa), bracing,  breath therapy, breathing exercises, breathing training, bronchopulmonary  hygiene physical therapy, burn rehabilitation, bwstt, cai simulation program,  canalith repositioning, cardiopulmonary assessment, cardiopulmonary physical  therapy, cardiopulmonary physical therapists, cardiopulmonary physiology,  cardiopulmonary rehabilitation, central neural blockade, cervical collar,  cervical electrostimulation, cervical manipulation, cervical spinal  manipulation, cervical traction, chest percussion, chest physical therapy,  chest physiotherapy (cp), chest pt, chest shaking, chest vibration, chest wall  oscillation, chiropractic education and technique, chiropractic health,  chiropractic manipulation, chiropractic radiology education, chiropractic  profession, chiropractic therapy, chiropractors, chronic disability prevention,  ci therapy, ckc, classification-based physical therapy, climatology,  clinic-based rehabilitation, clinic-centered rehabilitation, clinical  evaluation, closed chain rehabilitation, closed kinetic chain exercise (ckc),  cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt), cold agent application, cold bath, cold  compress, cold therapy, combination therapy, communication, complex  decongestive physiotherapy, complex physical therapy, compression bandages,  compression bandaging, compression garments, compression pump, compression  stockings, compression therapy, conservative therapy, constraint-induced  movement therapy (ci therapy), continuous passive motion, continuous positive  airway pressure (cpap), continuous traction, controlled breathing, controlled  cough, conventional chest physical therapy, conventional physical therapy  procedure, coordination, coordination exercises, coordinative training, cough  stimulation techniques, coughing, counter irritation, cpm, cpt, crutches,  cryotherapy, cyphosis, dance, debridement of wounds and burns, deep heating  agents, deep-tissue massage, diadynamic currents, diagnosis of pathology,  diagnosis of musculoskeletal system functional disorders, diaphragmatic  breathing, differentiated rehabilitation, dih, direct injection hyperthermia,  directed coughing, disability prevention treatment techniques, distally fixated  knee extensor resistance training, documentation and coordination, dressings,  dutch low back pain guideline, dynamic exercise stress testing, eccentric  exercises, education, education through repetition of functional tasks,  effective listening, electric muscle stimulation, electrical stimulation,  electromedicine, electromyographic biofeedback, electromyography,  electrophysical agents, electrostimulation, electrotherapeutic agents,  electrotherapeutic modalities, electrotherapy, emg, energy conservation  techniques training, epley maneuver, ergonomics, evidence-based physical  therapy, examination, exercise, exercise physiology, exercise prescription,  exercise program, exercise therapy, exercise training, exercise treatment,  exercises, exercises and physical training, extension closure,  extension-mobilization, external vibrations, extracorporeal shock wave therapy,  fall recovery techniques training, fear-avoidance-based physical therapy,  fitness program, fitting for assistive devices, flexion closure, foot  orthotics, first-contact nonphysician care, fitness, florida physical therapy  association, flutter vrp1, forced exhalation technique, forced expiratory  maneuvers, french approach, french physical therapy methods, french technique,  function restoring treatment techniques, functional anatomy, functional  electrical stimulation (fes), functional independence measure (fim), functional  limitations, functional rehabilitation, functional retraining techniques,  functional training, functional training in self-care and home management,  gaitrite computerized gait analysis system, galvanization, gerentological  physical therapy, geriatric rehabilitation, gestural improvement of the patient  (notions of ergonomics, lifting techniques), goniometry, gross motor function  measure (gmfm), group balance skills, group exercises, gymnastics, hand  therapist, hands-on treatment techniques, health education, heat, heat agent  application, heat and cold treatment, heat therapy, hfcc, high frequency chest  compression (hfcc), high-frequency chest wall oscillation, high-frequency oral  airway oscillation, high-velocity thrust manipulation, hip extensors, home  based rehabilitation, home-based physical therapy (pt), home rehabilitation,  hospital-based physical therapist, hospital physical therapy, hospital physical  therapy outpatient departments, hot pack, hot/ice thermal blanket,  hydrocollator pack, hydrotherapy, hyperthermia, hypnotherapy, ih, iih,  immersive virtual reality (vr), immobilization, impulse galvanization,  infrared, infrared heating, innocuous mechanical stimulation, inpatient  rehabilitation programs, instructed coughing, instrumental chest physiotherapy,  integumentary physical therapy, intensive cognitive rehabilitation program  (icrp), intensive passive mobilization techniques, intensive physical therapy,  interference current, interferential current, internal vibrations, interrupted  traction, interstitial implant hyperthermia, interventions, intracellular  hyperthermia, inversion traction, iontophoresis, isoinertial trunk extensor  strength, isometric trunk extensor strength, joint manipulation, joint  mobilization, joint play, joint movement, joint replacement therapy, kegel  exercises, kinebalneotherapy, kinesiology, kinesitherapy, kinetic chain  training, kinetron isokinetic exerciser, kite and lovell technique, knee  extensor resistance training, knee extensors, knee taping techniques, knowledge  of functional anatomy, knowledge of results (kr), laser, laser therapy, leg  extensor training, lifestyle modifications, light-therapy, lifting techniques,  limb-load monitor, listening, long-duration passive stretch, low energy laser,  low-frequency currents, low-intensity home-based physical therapy,  low-intensity laser irradiation, lower extremity endurance training, lower  extremity training, lumbar posture modification, lumbo-pelvic thrust  manipulation, lymph drainage, lymphatic massage, magnetic field, magnetic field  therapy, magnetically mediated hyperthermia, maitland mobilization,  manipulation, manipulation package, manipulation under joint  anesthesia/analgesia, manipulative therapy, manipulative techniques,  manipulative therapists, manual diagnosis, manual handling, manual  interventions, manual lymph drainage, manual medicine, manual mobilization,  manual physical therapy, manual techniques, manual therapy, manual therapy  techniques, masai barefoot technology, massage, massage therapists, matrix  composition, mckenzie method, mechanical agents, mechanical interventions,  mechanical modalities, mechanical stimulation, mechanical techniques,  mechanical vibration, mechanotherapy, medium-frequency currents, mental  imagery, microwave treatment, mmh, mobilization, modified constraint-induced  movement therapy (mcimt), motor function, motor program theory, motor  restriction, motor training techniques, movement enhancement, movement  dysfunction, movement science, movement therapy, movement treatment techniques,  muja, multicomponent intervention, muscle relaxation training, muscle  relaxation techniques, muscle strength training, muscle strength techniques  training, muscle strengthening exercises, musculoskeletal exam, musculoskeletal  physical therapy, musculoskeletal system functional disorders diagnosis,  musculoskeletal system functional disorders therapy, myofascial release  physical therapy, needle suspension, neonatal physical therapy,  neurodevelopmental therapy, neurology, nerve conduction testing, neurological  physical therapy, neuromodulation, neuromuscular electrical stimulation (nmes),  neuromuscular physical therapy, neuromuscular stimulation, neuromuscular  stretching principles, neuropsychological knowledge, nondistally fixated knee  extensor resistance training, noninvasive respiratory muscle aids, noninvasive  ventilation, nonoperative treatment, nonpharmacologic pain reduction,  nonpharmacologic therapy, nonpharmacologic treatments, nonsteroidal agents,  nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (nsaids), nonsurgical options,  nonsurgical techniques, nonsurgical treatment methods, nonthermal physical  therapy, nsaid, nutrition, nutritional intervention, occupational health,  occupational therapy, okc, open kinetic chain exercise (okc), oral airway  oscillation, orthopaedic physical therapy, orthopedic appliances, orthopedic  physical therapy, orthopedic sports medicine, orthotic device and equipment  use, orthotics, osteopathic medicine, outpatient physical therapy, outpatient  physical therapy treatment, outpatient vascular exercise, overground mobility  therapy, pain reduction treatment techniques, palatal plate therapy, parenteral  opioids, passive joint mobilization, passive dorsiflexion range of motion,  passive modalities, passive muscle stretch tests, passive range of motion  (prom), passive range of motion exercises, passive range of motion (prom) on  intracranial pressure (icp) and cerebral perfusion pressure (cpp), passive  static principles, passive stretching, pathologic ranges of mobility,  pathophysiology, patient education, patient related instruction and counseling,  pediatric physical therapy, pelvic floor muscle (pfm) training, pelvic floor  neuromuscular electrostimulation, pelvic floor physical therapy, pelvic  physical therapy, percussion, percutaneous peripheral afferent nerve  stimulation, perioperative physical therapy, pharmaceutical treatment,  phototherapy, physical agents, physical diagnosis, physical examination,  physical medicine, physical medicine specialists, physical modalities, physical  performance test (ppt), physical rehabilitation, physical stress theory,  physical therapeutic procedures, physical therapist, physical therapist  assistants, physical therapist management, physical therapy care, physical  therapy clinics, physical therapy consultation, physical therapy-including  exercises, physical therapy intervention, physical therapy modalities, physical  therapy patient simulator, physical therapy practice, physical therapy program,  physical therapy services, physical therapy techniques, physiological ranges of  mobility, physiology, physiotherapeutic modalities, physiotherapeutic  techniques, physiotherapeutic treatment, physiotherapist, physiotherapy,  pneumatic compression, ponseti casting, pool exercises, position specific  drainage and expectoration exercises, positional feedback stimulation training,  positioning treatments, postoperative ambulation, postoperative pain relief,  ponseti technique, postoperative physical therapy, postoperative  rehabilitation, post-stroke inpatient rehabilitation, post-stroke pt, postural  drainage, postural draining, postural training, posturography, power and  stamina training, preoperative pt, pressure therapy, pret, prevention,  prevention education, preventive care, pricemm, primary care providers, primary  physical therapist, productive activities, progressive resistance exercise  (pre), progressive resistance exercise in physical therapy, progressive  resistance exercise training, progressive resistance muscle strength training,  progressive resistance strengthening exercises, proliferation therapy,  prolotherapy, prostheses, prosthetic device and equipment use, prosthetic  rehabilitation, provision of aids and appliances, psychosocial support, pt,  public school physical therapy, pulmonary function tests (pft), pulmonary  rehabilitation, pulsed magnetotherapy, pulsed ultrasound, pursed-lip breathing,  quadriceps strengthening exercises, quantitative progressive exercise muscle  rehabilitation program (qpe), range of motion exercises, rational physical  therapy, reducing nuclear protrusion, regenerative injection therapy (rit),  regular physiotherapy, rehabilitation, rehabilitation exercises, rehabilitation  program, rehabilitation specialists, rehabilitation technology, rehabilitation  therapy, relaxation, remedial gymnastics, replacement therapy, respiratory  exercises, respiratory medicine, respiratory physical therapy, respiratory  physiotherapy, respiratory pt, respiratory rehabilitation, respiratory therapy,  restoring bony alignment, robot device, safe performance techniques training,  sagittal-plane mobility, sauna therapy, scar prevention and reduction,  selective dorsal rhizotomy, semont manoevre, sequential pneumatic compression,  serial manipulation, short-duration passive stretch, short-duration stretch,  shortwave diathermy, shoulder pendulum exercises, side-lying positions, skin  care, smoking cessation, soft tissue massage, spa-therapy, spa therapy,  specific therapeutic exercise, spinal cord stimulation, spinal extension,  spinal flexion, spinal injury units, spinal manipulation, spinal manipulative  therapy, spinal palpation, sport physiotherapy, sports medicine, squat lifting,  stabilizing exercises, standard neurorehabilitation (srp), static balance,  stimulation training, strength augmentation, strength training, strengthening  of rotator cuff and thoracic musculature, strength-training exercises, stroke  rehabilitation, suctioning via the endotracheal tube, superficial agents,  supervised outpatient physical therapy, supervised rehabilitation program,  supported-sitting positions, surface emg, task-oriented physical therapy, tens,  therapeutic exercise, therapeutic exercise program, therapeutic management,  therapeutic ultrasound, therapy of musculoskeletal system functional disorders,  thermal modalities, thermotherapy, three-dimensional imaging of biochemical  functions, tissue adaptation, tissue stress model, total contact casting (tcc),  total rehabilitative care, traction, training, transcranial electrostimulation  (tces), transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens), transcutaneous  electrical stimulation (tens), treadmill, treadmill gait retraining, tru-trac  traction, trunk strengthening exercise, two and three wheeled walker, three  legged walker, ultrasonic diathermy, ultrasonic therapy, ultrasonography,  ultrasound, ultrasound intervention, ultrasound therapy, ultrasound treatment,  unilateral total knee arthroplasty rehabilitation, unsupervised home exercise  knee rehabilitation program, upper extremity training, upper extremity  endurance training, upper extremity strength training, us, vascular training,  ventilatory muscle training, vestibular rehabilitation, vestibular  rehabilitation exercises, vibration, virtual reality (vr) technology, virtual  reality physical therapy, vocational rehabilitation, vr physical therapy,  walking, walking backwards, water treatments, weight bearing exercises  compression therapy, weight distribution, wellness program, whirlpool,  wheelchairs, whole body vibration, willed-movement therapy, work reintegration,  work integration.
several studies have used physical therapy techniques plus passive motion to improve function, reduce pain, and improve muscle strength and range of motion for sacroiliac joint dysfunction (sijd) and rotator cuff repair.
there is inconclusive evidence on whether physical therapy may help reduce cancer-related fatigue.
persistent pain and fractures of unknown origin have been reported.
several studies have used physical therapy techniques plus passive motion  to improve function, reduce pain, and improve muscle strength and range of  motion for sacroiliac joint dysfunction (sijd) and rotator cuff repair.
natural standard developed the above evidence-based information based on a thorough systematic review of the available scientific articles.
information  is based on review of scientific research data, historical practice patterns,  and clinical experience.