ann intern med 2003; 138:871.
these posts will focus on evidenced based answers to  clinical questions related to patients seen by our students in the clinics or  on the wards.
physician office visits for low back  pain.
from a chiropractor’s perspective, low back pain is a function of restricted movement in the spine.
spinal manipulative therapy for low back pain.
image courtesy of gray’s anatomy great article.
radiological examination  reveals degenerative changes in the lumbar spine, particularly at l4-l5.
however  there is not sufficient evidence to conclude that it achieves better outcomes  than standard care.
a clinical prediction rule to identify patients with low back pain  most likely to benefit from spinal manipulation: a validation study.
ann intern med 2004; 141:920.
a meta-analysis of effectiveness relative to other therapies.
many patients with chronic low back pain will seek chiropractic care, but what is the evidence that chiropractic care is even effective in treating low back pain?
childs, jd, fritz, jm, flynn, tw, et al.
i think they are less an 3 years old.
enjoy… commentary by brian liem, msiv a 52 year old male with no medical problems presents to your clinic with a  10 year history of chronic intermittent back pain.
hurwitz, el, morgenstern, h,  kominski, gf, et al.
would the patient benefit from chiropractic intervention?
in spinal manipulation, practitioners apply high velocity manual loading to the spine using short or long leverage methods in order to increase spine mobility.3
bmj  2004; 329:1377. 5.
frequency, clinical evaluation, and treatment patterns from a u.s. national survey.
in spinal manipulation, practitioners apply  high velocity manual loading to the spine using short or long leverage methods  in order to increase spine mobility.3
bigos, sj, battie, mc.
at least one hip with more than 35  degrees of internal rotation 4)
at three months post-treatment, those patients who were given the additional spinal manipulation had improved roland morris disability scores.4 at twelve months there continued to be improvements, although less dramatic.
uncategorized  (50) urology  (3) blogroll
however, in a meta-analysis of 39 randomized control trials comparing  spinal manipulation to commonly used, but not necessarily proven, therapies  (i.e.: analgesics, back school (diathermy), physical therapy, light massage,  bed rest, topical gels, corsets), spinal manipulative therapy was found only to  be superior to sham therapy or therapies judged to be ineffective or even  harmful.5 researchers found no evidence that spinal manipulation was more  effective than standard treatments for low back pain.
assendelft, wj, morton, sc, yu, ei, et al.
todd brown http://thechiropracticdashboard.com matthew loop on november 30, 2008 at 2:55 pm good post.
- matthew loop http://dcincome.com this is a well balanced article, although i am not sure on what the conclusion that “there is not sufficient evidence that chiropractic achieves better outcomes than standard care” is based.
while the standard practice for treating lower back pain is  generally with activity modification, analgesics and physical therapy, spinal  manipulative therapy, otherwise known as chiropractic care, has gained  popularity throughout the years.
these posts will focus on evidenced based answers to clinical questions related to patients seen by our students in the clinics or on the wards.
http://www.clinicalcorrelations.org/?p=327 [...] leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
hurwitz, el, morgenstern, h, kominski, gf, et al.
- matthew loop http://dcincome.com tom necela on november 18, 2009 at 2:09 am this is a well balanced article, although i am not sure on what the  conclusion that “there is not sufficient evidence that chiropractic  achieves better outcomes than standard care” is based.
at least one hip with more than 35 degrees of internal rotation 4)
http://www.clinicalcorrelations.org/?p=327 [...] your email address will not be published.
this criteria included: 1) symptoms for  fewer than 16 days 2)
it didn’t seem biased against chiropractic, yet seemed to present the facts and research.
at three months post-treatment,  those patients who were given the additional spinal manipulation had improved  roland morris disability scores.4 at twelve months there continued to be  improvements, although less dramatic.
the impact of spinal disorders on in industry.
at least one hypermobile segment in the lumbar spine 3)
from a chiropractor’s perspective, low back pain is a function of  restricted movement in the spine.
no symptoms distal to the knee 3)
in a study of 681 low back pain patients at ucla, receiving either chiropractic or medical care, it was found that compared with medical care-only patients, chiropractic patients were much more likely to perceive improvements in their low back symptoms.6 this study, however, found that at 18 months post treatment, there was no statistically significant reduction in clinical outcomes, as measured by pain score and disability, between the two groups.
prior to publication, each commentary is thoroughly reviewed for content by a faculty member.
many patients with chronic low back pain  will seek chiropractic care, but what is the evidence that chiropractic care is  even effective in treating low back pain?
radiological examination reveals degenerative changes in the lumbar spine, particularly at l4-l5.
one randomized control study in uk of 1334 patients compared treatment of low back pain with “best care” in general practice to spinal manipulation added to “best care.”
enjoy… commentary by brian liem, msiv a 52 year old male with no medical problems presents to your clinic with a 10 year history of chronic intermittent back pain.
a clinical prediction rule to identify patients with low back pain most likely to benefit from spinal manipulation: a validation study.
is it comparing  chiropractic billing vs medical billing?
there are actually some really good studies that have been  conducted by british medical journal and the journal of manipulative and  physiologic therapeutics that have suggested chiropractic therapy was more  effective with exercises at providing substantial long-term relief.
despite the above meta-analysis findings, patients may still believe that they achieve greater relief from chiropractic interventions than from standard medical treatment.
physician office visits for low back pain.
frequency, clinical evaluation, and treatment patterns from a u.s.  national survey.
i think  they are less an 3 years old.
chiropractor recommendations « against all woo on march 24, 2010 at  9:11 pm [...]
a review of the evidence for the effectiveness, safety, and cost of acupuncture, massage therapy, and spinal manipulation for back pain.
ann intern med 2003; 138:898.
or is it strictly on clinical outcomes?
welcome to class act, a new feature of clinical correlations.
over the past few months, his pain has increased in severity and frequency.
childs, jd, fritz, jm, flynn,  tw, et al.
with the literature in mixed support of chiropractic care for low back  pain, perhaps the question is not whether spinal manipulative therapy is  effective in treating this condition, but, rather, in which subset of patients  it is likely to benefit?
a score below 10 on the fear-avoidance beliefs questionnaire.
does safety play a factor?
love to see these explored in another post.
over the past few months,  his pain has increased in severity and frequency.
ann intern  med 2004; 141:920.
class act will feature posts written by nyu 3rd and 4th year medical students.
taking the above studies together, at this time chiropractic care can be  considered a safe and moderately effective treatment of low back pain.
united kingdom back pain exercise and manipulation (uk beam) randomised trial: effectiveness of physical treatments for back pain in primary care.
july 18, 2007 welcome to class act, a new feature  of clinical correlations.
a randomized trial of chiropractic and medical care for  patients with low back pain: eighteen-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla  low back pain study.
in: the adult spine: principles and practice, frymoyer, jw (ed), raven press,  new york 1991.
however there is not sufficient evidence to conclude that it achieves better outcomes than standard care.
todd brown on august 4, 2008 at 11:41 am great article.
quick  thinking  (4) radiology  (9) renal  (21)  rheumatology  (14) systems  (2) tales of  survival  (16)
a meta-analysis of effectiveness relative to other  therapies.
or is it strictly on clinical  outcomes?
a randomized trial of chiropractic and medical care for patients with low back pain: eighteen-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain study.
at least one  hypermobile segment in the lumbar spine 3)
there are actually some really good studies that have been conducted by british medical journal and the journal of manipulative and physiologic therapeutics that have suggested chiropractic therapy was more effective with exercises at providing substantial long-term relief.
united kingdom back pain exercise and manipulation (uk beam) randomised  trial: effectiveness of physical treatments for back pain in primary care.
in a randomized control trial of 131 patients in san antonio, texas, it was found that patients who received spinal manipulation in addition to exercise benefited more than those who received exercise therapy alone if they met certain criteria.7
spinal manipulative therapy  for low back pain.
required fields are marked * name * email * website
in a randomized control trial of 131 patients in san  antonio, texas, it was found that patients who received spinal manipulation in  addition to exercise benefited more than those who received exercise therapy  alone if they met certain criteria.7
is it comparing chiropractic billing vs medical billing?
it didn’t seem biased against chiropractic, yet seemed  to present the facts and research.
low back pain is the 5th leading reason for medical office visits in the us  and is the leading cause of work-related disability.1 fifty-six percent of  office visits for back pain are to family practitioners and internists, 25  percent to orthopedic surgeons, 7 percent to neurosurgeons, and 4 percent to  neurologists, and the rest to chiropractors and other healthcare  professionals.2
taking the above studies together, at this time chiropractic care can be considered a safe and moderately effective treatment of low back pain.
prior to publication, each commentary is thoroughly reviewed for  content by a faculty member.
required fields are marked * name * website categories select category allergy/immunology  (2) ask a  librarian  (3) bedside rounds  (8) breaking  news  (54) cardiology  (60) chief of service  rounds  (1) class act  (67) clinical  questions  (68) cpc  (27) dermatology  (5)  diseases 2.0  (25) endocrine  (46) ethics  (27)  evolution and medicine  (2) from the archives  (4)  geriatrics  (3) gi  (39) grand rounds  (40)  healthcare policy  (29) heme/onc  (37)  hotspots  (12) id  (52) journal club  (11)  medicine by the numbers  (7) meeting perspectives  (20)  musculoskeletal  (3) mystery quiz  (43) myths and  realities  (17) neuro  (19) nutrition  (5)  pharmacology  (30) primecuts  (240)  psychiatry  (5) pulmonary/critical care  (37)
one randomized control study in uk of 1334 patients compared treatment of  low back pain with “best care” in general practice to spinal  manipulation added to “best care.”
a score below 10 on the fear-avoidance beliefs  questionnaire.
a review of the  evidence for the effectiveness, safety, and cost of acupuncture, massage  therapy, and spinal manipulation for back pain.
with the literature in mixed support of chiropractic care for low back pain, perhaps the question is not whether spinal manipulative therapy is effective in treating this condition, but, rather, in which subset of patients it is likely to benefit?
cherkin, dc, sherman, kj, deyo, ra, shekelle, pg.
class act will feature posts written by nyu 3rd and  4th year medical students.
would  the patient benefit from chiropractic intervention?
however, in a meta-analysis of 39 randomized control trials comparing spinal manipulation to commonly used, but not necessarily proven, therapies (i.e.: analgesics, back school (diathermy), physical therapy, light massage, bed rest, topical gels, corsets), spinal manipulative therapy was found only to be superior to sham therapy or therapies judged to be ineffective or even harmful.5 researchers found no evidence that spinal manipulation was more effective than standard treatments for low back pain.
in: the adult spine: principles and practice, frymoyer, jw (ed), raven press, new york 1991. p.147.
todd brown http://thechiropracticdashboard.com good post.
class act: is there evidence to support chiropractic care of low back pain?
image courtesy of gray’s anatomy 4 responses to class act: is there evidence to support chiropractic  care of low back pain?
low back pain is the 5th leading reason for medical office visits in the us and is the leading cause of work-related disability.1 fifty-six percent of office visits for back pain are to family practitioners and internists, 25 percent to orthopedic surgeons, 7 percent to neurosurgeons, and 4 percent to neurologists, and the rest to chiropractors and other healthcare professionals.2 while the standard practice for treating lower back pain is generally with activity modification, analgesics and physical therapy, spinal manipulative therapy, otherwise known as chiropractic care, has gained popularity throughout the years.
bmj 2004; 329:1377. 5.
despite the above meta-analysis findings, patients may still believe  that they achieve greater relief from chiropractic interventions than from  standard medical treatment.
in a study of 681 low back pain patients at ucla,  receiving either chiropractic or medical care, it was found that compared with  medical care-only patients, chiropractic patients were much more likely to  perceive improvements in their low back symptoms.6 this study, however, found  that at 18 months post treatment, there was no statistically significant  reduction in clinical outcomes, as measured by pain score and disability,  between the two groups.
hart, lg, deyo, ra, cherkin, dc.
this criteria included: 1) symptoms for fewer than 16 days 2)