consider the the complex mathematical models that helped cause the financial crisis, for example.
i spent a little time with google and found out that urine therapy is, and has been, widely practiced in many traditional cultures.
during the follow-up period, 350 patients died.
i did not suggest that.
the most significant finding is that no adverse outcomes were  reported from the use of melatonin.
it is better to misinterpret shadows in the bushes as a lion than to miss a real lion.
“methinks you realize the obvious trap you have fallen into” i don’t see any trap.
# harriet hall on 27 mar 2009 at 10:35 am pec said, “you have no respect for people in general.”
all studies were performed on advanced cancer patients, were unblinded and did not include placebos.
when science suggests that the chances of something like, say, homeopathy working are so infinitesimally small as to be in essence zero, they can then cry “persecuted!”
# david gorski on 27 mar 2009 at 8:12 am
several patients i’ve seen who through denial of their condition had deluded themselves that they did not have cancer, even after the tumor was growing through the skin.”
it is not the case that our brains constantly deceive us and lead us into grave errors.
they are also opposed to repeatedly running low quality pilot quality studies over and over again instead of following up with higher quality double blinded rct’s that can separate a signal form the noise.
modern people have the bias that they don’t know those things either and would rather listen to an ignorant charismatic fraud than a non-charismatic knowledgeable nerd.
a big problem with the scam world is that anecdotal reports and small  preliminary-like studies are presented as actual, hard evidence.
the trend of late to divide medical therapies into “conventional” and “alternative” really doesn’t help the community.
the onus or responsibility for providing evidence in support of any  claim rests squarely on the shoulders of the person making that claim.
that their study has a number of shortcomings is not their fault; they appear to haved done the best they could with what they had, which includes patients who underwent a panoply of alternative therapies, including coral calcium, herbal therapy, mushrooms, high dose vitamins, whey, chelation therapy, hemlock, and coenzyme q10.
for another, otc dietary supplements and herbs, even ones with real pharmacological effects, are typically considered cam, and receive greater attention from cam people.
one obvious problem with  your article is that it doesn’t clarify that oral and not intravenous  laetrile is generally (as far as i’ve heard) considered toxic.
five-year specific breast cancer survival of women who refused surgery was lower than that of those who accepted (72%, 95% confidence interval, 60%–84% versus 87%, 95% confidence interval, 86%–88%, respectively).
the ancient practice of urine therapy did use both of these treatment modalities.
indeed, i sometimes think that  the more intelligent among us aremore prone to such thinking, at least  with respect to medicine, simply because they believe that their intelligence  is such that they would never be so easily misled by such cognitive  shortcomings that appear to be hard-wired into the human brain.
effects were consistent across melatonin dose, and type of cancer”.
duh, cause it now has proven scientific legitimacy, and is no longer cam, it’s mainstream!
that’s evidence of bias, which  you should try to avoid.
as edzard ernst put it: the idea of an “alternative cancer cure” assumes that conventional oncology would not adopt a cancer treatment simply because it originates from an area outside of mainstream medicine.
# david gorski on 28 mar 2009 at 8:47 am
nitrite and no also disrupts the biofilm phenotype of many bacteria, causing biofilms to disperse.
but jerry always said the reason he could fool people is not that they are fools but is because they have wonderful brains.
but you want to prevent cam researchers from getting funding.
# david gorski on 25 mar 2009 at 7:59 pm i can’t give you a simple yes or no answer, because it depends on  what people have experienced with this therapy so far.
a new hypothesis that contradicts established scientific understanding is always rejected with rare exception: the new hypothesis must explain something previously unexplained and have more predictive power than the theory it contradicts.
i also found that one woman in south america died from a urine injection.
i can understand why parents might be afraid to have their children  vaccinated, and that they don’t always have blind faith in the  all-knowing medical priesthood and those fabulous drug companies.
the shallow reading of alternative cancer treatments displayed in this post  (and even, strangely, in cassileth’s review), confirms an earlier  statement i made in a comment that this blog has strong ideological rather than  (or in addition to) scientific elements.
sometimes health fads catch on for a while, but if they are truly useless they will die out pretty soon.
in brief, ii’s entire response strikes me as the cam equivalent of  the courtier’s reply to criticisms of the excesses of religion.
you probably  don’t know this because you haven’t read the primary literature  that it reviews.
pec, once again, please give us an example of something that was classified as alternative that was shown to be effective and has now become mainstream.
perhaps the most significant is that the same network of  investigators in italy and poland conducted all 10 trials.
one possible explanation is that users of alternative medicine are less likely to undergo optimal medical therapy.
it follows that the term acc is and most likely will always be a contradiction in terms.
is it necessary to “read up” on the idea before  rejecting it?
references: 70 responses so far in cassileth and deng’s 2004 review ( http://www.theoncologist.com/cgi/content/full/9/1/80), a few treatments come off as promising.
you didn’t answer the question: should we study urine injections for autism or not?
so, i would take it one step at a time.
i will hand you two cognitive tools that will improve your decision-making efficiency and perhaps your bank account: 1.
cam treatments cannot possibly be  scientific because you define cam as treatments that have not been  scientifically verified.
one extreme would be to formally study any ridiculous idea proposed by anyone and promoted as cam.
i would not plunge  into elaborate and expensive formal research until i had seen some
ghosts can’t possibly exist, but all kinds of people have been seeing them everywhere.
(remember again that correlation does not necessarily equal  causation.
if a member of a primitive tribe eats a mushroom and dies the other members might jump to the conclusion that the mushroom was poisonous.
that is obviously the goal.
one interesting possibility is that users of alternative medicine were more likely to be having severe symptoms, which led them to turn to “alternative medicine” to try to relieve their symptoms.
if they are all as great as is claimed, wouldn’t that mean that the majority would be deprived of the benefits of such therapies? imperfectlyinformed: it’s partly the fault of mainstream medicine for dismissing these chemicals prematurely and preferentially using other more complicated, expensive chemicals.
independent verification is  incredibly important.
people hold it up as an example  of drug companies only wanting to sell expensive things, but its high price is  a barrier to purchase which significantly limits their market share.
ancient people had the bias that they didn’t know about physiology, bacteria, metabolism, and a zillion other things.
but they were empty frames.
the more complicated and  expensive a drug is to manufacture, the narrower the profit margin will be.
i know i don’t like to waste time and money on things that have  no obvious benefit.
indeed, i sometimes think that the more intelligent among us aremore prone to such thinking, at least with respect to medicine, simply because they believe that their intelligence is such that they would never be so easily misled by such cognitive shortcomings that appear to be hard-wired into the human brain.
that is not what is claimed for many of these accs.
as far as the single group, i mentioned that fact as suspicious in my  comment, which apparently gorski didn’t notice.
of note, it was 19 years before all patients were dead.
i read the article previously, by the way, and added it as a reference in wikipedia.
obviously, it may not be causative.
no the experiments aren’t blinded and controlled, but they’re still experiments and they still give valid results in the long run.
i love it when pec tells me what i think, especially when it is not what i  think i think.
people notice when something doesn’t work.
# science-based medicine »
but i wonder if  you could try to imagine that maybe your certainty might contain a trace of  self-deception?
yet we are able to sort out cause and effect well enough to  navigate complex everyday life.
overall, 37 (53%) women had no treatment, 25 (36%)  hormone-therapy alone, and 8 (11%) other adjuvant treatments alone or in  combination.
even so, given the huge difficulties involved in undertaking such a study, the investigators, who, as private practitioners operating a community practice in eugene, or, went above and beyond the call by trying to look at their data and answer this question.
# david gorski on 23 mar 2009 at 6:28 pm cam is not anti-scientific and they are as interested as you are in testing  their ideas scientifically (but you want to prevent them).
books i have on it are: urine therapy nature’s elixir for good health by peschek-bohmer and scheiber the water of life a treatise on urine therapy by j. w. armstrong
in the  meantime, i will continue to argue that the very concept of  “alternative” medicine is a potentially deadly false dichotomy for  cancer patients.
even though intuitively one would hypothesize that refusing  scientific medicine and relying on placebo medicine instead would have a  detrimental effect on survival, it turns out that this question is not as easy  to answer as you might think.
the  belief that the majority of mds (i.e. the standard of care) are always wrong is  faith too.
(ref. 103) have shown that there is a positive benefit from the use of melatonin.
the way you see it, there was nothing but superstitious nonsense before modern science.
people are easy to fool in many ways.
and there is no survival value in repeating a stupid medical mistake for thousands of years.
look especially at the long report by fda commissioner donald kennedy: http://www.cancertreatmentwatch.org/q/laetrile/commissioner.pdf my first response to ii, who does, as kim so astutely put it, seem to be “imperfectly informed,” would be to ask why he/she considers melatonin to be in any way “alternative.”
there are far better ways of stimulating the growth of the bacteria i am working with to supply no/nox.
i have the highest respect for people and their wonderful brains; i just  recognize that because of the way our wonderful brains are constructed, we tend  to make mistakes that can only be countered by science.
the strength of this study is that the geneva cancer registry includes data from all patients from the geneva canton who underwent treatment and allowed the investigators to compare the outcomes of the women who refused to undergo surgery with curative intent with those who underwent surgery.
there are some folk practices that suggest that topical urine may cause increased no/nox.
“i sometimes think that the more intelligent among us are more prone to such thinking, at least with respect to medicine, simply because they believe that their intelligence is such that they would never be so easily misled by such cognitive shortcomings that appear to be hard-wired into the human brain.”
despite a strong set of laws protecting the public from cancer cure quackery (ccq), there still exist a number of practicioners who insist on alternate treaments for their very ill patients, depsite no evidence of efficacy and the possible interference or delay of legitimate treatment.
i know there are no autistic animals!
i said that if i found good reasons to suspect it  might have some benefit, i would first try it on animals to find out if  it’s safe.
another important reason is that the natural history of breast cancer is extremely variable, from nasty, aggressive tumors that kill within months to indolent, slow-growing tumors that, even when metastatic, women can survive with for several years.
“should we do an rct of urine injection therapy for autism”
more evidence of the uselessness of “alternative” medicine in  breast cancer was published two years ago by edzard ernst, author of healing, hype or harm?
come on in, the reality is  fine.”
i keep saying we are all  limited and fallible.
overall, 37 (53%) women had no treatment, 25 (36%) hormone-therapy alone, and 8 (11%) other adjuvant treatments alone or in combination.
i am suspect of your bloodletting  example — either the evidence was variable and ambiguous, or it  wasn’t as widely believed as you claim (i’ll look it up).
we  recognize that we can be fooled as easily as anyone else.
the most common deficiencies included: lack of power  sample calculation; small sample size; lack of adequate randomization and/or  (patient and assessor or only assessor) blinding; and insufficient follow-up  periods.
nor, apparently, did seely.
even the much touted psychosocial support of late hasfailed to demonstrate any improvement in the survival of cancer patients.
# harriet hall on 26 mar 2009 at 9:20 pm
one trick you “skeptics” use in your war against cam is to ridicule and dismiss successful pilot studies, because they are small.
yes, i sometimes think the most educated high-iq types tend to make the  most serious errors, because they have so much confidence in their own  thinking.
” were 305.5 of those from pec?
the shallow reading of alternative cancer treatments displayed in this post (and even, strangely, in cassileth’s review), confirms an earlier statement i made in a comment that this blog has strong ideological rather than (or in addition to) scientific elements.
you probably don’t know this because you haven’t read the primary literature that it reviews.
hopefully, future studies  will answer the question.
however, to my great surprise, the one post that stands  out as having received the most comments thus far in the history of sbm is one  that i wrote.
confusions about causation also happen all the time, but they are in areas where we do not know the cause.
how about the entire space program, a modern automobile, and yes, modern medicine.
2+2 can’t equal 5 even if a lot of  people want it too.
as far as i can find, there is one study that specifically looked at the  question of what happens to women who opt for alternative medicine instead of  scientific medicine.
in fact, your labeling such shortcomings as “idiocy” says a lot  about you.
for a comprehensive discussion of these and other pertinent chelation articles, including highly touted case reports, look here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18596934?ordinalpos=2&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_defaultreportpanel.pubmed_rvdocsum for a discussion of the “allegations” about moertel’s laetrile study, look at the report itself, the ltes, and his response to them.
we do not apologize for this; differentiating science-based from non-science-based medicine is theraison d’être of this blog.
modalities such as relaxation, psychotherapy, participation in a self-help  group or changes in lifestyle activities that were used to reduce distress and  to improve the patient’s subjective well being were not coded as am.
this is also true in science, certainly in modern medicine.
it’s just another name for meditation.
because it’s important to understand the natural history of breast cancer, i’ll reference a classic study examining the natural history of untreated breast cancer.
patients with a poor performance  status are more likely to undergo less aggressive therapy because they are less  able to tolerate, for example, radical surgery or heavy-duty chemotherapy  regimens.
if not, then it is “not medicine”.
(see http://www.theness.com/neurologicablog/?p=502 far a parallel outside  medicine)
if i can invent a treatment and can convince half the members of the church of scientology to use it, should the nccam spent millions of dollars to study it?
we recognize that we can be fooled as easily as anyone else.
this study involved a search of  switzerland’s database between 1975 and 2000 and included 5,339 patients  diagnosed with nonmetastatic breast cancer.
# diane henry on 29 mar 2009 at 8:07 am i must say, i am not a fan of the false dichotomy of “western”  and “non-western”.
in 2006, he wrote a  review for thebreast journal along with katja schmidt, msc, c psychol,  and michael baum, md, chm, a review entitledcomplementary/alternative therapies  for the treatment of breast cancer.
i am interested in science and technology and that’s why i studied them.
science is the answer.
these studies  are quoted to unsuspecting consumers.
nevertheless, if that is true, then it’s a fairly heavy blow against them, and your description of it is fairly specific so i’m inclined to believe you.
what it is is evidence that human beings, contrary to your claims, do frequently confuse correlation with causation and demonstrate all those other cognitive shortcomings we’ve been discussing.
what that means is that, if such a study could be done today, it is very likely thatlead time bias would significantly increase the apparent median survival, because increasingly tiny tumors are being found.
effects  were consistent across melatonin dose, and type of cancer”.
the complete guide  to urine therapy by coen van der kroon ancient secret of the fountain  of youth by peter kelder there is considerable woo in the idea of urine therapy (to be charitable  .
however, a few stand out for having provoked hundreds of comments.
i would not rule out treatments just because they depend on the idea that water can store information, for example, or that there are as-yet unrecognized forms of energy.
richard feynman said, “the first principle is that you must not fool yourself–and you are the easiest person to fool.”
moreover, half the women accepted some form of  other standard, effective treatm,ent, such as hormonal therapy alone.
the 1970s from the fda commissioner is not compelling either, and similarly doesn’t seem to make the toxicity clarification.
nearly all of so-called “alternative” medicine falls into one of the latter two categories, and those that have not been tested yet nearly all fall into the category of being so wildly improbable that testing them without more positive evidence makes no sense.
what about the amezcua bio disc, pec ?
wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong.
people do not make serious errors in practical matters because they lack conscious knowledge of the scientific method.
try and rely on “ancient wisdom”, rather than modern understanding of the physiology involved.
this is in spite of the fact that they know very well an alternative idea today could become mainstream tomorrow.
if the ‘treatment’ does not pass the early phases, plausibility is unlikely and it never makes it to formal rcts.
while this will not  necessarily bias the results, the lack of independent verification,  particularly in the presence of an effect that is perhaps surprisingly large,  warrants skepticism.
please give us an example of  something that was classified as alternative that was shown to be effective and  has now become mainstream.
hopefully, future studies will answer the question.
i think pec’s response makes it fairly clear he/she considers urine injections to be absurd, since he/she responded with a statement about the absurdity of extremes.
a survival graph from this classic paper is below: it should be noted that all of these tumors were detected as (at the very minimum) lumps in the breast, given that there was no other way of detecting them at the time.
pec, why would it not be a good thing if cam modalities were tested, proven, and then integrated into the mainstream?
if it doesn’t work, or is surpassed by something else, it should be set aside so that people are not harmed by it.
somehow, we never see this.
a multiple-choice list consisting of the best known and frequently used  non-proven methods in norway was presented.
yep, no limit to the outrageous claims, false hope, misrepresentation, and  continuous health fraud from the cam crowd.
what you’ll find is advocates changing the rules midstream–typical for implausible claims.
or, as i frequently put it: there is no such thing as “alternative” medicine.
i’m interested to hear what your criteria for investigating a  treatment scientifically would actually be….. # david gorski on 25 mar 2009 at 8:30 am
as an extreme example, i would point out that there are lots of antivaccine “scientists” out there who all claim to find an association between vaccines and autism that no other investigator who’s looked at the question has been able to find.
# weing on 24 mar 2009 at 8:34 pm there is medicine on the one hand and quackery on the other.
one could argue that, given the poor quality of the studies  examined by ernst, there might be an effect that was missed.
please justify your answer.
five of these patients ultimately underwent surgical resection.
with this background, i have found a couple of studies that can help answer  the question.
# david gorski on 28 mar 2009 at 12:23 am indeed.
but it is weak and people get tired of bothering with things that only make them feel slightly better.
i keep saying we are all limited and fallible.
selective memory, confirmation bias, and confusing  correlation with causationis how people think.
investigators studied data from surveys done by the norwegian board of health,  which asked patients standard demographic information, but then asked them  about their use of alternative medicine as follows: in the questionnaire presented to the patients, am was defined as any  treatment outside of mainstream therapy that had been used to treat their  cancer.
the placebo effect is only operative in mostly subjective outcomes, such as  reduction of pain, etc.
the point that you seem to be missing here is that the scientific method came about to compensate for those recognized human vulnerabilities.
this is what the  so-called “drug pipelines” are all about.
# pec on 28 mar 2009 at 6:34 am i understand the scientific method and the reasons for controlled  experiments.
in tibet at high altitude, fuel was scarce, and also green leafy  vegetables were not available year round.
methinks you realize the obvious trap you have fallen into and are trying  to wriggle your way out of it with lame justifications.
a number of patients who expressed their intention to pursue alternative  therapies did not return for follow-up evaluation.
controlled scientific experiments have their place, but most of the time  are not practical.
death rates were higher in am  users (79%) than in those who did not use am (65%).
consequently, it’s impossible to rule out selection  bias, but, as the authors point out, this is one case where doing a randomized  study is completely unethical.
you just feel you have to pretend to have respect for non-western people.
moreover, half the women accepted some form of other standard, effective treatm,ent, such as hormonal therapy alone.
taken together, these data make it very hard not to conclude that at best the vast majority of alternative therapies are either useless, no more than placebos, or might even be harmful.
the world is complex and very often, as the ai pioneers simon and newell described it, we have to “satisfice.”
furthermore, the disease progression caused by the delay in surgery  was associated with an increase in the estimated 10-year mortality rate.
but someone might  note that they have eaten the same mushroom and it was ok, so the death may  have been a coincidence.
what they found  was that 18% of the 250 patients survived five years; 3.6% survived 10 years;  and 0.8% survived 15 years.
in contrast, lots of women with metastatic breast cancer live longer than two or three years; a few.
people use  whatever they happen to have, and it’s always very limited.
this study did not limit itself to breast cancer, but it is interesting and useful nonetheless.
still, i find it equally suspicious that nobody else has bothered to try to replicate the findings in all these years.
see it here http://www.marystaggsdetox.com.au/index.php?cpath=112&oscsid=b84286145e08fe903403a15ce902cc89 it has a sciencey-looking graphic showing it works, and the website says it  works so it must be ok mustn’t it?
if every single person became a scientist and lived according to the  scientific method, there would be just as many stupid mistakes, and just as  many irrational beliefs.
if a good rct shows that a treatment has utility, then it is medicine.
should we do an rct of urine injection therapy for autism to see if it’s effective?
the effect appears predominantly in patients with a good ps.
ancient people had the bias that they  didn’t know about physiology, bacteria, metabolism, and a zillion other  things.
# david gorski on 29 mar 2009 at 9:07 am i must say, i am not a fan of the false dichotomy of “western”  and “non-western”.
no blinding, no placebo, 2/10 rcts used intent to treat; most trials tested melatonin + treatment against only treatment.
dean burk’s continued support of the therapy is similarly suspicious, and altogether it’s enough to leave room for doubt that the therapy was properly tested.
and though we may not know very much in comparison to all that the universe is, we still know a hell of a lot !
most  trails had small sample sizes; thus a type ii error is conceivable.
# qetzal on 28 mar 2009 at 10:56 am pec, you should sue your phd program and advisor, because they clearly failed to  train you properly.
“should we do an rct of urine injection therapy for autism to see if it’s effective?
it is also  possible that a significant number of such small tumorsmay spontaneously regress , which further complicates the issue today, not to mention making it easier to  find women who have rejected some or all of “conventional” medicine  to treat their cancers and survived significant lengths of time to produce alternative medicine testimonials.
but we do  not, if we are sane, deceive ourselves in the face of clear and obvious  evidence.
a multiple-choice list consisting of the best known and frequently used non-proven methods in norway was presented.
we’ll get to your other points if you answer that question with a  simple yes or no and a brief justification.
however, if an  effect were missed, it would have to be small or, at most, moderate.
the authors speculated about a number of reasons why use of alternative  medicine might be associated with poorer survival.
overall, the median survival was 2.7 years.
pec said “i have studied more than one thing in my life. ”
“your definition of cam is deceptive and incorrect.
they lost any physiological effects by changing what they did.
http://aac.asm.org/cgi/content/full/47/12/3713 when this author presented this work at a conference, i asked for his  comment on how his no/nox results in urine might reflect on the effectiveness  of a golden shower regarding uti status.
people confuse correlation with causation all the time, especially with questions of causation in medicine.
topically applied urine might be able to substitute for exercise or thermal  sweating provided one had the right biofilm of the bacteria i am studying.
the belief that the majority of mds (i.e. the standard of care) are always wrong is faith too.
a big problem with the scam world is that anecdotal reports and small preliminary-like studies are presented as actual, hard evidence.
yes i know we deceive ourselves, as i already said, but not because we aren’t scientific enough.
# daedalus2u on 28 mar 2009 at 7:39 pm i actually have looked at the literature on urine therapy (such as i could  find it, there wasn’t that much when i looked).
this is not the same thing as saying that there are no effective ones, but it’s really not much better.
science is just a formalization of the way people naturally think….
in tibet at high altitude, fuel was scarce, and also green leafy vegetables were not available year round.
as an extreme example, i would point out that there are  lots of antivaccine “scientists” out there who all claim to find an  association between vaccines and autism that no other investigator who’s  looked at the question has been able to find.
after all, there are physicians who advocates such “therapy.”
a total of 515 patients were analyzed, and results were as follows: in january 2001, survival data were obtained with a follow-up of 8 years for 515 cancer patients.
no, i would definitely not start with an rct, and most definitely not with human subjects.
of the other 6  patients, 5 had developed metastatic disease that precluded benefit from  surgery.
quoth pec regarding a question about whether we should study urine injections for autism: one extreme would be to formally study any ridiculous idea proposed by anyone and promoted as cam.
how about adding a tablespoon of urine to your gas tank in order to improve  fuel efficiency?
neither would the myth  that things go crazy around the time of a full moon … ” yes because you are absolutely certain that every ancient  “superstition” is complete nonsense you would say that.
of the other 6 patients, 5 had developed metastatic disease that precluded benefit from surgery.
i’ve also read about the chichimeca indians drinking the urine of their chief after he consumed a hallucinogenic mushroom in order to experience hallucinations.
“it’s interesting that as soon as a cam therapy is shown to be  effective, you say it isn’t cam.”
in any case, as a cancer surgeon, i don’t care where a therapy came from.
i’m interested to hear what your criteria for investigating a treatment scientifically would actually be…..
i could find no mention of injection of urine (which i  think would be a death wish).
the difference is that current mainstream medicine is materialist, mechanistic and reductionist, while cam does not share these limitations.
oh, and skeptics do not exempt themselves from human foolishness.
patients also had the opportunity  to add other types of alternative therapy in response to an open question.
in any case, as a cancer surgeon, i don’t care  where a therapy came from.
# weing on 29 mar 2009 at 11:27 am i’ve heard of using urine for wound irrigation in the wilderness.
death rates were higher in am users (79%) than in those who did not use am (65%).
# weing on 29 mar 2009 at 11:18 am “i did not suggest that.
the authors speculated about a number of reasons why use of alternative medicine might be associated with poorer survival.
since that post, i’ve always been meaning to take a look at what, exactly, the effect of choosing “alternative” medicine over “conventional” medicine is on the odds of survival for breast cancer patients.
# harriet hall on 25 mar 2009 at 7:08 pm pec, once again, please give us an example of something that was classified as  alternative that was shown to be effective and has now become mainstream.
now, regarding an “ideological bias,” we at sbm have one bias  and one bias alone: we assert that medicine based on science is the best  medicine for patients.
as long as this false dichotomy exists, i don’t hold out much hope of “cam” modalities ever being proven effective — or proven ineffective, for that matter.
my first response to ii, who does, as kim so astutely put it, seem to be  “imperfectly informed,” would be to ask why he/she considers  melatonin to be in any way “alternative.”
should we test any treatment anybody invents?
i am always noticing how most people — including scientists in non-experimental disciplines — confuse correlation and causation.
the topical use of urine might have  therapeutic effects in “the wild” provided the proper biofilm is  present.
really, though, the argument that melatonin is not cam is fairly weak, especially since it was mentioned in your above post.
# imperfectlyinformed on 23 mar 2009 at 5:03 pm @atwood: indeed i didn’t know about kitchell, and i’m chastened.
studies go from anecdotal reports, to  preliminary studies, to stage one clinical trials and then on up to formal  rcts.
“that’s exactly how people do think in everyday life!
doctor’s office with huge, fungating tumors, only to be told that they have to undergo chemotherapy to shrink the tumor before any surgery is possible, after which they will often disappear again.
what would you consider to be good reasons to suspect urine might have some benefit in this situation?
# pec on 26 mar 2009 at 7:35 am “once again, please give us an example of something that was  classified as alternative that was shown to be effective and has now become  mainstream” just for a start, because i have to get to work: chiropractic and many other forms of physical therapy are now pretty  mainstream.
i would give a similar answer regarding any cam proposal.
the topic of the post was a case report that i had heard while  visiting the tumor board of an affiliate of my former cancer center describing  a young woman who had rejected conventional therapy for an eminently treatable  breast cancer … view post: science-based medicine »
another extreme would be refusing to study anything  not in accord with mainstream preconceptions.
look here: http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/?p=83 there you’ll also find links to evidence against laetrile that was compelling enough so that it should have “closed the books” even before moertel’s study.
“learn some human psychology”
should we do an rct of urine injection therapy for autism to see if  it’s effective?
treatments examined included various methods of  psychosocial support such as group support therapy, cognitive behavioral  therapy cognitive existential group therapy, a combination of muscle relaxation  training and guided imagery, the chinese herbal remedy shi quan da bu tang,  thymus extract, transfer factor, melatonin, and factor af2.
online, an online tool  into which clinicians can enter prognostic factors of a breast cancer at the  time of presentation and come up with an estimate of chances of survival and  recurrence with and without treatment.
no/nox physiology is pretty complicated and there is  cross-talk with dietary nitrate which is most abundant in leafy green  vegetables and which some have hypothesized is the reason that a diet rich in  green leafy vegetables is associated with good health.
patients certainly benefit from placebo treatments, in concert with viable methodologies, however, to the exclusion of effective treatment they are a measure of criminal negligence.
admittedly much of the altmed use may be oral.
one obvious problem with your article is that it doesn’t clarify that oral and not intravenous laetrile is generally (as far as i’ve heard) considered toxic.
the average  number of subjects in these studies was 75.
it’s because we just do not  know, and cannot know, very much.”
[...] @ii: sorry, but you are, well, imperfectly informed.
there are some folk practices that suggest that topical urine may cause  increased no/nox.
those for whom follow-up evaluation was unavailable  were excluded from this study.
part of the cost of a drug is its  manufacturing costs, part is its material costs, and part is its development  costs.
for example, shark cartilage extract neovastat (now disproven), polysaccharide k (approved in japan, so arguably not cam), and perhaps antineoplastons.
# tmac57 on 26 mar 2009 at 7:49 pm dr gorski: “which has collected an astonishing 611 comments thus far.
i think science is great and that the dogmatic pseudo-skeptics only block its progress.
you “skeptics” still reject chiropractic but you accept  other forms of physical therapy (you just hate chiropractors).
indeed, when a  person refuses to admit that he or she can be prone to such cognitive  shortcomings, it’s more a case of hubris than anything else.
in the case of pancreatic cancer, for instance, just producing well documented case reports of a few five year survivors among patients with documented metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas would, i daresay, make even wally sampson and kimball atwood sit up and take notice.
if every single person became a scientist and lived according to the scientific method, there would be just as many stupid mistakes, and just as many irrational beliefs.
this is part of why generics are so common  (once patent protection expires).
we deceive ourselves in things we do know know and cannot know,  accepting whichever answers we find most pleasant.
although their omission may introduce a  selection bias in the results, the effect of this bias is expected to be small  because relatively few patients (14 of 47) were in this category.
(ref. 103) were able to find only ten reports, all from the lissoni group, that analysed melatonin definitively alone or in combination with standard therapies.
learning you seem to be of either the open mind where too much has fallen out, or too closed minded to actually learn about the subject under discussion.
if something works, it should become mainstream so that everybody can benefit.
# pec on 26 mar 2009 at 7:22 am obviously, i would have to take time to read up on urine for autism.
this isn’t really reflective of the reality.
did you  think there was a law that restricts us each to one and only one field?
in the case of blood letting, your approach was to find out if ancient  people really did use blood letting, rather than try and figure out what  physiology blood letting might influence.
nevertheless, if that is true, then it’s a  fairly heavy blow against them, and your description of it is fairly specific
in the context of the discussion it should have been obvious what i meant by non-western.
same babble, different day.
anecdotal evidence may come first, then a series of small pilot studies, and eventually, if the treatment looks promising, carefully controlled experiments.
i  would read what i could find, and i might speak to some patients and  practitioners who use it.
perhaps the most significant is that the same network of investigators in italy and poland conducted all 10 trials.
admittedly, same research group for all the trials, which is suspicious.
for a reason that i’ve discussed several times here, but  that i apparently need to do again: it conflates rcts and the much broader  realm of science.
in fact, your labeling such shortcomings as “idiocy” says a lot about you.
am use had the most detrimental effect in patients with an ecog (eastern cooperative oncology group) performance status (ps) of 0 (hazard ratio for use=2.32, 95% ci, 1.44, 3.74, p=0.001), when compared with an ecog ps of 1 or higher.
there’s little interest in sifting the wheat from the chaff and providing a balanced overview of medical science, including major problems in mainstream medicine.
that alone would not make me dismiss it as dangerous, without knowing all the details of that particular case.
he’s done yeoman’s work in describing the issues of figuring out whether a cancer therapy works or not and in describing why cancer cure testimonials are almost never good evidence for the efficacy of an “alternative cancer cure.”
if a good rct shows that a treatment has utility,  then it is medicine.
and to repeat what tmac57 said: “i suggest that you take off your postmodern blinders, and join the real world.
specifically, it was a post i calleddeath by “alternative” medicine: who’s to blame?, which has collected an astonishing 611 comments thus far.
if i were a medical researcher faced with this decision i would  read up on it, and then decide if it deserved any further consideration.
this, of course, is a weakness, but,  again, randomizing patients to scientific medicine or alternative medicine  would be completely unethical.
basically, they just have to prove that it’s functionally  identical to the original drug and that their manufacturing methods pass muster.
we make this assertion based on what we consider strong and sound  evidence.
# pec on 24 mar 2009 at 5:32 pm “should we study urine injections for treating autism?”
if not, please explain briefly why not.”
unconventional treatments are tested.
the world is complex and very often, as the ai  pioneers simon and newell described it, we have to “satisfice.”
to my knowledge, no one has ever shown an improvement  in survival from cancer or even the shrinkage of a tumor due to placebo effect.
my fundamental no hypothesis is that ammonia oxidizing bacteria on the skin oxidize ammonia in sweat into nitrite and no, and this is important in setting the basal level of no/nox.
it is true that this is not a randomized study; rather, it is a retrospective study.
if any “alternative” medicine can make the cut when subjected to scientific scrutiny, both in terms of evidence supporting its efficacy against disease and of a scientifically remotely plausible mechanism that can be studied, we will then consider it to be part of sbm.”
as far as laetrile, i don’t have convenient nejm access that far back, although i’d love to see those issues.
well, since they are all in the  “unproven” category, we cannot say that there are any effective  ones.
these reports included: three studies  on lung cancer (one alone and two in conjunction with genotoxic chemotherapy,  including cisplatin); one study each on breast cancer, renal cell cancer,  glioblastoma and malignant melanoma; two studies of mixed populations of  patients with either advanced or metastatic solid tumours; and one study  specifically of brain metastases from assorted solid tumours.
nitrite and no also disrupts the biofilm phenotype of many bacteria,  causing biofilms to disperse.
in the case of such questions, we scientists have to make do with whatever methodology we can; i.e., do the best we can with what we have.
alternative  medicine use and breast cancer [...] # kimball atwood on 23 mar 2009 at 9:44 am @ii: sorry, but you are, well, imperfectly informed.
# pec on 29 mar 2009 at 8:54 am ” possible for so many people to be so wrong for so many hundreds (or  thousands) of years about something.
they calculated  survival as the period of time from onset of symptoms to death.
for a comprehensive discussion of these and other pertinent chelation  articles, including highly touted case reports, look here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18596934?ordinalpos=2&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_defaultreportpanel.pubmed_rvdocsum for a discussion of the “allegations” about moertel’s  laetrile study, look at the report itself, the ltes, and his response to them.
for correctly inferring  causation, it’s very, very unreliable.
of course, what makes the question in breast cancer more difficult to answer is its highly variable natural history.
yes we deceive ourselves all the time, but they are seldom self-destructive  deceptions.
these  trials were all performed by the same group in the same hospital and are thus  without independent confirmation from any other group; the results, although  intriguing, are therefore difficult to assess.
the difference between mainstream and cam is not scientific vs. unscientific.
however, if an effect were missed, it would have to be small or, at most, moderate.
i would see if any animal testing had been done, for one thing.
mar 23 2009 of all the posts i and my cobloggers have written for sbm over the last 15 months, most provoke relatively few comments.
if any “alternative” medicine can make the cut  when subjected to scientific scrutiny, both in terms of evidence supporting its  efficacy against disease and of a scientifically remotely plausible mechanism  that can be studied, we will then consider it to be part of sbm.
# wertys on 24 mar 2009 at 9:10 pm what about the amezcua bio disc, pec ?
patients who declined chemotherapy or hormone therapy faired slightly  better.
or a busy person, as you seem  to have no means for quickly dismissing the idea of giving autistic kids urine  shots.
i had been talking about traditional cultures and the practice  of folk medicine, as opposed to modern western medicine.
what you’ll find is advocates changing the rules midstream–typical  for implausible claims.
if someone could show me that reiki or homeopathy cures cancer, i’d use either.
i have the highest respect for people and their wonderful brains; i just recognize that because of the way our wonderful brains are constructed, we tend to make mistakes that can only be countered by science.
they have no particular viewpoints that render them either superior or inferior.
it makes you feel good to believe that.
“why do so many people feel that it does some kind of good?”
airborne is marked up considerably, but still people buy a lot of it.
finally, about five years ago, there was a study out of norway that looked  at the effect of alternative medicine on cancer survival.
you seem completely unable to believe that all humans are prone to these sorts of cognitive shortcomings in every day life.
pec, you don’t understand.
we are all scientists.
in any  case, what this study shows is that women with no surgery can still live a long  time, but are far more likely to die of their cancer than women who do undergo  surgical extirpation.
cam treatments cannot possibly be scientific because you define cam as treatments that have not been scientifically verified.
when you believe in  things that you don’t understand you will suffer, superstition  ain’t the way!
or, as i frequently put it: there is no such thing as  “alternative” medicine.
pec: “why would it not be a good thing if cam modalities were tested,  proven, and then integrated into the mainstream?”
it’s yet another example of how cam coopts certain aspects of “conventional” medicine.
david colquhuon has a great post on homeopathy and cancer cures in the uk.
in the case of pancreatic cancer, for  instance, just producing well documented case reports of a few five year  survivors among patients with documented metastatic adenocarcinoma of the  pancreas would, i daresay, make even wally sampson and kimball atwood sit up  and take notice.
mysteriously, their veteran researcher kanematsu sugiura found it effective in several animal experiments.
in scam the quack cures are sold all over and the corporations  selling them are laughing all the way to the bank.
books i have on it are: urine therapy nature’s elixir for good health by  peschek-bohmer and scheiber the water of life a treatise on urine  therapy by j. w. armstrong
if it’s legitimatly tested and found effective… so if a cam researcher manages to get some funding in spite of your all-out ideological war, and if they demonstrate effectiveness, you will say well maybe it works but, since it has now been scientifically verified, it isn’t cam.
also, those that do probably  drop off the radar screen of their science-based practitioners, and it is  difficult, if not impossible, to capture data regarding their outcomes, given  that they all too often stick with their alternative healers until the end.
most of the time most things are unknown and we do our best.
there  are far better ways of stimulating the growth of the bacteria i am working with  to supply no/nox.
the difference between  mainstream and cam is not scientific vs. unscientific.
we do not  apologize for this; differentiating science-based from non-science-based  medicine is theraison d’être of this blog.
the difference is that current mainstream medicine is materialist, mechanistic and reductionist, while cam does not share these limitations.”
so, as far as melatonin goes, my retort to ii would be that (1) melatonin as an anticancer therapy is not in any way “alternative” and (2) that the evidence for its efficacy is rather weak.
for example, if you do a search on pubmed using  terms like “alternative medicine,” “breast cancer,” and  “survival,” the vast majority of the hits will be studies of  complementary and alternative medicine (cam) and breast cancer with little  reference to what possible effect these therapies might have on survival.
astrology wouldn’t exist if that weren’t the case.
in a cox regression model  adjusted for demographic, disease and treatment factors, the hazard ratio of  death for any use of am compared with no use was 1.30, (95% confidence interval  (ci) 0.99, 1.70; p=0.056), suggesting that am use may predict a shorter  survival.
these trials were all performed by the same group in the same hospital and are thus without independent confirmation from any other group; the results, although intriguing, are therefore difficult to assess.
# david gorski on 24 mar 2009 at 8:12 am one notes that pec didn’t answer dr. benway’s question, so  i’ll throw out another one: should we study urine injections for treating autism?
selective memory, confirmation bias, and confusing correlation with causationis how people think.
the entire antivaccine movement, which leads to  autism quackery.
the nccam has thrown a lot of money at “cam” over the years, and it has yet to validate any of those implausible treatments, much to the dismay of sen tom harkin.
in any case, this study had a number of problems, including a high attrition rate that could have resulted in significant selection bias.
in the case of such questions, we scientists  have to make do with whatever methodology we can; i.e., do the best we can with  what we have.
sensitivity analyses strengthened the negative association between am  use and survival.
in a systematic review of randomised controlled trials of melatonin in  solid-tumour cancer patients and on one-year survival, mills et al.
people hold it up as an example of drug companies only wanting to sell expensive things, but its high price is a barrier to purchase which significantly limits their market share.
how is that evidence of the idiocy of non-scientists?
that would be a waste of time and then you have to spend money denouncing the studies when they inevitably find that the treatments don’t work.
and yes i know you always fall back on the placebo effect.
you suggested you would try it in animals first (we shall ignore that there are no animal models of autism).
which parts of the concepts of cognitive dissonance and  compartmentalization do you not understand?
and that is one of the major differences  between us harriet.
complicated, expensive chemicals are not preferred by drug companies,  because the higher costs make them riskier to market.
i find all that hard to believe.
after accounting for other prognostic factors including tumor  characteristics and stage, women who refused surgery had a 2.1-fold (95%  confidence interval, 1.5–3.1) increased risk to die of breast cancer  compared with operated women.
i got it because of my interest in nitric oxide physiology, and because urine is a good source of urea, which i hypothesized that indigenous peoples in regions where other no sources were unavailable might turn to.
when humans migrated out of africa, they left the tropics and entered  regions where it was not hot year round, where sweating was virtually absent  for parts of the year.
unlike most “skeptics,” i do not believe that most people are self-deceiving fools.
i am suspect of your bloodletting example — either the evidence was variable and ambiguous, or it wasn’t as widely believed as you claim (i’ll look it up).
for example: cow urine for migraine.
# peter lipson on 25 mar 2009 at 8:02 pm “should we do an rct of urine injection therapy for autism to see if  it’s effective?
see: http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/?p=87#comment-2869 … “i am a woman in computer science and we are very very scarce.”
# shadowmouse on 23 mar 2009 at 6:56 pm le sigh, pec’s tiresome patterings, with a heaping helping of snarkiness “but you want to prevent cam researchers from getting funding” no, cammers refuse to legtimatly set up proper testing studies, and blame  everyone else.
# chris on 29 mar 2009 at 1:20 pm pec said “i have studied more than one thing in my life. ”
i think science is great and that the dogmatic pseudo-skeptics only block its progress.”
that alone would not make me dismiss it as  dangerous, without knowing all the details of that particular case.
in the context of the discussion it should have been obvious what i meant  by non-western.
congratulations, you have  successfully combined the argument from antiquity, with the argument from  incredulity, topped off with blatant cultural chauvinism .
pec, i will repeat diane henry’s request.
i got it because of my interest in nitric oxide physiology, and because urine  is a good source of urea, which i hypothesized that indigenous peoples in  regions where other no sources were unavailable might turn to.
so if a cam researcher manages to get some funding in spite of your all-out  ideological war, and if they demonstrate effectiveness, you will say well maybe  it works but, since it has now been scientifically verified, it isn’t cam.
i also found that one woman in south  america died from a urine injection.
i just spit up my iced  tea all over it when i read that sentence.
since that post, i’ve always been meaning to take a look at what,  exactly, the effect of choosing “alternative” medicine over  “conventional” medicine is on the odds of survival for breast  cancer patients.
at best, anecdotal evidence can be hypothesis generating.
one trick you “skeptics” use in your war against cam is to  ridicule and dismiss successful pilot studies, because they are small.
for instance, he would take off his glasses and show that there was no glass in them; everyone had assumed they were real glasses but they were empty frames.
i’m not saying that’s a good thing, but it is a fact.
the nccam has thrown a lot of money at “cam” over the years,  and it has yet to validate any of those implausible treatments, much to the  dismay of sen tom harkin.
in 2006, he wrote a review for thebreast journal along with katja schmidt, msc, c psychol, and michael baum, md, chm, a review entitledcomplementary/alternative therapies for the treatment of breast cancer.
look here: http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/?p=83 there you’ll also find links to evidence against laetrile that was  compelling enough so that it should have “closed the books” even  before moertel’s study.
the first finding was that the methodological quality of the studies was, by and large, pretty low.
this is in spite of the fact that they know very well an alternative idea  today could become mainstream tomorrow.
he showed that our assumptions are often wrong.
this study, like the one i just cited, was published in  the surgical literature, namelyamerican journal of surgery.
another important reason  is that the natural history of breast cancer is extremely variable, from nasty,  aggressive tumors that kill within months to indolent, slow-growing tumors  that, even when metastatic, women can survive with for several years.
one possible explanation is that users of alternative medicine are  less likely to undergo optimal medical therapy.
my fundamental no hypothesis is that ammonia oxidizing bacteria on the skin  oxidize ammonia in sweat into nitrite and no, and this is important in setting
my guess is that it was almost certainly due to the ineffectiveness of the alternative therapies chosen.
pec:”i keep saying we are all limited and fallible.
ghosts can’t possibly  exist, but all kinds of people have been seeing them everywhere.
plant-based cancer medications such as vincristin and vinblastin (both extracted from the plantvinca rosea) or taxol (taxus baccata ) could be employed to back up this theory.
more than anything else you’ve ever written here pec, that statement demonstrates the depth of your willful ignorance.
how about any treatment that anybody invents  that enough people swear by?
my complaint was that gorski is able to claim that there are no effective  cam treatments, because any that have been shown to be effective are now  mainstream.
le sigh, pec’s tiresome patterings, with a heaping helping of snarkiness “but you want to prevent cam researchers from getting funding” no, cammers refuse to legtimatly set up proper testing studies, and blame everyone else.
no blinding, no placebo, 2/10 rcts used intent to treat; most  trials tested melatonin + treatment against only treatment.
that is why they have no role in  science-based medicine at present.
how about adding a tablespoon of urine to your gas tank in order to improve fuel efficiency?
ingesting urine might be able to substitute for ingesting nitrate in green leafy vegetables.
if it doesn’t work, or is surpassed by something  else, it should be set aside so that people are not harmed by it.
i understand the scientific method and the reasons for controlled experiments.
he was not prepared to speculate on  that.
their “wonderful brains” are not always leading them into moronic mistakes.
if it were possible to be perfectly scientific,  it would still not be possible to know the “truth” because we never  have enough data.
# pec on 29 mar 2009 at 8:44 am “i sometimes think that the more intelligent among us are more prone  to such thinking, at least with respect to medicine, simply because they  believe that their intelligence is such that they would never be so easily  misled by such cognitive shortcomings that appear to be hard-wired into the  human brain.”
all of which are very reasonable conclusions.
approaching the feasibility of research focused on cam modalities based on  scientific plausibility (which is what sbm does) is not equal to  “mainstream preconceptions.”
there seems to be very limited toxicity of  this chemical in the context of what can be very toxic exposures during  chemotherapy.
the studies that do purport to show an effect are virtually all plagued with methodological difficulties and tend to show effects that are barely above background noise.
neither would the myth that things go crazy around the time of a full moon … ” yes because you are absolutely certain that every ancient “superstition” is complete nonsense you would say that.
their “wonderful  brains” are not always leading them into moronic mistakes.
come on in, the  reality is fine.
several patients i’ve seen who through denial of  their condition had deluded themselves that they did not have cancer, even  after the tumor was growing through the skin.
should we do an rct for the amezcua bio disc to see if it works?
i will also note that i tend to cast an especially skeptical eye  on any clinical trial done by the cancer treatment centers of america, given  how much ctca promotes and supports woo in addition to standard therapy; i.e.,  “integrative medicine.”
it’s the exact opposite of genuine medicine where the studies showing safety and efficacy are done before it ever comes to market.
perfectly sane people do ignore, disregard, and discount clear and obvious evidence that contradicts positions they “know” to be true all the time.
your article is so incriminating of lamas that i’m surprised you haven’t filed some sort of case with the office of research integrity.
what would you consider to be good reasons to suspect urine might have some  benefit in this situation?
optimism for this strategy should be severely tempered by the fact that  the length of follow-up evaluation in these patients was relatively short, and  these patients had early stage (i or ii) disease.
# tmac57 on 28 mar 2009 at 11:48 am pec, “non-western traditional people do not use harmful or useless  medical treatments repeatedly over thousands of years because they have  confused correlation with causation.”
anecdotal  evidence may come first, then a series of small pilot studies, and eventually,  if the treatment looks promising, carefully controlled experiments.
pec, i hope you’re not a pedicatrician.
all normal humans, including those who lack a  western education, are able to reason.
astrology  wouldn’t exist if that weren’t the case.
it’s also a straw man to say that this is evidence of the  “idiocy” of nonscientists.
but we do not, if we are sane, deceive ourselves in the face of clear and obvious evidence.”
if i recall correctly wade says he wasn’t able to distinguish when  blinded, but it’s still suspicious.
neither would the myth that things go crazy around the time of a full moon (it’s been studied; there are, for example, no more er visits on average around the time of a full moon than any other time).
however, a few stand out for  having provoked hundreds of comments.
it is better  to misinterpret shadows in the bushes as a lion than to miss a real lion.
first, it confirms once again the importance of surgery as a therapeutic modality for breast cancer, especially early stage.
when,  as is often the case, there is no clear evidence, we do our best.
# citizen deux on 24 mar 2009 at 11:55 am and then there is the uk.
untested things still have to be considered “not medicine” until utility is proven or at least highly suggested.
i just spit up my iced tea all over it when i read that sentence.
as long as this false dichotomy exists,  i don’t hold out much hope of “cam” modalities ever being  proven effective — or proven ineffective, for that matter.
when very large numbers of seemingly normal people swear by something, it warrants at least a casual investigation.
the paucity and the often-low methodological quality of the rcts are as unexpected to us as they are disappointing.
a systematic review of randomized clinical trials and a critique of current terminology.
it’s partly the fault of mainstream medicine for dismissing these chemicals prematurely and preferentially using other more complicated, expensive chemicals.
(remember again that correlation does not necessarily equal causation.
in fact, i view it as condescending to asians to hold remedies that originate from the “east” to a lower standard of evidence than those that originated from the “west.”
non-western traditional people do not use harmful or useless medical  treatments repeatedly over thousands of years because they have confused  correlation with causation.
medicine has always been and still is difficult and fallible.
many cultures developed the customs of wearing clothing  so as to cause sweating (i.e. sweaters), or adopted the custom of sweat baths  (i.e. sauna).
richard feynman said,  “the first principle is that you must not fool yourself–and you are  the easiest person to fool.”
the “skeptic” movement depends entirely on the idea that people  are fools (except, of course, the “skeptics” themselves).
the obvious common sense approach is somewhere between those extremes.
you seem completely unable to believe that all humans are prone to  these sorts of cognitive shortcomings in every day life.
to my knowledge, no one has ever shown an improvement in survival from cancer or even the shrinkage of a tumor due to placebo effect.
of course, what makes the question  in breast cancer more difficult to answer is its highly variable natural  history.
yes that is always your ultimate “proof” that traditional  people are capable of fooling themselves endlessly.
alternative medicine use and breast cancer
on the other hand, anecdotes and testimonials are not scientific evidence.
as i’ve often argued about, for example, the  gonzalez regimen for pancreatic cancer, if such accs really were cures, it  would actually be fairly easy to show.
# discover an alternative tinnitus treatment | common diseases | your  personal health care blog on 29 apr 2009 at 10:51 am [...]
but it’s really not much better.
but the same is true of modern chemotherapy for cancer, for example.
the objective of the study was to  examine all studies randomized clinical trials (rcts) for “alternative  cancer cures” (accs).
cam is not anti-scientific and they are as interested as you are in testing their ideas scientifically (but you want to prevent them).
earlier you said you were a computer scientist!
we have to “satisfice.”
i am a skeptic and i do not make up my mind about things just because i follow a certain ideology.
if not,  please explain briefly why not.
when you believe in things that you don’t understand you will suffer, superstition ain’t the way!
the difference is that  current mainstream medicine is materialist, mechanistic and reductionist, while  cam does not share these limitations.”
after all, there is an upper limit to what people are able to pay (with the  exception of the very wealthy).
controlled scientific experiments have their place, but most of the time are not practical.
yes we deceive ourselves all the time, but they are seldom self-destructive deceptions.
i can’t give you a simple yes or no answer, because it depends on  what people have experienced with this therapy so far.
the point that gorski (and others) has been trying to make is not that there are no effective cam treatments but that the term “cam” is useless, in part because it’s so vague but mostly because “alternative” versus “conventional” is a false dichotomy.
if i recall correctly wade says he wasn’t able to distinguish when blinded, but it’s still suspicious.
finally, about five years ago, there was a study out of norway that looked at the effect of alternative medicine on cancer survival.
moreover, although there is a relative paucity of studies, and they, too, are generally retrospective and difficult to interpret, what evidence is out there is that alternative medicine use among cancer patients is associated with an increased risk of dying from cancer, particularly when conventional therapy is eschewed.
see: http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/?p=87#comment-2869 … “i am a  woman in computer science and we are very very scarce.”
if something works, it should become mainstream so that  everybody can benefit.
the difference is that  current mainstream medicine is materialist, mechanistic and reductionist, while  cam does not share these limitations.
# david gorski on 26 mar 2009 at 7:57 am
ancient people are no different than modern  people.
there should only be “proven” and “unproven”.
i can understand why a patient with advanced cancer might feel they have no good options and might be afraid to accept the reality.
you, me,  steve, everyone.
one interesting possibility is  that users of alternative medicine were more likely to be having severe  symptoms, which led them to turn to “alternative medicine” to try  to relieve their symptoms.
in any case, this study had a number of problems,  including a high attrition rate that could have resulted in significant  selection bias.
they  have no particular viewpoints that render them either superior or inferior.
i know  that we are all very limited and fallible, but i also believe in the essential  reasonableness of human nature.
in other words, not surprisingly, use of alternative medicine is correlated with poorer surival in the patients with a good performance status and thus who are likely to have a more favorable prognosis.
@atwood: indeed i didn’t know about kitchell, and i’m chastened.
i had been talking about traditional cultures and the practice of folk medicine, as opposed to modern western medicine.
all that remains  is the placebo effect.
we deceive ourselves in things we do know know and cannot know, accepting whichever answers we find most pleasant.
and, yes, all those ancient peoples who thought bloodletting  was a great cure for what ails you or that it’s not possible for so many  people to be so wrong for so many hundreds (or thousands) of years about  something.
yes, i sometimes think the most educated high-iq types tend to make the most serious errors, because they have so much confidence in their own thinking.
# pec on 29 mar 2009 at 6:29 am daedalus2u, your post seems to confirm the idea that non-western people are capable of  reasoning and of making scientific observations.
i never said or implied there would be anything wrong with that.
consider the the complex mathematical models that helped cause the  financial crisis, for example.
you already  have all the information you need to answer the question.
what is often claimed is a near-miraculous “cure” for cancer, which, if it were true, would be relatively easy to detect.
if any “alternative” medicine can make the cut when  subjected to scientific scrutiny, both in terms of evidence supporting its  efficacy against disease and of a scientifically remotely plausible mechanism  that can be studied, we will then consider it to be part of sbm.”
in brief, ii’s entire response strikes me as the cam equivalent of the courtier’s reply to criticisms of the excesses of religion.
# the blind watchmaker on 24 mar 2009 at 7:20 pm i think this discussion hinges on the definition of  “alternative”.
science is just a formalization of the way people naturally think; it is  not different from the normal logic and common sense that all people in all  times have possessed.
my complaint was that gorski is able to claim that there are no effective cam treatments, because any that have been shown to be effective are now mainstream.
# pec on 24 mar 2009 at 6:43 am the blog authors here and at neurologica are fighting a political war (that  is how they describe it) against cam funding.
i find two points important about this study.
(astrology and ghosts come to mind as  counterexamples.)”
your article is so incriminating  of lamas that i’m surprised you haven’t filed some sort of case  with the office of research integrity.
considering that it is a bmc article,  you should consider adding a comment.
i know that we are all very limited and fallible, but i also believe in the essential reasonableness of human nature.
basically, they just have to prove that it’s functionally identical to the original drug and that their manufacturing methods pass muster.
topically applied urine might be able to substitute for exercise or thermal sweating provided one had the right biofilm of the bacteria i am studying.
while i don’t think they’re being rational in regards to their  belief that the earth is 6000 years old, i don’t consider most young  earth creationists to be not sane.
but you are very steadfast in missing my point.
compare that with airborne, a “dietary supplement” sold as a cold remedy (despite a lack of evidence), which is extremely cheap to make.
i can envision several reasons for this, the first being that–thankfully–relatively few women actually use alternative medicine exclusively to treat their breast cancer.
earlier you said you were a computer scientist!”
from the very meta-analysis that ii cites, the authors cautioned: there are several limitations to be considered in the interpretation of our meta-analysis.
when humans migrated out of africa, they left the tropics and entered regions where it was not hot year round, where sweating was virtually absent for parts of the year.
very good  evidence in favor of the therapy.
because it’s  important to understand the natural history of breast cancer, i’ll  reference a classic study examining the natural history of untreated breast  cancer.
a generic drug doesn’t have to pay very much for development; they just have to apply with the fda to get their version approved, which is much less onerous than proving that the stuff works as advertised in the first place.
# hcn on 28 mar 2009 at 1:39 pm pec said “i have a phd in an experimental science.”
but i wonder if you could try to imagine that maybe your certainty might contain a trace of self-deception?
i’ve even written about one on this very blog.
this study did not  limit itself to breast cancer, but it is interesting and useful nonetheless.
when organizations like ncam perform real rcts and find no value in  whatever “snake oil”, the scam community condemns the findings (see  all of the sen harkin related posts).
it would be a silly waste of our time to not assume that frames contain glass and to try to verify every instance.
a total of 112 (22%) assessable patients used am.
modalities such as relaxation, psychotherapy, participation in a self-help group or changes in lifestyle activities that were used to reduce distress and to improve the patient’s subjective well being were not coded as am.
that’s exactly how people do think in everyday life!
you already have all the information you need to answer the question.
alternative medicine use and breast  cancer | the cancer and you network on 23 mar 2009 at 6:20 am [...]
you  can find as much silliness and intelligence in “non-westerns” as  you can here.
however, the reason we go back to this study time and time again is because, at least in developed countries, it is the rare woman with breast cancer who does not undergo treatment of some kind for it.
the first one was published in 2005 in theannals of surgery by a group in from geneva university hospitals.
this involved  643 patients.
this is what happens (in the words of the song)
if they are all as great as is claimed,  wouldn’t that mean that the majority would be deprived of the benefits of  such therapies? imperfectlyinformed: it’s partly the fault of mainstream medicine for dismissing these  chemicals prematurely and preferentially using other more complicated,  expensive chemicals.
no/nox physiology is pretty complicated and there is cross-talk with dietary nitrate which is most abundant in leafy green vegetables and which some have hypothesized is the reason that a diet rich in green leafy vegetables is associated with good health.
given the nature of the question it was seeking to answer, its design is single-armed and retrospective, using prognosis estimated byadjuvant!
the average number of subjects in these studies was 75.
# harriet hall on 24 mar 2009 at 7:01 pm pec, i will repeat diane henry’s request.
how is that evidence of  the idiocy of non-scientists?
it’s not a health fad, but that fact that astrology hasn’t died  out yet kind of shoots a hole in that position.
what is often claimed is a  near-miraculous “cure” for cancer, which, if it were true, would be  relatively easy to detect.
did you think there was a law that restricts us each to one and only one field?
so, if a drug is cheaper to make, this is actually to the drug  company’s benefit.
i will also note that i tend to cast an especially skeptical eye on any clinical trial done by the cancer treatment centers of america, given how much ctca promotes and supports woo in addition to standard therapy; i.e., “integrative medicine.”
our “wonderful brains” are very good at navigating this world.
you can find as much silliness and intelligence in “non-westerns” as you can here.
a no-lose situation for the camsters.
i’m not sure pec’s answer to the stated question would be all that useful; the point is simply that we can judge some things as being too absurd to waste resources on, and i think pec agrees.
but we do not see ordinary people going around doing ridiculous things because they have confused correlation with causation.
“sometimes health fads catch on for a while, but if they are truly  useless they will die out pretty soon.”
i think science is great and that the  dogmatic pseudo-skeptics only block its progress.”
for correctly inferring causation, it’s very, very unreliable.
i think that delusion is a core part of the problem.
pec, surely you believe that some therapies are not worthy of our precious resources.
yep, no limit to the outrageous claims, false hope, misrepresentation, and continuous health fraud from the cam crowd.
the very first post that provoked hundreds of comments was harriet’s excellent discussion of the international network of cholesterol skeptics.
http://dcscience.net/?p=1196 can you guys set it up so that any post where pec comments automatically gets tagged as “humor”?
so, as far as melatonin goes, my retort to ii would be that (1) melatonin  as an anticancer therapy is not in any way “alternative” and (2)  that the evidence for its efficacy is rather weak.
i don’t know, but i do know that i’m  always very skeptical about results that come from only one group of  investigators.
i can’t give you a simple yes or no answer, because it depends on what people have experienced with this therapy so far.
the more complicated and expensive a drug is to manufacture, the narrower the profit margin will be.
confusions about causation also happen all the time, but they are in areas  where we do not know the cause.
the trend of late to divide medical therapies into  “conventional” and “alternative” really doesn’t  help the community.
the meta-analysis concludes that  melatonin significantly reduced the risk of death of these patients at one year.
admittedly, same  research group for all the trials, which is suspicious.
a new hypothesis that contradicts established scientific understanding  is always rejected with rare exception: the new hypothesis must explain  something previously unexplained and have more predictive power than the theory  it contradicts.
even  so, given the huge difficulties involved in undertaking such a study, the  investigators, who, as private practitioners operating a community practice in  eugene, or, went above and beyond the call by trying to look at their data and  answer this question.
there should only be “proven” and  “unproven”.
patients’ refusal of surgery strongly impairs breast cancer survival annals of surgery, 242 (2), 276-280 doi: 10.1097/01.sla.0000171305.31703.84 70 responses so far 70 responses to “alternative medicine use and breast cancer” # imperfectlyinformed on 23 mar 2009 at 4:06 am in cassileth and deng’s 2004 review ( http://www.theoncologist.com/cgi/content/full/9/1/80), a few treatments come  off as promising.
sensitivity analyses strengthened the negative association between am use and survival.
but we do not, in general,  fool ourselves into eating poisonous mushrooms.
as someone who i suppose straddles the line,  having an asian parent, and who lived in asia for a while, i can tell you that  “non-western” folk are just like us.
when very large numbers  of seemingly normal people swear by something, it warrants at least a casual  investigation.
you may well have a phd in an experimental science, but you  definitely lack a phdunderstanding of experimental science.
if a member of a primitive tribe eats a mushroom and dies the other members  might jump to the conclusion that the mushroom was poisonous.
they do not want cam treatments  and ideas to be tested scientifically.
i think that was clear from my earlier answer.
the modern use of urine therapy stresses sterility and prevention of any and all bacteria.
they’re summed up in the following table: the authors comment: we found that the overwhelming majority of the patients who initially  refused surgical treatment for breast cancer developed disease progression.
take, for example the computer that you use, it  represents tremendous amounts of known science.
in any case, what this study shows is that women with no surgery can still live a long time, but are far more likely to die of their cancer than women who do undergo surgical extirpation.
the scam  business is all about reintroducing quackery into the marketplace.
# diane henry on 24 mar 2009 at 8:25 am i wasn’t aware that cam had contributed anything to mainstream  medicine–what modalities has cam proven that then became incorporated  into the standard of care?
i spent a little time with google and found out  that urine therapy is, and has been, widely practiced in many traditional  cultures.
learning you seem to be of either the open mind where too much has fallen out, or  too closed minded to actually learn about the subject under discussion.
the complete guide to urine therapy by coen van der kroon ancient secret of the fountain of youth by peter kelder there is considerable woo in the idea of urine therapy (to be charitable .
they are also opposed to repeatedly running low quality pilot quality  studies over and over again instead of following up with higher quality double  blinded rct’s that can separate a signal form the noise.
# dr benway on 23 mar 2009 at 11:06 pm pec, surely you believe that some therapies are not worthy of our precious  resources.
are there no effective cam treatments?
people confuse correlation with causation all the time, especially with  questions of causation in medicine.
i can’t think of one.
maybe there is a substance in urine that benefits the immune system in some way.
@gorski: i consider melatonin “cam” because, well, for one thing it would be at best “complementary”.
in reality, the scientific method is a barrier against the way people naturally think that prevents how humans naturally think from leading them to confuse correlation with causation and jump to the wrong conclusions.
the authors  do note that it is impossible to tell whether this increase in mortality was  solely due to delay or refusal of effective therapy or whether the modalities  chosen were deleterious.
i actually have looked at the literature on urine therapy (such as i could find it, there wasn’t that much when i looked).
i have: kitchell’s 1963  report did not find ‘chelation therapy’ to be beneficial, as seely  et al reported, nor was it even a controlled trial.
for another, otc dietary  supplements and herbs, even ones with real pharmacological effects, are  typically considered cam, and receive greater attention from cam people.
“i just recognize that because of the way our wonderful brains are  constructed, we tend to make mistakes that can only be countered by  science.”
while i don’t think they’re being rational in regards to their belief that the earth is 6000 years old, i don’t consider most young earth creationists to be not sane.
given the nature of  the question it was seeking to answer, its design is single-armed and  retrospective, using prognosis estimated byadjuvant!
nearly all of  so-called “alternative” medicine falls into one of the latter two  categories, and those that have not been tested yet nearly all fall into the  category of being so wildly improbable that testing them without more positive  evidence makes no sense.
i could find no mention of injection of urine (which i think would be a death wish).
i have: kitchell’s 1963 report did not find ‘chelation therapy’ to be beneficial, as seely et al reported, nor was it even a controlled trial.
patients with a poor performance status are more likely to undergo less aggressive therapy because they are less able to tolerate, for example, radical surgery or heavy-duty chemotherapy regimens.
@gorski: i consider melatonin “cam” because, well, for one thing it  would be at best “complementary”.
unfortunately, the study was also small, only 33 patients.
in reality, the  scientific method is a barrier against the way people naturally think that  prevents how humans naturally think from leading them to confuse correlation  with causation and jump to the wrong conclusions.
one extreme would be to formally study any ridiculous idea proposed by  anyone and promoted as cam.
how about any treatment that anybody invents that enough people swear by?
complicated, expensive chemicals are not preferred by drug companies, because the higher costs make them riskier to market.
so no matter what happens, you win.
2+2 can’t equal 5 even if a lot of people want it too.
pec’s ignorance of what  science is and its very purpose are revealed by that comment more than anything  else.
that is  obviously the goal.
ingesting urine might be able to substitute for ingesting nitrate in green  leafy vegetables.
we could not survive otherwise.
the objective of the study was to examine all studies randomized clinical trials (rcts) for “alternative cancer cures” (accs).
look especially at the long report by fda  commissioner donald kennedy: http://www.cancertreatmentwatch.org/q/laetrile/commissioner.pdf # david gorski on 23 mar 2009 at 10:27 am
# daedalus2u on 29 mar 2009 at 8:24 am pec, you don’t understand.
i was saying that  traditional people who do not have a western scientific education are  nevertheless capable of being reasonable and making scientific observations.
this involved 643 patients.
very superstitious, wash your face and hands the point that dr hall was trying to make, and which you agreed with, was that there needed to be some sort of a priori plausible physiology behind a treatment before going into clinical trials.
modern urine therapy likely has no beneficial effects and  the current practitioners of it don’t realize it.
you “skeptics” still reject chiropractic but you accept other forms of physical therapy (you just hate chiropractors).
congratulations, you have successfully combined the argument from antiquity, with the argument from incredulity, topped off with blatant cultural chauvinism .
yes, i’d like to see if pec thinks that we need to do a randomized,  double-blinded placebo-controlled study for intravenous urine therapy for  autism or for the amezcua bio disc.
# karl withakay on 27 mar 2009 at 9:04 am pec “i know that we all deceive ourselves about many things.
whenever evidence is clear and unambiguous people go along with it.
all normal humans, including those who lack a western education, are able to reason.
it’s because we just do not know, and cannot know, very much.”
we make this assertion based on what we consider strong and sound evidence.
it’s  just another name for meditation.
when science suggests that the chances of  something like, say, homeopathy working are so infinitesimally small as to be  in essence zero, they can then cry “persecuted!”
so this drives them towards complicated, expensive chemicals anyway, which can give the impression that they somehow prefer selling things that are very expensive despite the lower profit margin that comes with that.
i have a phd in an experimental science.
# david gorski on 24 mar 2009 at 8:30 pm quoth pec regarding a question about whether we should study urine  injections for autism: one extreme would be to formally study any ridiculous idea proposed by  anyone and promoted as cam.
have shown that there is a positive benefit from the use of melatonin.
it is  significant that when attempting a comprehensive review and meta-analysis of  studies examining melatonin as a chemotherapeutic agent, mills et al.
now, regarding an “ideological bias,” we at sbm have one bias and one bias alone: we assert that medicine based on science is the best medicine for patients.
we can be more efficient by using such mental shortcuts, but occasionally they mislead us.
these studies are quoted to unsuspecting consumers.
i know i don’t like to waste time and money on things that have no obvious benefit.
pec, you should sue your phd program and advisor, because they clearly failed to train you properly.
it’s yet another  example of how cam coopts certain aspects of “conventional”  medicine.
it has been suggested that utis can be treated by ingesting nitrate (as in 100 g of lettuce), allowing the nitrate to be excreted in the urine, allowing the bacteria causing the uti to reduce that nitrate to nitrite (e. coli does this), and then acidifying the urine and ingesting vitamin c which facilitates reduction of nitrite to no, producing acidified nitrite which is a broad spectrum antimicrobial.
pec, “non-western traditional people do not use harmful or useless medical treatments repeatedly over thousands of years because they have confused correlation with causation.”
this characteristic would make larger clinical trials of  melatonin feasible.
but we do not, if we are sane, deceive ourselves in the face of clear and obvious evidence.
more than anything else you’ve ever written here pec, that statement  demonstrates the depth of your willful ignorance.
which parts of the concepts of cognitive dissonance and compartmentalization do you not understand?
i suggest that you take off your postmodern blinders, and join the real world.
actually, you have it all wrong with the “no-lose” proposition.
i would not rule  out treatments just because they depend on the idea that water can store  information, for example, or that there are as-yet unrecognized forms of energy.
i can understand why parents might be afraid to have their children vaccinated, and that they don’t always have blind faith in the all-knowing medical priesthood and those fabulous drug companies.
it’s cam advocates who use the “alternative” label as a  marketing term and an excuse not to have to test their woo scientifically  before using it on actual people.
it has been suggested that utis can be treated by ingesting nitrate (as in  100 g of lettuce), allowing the nitrate to be excreted in the urine, allowing  the bacteria causing the uti to reduce that nitrate to nitrite (e. coli does  this), and then acidifying the urine and ingesting vitamin c which facilitates  reduction of nitrite to no, producing acidified nitrite which is a broad  spectrum antimicrobial.
it’s interesting that as soon as a cam therapy is shown to be effective, you say it isn’t cam.
i said that if i found good reasons to suspect it might have some benefit, i would first try it on animals to find out if it’s safe.
and to repeat what tmac57 said: “i suggest that you take off your  postmodern blinders, and join the real world.
daedalus2u, your post seems to confirm the idea that non-western people are capable of reasoning and of making scientific observations.
# david gorski on 29 mar 2009 at 7:52 am the antivaccine movement is based on confusing correlation with causation  in blaming autism on vaccines, for one.
but it’s not because of a lack of scientific eduction.
this occurs at levels well below that necessary  for bactericidal effects.
a systematic review of randomized clinical  trials and a critique of current terminology.
there was a good underlying point to the question, though — trying to show pec that it is worthwhile to pick and choose what to study based on prior plausibility.
the latest cochrane review of laetrile actually stated  that clinical trials are necessary, and there’s allegations that moertel  used the relatively inactive isoamgydalin at far too low of doses, and gave up  on intravenous (nontoxic) for oral (possibly toxic) far too quickly.
i am interested in science and technology and that’s why i  studied them.
even if it its origin was obviously alternative and it had been rejected by mainstream medicine for decades.
could this be the case with  melatonin and cancer therapy?
in scam the quack cures are sold all over and the corporations selling them are laughing all the way to the bank.
for example, if you do a search on pubmed using terms like “alternative medicine,” “breast cancer,” and “survival,” the vast majority of the hits will be studies of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) and breast cancer with little reference to what possible effect these therapies might have on survival.
after accounting for other prognostic factors including tumor characteristics and stage, women who refused surgery had a 2.1-fold (95% confidence interval, 1.5–3.1) increased risk to die of breast cancer compared with operated women.
if not, please explain briefly why not.
yes that is always your ultimate “proof” that traditional people are capable of fooling themselves endlessly.
perfectly sane people  do ignore, disregard, and discount clear and obvious evidence that contradicts  positions they “know” to be true all the time.
here is how a rather good,very recent (2009) review on  the subject described them: human trials of melatonin as a cancer chemotherapy agent, particularly  those of lissoni et al., have been reviewed in detail (ref. 19).
compare  that with airborne, a “dietary supplement” sold as a cold remedy  (despite a lack of evidence), which is extremely cheap to make.
nitter therapy consists of vitamin b12, gammaglobulins, tranexamic acid, multivitamins and nutritional supplements.
my discussion centered on what the obligation of a physician is to  such patients who utterly refuse the science- and evidence-based medicine that  we know to be able to cure them of a potentially fatal disease, and i was not  only surprised but somewhat taken aback by the vehemence of the discussion.
should we test  any treatment anybody invents?
the use of am seems to predict a shorter survival from cancer.
modern people have the bias that they don’t know those things  either and would rather listen to an ignorant charismatic fraud than a  non-charismatic knowledgeable nerd.
there is a folk remedy for impotence,the golden shower , which might have a mechanism via no/nox (erections are mediated through no  physiology).
i can  envision several reasons for this, the first being  that–thankfully–relatively few women actually use alternative  medicine exclusively to treat their breast cancer.
but you  have, of course, missed the point.
there seems to be very limited toxicity of this chemical in the context of what can be very toxic exposures during chemotherapy.
i would not plunge into elaborate and expensive formal research until i had seen some very good evidence in favor of the therapy.
natural  history of untreated breast cancer (1805-1933)british medical journal, 2,  213-221 doi:pmc1925646 chang, e., glissmeyer, m., tonnes, s., hudson, t., & johnson, n.  (2006).
if the ‘treatment’ does not pass the early phases,  plausibility is unlikely and it never makes it to formal rcts.
still, i find it equally  suspicious that nobody else has bothered to try to replicate the findings in  all these years.
# pec on 26 mar 2009 at 6:18 pm “methinks you realize the obvious trap you have fallen into” i don’t see any trap.
a recent meta-analysis found that  melatonin “reduced the risk of death at 1 yr (relative risk: 0.66, 95%  confidence interval: 0.59-0.73, i2=0%, heterogeneity p<or=0.56).
this study, like the one i just cited, was published in the surgical literature, namelyamerican journal of surgery.
come on in, the reality is fine.
if it’s legitimatly tested and found effective… so if a cam researcher manages to get some funding in spite of your all-out  ideological war, and if they demonstrate effectiveness, you will say well maybe  it works but, since it has now been scientifically verified, it isn’t cam.
what they found was that 18% of the 250 patients survived five years; 3.6% survived 10 years; and 0.8% survived 15 years.
obviously, it may not be  causative.
possible for so many people to be so wrong for so many hundreds (or thousands) of years about something.
i don’t want to veer off into an argument about astrology or ghosts.
olszewer’s 1990  report, the other rct that seely et al called “positive,” was not  credible.
there is a folk remedy for impotence,the golden shower , which might have a mechanism via no/nox (erections are mediated through no physiology).
i have studied more than one thing in my life.
athletes wouldn’t refuse to shave or wear their “lucky shirts” when they’re on a winning streak if that weren’t the case.
such rapid  “jumping to conclusions” probably had an evolutionary advantage  because waiting for more information could be fatal, but it is a method of  thinking that is very ill-suited for answering scientific questions regarding  medicine.
all that remains is the placebo effect.
but it’s not because of a lack of scientific  eduction.
there is medicine that is effective,  medicine that is not, and medicine that has not been tested yet.
they don’t need to do  any studies of safety and efficacy.
i’m not sure pec’s answer to  the stated question would be all that useful; the point is simply that we can  judge some things as being too absurd to waste resources on, and i think pec  agrees.
i think  we should become informed before making decisions.
specifically, it was a post i calleddeath by  “alternative” medicine: who’s to blame?, which has collected  an astonishing 611 comments thus far.
there is medicine on the one hand and quackery on the other.
in any case, it raises red flags that virtually all of the positive studies of melatonin as a breast cancer chemotherapeutic agent come from a single group, lissoni et al.
(astrology and ghosts come to mind as counterexamples.)”
science is  the way to prevent such cognitive quirks from leading to the wrong conclusion.
i can understand why a patient with advanced cancer might feel they have no  good options and might be afraid to accept the reality.
you can search for their comments on this subject and you will see that they are fighting hard against funding for scientific testing of anything currently considered to be alternative.
the hypothesis of the study was that the use of alternative medicine does not have any effect on the survival of cancer patients, and to test the hypothesis investigators studied data from surveys done by the norwegian board of health, which asked patients standard demographic information, but then asked them about their use of alternative medicine as follows: in the questionnaire presented to the patients, am was defined as any treatment outside of mainstream therapy that had been used to treat their cancer.
the topic of the post was a case report  that i had heard while visiting the tumor board of an affiliate of my former  cancer center describing a young woman who had rejected conventional therapy  for an eminently treatable breast cancer and then returned two or three years  later with a large, nasty tumor that was much more difficult to treat and  possibly metastatic to the bone, which would make it no longer even potentially  curable.
obviously, i would have to take time to read up on urine for autism.
that is  not what is claimed for many of these accs.
the strength of this study is that  the geneva cancer registry includes data from all patients from the geneva  canton who underwent treatment and allowed the investigators to compare the  outcomes of the women who refused to undergo surgery with curative intent with  those who underwent surgery.
the ancient practice of urine therapy did use both of these  treatment modalities.
the cochrane review calls for rcts of laetrile (bizarrely!)
pec gets it entirely wrong with that statement.
not in practical everyday life.
ultimately this website preaches to the choir, and it’s articles are typically obviously biased.
“you suggested you would try it in animals first (we shall ignore that there are no animal models of autism).”
treatments examined included various methods of psychosocial support such as group support therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy cognitive existential group therapy, a combination of muscle relaxation training and guided imagery, the chinese herbal remedy shi quan da bu tang, thymus extract, transfer factor, melatonin, and factor af2.
but we do not, in general, fool ourselves into eating poisonous mushrooms.
a generic drug doesn’t have to pay very much for development; they  just have to apply with the fda to get their version approved, which is much  less onerous than proving that the stuff works as advertised in the first  place.
it’s  partly the fault of mainstream medicine for dismissing these chemicals  prematurely and preferentially using other more complicated, expensive  chemicals.
in the case of blood letting, your approach was to find out if ancient people really did use blood letting, rather than try and figure out what physiology blood letting might influence.
in contrast, the vast majority of patients with pancreatic cancer die within the first year (more than half die within six months); fewer still live beyond two years; and very close to none live beyond three years.
they’re summed up in the following table: the authors comment: we found that the overwhelming majority of the patients who initially refused surgical treatment for breast cancer developed disease progression.
i will hand you two cognitive tools that will improve your decision-making  efficiency and perhaps your bank account: 1.
human trials of melatonin as a cancer chemotherapy agent, particularly those of lissoni et al., have been reviewed in detail (ref. 19).
“sometimes health fads catch on for a while, but if they are truly useless they will die out pretty soon.”
a critical analysis of complementary or alternative medicine, which harriet reviewed about a month ago.
“they do not want cam treatments and ideas to be tested  scientifically. ”
really, pec, you’re descending into some risibly bad arguments.
people have all sorts of biases.
the blog authors here and at neurologica are fighting a political war (that is how they describe it) against cam funding.
how about the entire space  program, a modern automobile, and yes, modern medicine.
and though we may not know very much in  comparison to all that the universe is, we still know a hell of a lot !
“i just recognize that because of the way our wonderful brains are constructed, we tend to make mistakes that can only be countered by science.”
cam is not  anti-scientific and they are as interested as you are in testing their ideas  scientifically (but you want to prevent them).
# pec on 29 mar 2009 at 8:56 am “you suggested you would try it in animals first (we shall ignore  that there are no animal models of autism).”
the terminal metabolite of no is nitrate, and that is excreted in the urine, so urine is a source of nitrate as well as a source of urea (which becomes ammonia on hydrolysis).
there is medicine that is effective, medicine that is not, and medicine that has not been tested yet.
“should we study urine injections for treating autism?”
please give us an example of something that was classified as alternative that was shown to be effective and has now become mainstream.
from the 15 studies ernst examined, this is what was concluded: the totality of the data fails to show a single intervention that would be  demonstrably effective as an acc.
well, does that even need to  be said?
the latest cochrane review of laetrile actually stated that clinical trials are necessary, and there’s allegations that moertel used the relatively inactive isoamgydalin at far too low of doses, and gave up on intravenous (nontoxic) for oral (possibly toxic) far too quickly.
the antivaccine movement is based on confusing correlation with causation in blaming autism on vaccines, for one.
and that is one of the major differences between us harriet.
airborne is  marked up considerably, but still people buy a lot of it.
also, those that do probably drop off the radar screen of their science-based practitioners, and it is difficult, if not impossible, to capture data regarding their outcomes, given that they all too often stick with their alternative healers until the end.
well, since they are all in the “unproven” category, we cannot say that there are any effective ones.
considering that it is a bmc article, you should consider adding a comment.
the topical use of urine might have therapeutic effects in “the wild” provided the proper biofilm is present.
i said that if i found good reasons to  suspect it might have some benefit, i would first try it on animals to find out  if it’s safe.
these days, most tumors are detected at far less advanced stages; indeed, most are detected by mammography.
those for whom follow-up evaluation was unavailable were excluded from this study.
“we assert that medicine based on science is the best medicine for patients.
# pec on 29 mar 2009 at 6:33 am “2.
so, if a drug is cheaper to make, this is actually to the drug company’s benefit.
several patients i’ve seen who through denial of their condition had deluded themselves that they did not have cancer, even after the tumor was growing through the skin.
people do not make serious errors in  practical matters because they lack conscious knowledge of the scientific  method.
you didn’t answer the question: should we study urine injections for  autism or not?
with this background, i have found a couple of studies that can help answer the question.
you may well have a phd in an experimental science, but you definitely lack a phdunderstanding of experimental science.
i  can’t think of one.
the most significant finding is that no adverse outcomes were reported from the use of melatonin.
in fact, i view it as condescending to asians to hold remedies  that originate from the “east” to a lower standard of evidence than  those that originated from the “west.”
not in practical  everyday life.
i am always noticing how  most people — including scientists in non-experimental disciplines  — confuse correlation and causation.
your definition of cam is deceptive and incorrect.
incidentally, one of the coauthors, seely, is a  naturopath who published a very critical review of chelation therapy.
just look at gardasil.
pec’s ignorance of what science is and its very purpose are revealed by that comment more than anything else.
bizarrely, cassileth and deng don’t mention perhaps the most promising cam cancer treatment: melatonin.
in other words, not surprisingly, use of alternative medicine is correlated  with poorer surival in the patients with a good performance status and thus who  are likely to have a more favorable prognosis.
in wade’s 1977 article covering the early part of the controversy ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17741690), it’s clear that laetrile  was assumed prior to testing to be ineffective.
pec “i know that we all deceive ourselves about many things.
in a systematic review of randomised controlled trials of melatonin in solid-tumour cancer patients and on one-year survival, mills et al.
patients who declined chemotherapy or hormone therapy faired slightly better.
i’m not going to let you dodge the question that easily.
learn some human psychology.
the scam business is all about reintroducing quackery into the marketplace.
# pec on 24 mar 2009 at 5:36 pm “why would it not be a good thing if cam modalities were tested,  proven, and then integrated into the mainstream?”
it is not the case that our brains constantly deceive us and lead us into grave  errors.
what it is is evidence that human  beings, contrary to your claims, do frequently confuse correlation with  causation and demonstrate all those other cognitive shortcomings we’ve  been discussing.
however, to my great surprise, the one post that stands out as having received the most comments thus far in the history of sbm is one that i wrote.
i know that we all deceive ourselves about many things.
in  the middle ages urine was used as a mouth wash.
but it is weak  and people get tired of bothering with things that only make them feel slightly  better.
yes, they are opposed to wasting precious, limited funds on highly implausible treatments, especially those that have already been tested scientifically and failed to show any difference from placebo.
as far as the single group, i mentioned that fact as suspicious in my comment, which apparently gorski didn’t notice.
it was noted that only one trial applied anintention to treat analysis .
does use of alternative medicine predict survival from cancer?european  journal of cancer, 39 (3), 372-377 verkooijen, h., fioretta, g., rapiti, e., bonnefoi, h., vlastos, g.,  kurtz, j., schaefer, p., sappino, a., schubert, h., & bouchardy, c. (2005).
in the middle ages urine was used as a mouth wash.
but  jerry always said the reason he could fool people is not that they are fools  but is because they have wonderful brains.
certainly more than  will buy gardasil, and lots more doses per person.
i simply don’t know, and if i were a medical researcher i might try  to find out.
part of the cost of a drug is its manufacturing costs, part is its material costs, and part is its development costs.
such rapid “jumping to conclusions” probably had an evolutionary advantage because waiting for more information could be fatal, but it is a method of thinking that is very ill-suited for answering scientific questions regarding medicine.
although their omission may introduce a selection bias in the results, the effect of this bias is expected to be small because relatively few patients (14 of 47) were in this category.
i must say, i am not a fan of the false dichotomy of “western” and “non-western”.
this, of course, is a weakness, but, again, randomizing patients to scientific medicine or alternative medicine would be completely unethical.
science is the way to prevent such cognitive quirks from leading to the wrong conclusion.
true, they may pop up again in their surgeon’s or primary care
(it is,  of course, these women who usually show up in “alternative  medicine” testimonials, because they can survive a long time with little  or no treatment before their tumors progress.)
it’s not a health fad, but that fact that astrology hasn’t died out yet kind of shoots a hole in that position.
a survival graph from this  classic paper is below: it should be noted that all of these tumors were detected as (at the very  minimum) lumps in the breast, given that there was no other way of detecting  them at the time.
in the registry, there were identified 70 patients (1.3%) who refused surgery and concluded: these women [those who refused surgery] were older, more frequently single, and had larger tumors.
we’ll get to your other points if you answer that question with a simple yes or no and a brief justification.
i read the article previously, by the  way, and added it as a reference in wikipedia.
i think science is great and that the dogmatic  pseudo-skeptics only block its progress.
a lot of this is, of course, true based on discussions of prior plausibility alone.
the  studies that do purport to show an effect are virtually all plagued with  methodological difficulties and tend to show effects that are barely above  background noise.
we make this assertion based on what we consider strong  and sound evidence.
but someone might note that they have eaten the same mushroom and it was ok, so the death may have been a coincidence.
# pec on 23 mar 2009 at 6:16 pm “we assert that medicine based on science is the best medicine for  patients.
what i am against is pseudo-skepticism and dogmatic materialism, which are not scientific.
athletes wouldn’t refuse to shave or wear  their “lucky shirts” when they’re on a winning streak if that  weren’t the case.
read barry beyerstein’s essay “why bogus therapies often seen to work” at http://www.quackwatch.org/01quackeryrelatedtopics/altbelief.html remember all the doctors and patients throughout the centuries who believed bloodletting cured patients by balancing their humours.
ancient people are no different than modern people.
# qetzal on 27 mar 2009 at 8:36 pm science is just a formalization of the way people naturally think….
these reports included: three studies on lung cancer (one alone and two in conjunction with genotoxic chemotherapy, including cisplatin); one study each on breast cancer, renal cell cancer, glioblastoma and malignant melanoma; two studies of mixed populations of patients with either advanced or metastatic solid tumours; and one study specifically of brain metastases from assorted solid tumours.
as i said before, i would not jump to any uninformed conclusions.
i have stated many times at this blog that i am not against modern science, not at all.
as i’ve often argued about, for example, the gonzalez regimen for pancreatic cancer, if such accs really were cures, it would actually be fairly easy to show.
it is also possible that a significant number of such small tumorsmay spontaneously regress , which further complicates the issue today, not to mention making it easier to find women who have rejected some or all of “conventional” medicine to treat their cancers and survived significant lengths of time to produce alternative medicine testimonials.
putting it all together, i conclude that there is no compelling evidence  for a significant survival benefit due to any “alternative”  therapy, nor is there good evidence for significant treatment effects.
even the much touted psychosocial support of late hasfailed  to demonstrate any improvement in the survival of cancer patients.
by software estimates, the  10-year mortality rate for these patients is still expected to be more than 50%  higher than it would have been if the patients had taken their recommended  therapy.
the correct way to supply more no is topically where it feeds  into the natural physiological pathways that regulate it.
# weing on 29 mar 2009 at 8:08 pm “i am a skeptic and i do not make up my mind about things just  because i follow a certain ideology.
he’s the research director at the canadian college of naturopathic medicine, and is now conducting a dbrct on melatonin and cancer due to be completed in 2012.
in this way, you can block cam treatments from getting through the initial stages of careful scientific investigation.
am use had the most detrimental effect in patients with an  ecog (eastern cooperative oncology group) performance status (ps) of 0 (hazard  ratio for use=2.32, 95% ci, 1.44, 3.74, p=0.001), when compared with an ecog ps  of 1 or higher.
modern urine therapy users adopted practices with no understanding of the  physiology behind them, and then modified those practices to suit their  aesthetic sensibilities with no understanding of the underlying physiology.
that alone makes me curious about it — why do so many people feel that it does some kind of good?
faith in drug companies or faith in charismatic frauds is still faith.
# david gorski on 28 mar 2009 at 1:19 pm
no, i would definitely not start with an rct, and most definitely not with  human subjects.
another extreme would be refusing to study anything not in accord with mainstream preconceptions.
my guess is that it was almost certainly due to the  ineffectiveness of the alternative therapies chosen.
the very first post that provoked  hundreds of comments was harriet’s excellent discussion of the international network of cholesterol skeptics.
of note, it was 19 years before all patients were  dead.
# pec on 25 mar 2009 at 6:50 pm “should we do an rct of urine injection therapy for autism to see if  it’s effective?
but since most of the cheap ones have already been taken, they are usually forced to either compete in an existing market for a simple, cheap chemical (eg ibuprofen, where advil and motrin are engaged in all-out advertising war) or try to come up with something new where they won’t have so much competition.
pec sez: “…refusing to study anything not in accord with mainstream preconceptions.”
the way you  see it, there was nothing but superstitious nonsense before modern science.
certainly more than will buy gardasil, and lots more doses per person.
but the same is true of modern chemotherapy for cancer,  for example.
“once again, please give us an example of something that was classified as alternative that was shown to be effective and has now become mainstream” just for a start, because i have to get to work: chiropractic and many other forms of physical therapy are now pretty mainstream.
if i were a medical researcher faced with this decision i would read up on it, and then decide if it deserved any further consideration.
“why would it not be a good thing if cam modalities were tested, proven, and then integrated into the mainstream?”
still, it’s a  remarkable effect which should have brought major attention when the first  trial was published in 1992.
would you rather they remain  constantly on the fringe?
outcomes of breast cancer in patients who use alternative therapies as  primary treatmentthe american journal of surgery, 192 (4), 471-473 doi:  10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.05.013 t risberg, a vickers, r.m bremnes, e.a wist, s kaasa, & b.r cassileth  (2003).
so please answer the  question: “should we do an rct of urine injection therapy for autism to  see if it’s effective?
there’s little interest in  sifting the wheat from the chaff and providing a balanced overview of medical  science, including major problems in mainstream medicine.
regarding alt-med and cancer, i highly recommend the website of one of our regular commenters, peter moran: http://www.cancerwatcher.com
ultimately this  website preaches to the choir, and it’s articles are typically obviously  biased.
this is also  true in science, certainly in modern medicine.
by software estimates, the 10-year mortality rate for these patients is still expected to be more than 50% higher than it would have been if the patients had taken their recommended therapy.
they listened to ignorant charismatic frauds too because there was no one knowledgeable to listen too.
the entire antivaccine movement, which leads to autism quackery.
“even if it its origin was obviously alternative and it had been  rejected by mainstream medicine for decades.”
we feel that, should such a cure one day emerge, it would be investigated without delay by oncologists and adopted into routine care as soon as the data supporting it are convincing.
i am sorry but testing software does not make you a real scientist.
yes, they are opposed to wasting precious, limited funds on highly  implausible treatments, especially those that have already been tested  scientifically and failed to show any difference from placebo.
in addition, one year survival is very short term in the context of many cancers such as breast (with a mean recurrence time of seven years) and a much longer trial would need to be conducted.
they don’t need to do any studies of safety and efficacy.
the following alternative methods were described in the multiple choice  questionnaire: use of biological treatments, herbs, faith healing or healing by  hand, homeopathy, reflexology (zone therapy), megadoses of vitamins, diet  treatments, injection therapies such as iscador (a mistletoe preparation) and a  norwegian injection therapy called “nitter therapy”.
studies go from anecdotal reports, to preliminary studies, to stage one clinical trials and then on up to formal rcts.
as far as i can find, there is one study that specifically looked at the question of what happens to women who opt for alternative medicine instead of scientific medicine.
but even if  this were true, one would be correct in stating that to date, no effective acc  has been identified.
“it’s interesting that as soon as a cam therapy is shown to be effective, you say it isn’t cam.”
for instance, he would take off his glasses and  show that there was no glass in them; everyone had assumed they were real  glasses
[i can tell you that “non-western” folk are just like us.
a number of patients who expressed their intention to pursue alternative therapies did not return for follow-up evaluation.
people notice when something  doesn’t work.
if i can invent a treatment and can convince half  the members of the church of scientology to use it, should the nccam spent  millions of dollars to study it?
consequently, it’s impossible to rule out selection bias, but, as the authors point out, this is one case where doing a randomized study is completely unethical.
approaching the feasibility of research focused on cam modalities based on scientific plausibility (which is what sbm does) is not equal to “mainstream preconceptions.”
however, the reason we go back to this study time and time  again is because, at least in developed countries, it is the rare woman with  breast cancer who does not undergo treatment of some kind for it.
i feel comfortable in saying that if there was an “alternative”  treatment with a plausible basis in science, or it the underlying basis for an  apparently implausible treatment could be plausibly supported, and it had not  already been properly tested, you wouldn’t find any of the authors on  this site opposing high quality testing of that treatment, and if those high  quality trials showed it to be effective, the treatment would become part of  scientific medicine, perhaps requiring a rewrite of our knowledge of science  and medicine.
all studies were performed on advanced cancer patients, were  unblinded and did not include placebos.
# pec on 27 mar 2009 at 7:20 pm “our brains have learned to take shortcuts and jump to conclusions  because of the survival value.”
how do you think primitive hunter/gatherers learned what is ok to eat?
it was published in 1962 byh. j. g. bloom, w. w. richardson, and e. j. harries, and examined data from middlesex hospital from 1805 to 1933 where 250 cases of untreated breast cancer were identified and studied.
they listened to ignorant charismatic frauds too because there was no  one knowledgeable to listen too.
“our brains have learned to take shortcuts and jump to conclusions because of the survival value.”
the topic of the post was a case report that i had heard while visiting the tumor board of an affiliate of my former cancer center describing a young woman who had rejected conventional therapy for an eminently treatable breast cancer and then returned two or three years later with a large, nasty tumor that was much more difficult to treat and possibly metastatic to the bone, which would make it no longer even potentially curable.
i’ve heard of using urine for wound irrigation in the wilderness.
that would be a waste of time and then you  have to spend money denouncing the studies when they inevitably find that the  treatments don’t work.
he showed that our  assumptions are often wrong.
dean burk’s continued support  of the therapy is similarly suspicious, and altogether it’s enough to  leave room for doubt that the therapy was properly tested.
in the registry, there were identified 70 patients  (1.3%) who refused surgery and concluded: these women [those who refused surgery] were older, more frequently single,  and had larger tumors.
seely’s chelation  review is neither “very critical” nor competent.
and in this way you can always claim that no cam treatments work, and cam research should never be funded.
however, that wouldn’t have changed the negative conclusions of  seely’s review, and somehow i find it hard to believe that both lamas and  seely outright didn’t read kitchell, rather than simply interpreting it  differently than you did.
it’s also a straw man to say that this is evidence of the “idiocy” of nonscientists.
you are wrong  — people make stupid mistakes because the world is complicated and our  data is limited.
still, it’s a remarkable effect which should have brought major attention when the first trial was published in 1992.
in no way do i suggest that anyone use urine therapy for anything.
it’s because we just do not know, and cannot know, very much.
the main  goal of scam studies is marketing.
we feel that, should  such a cure one day emerge, it would be investigated without delay by  oncologists and adopted into routine care as soon as the data supporting it are  convincing.
i would read what i could find, and i might speak to some patients and practitioners who use it.
many cultures developed the customs of wearing clothing so as to cause sweating (i.e. sweaters), or adopted the custom of sweat baths (i.e. sauna).
# calli arcale on 25 mar 2009 at 9:01 am i think pec’s response makes it fairly clear he/she considers urine  injections to be absurd, since he/she responded with a statement about the  absurdity of extremes.
and please don’t tell me relaxation was always mainstream!
one could argue that, given the poor quality of the studies examined by ernst, there might be an effect that was missed.
and, yes, all those ancient peoples who thought bloodletting was a great cure for what ails you or that it’s not possible for so many people to be so wrong for so many hundreds (or thousands) of years about something.
as edzard ernst put it: the idea of an “alternative cancer cure” assumes that  conventional oncology would not adopt a cancer treatment simply because it  originates from an area outside of mainstream medicine.
# imperfectlyinformed on 23 mar 2009 at 5:19 pm clarification on the above: i read atwood’s article previously, and  atwood should consider submitting a comment on seely’s work.
even though intuitively one would hypothesize that refusing scientific medicine and relying on placebo medicine instead would have a detrimental effect on survival, it turns out that this question is not as easy to answer as you might think.
it follows that the term acc  is and most likely will always be a contradiction in terms.
in the meantime, i will continue to argue that the very concept of “alternative” medicine is a potentially deadly false dichotomy for cancer patients.
we can then move on in the discussion, but i want a simple yes or no question from pec on two questions: 1.
the placebo effect is only operative in mostly subjective outcomes, such as reduction of pain, etc.
we can then move on in the discussion, but i want a simple yes or no  question from pec on two questions: 1.
it’s the exact opposite of genuine  medicine where the studies showing safety and efficacy are done before it ever  comes to market.
our brains have learned to take  shortcuts and jump to conclusions because of the survival value.
alternative medicine use and breast cancer (sciencebasedmedicine.org)
people use whatever they happen to have, and it’s always very limited.
take, for example the computer that you use, it represents tremendous amounts of known science.
you, me, steve, everyone.
even if it its origin was obviously  alternative and it had been rejected by mainstream medicine for decades.
is it necessary to “read up” on the idea before rejecting it?
i’m sorry, pec, but you owe me a new keyboard.
several patients i’ve seen who through denial of their condition  had deluded themselves that they did not have cancer, even after the tumor was  growing through the skin.”
while this will not necessarily bias the results, the lack of independent verification, particularly in the presence of an effect that is perhaps surprisingly large, warrants skepticism.
you have no respect for people in general.
more evidence of the uselessness of “alternative” medicine in breast cancer was published two years ago by edzard ernst, author of healing, hype or harm?
you do not need any scientific training to do this kind of analysis —  everyone does it every day.
it  would be a silly waste of our time to not assume that frames contain glass and  to try to verify every instance.
maybe there is a substance in urine that benefits the immune system in some  way.
read barry beyerstein’s essay “why bogus therapies often seen  to work” at http://www.quackwatch.org/01quackeryrelatedtopics/altbelief.html remember  all the doctors and patients throughout the centuries who believed bloodletting  cured patients by balancing their humours.
the topic of the post was a case report that i had heard while visiting the tumor board of an affiliate of my former cancer center describing a young woman who had rejected conventional therapy for an eminently treatable breast cancer … view post: science-based medicine »
i simply don’t know, and if i were a medical researcher i might try to find out.
# pec on 29 mar 2009 at 8:48 am
that their study has a number of shortcomings is not  their fault; they appear to haved done the best they could with what they had,  which includes patients who underwent a panoply of alternative therapies,  including coral calcium, herbal therapy, mushrooms, high dose vitamins, whey,  chelation therapy, hemlock, and coenzyme q10.
it is significant that when attempting a comprehensive review and meta-analysis of studies examining melatonin as a chemotherapeutic agent, mills et al.
it’s interesting that as soon as a cam therapy is shown to be  effective, you say it isn’t cam.
see it here http://www.marystaggsdetox.com.au/index.php?cpath=112&oscsid=b84286145e08fe903403a15ce902cc89 it has a sciencey-looking graphic showing it works, and the website says it works so it must be ok mustn’t it?
optimism for this strategy should be severely tempered by the fact that the length of follow-up evaluation in these patients was relatively short, and these patients had early stage (i or ii) disease.
despite a strong set of laws protecting the  public from cancer cure quackery (ccq), there still exist a number of  practicioners who insist on alternate treaments for their very ill patients,  depsite no evidence of efficacy and the possible interference or delay of  legitimate treatment.
patients certainly benefit from placebo treatments, in concert with viable  methodologies, however, to the exclusion of effective treatment they are a  measure of criminal negligence.
one notes that pec didn’t answer dr. benway’s question, so i’ll throw out another one: should we study urine injections for treating autism?
but since most of the  cheap ones have already been taken, they are usually forced to either compete  in an existing market for a simple, cheap chemical (eg ibuprofen, where advil  and motrin are engaged in all-out advertising war) or try to come up with  something new where they won’t have so much competition.
so what were their findings?
this is what the so-called “drug pipelines” are all about.
the main goal of scam studies is marketing.
you can search for their comments on  this subject and you will see that they are fighting hard against funding for  scientific testing of anything currently considered to be alternative.
that alone makes me curious about it — why do so many people  feel that it does some kind of good?
bizarrely, cassileth and deng don’t mention perhaps the most  promising cam cancer treatment: melatonin.
as far as laetrile, i don’t have convenient nejm access that far  back, although i’d love to see those issues.
our brains have learned to take shortcuts and jump to conclusions because of the survival value.
as someone who i suppose straddles the line, having an asian parent, and who lived in asia for a while, i can tell you that “non-western” folk are just like us.
what that means is that, if such a study could be done today,  it is very likely thatlead time bias would significantly increase the apparent  median survival, because increasingly tiny tumors are being found.
try and rely on “ancient  wisdom”, rather than modern understanding of the physiology involved.
in contrast, the vast majority of patients with pancreatic cancer die  within the first year (more than half die within six months); fewer still live  beyond two years; and very close to none live beyond three years.
# tmac57 on 29 mar 2009 at 12:13 pm pec:”i keep saying we are all limited and fallible.
the “skeptic” movement believes they can improve the world and eliminate irrationality and superstition by educating everyone into the “correct” way of thinking.
http://aac.asm.org/cgi/content/full/47/12/3713 when this author presented this work at a conference, i asked for his comment on how his no/nox results in urine might reflect on the effectiveness of a golden shower regarding uti status.
in fact, harriet seems to be  quite good at writing posts that provoke a lot of comment, as another of her  posts, specifically the one in which shediscussed circumcision, also garnered  hundreds of comments.
unlike most “skeptics,” i do not believe that most people are  self-deceiving fools.
but even if this were true, one would be correct in stating that to date, no effective acc has been identified.
would you rather they remain constantly on the fringe?
i wouldn’t reject it just because it sounds odd.
really, though, the argument that melatonin is not cam is fairly  weak, especially since it was mentioned in your above post.
sometimes health fads catch on for a while, but if they are truly  useless they will die out pretty soon.
he’s done yeoman’s work in describing the issues of figuring  out whether a cancer therapy works or not and in describing why cancer cure  testimonials are almost never good evidence for the efficacy of an  “alternative cancer cure.”
that is why they have no role in science-based medicine at present.
so if a cam researcher manages to get some funding in spite of your all-out ideological war, and if they demonstrate effectiveness, you will say well maybe it works but, since it has now been scientifically verified, it isn’t cam.
you are wrong — people make stupid mistakes because the world is complicated and our data is limited.
in contrast,  lots of women with metastatic breast cancer live longer than two or three  years; a few.
second, and more importantly, it strongly suggests that foregoing or delaying surgery or chemotherapy is at the very least associated with a significantly decreased chance of recurrence-free survival.
i was saying that traditional people who do not have a western scientific education are nevertheless capable of being reasonable and making scientific observations.
he’s the research director at the canadian college of naturopathic  medicine, and is now conducting a dbrct on melatonin and cancer due to be  completed in 2012.
i actually very much approve of the fact that the investigators did not  define relaxation, psychotherapy, lifestyle changes, etc., as  “alternative.”
the “skeptic” movement depends entirely on the idea that people are fools (except, of course, the “skeptics” themselves).
indeed, when a person refuses to admit that he or she can be prone to such cognitive shortcomings, it’s more a case of hubris than anything else.
in a cox regression model adjusted for demographic, disease and treatment factors, the hazard ratio of death for any use of am compared with no use was 1.30, (95% confidence interval (ci) 0.99, 1.70; p=0.056), suggesting that am use may predict a shorter survival.
the correct way to supply more no is topically where it feeds into the natural physiological pathways that regulate it.
very superstitious, wash your face and hands the point that dr hall was trying to make, and which you agreed with, was  that there needed to be some sort of a priori plausible physiology behind a  treatment before going into clinical trials.
i love it when pec tells me what i think, especially when it is not what i think i think.
most trails had small sample sizes; thus a type ii error is conceivable.
“they do not want cam treatments and ideas to be tested scientifically. ”
the point that gorski (and others) has been trying to make is not that  there are no effective cam treatments but that the term “cam” is  useless, in part because it’s so vague but mostly because  “alternative” versus “conventional” is a false  dichotomy.
moreover,  although there is a relative paucity of studies, and they, too, are generally  retrospective and difficult to interpret, what evidence is out there is that  alternative medicine use among cancer patients is associated with an increased  risk of dying from cancer, particularly when conventional therapy is eschewed.
have you never heard about the melatonin-cancer research?
in addition, one year survival  is very short term in the context of many cancers such as breast (with a mean  recurrence time of seven years) and a much longer trial would need to be  conducted.
you are continuing to dodge the question, and, once again, you already have all the information you need to answer the question.
“even if it its origin was obviously alternative and it had been rejected by mainstream medicine for decades.”
or a busy person, as you seem to have no means for quickly dismissing the idea of giving autistic kids urine shots.
what i am against is pseudo-skepticism and dogmatic materialism,  which are not scientific.
after all, there is an upper limit to what people are able to pay (with the exception of the very wealthy).
come on in, the reality is fine.”
the paucity and the often-low methodological  quality of the rcts are as unexpected to us as they are disappointing.
[...] alternative medicine use and breast cancer (sciencebasedmedicine.org) [...] site admin | free wordpress themescience-based medicine copyright © 2012 all rights reserved .
just  take a look around you.
just take a look around you.
oh, and harriet’s question is a good one, too.
putting it all together, i conclude that there is no compelling evidence for a significant survival benefit due to any “alternative” therapy, nor is there good evidence for significant treatment effects.
if it were possible to be perfectly scientific, it would still not be possible to know the “truth” because we never have enough data.
we can be more efficient by using such mental  shortcuts, but occasionally they mislead us.
“i am a skeptic and i do not make up my mind about things just because i follow a certain ideology.
incidentally, one of the coauthors, seely, is a naturopath who published a very critical review of chelation therapy.
the modern use of urine therapy stresses sterility and prevention of  any and all bacteria.
how about an rct to see if slapping someone upside the head reduces kidney stone pain?
you “skeptics” think the reason people make stupid mistakes is  because they have not been educated into the scientific elite.
non-western traditional people do not use harmful or useless medical treatments repeatedly over thousands of years because they have confused correlation with causation.
of course certain treatments have been overused and  sometimes dangerous.
here is how a rather good,very recent (2009) review on the subject described them:
anything related to lifestyle and disease prevention — nutrition,  exercise, relaxation — was very much on the alternative side and is now  very much mainstream.
pec: “why would it not be a good thing if cam modalities were tested, proven, and then integrated into the mainstream?”
# dr benway on 26 mar 2009 at 8:03 am pec, i hope you’re not a pedicatrician.
i think we should become informed before making decisions.
“i suggest that you take off your postmodern blinders, and join the real world. ”
independent verification is incredibly important.
and there is no survival value in repeating a stupid  medical mistake for thousands of years.
you “skeptics” think the reason people make stupid mistakes is because they have not been educated into the scientific elite.
methinks you realize the obvious trap you have fallen into and are trying to wriggle your way out of it with lame justifications.
anything related to lifestyle and disease prevention — nutrition, exercise, relaxation — was very much on the alternative side and is now very much mainstream.
second, and more importantly, it strongly suggests that  foregoing or delaying surgery or chemotherapy is at the very least associated  with a significantly decreased chance of recurrence-free survival.
the first finding was that the methodological quality of the studies was,  by and large, pretty low.
these days,  most tumors are detected at far less advanced stages; indeed, most are detected  by mammography.
(astrology and ghosts come to mind as counterexamples.)
yes, i’d like to see if pec thinks that we need to do a randomized, double-blinded placebo-controlled study for intravenous urine therapy for autism or for the amezcua bio disc.
exploring issues and controversies in the relationship between science and  medicine mar  23  2009 alternative medicine use and breast cancer published by david gorski  undercancer, herbs & supplements, science and medicine, surgical procedures comments: 70 of all the posts i and my cobloggers have written for sbm over the last 15  months, most provoke relatively few comments.
the cochrane review calls for rcts of laetrile  (bizarrely!)
attempts were made to contact these patients.
dr gorski: “which has collected an astonishing 611 comments thus far.
the profit margin for the overhyped multivitamin is much higher than for the elective vaccine, and the manufacturer could still lose their shirt over it if they can’t recoup their research and development costs due to the high price.
the 1970s  from the fda commissioner is not compelling either, and similarly doesn’t  seem to make the toxicity clarification.
for example, shark cartilage extract neovastat (now  disproven), polysaccharide k (approved in japan, so arguably not cam), and  perhaps antineoplastons.
i wasn’t aware that cam had contributed anything to mainstream medicine–what modalities has cam proven that then became incorporated into the standard of care?
i don’t know, but i do know that i’m always very skeptical about results that come from only one group of investigators.
they do not want cam treatments and ideas to be tested scientifically.
pec said, “you have no respect for people in general.”
true, they may pop up again in their surgeon’s or primary care  doctor’s office with huge, fungating tumors, only to be told that they  have to undergo chemotherapy to shrink the tumor before any surgery is  possible, after which they will often disappear again.
the point that you seem to be  missing here is that the scientific method came about to compensate for those  recognized human vulnerabilities.
on the other hand, anecdotes and testimonials are not  scientific evidence.
the first one was published in 2005 in theannals of surgery by a  group in from geneva university hospitals.
“i did not suggest that.
http://dcscience.net/?p=1196 # karl withakay on 24 mar 2009 at 1:54 pm can you guys set it up so that any post where pec comments automatically  gets tagged as “humor”?
or: bear bile for rejuvenating brain cells.
and in this way you can always claim that no cam treatments work, and cam  research should never be funded.
well, does that even need to be said?
the following alternative methods were described in the multiple choice questionnaire: use of biological treatments, herbs, faith healing or healing by hand, homeopathy, reflexology (zone therapy), megadoses of vitamins, diet treatments, injection therapies such as iscador (a mistletoe preparation) and a norwegian injection therapy called “nitter therapy”.
could this be the case with melatonin and cancer therapy?
# calli arcale on 24 mar 2009 at 10:21 am pec, why would it not be a good thing if cam modalities were tested,  proven, and then integrated into the mainstream?
but we do not see ordinary people going around doing ridiculous things  because they have confused correlation with causation.
nitter therapy  consists of vitamin b12, gammaglobulins, tranexamic acid, multivitamins and  nutritional supplements.
so i’m inclined to believe you.
it is true that this is not a randomized study; rather, it is a  retrospective study.
this occurs at levels well below that necessary for bactericidal effects.
you are continuing to dodge the question, and, once again, you already have  all the information you need to answer the question.
pec said “i have a phd in an experimental science.”
the terminal metabolite of no is  nitrate, and that is excreted in the urine, so urine is a source of nitrate as  well as a source of urea (which becomes ammonia on hydrolysis).
(see http://www.theness.com/neurologicablog/?p=502 far a parallel outside medicine)
first, it confirms once again  the importance of surgery as a therapeutic modality for breast cancer,  especially early stage.
the basal level of no/nox.
this characteristic would make larger clinical trials of melatonin feasible.
modern urine therapy users adopted practices with no understanding of the physiology behind them, and then modified those practices to suit their aesthetic sensibilities with no understanding of the underlying physiology.
that’s evidence of bias, which you should try to avoid.
# pec on 28 mar 2009 at 4:35 pm “what!!!
at best, anecdotal  evidence can be hypothesis generating.
neither would the myth  that things go crazy around the time of a full moon (it’s been studied;  there are, for example, no more er visits on average around the time of a full  moon than any other time).
103) were able to find only ten reports, all from the lissoni group, that  analysed melatonin definitively alone or in combination with standard  therapies.
but we do  not, if we are sane, deceive ourselves in the face of clear and obvious  evidence.”
in wade’s 1977 article covering the early part of the controversy ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17741690), it’s clear that laetrile was assumed prior to testing to be ineffective.
# zetetic on 24 mar 2009 at 6:08 pm pec sez: “…refusing to study anything not in accord with  mainstream preconceptions.”
mysteriously, their veteran  researcher kanematsu sugiura found it effective in several animal experiments.
of course certain treatments have been overused and sometimes dangerous.
plant-based cancer medications such as vincristin and vinblastin  (both extracted from the plantvinca rosea) or taxol (taxus baccata ) could be employed to back up this theory.
smart human beings do it too.
for a reason that i’ve discussed several times here, but that i apparently need to do again: it conflates rcts and the much broader realm of science.
i feel comfortable in saying that if there was an “alternative” treatment with a plausible basis in science, or it the underlying basis for an apparently implausible treatment could be plausibly supported, and it had not already been properly tested, you wouldn’t find any of the authors on this site opposing high quality testing of that treatment, and if those high quality trials showed it to be effective, the treatment would become part of scientific medicine, perhaps requiring a rewrite of our knowledge of science and medicine.
a lot of this is, of course, true based on discussions of prior  plausibility alone.
# pec on 27 mar 2009 at 6:33 am “learn some human psychology”
are you living on the same planet as we are?
a recent meta-analysis found that melatonin “reduced the risk of death at 1 yr (relative risk: 0.66, 95% confidence interval: 0.59-0.73, i2=0%, heterogeneity p<or=0.56).
taken together, these data make it very hard not to conclude that at best the  vast majority of alternative therapies are either useless, no more than  placebos, or might even be harmful.
(it is, of course, these women who usually show up in “alternative medicine” testimonials, because they can survive a long time with little or no treatment before their tumors progress.)
the most common deficiencies included: lack of power sample calculation; small sample size; lack of adequate randomization and/or (patient and assessor or only assessor) blinding; and insufficient follow-up periods.
five-year specific breast cancer survival of women who refused  surgery was lower than that of those who accepted (72%, 95% confidence  interval, 60%–84% versus 87%, 95% confidence interval, 86%–88%,  respectively).
seely’s chelation review is neither “very critical” nor competent.
in any case, it raises red flags that virtually all of the positive studies  of melatonin as a breast cancer chemotherapeutic agent come from a single  group, lissoni et al.
how about an rct to see if slapping someone upside the head reduces kidney  stone pain?
furthermore, the disease progression caused by the delay in surgery was associated with an increase in the estimated 10-year mortality rate.
and then there is the uk.
i actually very much approve of the fact that the investigators did not define relaxation, psychotherapy, lifestyle changes, etc., as “alternative.”
you do not need any scientific training to do this kind of analysis — everyone does it every day.
# pec on 28 mar 2009 at 1:17 pm “that’s exactly how people do think in everyday life!
yes i know we deceive ourselves, as i already said, but not because we  aren’t scientific enough.
however, that wouldn’t have changed the negative conclusions of seely’s review, and somehow i find it hard to believe that both lamas and seely outright didn’t read kitchell, rather than simply interpreting it differently than you did.
the “skeptic” movement believes they can improve the world and  eliminate irrationality and superstition by educating everyone into the  “correct” way of thinking.
so this drives  them towards complicated, expensive chemicals anyway, which can give the  impression that they somehow prefer selling things that are very expensive  despite the lower profit margin that comes with that.
in this  way, you can block cam treatments from getting through the initial stages of  careful scientific investigation.
yet we are able to sort out cause and effect well enough to navigate complex everyday life.
it’s cam advocates who use the “alternative” label as a marketing term and an excuse not to have to test their woo scientifically before using it on actual people.
modern urine therapy likely has no beneficial effects and the current practitioners of it don’t realize it.
a critical analysis of complementary or alternative  medicine, which harriet reviewed about a month ago.
the hypothesis of the study was that the use of alternative medicine does not  have any effect on the survival of cancer patients, and to test the hypothesis
this is not the same thing as saying that there are no effective ones,
i suggest that you  take off your postmodern blinders, and join the real world.
you suggested you would try it in  animals first (we shall ignore that there are no animal models of autism).
if not, please explain briefly why  not.”
science is just a formalization of the way people naturally think; it is not different from the normal logic and common sense that all people in all times have possessed.
a total of 515 patients were analyzed, and results were as follows: in january 2001, survival data were obtained with a follow-up of 8 years  for 515 cancer patients.
i’ve also read about the  chichimeca indians drinking the urine of their chief after he consumed a  hallucinogenic mushroom in order to experience hallucinations.
the onus or responsibility for providing evidence in support of any claim rests squarely on the shoulders of the person making that claim.
online, an online tool into which clinicians can enter prognostic factors of a breast cancer at the time of presentation and come up with an estimate of chances of survival and recurrence with and without treatment.
jerry andrus was an inventor of optical illusions.
i don’t  want to veer off into an argument about astrology or ghosts.
there was a good underlying point to the question,  though — trying to show pec that it is worthwhile to pick and choose what  to study based on prior plausibility.
this is part of why generics are so common (once patent protection expires).
they calculated survival as the period of time from onset of symptoms to death.
so please answer the question: “should we do an rct of urine injection therapy for autism to see if it’s effective?
but it’s  not because of a lack of scientific eduction.
the profit margin for the  overhyped multivitamin is much higher than for the elective vaccine, and the  manufacturer could still lose their shirt over it if they can’t recoup  their research and development costs due to the high price.
but you have, of course, missed the point.
references: h. j. g. bloom,, w. w. richardson, & e. j. harries (1962).
olszewer’s 1990 report, the other rct that seely et al called “positive,” was not credible.
duh, cause it now has proven scientific legitimacy, and is no longer cam,  it’s mainstream!
this study involved a search of switzerland’s database between 1975 and 2000 and included 5,339 patients diagnosed with nonmetastatic breast cancer.
in fact, harriet seems to be quite good at writing posts that provoke a lot of comment, as another of her posts, specifically the one in which shediscussed circumcision, also garnered hundreds of comments.
i am a skeptic and i do not make up my mind about things just because i  follow a certain ideology.
the authors do note that it is impossible to tell whether this increase in mortality was solely due to delay or refusal of effective therapy or whether the modalities chosen were deleterious.
when, as is often the case, there is no clear evidence, we do our best.
from the very meta-analysis that ii cites, the authors cautioned: there are several limitations to be considered in the interpretation of our  meta-analysis.
i think this discussion hinges on the definition of “alternative”.
my discussion centered on what the obligation of a physician is to such patients who utterly refuse the science- and evidence-based medicine that we know to be able to cure them of a potentially fatal disease, and i was not only surprised but somewhat taken aback by the vehemence of the discussion.
no the experiments aren’t blinded and controlled, but  they’re still experiments and they still give valid results in the long  run.
i would love to know.
if any “alternative” medicine can make the cut when subjected to scientific scrutiny, both in terms of evidence supporting its efficacy against disease and of a scientifically remotely plausible mechanism that can be studied, we will then consider it to be part of sbm.
untested  things still have to be considered “not medicine” until utility is  proven or at least highly suggested.
it was published in 1962 byh. j. g. bloom, w. w. richardson, and e. j.  harries, and examined data from middlesex hospital from 1805 to 1933 where 250  cases of untreated breast cancer were identified and studied.
regarding alt-med and cancer, i highly recommend the website of one of our  regular commenters, peter moran: http://www.cancerwatcher.com
clarification on the above: i read atwood’s article previously, and atwood should consider submitting a comment on seely’s work.
attempts were made to  contact these patients.
and as i mentioned, verifying a treatment goes in stages.
the meta-analysis concludes that melatonin significantly reduced the risk of death of these patients at one year.
i have stated many times at this blog that i am not against modern science,  not at all.
patients also had the opportunity to add other types of alternative therapy in response to an open question.
# pec on 29 mar 2009 at 4:09 pm “i suggest that you take off your postmodern blinders, and join the  real world. ”
well, that pretty much clinches it for me.
from the 15 studies ernst examined, this is what was concluded: the totality of the data fails to show a single intervention that would be demonstrably effective as an acc.
he was not prepared to speculate on that.
when organizations like ncam perform real rcts and find no value in whatever “snake oil”, the scam community condemns the findings (see all of the sen harkin related posts).