this study compared the short-term and long-term effects of  relaxation massage, structural massage, and usual care for people with  persisting low back pain.
the authors are d.c. cherkin, k.j. sherman, j. kahn, r. wellman, a.j. cook, e. johnson, j. erro, k. delaney, and r.a. deyo.)
the researchers first gathered information  about the participants' symptoms and how much those symptoms limited their  daily activities.
the usual treatments for low back pain include drugs (painkillers, anti-inflammatory drugs, and muscle relaxants), physical therapy, back exercises, and education about ways to prevent back injury and deal with back pain.
it often goes away after several days or weeks, but it may last for months or years or periodically recur.
this study compared the short-term and long-term effects of relaxation massage, structural massage, and usual care for people with persisting low back pain.
the researchers remeasured participants' symptoms and ability to perform daily activities after completing the 10 massage treatments, and then at 6 months and 1 year after starting massage therapy.
touchpoints: a massage therapy blog notes, thoughts, news, and  information on the field of massage therapy from national university of health  sciences.
some people use alternative treatments for low back pain, such as chiropractic or massage therapy.
they then randomly assigned each participant to receive  relaxation massage, structural massage, or usual medical care without massage.
low back pain is very common.
symptoms and ability to perform  activities improved about the same in the 2 massage groups.
participants assigned to the massage groups got about 1 hour of massage once a  week for 10 weeks.
(the full report is titled "a comparison of the effects of 2 types of massage and usual care on chronic low back pain.
it is in the 5 july 2011 issue of annals of internal medicine (volume 155, pages 1-9).
some people use  alternative treatments for low back pain, such as chiropractic or massage  therapy.
the researchers remeasured participants' symptoms and  ability to perform daily activities after completing the 10 massage treatments,  and then at 6 months and 1 year after starting massage therapy.
the type of massage did not seem to make a difference.
" low back pain is very common.
participants who received massage had less pain and were better able to perform  daily activities after 10 weeks than those who received usual care.
to read older blog posts, scroll to the bottom and click the "older posts" button.
a randomized, controlled trial."
the usual  treatments for low back pain include drugs (painkillers, anti-inflammatory  drugs, and muscle relaxants), physical therapy, back exercises, and education  about ways to prevent back injury and deal with back pain.
a recent study proving that massage therapy is effective for lower back  pain, was featured on nprs "all things considered."
(the full  report is titled "a comparison of the effects of 2 types of massage and  usual care on chronic low back pain.
skip to content about deb massage for low back pain wednesday, july 20, 2011
permalink •  comments rss feed • post a comment related posts
they then randomly assigned each participant to receive relaxation massage, structural massage, or usual medical care without massage.
symptoms and ability to perform activities improved about the same in the 2 massage groups.
participants assigned to the massage groups got about 1 hour of massage once a week for 10 weeks.
the researchers first gathered information about the participants' symptoms and how much those symptoms limited their daily activities.
a recent study proving that massage therapy is effective for lower back pain, was featured on nprs "all things considered.
it often goes away after several days or  weeks, but it may last for months or years or periodically recur.
the authors are d.c. cherkin, k.j. sherman, j. kahn, r. wellman, a.j.  cook, e. johnson, j. erro, k. delaney, and r.a. deyo.)
the type of  massage did not seem to make a difference.
the  benefits of massage lasted for 6 months but were less clear at 1 year, when  pain and function had improved about equally in all 3 groups.
it  is in the 5 july 2011 issue of annals of internal medicine (volume 155, pages  1-9).
participants who received massage had less pain and were better able to perform daily activities after 10 weeks than those who received usual care.
the benefits of massage lasted for 6 months but were less clear at 1 year, when pain and function had improved about equally in all 3 groups.