according to some estimates, each year nearly 15% to 20% of  the united states population experiences low back problems, and as many as 80%  of all adults experience significant low back pain at some point during their  lives.
25  all groups improved to about the same extent.
this information is neither intended nor implied to  be a substitute for professional medical advice.
35 giles lg, muller r. chronic spinal pain syndromes: a clinical pilot trial comparing acupuncture, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and spinal manipulation.
41 aure of, hoel nilsen j, vasseljen o. manual therapy and exercise therapy in patients with chronic low back pain: a randomized, controlled trial with 1-year follow-up.
the patients were randomized to one of three groups: structural massage, relaxation massage, or usual care.
available at: http://www.orthoinfo.aaos.org .
note: white willow should not be  combined with standard anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen.
but unlike the previous review, there were no differences, though, at weeks 26 and 52.
(chiropractic had better results at that point.)
[epub ahead of print] 71 collacot ea, zimmerman jt, white dw, et al.
a randomized comparative trial of acupuncture versus transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation for chronic back pain in the elderly.
spinal manipulation and mobilisation for back and neck pain: a blinded review.
quick links - home - contact us - brain & nervous system - cancer care - emergency services - heart care - midwest physicians - women & infant care research medical center 2316 e meyer blvd.
for more  information on this potential risk, see the individual drug article in thedrug  interactions section of this database.
when used alone prolotherapy is probably no more effective than a placebo injection for the treatment of chronic low back pain.
glover jr, morris jg, khosla t. back pain: a randomized clinical trial of rotational manipulation of the trunk.
a comparison of the effects of 2 types of massage and usual care on chronic low back pain: a randomized, controlled trial.
a comparison of the effects of 2  types of massage and usual care on chronic low back pain: a randomized,  controlled trial.
1,2 back pain is the second most common reason adults under age 45 miss days from work (after the common cold).
27 the herb cayenne contains capsaicin, a substance that produces an immediate burning sensation but later reduces pain.
- health education - health education - e-newsletters - health library - calendar of events - h2u - virtual body review our calendar for health screenings and more, utilize our health encyclopedia to research medical conditions and treatments, and subscribe to our e-newsletters to stay up-to-date on several key programs.
acupuncture in patients with  chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
69 morone ne, greco cm, weiner dk.
78 prolotherapy the use of prolotherapy to treat back pain has had mixed results in clinical studies.
many other studies have compared acupuncture to such treatments as  transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens), physical therapy,  chiropractic care, and massage.
german acupuncture  trials (gerac) for chronic low back pain: randomized, multicenter, blinded,  parallel-group trial with 3 groups.
72  both real and fake acupuncture were twice as  effective as conventional therapy according to the measures used.
although om has shown some promise for the treatment of back pain, 15,20,40 one of the best-designed trials failed to find it a superior alternative to conventional medical care.
a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 197 individuals with chronic back pain found devil's claw only marginally effective at best.
j altern complement med. 2008;14:465-473.
in  the lower-dose group (120 mg of salicin daily), 21% became pain-free.
the outcomes and costs of care  for acute low back pain among patients seen by primary care practitioners,  chiropractors, and orthopedic surgeons.
when people in a study know whether they are getting real treatment or placebo treatment, the validity of the study's results is greatly decreased.
copyright ©  ebsco publishing
a review of the literature found no more than weak preliminary evidence that alexander may help with back pain, but concluded that further research is warranted.
75 tekur p, singphow c, nagendra hr, et al. effect of short-term intensive  yoga program on pain, functional disability and spinal flexibility in chronic  low back pain: a randomized control study.
herbs and supplements to use only with caution references low back pain is one of the most common health  conditions today.
3 when back pain  occurs suddenly (after lifting a heavy object, for example), it is called acute  back pain or sprain.
preliminary evidence suggests that proteolytic enzymes might be helpful for back pain.
80 cherkin dc, sherman kj, avins al, et al.
60 for more information, see the full acupuncture article.
lesser evidence  supports the use of chiropractic and acupuncture.
other herbs and supplements sometimes recommended for back pain, but with  no real supporting evidence, include:boswellia , butterbur , chondroitin ,  ginger , glucosamine , and turmeric .
[epub ahead of print] 60 hsieh ll, kuo ch, lee lh, et al.
77 furlan ad, imamura m, dryden t, irvin e. massage for low-back pain.
the outcomes and costs of care for acute low back pain among patients seen by primary care practitioners, chiropractors, and orthopedic surgeons.
60 for more information, see the full acupuncture  article.
however, thus far, research has not produced clear evidence of  acupuncture’s effectiveness for back pain.
exercise therapy for  treatment of non-specific low back pain.
72 haake m, muller hh, schade-brittinger c, et al.
the researchers asked the participants to assess their own pain levels within 15 minutes of the first treatment, then 3 and 7 days after treatment.
in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolling 215 people with back pain, use of a topical cream made from the herb comfrey produced statistically significant benefits as compared to placebo.
according to some estimates, each year nearly 15% to 20% of the united states population experiences low back problems, and as many as 80% of all adults experience significant low back pain at some point during their lives.
low level laser therapy for nonspecific low-back pain.
61 the herb devil's claw  is  used for the treatment of osteoarthritis  , and has been tried for back pain as  well.
a meta-analysis of randomized controlled  trials.
38  similarly poor results were  seen in an earlier 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 118  individuals with acute back pain.
the total cost of back pain has been  estimated to reach $25 billion per year in the us.
j pain symptom  manage.
stomach distress did  not occur in this study.
a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of sclerosing injections in patients with chronic low back pain.
can anaesth soc j. 1976;23:303-306.
comparison of two  conservative treatment approaches.
a benefit of spinal manipulation as adjunctive therapy for acute low back pain: a stratified controlled trial.
75 tekur p, singphow c, nagendra hr, et al. effect of short-term intensive yoga program on pain, functional disability and spinal flexibility in chronic low back pain: a randomized control study.
47,48 in a review of five studies, three found prolotherapy to be no more effective than control treatments for treating low back pain.
other  therapies biofeedback  , 21 balneotherapy  , 66-67 hatha yoga  , 62, 63,75  magnet therapy  , 70,71  and relaxation therapies 69,83  have also shown at  least a hint of promise for treating back pain.
licciardone jc, stoll st, fulda kg, et al.
accessed november 20, 2000.
always seek the advice of your  physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new  treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition.
low level laser therapy (lllt) is a technique similar to electro-acupuncture that uses precision laser energy instead of electricity conducted through a needle.
in many of these trials, acupuncture provided benefits comparable to the other options tested.
acupuncture st lombosciatique a la phase aigue.
effectiveness of  harpagophytum extract ws 1531 in the treatment of exacerbation of low back  pain: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study.
j am osteopath  assoc.
radiography of the lumbar spine in primary care patients with low back pain: randomised controlled trial.
57 for low back pain, several studies have found that chiropractic is at least as  helpful as other commonly used therapies, such as muscle relaxants, soft-tissue  massage  , and physical therapy.
the only statistically significant difference between the two groups was within 15 minutes of the manipulation.
73 yousefi-nooraie r, schonstein e, heidari k, et al.
low level laser  therapy for nonspecific low-back pain.
spinal manipulation  for low back pain.
topical symphytum herb concentrate  cream against myalgia: a randomized controlled double-blind clinical study.
30 edelist g, gross ae, langer f. treatment of low back pain with acupuncture.
39  however, a 4-week, double-blind,  placebo-controlled study of 63 people with mild to moderate chronic muscular  tension in the neck, back, and shoulders did find some benefit.
the net result, according to prolotherapy theory, is muscle spasms and pain.
a comparison of osteopathic  spinal manipulation with standard care for patients with low back pain.
spine j 2008 jan-feb;8(1):203-12.
for more  information, including dosage and safety issues, see the fullwhite willow  article.
these results do not, in fact, indicate that acupuncture is effective per se; rather, it shows the significant power of acupuncture as a placebo.
a new approach to the treatment of chronic low back pain.
55 in a review of 13 randomized trials, researchers concluded that massage may be  effective for nonspecific low back pain, and the beneficial effects can last  for up to 1 year in patients suffering from chronic pain.
j manipulative  physiol ther.
one year later, massage and education were nearly  equivalent, and both were superior to acupuncture.
conventional treatment of acute back pain involves anti-inflammatory drugs , muscle relaxants, and the passage of time.
at 10 weeks, those in the massage groups had improved function and fewer symptoms compared to the usual care group.
81 dagenais s, yelland m, del mar c, schoene m. prolotherapy injections for chronic low back pain.
unimpressive results were also seen in a well-designed study of 321 people with  back pain, comparing chiropractic manipulation, a special form of physical  therapy (the mackenzie method), and the provision of an educational booklet in  treating low back pain.
when used alone prolotherapy is probably no more effective than a placebo  injection for the treatment of chronic low back pain.
46 farrell jp, twomey lt.
a comparison between  chiropractic management and pain clinic management for chronic low-back pain in  a national health service outpatient clinic.
- careers - careers whether you are just starting out, hoping to advance your career, looking to give back to the community, or gain valuable education, research medical center offers a variety of opportunities to meet your needs.
31 baxter gd, kerr dp, walsh dm.
effectiveness of balneotherapy in  chronic low back pain—a randomized single-blind controlled follow-up  study.
the alexander technique: a systematic review of  controlled clinical trials.
16  the  researchers asked the participants to assess their own pain levels within 15  minutes of the first treatment, then 3 and 7 days after treatment.
these solutions are believed to cause tissue to proliferate (grow),  increasing the strength and thickness of ligaments.
[epub ahead of print] 61 kucera m, barna m, horacek o, et al.
29 mendelson g, selwood ts, kranz h, et al.
exercise therapy for treatment of non-specific low back pain.
osteopathic manipulative  treatment for chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
copyright © ebsco publishing all rights reserved.
acupuncture treatment of  chronic back pain.
prolotherapy injections,  saline injections, and exercises for chronic low-back pain: a randomized trial.
a  subsequent large study involving 401 adults (aged 20-65 years old) with  nonspecific back pain also supports the use of massage.
similarly, in  a single-blind, sham-acupuncture, and no-treatment controlled study of 298  people with chronic back pain, use of real acupuncture failed to prove  significantly more effective than sham-acupuncture.
68  the results showed that while the use of alternative therapies  improved patient satisfaction, it did not significantly improve symptoms.
25 cherkin dc, deyo ra, battie m, et al.
other herbs and supplements sometimes recommended for back pain, but with no real supporting evidence, include:boswellia , butterbur , chondroitin , ginger , glucosamine , and turmeric .
59 hsieh ll, kuo ch, lee lh, et al.
24 hadler nm, curtis p, gillings db, et al.
comparing yoga, exercise, and a self-care book for chronic low back pain.
56  a  subsequent controlled trial involving 579 patients with chronic or recurrent  low back pain found that alexander technique lessons, particularly when  combined with exercise, was more effective than normal care or massage after  one year.
82 dagenais s, mayer j, haldeman s, borg-stein j. evidence-informed  management of chronic low back pain with prolotherapy.
3 carey ts, garrett j, jackman a, et al.
chiropractic chiropractic spinal manipulation is one of the  most popular treatments for acute and chronic back pain in the us, and it may  provide at least modest benefit; however, as yet, research evidence has failed  to find chiropractic manipulation convincingly more effective than standard  medical care.
a randomized double-blind trial of  dextrose-glycerine-phenol injections for chronic, low back pain.
33 grant dj, bishop-miller j, winchester dm, et al.
in the majority of cases, the cause of chronic back pain is  unknown.
references 1 clinical practice guideline number 14:
however, because tens, physical therapy, and so forth, have not been proven effective for back pain, studies of this type cannot be taken as evidence that acupuncture is effective.
78 little p, lewith g, webley f, et al.
bipolar permanent magnets  for the treatment of chronic low back pain: a pilot study.
invented in the 1950s by george  hackett, prolotherapy is based on the theory that chronic pain is often caused  by laxness of the ligaments that are responsible for keeping a joint stable.
79 a 6-month, double-blind trial of 1,162  people with back pain compared real acupuncture, fake acupuncture, and  conventional therapy.
mindfulness meditation for the treatment of chronic low back pain in older adults: a randomized controlled pilot study.
in contrast, only 6% of those given placebo became pain-free.
revision information reviewer: ebsco cam review board review date: 10/2011 - update date: 10/31/2011 - this content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant  evidence is made available.
when ligaments and associated tendons are loose, the body is said to compensate  by using muscles to hold the joint stable.
kansas city, mo 64132 (816) 276-4000 hca midwest health system - allen county hospital - centerpoint medical center - lafayette regional health center - lee's summit medical center - menorah medical center - overland park regional medical center - research belton hospital - research medical center | brookside campus - research psychiatric center - midwest physicians - ambulatory surgery centers copyright 2011 ehc.com; all rights reserved.
a review of  the literature found no more than weak preliminary evidence that alexander may  help with back pain, but concluded that further research is warranted.
the little-known injection technique  known as prolotherapy may be effective for back pain as well.
a comparison between chiropractic management and pain clinic management for chronic low-back pain in a national health service outpatient clinic.
randomized trial comparing  traditional chinese medical acupuncture, therapeutic massage, and self-care
22-26,51,74 furthermore, in one well-designed study, 2 months of chiropractic spinal manipulation produced somewhat greater pain relief than exercise therapy, and this relative superiority endured to the 1-year follow-up point.
17 triano jj, mcgregor m, hondras ma, et al.
treatment of low back pain by  acupressure and physical therapy: randomised controlled trial.
sherman kj, cherkin dc, erro j, et al.
the only significant side effect seen was an allergic reaction in one participant given willow.
however, there was only a minimal difference between real and fake acupuncture.
an in situ study of the influence of a sclerosing solution in rabbit medial collateral ligaments and its junction strength.
acupuncture massage vs swedish massage and individual exercise vs group exercise in low back pain sufferers—a randomized controlled clinical trial in a 2×2 factorial design [in german; english abstract].forsch komplementarmed klass naturheilkd.
4 treatment may also include physical therapy and a graded exercise program.
42 schiller l. effectiveness of spinal manipulative therapy in the treatment of mechanical thoracic spine pain: a pilot randomized clinical trial.
57 santilli v, beghi e, finucci s. chiropractic manipulation in the treatment of acute back pain and sciatica with disc protrusion: a randomized double-blind clinical trial of active and simulated spinal manipulations.
52  in a review of 23  randomized trials involving over 6,000 patients with chronic low back,  researchers concluded that acupuncture is more effective than no treatment for  short-term pain relief, but there was no significant difference between the  effects of true and sham.
n engl j med. 1998;339:1021-1029.
a double-blind placebo controlled trial.
low intensity permanent  magnets in the treatment of chronic lumbar radicular pain.
pope mh, phillips rb, haugh ld, et al.
76 juni p, battaglia m, nuesch e, et al.
effectiveness of acupuncture for low back pain: a systematic review.
j altern complement med.
a randomized  comparative trial of acupuncture versus transcutaneous electrical nerve  stimulation for chronic back pain in the elderly.
25 all groups improved to about the same extent.
37 wedenberg k, moen b, norling a.
for more information, including dosage and safety issues, see the fullwhite willow article.
5 chrubasik s, eisenberg e, balan e, et al.
38 chrubasik s, junck h, breitschwerdt h, et al.
the only  statistically significant difference between the two groups was within 15  minutes of the manipulation.
et al. outcome of non-invasive treatment modalities on back pain: an evidence-based review.
addition of choice of complementary therapies to usual care for acute low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
at the 10-week point, evaluations showed benefit with massage but not with acupuncture.
similarly, in a single-blind, sham-acupuncture, and no-treatment controlled study of 298 people with chronic back pain, use of real acupuncture failed to prove significantly more effective than sham-acupuncture.
also, in a fairly large randomized trial involving 638 adults with chronic back pain, there was no difference in pain at one year in patients receiving real compared to fake acupuncture (with neither group improving significantly over standard care).
spine j. 2006;6:131-137 58 brinkhaus b, witt cm, jena s, et al.
surgery may be recommended in certain cases, such as when there are severe disc problems, but most forms of back surgery also lack reliable supporting evidence.
the ancient technique of acupuncture  has  become increasingly popular as a treatment for pain and other conditions.
principal proposed natural treatments extract of the herb white  willow appears to be helpful for acute and chronic back pain, presumably  because of its similarity to aspirin.
20 newswanger dl, patel at, ogle a. osteopathic medicine in the treatment  of low back pain.
in a detailed review of 7 randomized trials, researchers were unable to draw any conclusions regarding the effectiveness of lllt for nonspecific low back pain.
randomized trial comparing traditional chinese medical acupuncture, therapeutic massage, and self-care
the results showed that while the use of alternative therapies improved patient satisfaction, it did not significantly improve symptoms.
phys med rehab clin north am.
many other studies have compared acupuncture to such treatments as transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens), physical therapy, chiropractic care, and massage.
56 a subsequent controlled trial involving 579 patients with chronic or recurrent low back pain found that alexander technique lessons, particularly when combined with exercise, was more effective than normal care or massage after one year.
treatment of low back pain exacerbations with willow bark extract: a randomized double-blind study.
spinal manipulation for low back pain.
in one interesting study, 444 people with acute low back pain were randomly assigned to receive either usual care or usual care plus a choice of alternative therapies (chiropractic, acupuncture, or massage).
topical symphytum herb concentrate cream against myalgia: a randomized controlled double-blind clinical study.
comparison of two conservative treatment approaches.
a randomised controlled trial of  spinal manipulative therapy in acute low back pain.
see the article  on massage  for more details.
comparing yoga, exercise, and a  self-care book for chronic low back pain.
in a 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 210 individuals with chronic back pain, two different doses of willow bark extract were compared against placebo.
2 american academy of orthopaedic surgeons website.
lesser evidence supports the use of chiropractic and acupuncture.
in the majority of cases, the cause of chronic back pain is unknown.
a randomized clinical trial comparing chiropractic adjustments to muscle relaxants for subacute low back pain.
it  contains the substance salicin, which is chemically related to aspirin.
44 klein g, kullich w. reducing pain by oral enzyme therapy in rheumatic diseases [translated from german].wien med wochenschr.
acute low back problems in  adults.
the total cost of back pain has been estimated to reach $25 billion per year in the us.
47,48 in a review of five  studies, three found prolotherapy to be no more effective than control  treatments for treating low back pain.
a randomized, controlled trial.
72 both real and fake acupuncture were twice as effective as conventional therapy according to the measures used.
a randomized trial comparing acupuncture, simulated acupuncture, and usual care for chronic low back pain.
19,29,32,53 one study compared the effects of acupuncture, massage , and education (such as videotapes on back care) for 262 people with chronic back pain over a 10-week period.
39 chrubasik s, zimpfer ch, schutt u, et al.
et al. outcome of non-invasive  treatment modalities on back pain: an evidence-based review.
another review suggested prolotherapy may be effective when used with other therapies, but not when used alone.
the higher-dose group received extract supplying 240 mg of salicin daily; in this group, 39% were pain-free for at least the last 5 days of the study.
when back pain persists over months or years, it is called  chronic back pain.
a meta-analysis of  randomized controlled trials.
however, there is some  evidence that the technique may be beneficial when combined with other  therapies.
chronic back pain requires a medical workup to make sure there are no serious  underlying causes, although evidence suggests that, in most cases, x-rays are  not necessary.
49,50,76 chiropractic does seem to be more effective than placebo, if not by a great deal.
manual therapies osteopathic  manipulation  (om) is a form of treatment related to chiropractic manipulation,  but it tends to use gentle, extended movements (low velocity, high amplitude)
one study did find acupressure massage more effective  than standard physical therapy; however, it was performed in a chinese  population that may have had more faith in this traditional approach than in  physical therapy.
a comparison of osteopathic spinal manipulation with standard care for patients with low back pain.
ahcpr publication 95-0642.
81  another review  suggested prolotherapy may be effective when used with other therapies, but not  when used alone.
22 hoehler fk, tobis js, buerger aa.
2010;110(11):646-652.
17 though this has been reported as a positive study, 18 most of the differences seen between the groups were too small to be statistically significant.
in this 12-week study of 178 individuals, osteopathic manipulation proved no more effective than standard treatment for back pain.
effectiveness of acupuncture for  low back pain: a systematic review.
effects of harpagophytum procumbens li 174 (devil's claw) on sensory, motor and vascular muscle reagibility in the treatment of unspecific back pain.
, you will find it all here.
74 wilkey a, gregory m, byfield d, et al.
53 kerr dp, walsh dm, baxter d. acupuncture in the management of chronic low back pain: a blinded randomized controlled trial.
cochrane database of systematic reviews.
a randomized double-blind trial of dextrose-glycerine-phenol injections for chronic, low back pain.
but unlike the previous  review, there were no differences, though, at weeks 26 and 52.
41 for more information, see the full chiropractic  article.
when people in a study know whether they are getting real treatment or  placebo treatment, the validity of the study's results is greatly decreased.
49,50,76 chiropractic does seem to be more effective than  placebo, if not by a great deal.
[epub ahead of print] 66 pittler mh, karagulle mz, karagulle m, et al.
22-26,51,74  furthermore, in one well-designed  study, 2 months of chiropractic spinal manipulation produced somewhat greater  pain relief than exercise therapy, and this relative superiority endured to the  1-year follow-up point.
osteopathic manipulative treatment for chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
in one interesting study, 444 people with  acute low back pain were randomly assigned to receive either usual care or  usual care plus a choice of alternative therapies (chiropractic, acupuncture,  or massage).
j manipulative physiol ther.
both real and simulated acupuncture were, however, associated with improved  function at one year.
other proposed natural treatments herbal treatments
on a positive note, one study of 100  people with back pain and sciatica symptoms (pain down the leg due to disc  protrusion) found that chiropractic manipulation was significantly more  effective at relieving symptoms than sham chiropractic manipulation.
other studies have failed to find benefit as well; in several controlled studies enrolling a total of over 300 people, real acupuncture again failed to prove more effective than sham-acupuncture or other placebo treatments.
the only significant side effect seen was an allergic  reaction in one participant given willow.
54 frerick h, keitel w, kuhn u. topical treatment of chronic low back pain with a capsicum plaster.
cited by: ernst e, white ar.
1,2  back pain is the second most common reason adults under age 45 miss  days from work (after the common cold).
randomised controlled trial of  alexander technique lessons, exercise, and massage (ateam) for chronic and  recurrent back pain.
effectiveness of harpagophytum procumbens in treatment of acute low back pain.
a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
effectiveness of harpagophytum extract ws 1531 in the treatment of exacerbation of low back pain: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study.
the other two studies suggested that prolotherapy was more effective than control treatments when used with therapies such as spinal manipulation and exercise.
unimpressive results were also seen in a well-designed study of 321 people with back pain, comparing chiropractic manipulation, a special form of physical therapy (the mackenzie method), and the provision of an educational booklet in treating low back pain.
german acupuncture trials (gerac) for chronic low back pain: randomized, multicenter, blinded, parallel-group trial with 3 groups.
in another single-blind, placebo-controlled study, researchers assigned  209 participants to one of three groups: a high-velocity, low-amplitude (hvla)  spinal manipulation; a sham manipulation group; or a back education program.
acupuncture in patients with chronic low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
low level laser  therapy (lllt) is a technique similar to electro-acupuncture that uses  precision laser energy instead of electricity conducted through a needle.
another  ingredient of white willow, tremulacin, may also be important.
cited by: ernst e,  white ar.
35 giles lg, muller r. chronic spinal pain syndromes: a clinical pilot  trial comparing acupuncture, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and spinal  manipulation.
a randomized clinical trial  comparing chiropractic adjustments to muscle relaxants for subacute low back  pain.
glover jr, morris jg, khosla t. back pain: a randomized clinical trial  of rotational manipulation of the trunk.
82 dagenais s, mayer j, haldeman s, borg-stein j. evidence-informed management of chronic low back pain with prolotherapy.
40 another study failed to find om more effective than sham manipulation.
prolotherapy treatment involves injections of chemical irritant solutions into the area around such ligaments.
38 similarly poor results were seen in an earlier 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 118 individuals with acute back pain.
see the article on massage for more details.
low intensity permanent magnets in the treatment of chronic lumbar radicular pain.
21 nielson wr, weir r. biopsychosocial approaches to the treatment of  chronic pain.
54 frerick h, keitel w, kuhn u. topical treatment of chronic low back pain  with a capsicum plaster.
acupuncture treatment of chronic low-back pain—a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial with 9-month follow-up.
cherkin dc, sherman kj, kahn j, et al.
white willow willow bark has been used as a treatment for pain and fever in china since 500 bc.
36 ernst e, white ar.
cochrane database of systematic reviews .
et al. effect of iyengar yoga therapy  for chronic low back pain.
79 a 6-month, double-blind trial of 1,162 people with back pain compared real acupuncture, fake acupuncture, and conventional therapy.
prolotherapy treatment  involves injections of chemical irritant solutions into the area around such  ligaments.
available at:  http://www.orthoinfo.aaos.org .
50 ferreira ml, ferreira ph, et al. efficacy of spinal manipulative therapy for low back pain of less than three months' duration.
a benefit of spinal  manipulation as adjunctive therapy for acute low back pain: a stratified  controlled trial.
a randomized, double-blind,  placebo-controlled trial of sclerosing injections in patients with chronic low  back pain.
the ancient technique of acupuncture has become increasingly popular as a treatment for pain and other conditions.
the net result, according to  prolotherapy theory, is muscle spasms and pain.
57 santilli v, beghi e, finucci s. chiropractic manipulation in the  treatment of acute back pain and sciatica with disc protrusion: a randomized  double-blind clinical trial of active and simulated spinal manipulations.
education for chronic low back pain.
addition of choice of  complementary therapies to usual care for acute low back pain: a randomized  controlled trial.
mindfulness meditation for the  treatment of chronic low back pain in older adults: a randomized controlled  pilot study.
81 dagenais s, yelland m, del mar c, schoene m. prolotherapy injections  for chronic low back pain.
radiography of the lumbar  spine in primary care patients with low back pain: randomised controlled trial.
a prospective randomized study comparing acupuncture with physiotherapy for low-back and pelvic pain in pregnancy.
a meta-analysis of effectiveness relative to other therapies.
principal proposed natural treatments extract of the herb white willow appears to be helpful for acute and chronic back pain, presumably because of its similarity to aspirin.
revision information - reviewer: ebsco cam review board - review date: 10/2011 - - update date: 10/31/2011 - this content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant evidence is made available.
although om  has shown some promise for the treatment of back pain, 15,20,40  one of the  best-designed trials failed to find it a superior alternative to conventional  medical care.
a review of the evidence for the effectiveness, safety, and cost of acupuncture, massage therapy, and spinal manipulation for back pain.
3 - principal proposed natural treatments - other proposed natural treatments - herbs and supplements to use only with caution - references when back pain occurs suddenly (after lifting a heavy object, for example), it is called acute back pain or sprain.
acupuncture massage vs swedish  massage and individual exercise vs group exercise in low back pain  sufferers—a randomized controlled clinical trial in a 2×2 factorial  design [in german; english abstract].forsch komplementarmed klass  naturheilkd.
however,  because tens, physical therapy, and so forth, have not been proven effective  for back pain, studies of this type cannot be taken as evidence that  acupuncture is effective.
78 prolotherapy the use of prolotherapy to treat back pain  has had mixed results in clinical studies.
44 klein g, kullich w. reducing pain by oral enzyme therapy in rheumatic  diseases [translated from german].wien med wochenschr.
in most cases, acute back pain eventually improves by itself, but there may be weeks of discomfort, time lost from work, and impaired function at home.
this information is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice.
though for some of these, there have been as many negative as positive studies, and for many of them only short-term benefits were shown.
13 klein rg, eek bc, delong wb, et al.
this presumably serves to tighten up the joint and allow the associated muscles to stop having spasms.
a comparison of physical therapy, chiropractic manipulation, and provision of an educational booklet for the treatment of patients with low back pain.
spine j 2008  jan-feb;8(1):203-12.
j pain symptom manage.
82 what can one make of this contradictory evidence?
a prospective randomized  three-week trial of spinal manipulation, transcutaneous muscle stimulation,  massage and corset in the treatment of subacute low back pain.
treating chronic pain with prolotherapy.
68 eisenberg dm, post de, davis rb, et al.
prolotherapy: present and future applications in soft tissue  pain and disability.
32 duplan b, cabanel g, piton jl, et al.
a review of the evidence for  the effectiveness, safety, and cost of acupuncture, massage therapy, and spinal  manipulation for back pain.
54  however, on the face of it, one finds it difficult to believe  that this study was truly double-blind.
15 koes bw, assendelft wj, van der heijden gj, et al.
10 liu yk, tipton cm, matthes rd, et al.
14,33-37,59  in many of these trials,  acupuncture provided benefits comparable to the other options tested.
acupuncture in the management of chronic  low back pain: a blinded randomised controlled trial [abstract].fact.
acupuncture st lombosciatique a  la phase aigue.
several studies evaluated the effectiveness of chiropractic manipulation  combined with a different kind of treatment called mobilization, but they too  found little to no benefit.
prolotherapy injections, saline injections, and exercises for chronic low-back pain: a randomized trial.
rather than the quick, short, cracking movements of chiropractic.
acupuncture for back pain.
49 assendelft wjj, morton sc, yu ei, et al.
bipolar permanent magnets for the treatment of chronic low back pain: a pilot study.
44 herbs and supplements to use only with caution various herbs and  supplements may interact adversely with drugs used to treat back pain.
in a 4-week,  double-blind, placebo-controlled  study of 210 individuals with chronic back  pain, two different doses of willow bark extract were compared against placebo.
79 yuan j, purepong n, kerr dp, et al.
acupuncture treatment of chronic back pain.
the exact type of acupuncture and massage was left to practitioners, but only 10 visits were permitted.
80  other studies have failed to find benefit as well; in  several controlled studies enrolling a total of over 300 people, real  acupuncture again failed to prove more effective than sham-acupuncture or other  placebo treatments.
43 koes bw, assendelft wj, van der heijden gj, et al.
53 kerr dp, walsh dm, baxter d. acupuncture in the management of chronic  low back pain: a blinded randomized controlled trial.
however, thus far, research has not produced clear evidence of acupuncture’s effectiveness for back pain.
one double-blind study found a  topical cayenne treatment more effective than placebo in 320 people with low  back pain.
41 for more information, see the full chiropractic article.
77  they also noted  that exercise and education appear to enhance the effectiveness of massage.
9,10,11  this presumably  serves to tighten up the joint and allow the associated muscles to stop having  spasms.
however, there is little reliable evidence that these treatments actually provide much benefit.
65 van tulder mw, koes b, malmivaara a,
in most cases, acute back pain eventually improves by  itself, but there may be weeks of discomfort, time lost from work, and impaired  function at home.
5  the higher-dose group received extract supplying 240 mg of salicin daily; in  this group, 39% were pain-free for at least the last 5 days of the study.
42 schiller l. effectiveness of spinal manipulative therapy in the  treatment of mechanical thoracic spine pain: a pilot randomized clinical trial.
acta obstet gynecol scand.
invented in the 1950s by george hackett, prolotherapy is based on the theory that chronic pain is often caused by laxness of the ligaments that are responsible for keeping a joint stable.
17   though this has been reported as a positive study, 18  most of the differences  seen between the groups were too small to be statistically significant.
however, there is little reliable evidence that these  treatments actually provide much benefit.
64,65  surgery may be recommended in  certain cases, such as when there are severe disc problems, but most forms of  back surgery also lack reliable supporting evidence.
acupuncture treatment of  chronic low-back pain—a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial  with 9-month follow-up.
the alexander technique: a systematic review of controlled clinical trials.
41 aure of, hoel nilsen j, vasseljen o. manual therapy and exercise  therapy in patients with chronic low back pain: a randomized, controlled trial  with 1-year follow-up.
spa therapy and  balneotherapy for treating low back pain: meta-analysis of randomized trials.
forsch komplementarmed klass naturheilkd.
et al. effect of iyengar yoga therapy for chronic low back pain.
83 esmer g, blum j, rulf j, pier j. mindfulness-based stress reduction for  failed back surgery syndrome: a randomized controlled trial.
identifiable causes includeosteoarthritis , fracture, or injury to the  discs between the vertebrae.
however, there is some evidence that the technique may be beneficial when combined with other therapies.
26 shekelle pg, adams ah, chassin mr, et al.
one double-blind study found a topical cayenne treatment more effective than placebo in 320 people with low back pain.
spinal manipulation for low  back pain.
in a  detailed review of 7 randomized trials, researchers were unable to draw any  conclusions regarding the effectiveness of lllt for nonspecific low back pain.
a randomized trial comparing  acupuncture, simulated acupuncture, and usual care for chronic low back pain.
however, the results have been less than impressive.
when cayenne is applied to the skin, it  causes such an intense sensation that participants could hardly fail to notice  it.
another ingredient of white willow, tremulacin, may also be important.
51 hoiriis kt, pfleger b, mcduffie fc, et al.
a prospective randomized study  comparing acupuncture with physiotherapy for low-back and pelvic pain in  pregnancy.
62 williams ka, petronis j, smith d,
at the 10-week point, evaluations showed benefit with massage but  not with acupuncture.
40   another study failed to find om more effective than sham manipulation.
14 franke a, gebauer s, franke k, et al.
though for some of these, there  have been as many negative as positive studies, and for many of them only  short-term benefits were shown.
they also noted that exercise and education appear to enhance the effectiveness of massage.
50 ferreira ml, ferreira ph, et al. efficacy of spinal manipulative  therapy for low back pain of less than three months' duration.
harpagophytum  procumbens li 174 (devil's claw) on sensory, motor and vascular muscle  reagibility in the treatment of unspecific back pain.
the alexander technique is a special method of postural training popular among dancers and other performers.
in the lower-dose group (120 mg of salicin daily), 21% became pain-free.
one study did find acupressure massage more effective than standard physical therapy; however, it was performed in a chinese population that may have had more faith in this traditional approach than in physical therapy.
eur spine j. 2005 dec 1.
these  results do not, in fact, indicate that acupuncture is effective per se; rather,  it shows the significant power of acupuncture as a placebo.
it contains the substance salicin, which is chemically related to aspirin.
cochrane database syst rev. 2008;cd001929.
45 jayson miv, sims-williams h, young s, et al. mobilization and  manipulation for low-back pain.
64 hayden ja, van tulder mw, malmivaara a, et al.
cochrane database of systematic  reviews.
rockville, md: agency for health care policy and research, us dept of health and human services; 1994.
39 however, a 4-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 63 people with mild to moderate chronic muscular tension in the neck, back, and shoulders did find some benefit.
always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition.
white willow willow  bark has been used as a treatment for pain and fever in china since 500 bc.
- patients and visitors - clinical research trials - for patients - for visitors - hospital amenities - maps directions & parking - pay your bill / price estimates - pre-registration - web nursery from accepted insurance plans to information on your hospital stay
several studies evaluated the effectiveness of chiropractic manipulation combined with a different kind of treatment called mobilization, but they too found little to no benefit.
chiropractic chiropractic spinal manipulation is one of the most popular treatments for acute and chronic back pain in the us, and it may provide at least modest benefit; however, as yet, research evidence has failed to find chiropractic manipulation convincingly more effective than standard medical care.
the north carolina back pain project.
one year later, massage and education were nearly equivalent, and both were superior to acupuncture.
however, on the face of it, one finds it difficult to believe that this study was truly double-blind.
[epub ahead of print] 70 khoromi s, blackman mr, kingman a, et al.
58  also, in a fairly large  randomized trial involving 638 adults with chronic back pain, there was no  difference in pain at one year in patients receiving real compared to fake  acupuncture (with neither group improving significantly over standard care).
although two  studies have suggested prolotherapy may be effective, 12,13  two more recent  studies found prolotherapy to be ineffective.
rheumatology (oxford).
preliminary evidence suggests that proteolytic enzymes  might be helpful for  back pain.
although two studies have suggested prolotherapy may be effective, 12,13 two more recent studies found prolotherapy to be ineffective.
chronic back pain requires a medical workup to make sure there are no serious underlying causes, although evidence suggests that, in most cases, x-rays are not necessary.
28  the exact type of  acupuncture and massage was left to practitioners, but only 10 visits were  permitted.
40 andersson gb, lucente t, davis am, et al.
note: white willow should not be combined with standard anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen.
friends and family can find information on visiting hours, ordering flowers or sending an email to a patient.
21 nielson wr, weir r. biopsychosocial approaches to the treatment of chronic pain.
spa therapy and balneotherapy for treating low back pain: meta-analysis of randomized trials.
effectiveness of balneotherapy in chronic low back pain—a randomized single-blind controlled follow-up study.
83 esmer g, blum j, rulf j, pier j. mindfulness-based stress reduction for failed back surgery syndrome: a randomized controlled trial.
j am osteopath assoc.
acute low back problems in adults.
an in situ study of the influence  of a sclerosing solution in rabbit medial collateral ligaments and its junction  strength.
both real and simulated acupuncture were, however, associated with improved function at one year.
rockville, md: agency for health care policy and research, us dept  of health and human services; 1994.
a new approach to the treatment  of chronic low back pain.
18 koes bw, assendelft wj, van der heijden gj, et al.
cochrane database syst rev. 2005;cd000335.
manual therapies osteopathic manipulation (om) is a form of treatment related to chiropractic manipulation, but it tends to use gentle, extended movements (low velocity, high amplitude) rather than the quick, short, cracking movements of chiropractic.
34 laitinen j. acupuncture and transcutaneous electric stimulation in the treatment of chronic sacrolumbagia and ischialgia.
terms & conditions of use | privacy statement notices: privacy practices | nondiscrimination compliance | quality & safety
pain uses - backache - back strain - lower back pain principal proposed natural treatments - acupuncture - chiropractic - white willow other proposed natural treatments - balneotherapy (spa therapy) - boswellia - butterbur - chondroitin - comfrey (topical cream) - devil's claw - ginger - glucosamine - magnet therapy - osteopathic manipulation - prolotherapy - proteolytic enzymes - turmeric - relaxation therapies - yoga low back pain is one of the most common health conditions today.
in the case of arthritic joints, increased ligament strength would allow the joint to function more efficiently, reducing pain.
for more information, see the full prolotherapy article.
research medical center average er wait time learn more search - about us - find a doctor - healthcare services - patients and visitors
a prospective randomized three-week trial of spinal manipulation, transcutaneous muscle stimulation, massage and corset in the treatment of subacute low back pain.
45 jayson miv, sims-williams h, young s, et al. mobilization and manipulation for low-back pain.
in  contrast, only 6% of those given placebo became pain-free.
34 laitinen j. acupuncture and transcutaneous electric stimulation in the  treatment of chronic sacrolumbagia and ischialgia.
for example, a single-blind, controlled study  of 84 people suffering from low back pain compared manipulation to treatment  with a diathermy machine (a physical therapy machine that uses microwaves to  create heat beneath the skin) that was not actually functioning.
27 the  herb cayenne  contains capsaicin, a substance that produces an immediate  burning sensation but later reduces pain.
these solutions are believed to cause tissue to proliferate (grow), increasing the strength and thickness of ligaments.
spinal manipulation  and mobilisation for back and neck pain: a blinded review.
67 balogh z, ordogh j, gasz a, et al.
in a  double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolling 215 people with back pain, use  of a topical cream made from the herb comfrey  produced statistically  significant benefits as compared to placebo.
when back pain persists over months or years, it is called chronic back pain.
4  treatment may also include physical therapy and a graded  exercise  program.
acupuncture in the management of chronic low back pain: a blinded randomised controlled trial [abstract].fact.
56 ernst e, canter ph.
4 kendrick d, fielding k, bentley e, et al.
a randomised controlled trial of spinal manipulative therapy in acute low back pain.
in another single-blind, placebo-controlled study, researchers assigned 209 participants to one of three groups: a high-velocity, low-amplitude (hvla) spinal manipulation; a sham manipulation group; or a back education program.
prolotherapy: present and future applications in soft tissue pain and disability.
manipulative therapy versus education programs in chronic low back pain.
28 cherkin dc, eisenberg d, sherman kj, et al.
19,29,32,53 one study compared the effects of  acupuncture, massage  , and education (such as videotapes on back care) for 262  people with chronic back pain over a 10-week period.
30 edelist g, gross ae, langer f. treatment of low back pain with  acupuncture.
however,  there was only a minimal difference between real and fake acupuncture.
other therapies biofeedback , 21 balneotherapy , 66-67 hatha yoga , 62, 63,75 magnet therapy , 70,71 and relaxation therapies 69,83 have also shown at least a hint of promise for treating back pain.
conventional treatment of acute back pain  involves anti-inflammatory drugs  , muscle relaxants, and the passage of time.
57 for low back pain, several studies have found that chiropractic is at least as helpful as other commonly used therapies, such as muscle relaxants, soft-tissue massage , and physical therapy.
in the case of arthritic joints, increased ligament strength would  allow the joint to function more efficiently, reducing pain.
manipulative therapy versus  education programs in chronic low back pain.
on a positive note, one study of 100 people with back pain and sciatica symptoms (pain down the leg due to disc protrusion) found that chiropractic manipulation was significantly more effective at relieving symptoms than sham chiropractic manipulation.
stomach distress did not occur in this study.
when cayenne is applied to the skin, it causes such an intense sensation that participants could hardly fail to notice it.
spinal manipulative therapy for low back pain.
55 in a review of 13 randomized trials, researchers concluded that massage may be effective for nonspecific low back pain, and the beneficial effects can last for up to 1 year in patients suffering from chronic pain.
yelland mj, glasziou pp, bogduk n, et al.
spinal manipulative therapy  for low back pain.
treatment of low back pain by acupressure and physical therapy: randomised controlled trial.
treatment of low back pain  exacerbations with willow bark extract: a randomized double-blind study.
44 herbs and supplements to use only with caution various herbs and supplements may interact adversely with drugs used to treat back pain.
the other two studies suggested that  prolotherapy was more effective than control treatments when used with  therapies such as spinal manipulation and exercise.
84  the patients were  randomized to one of three groups: structural massage, relaxation massage, or  usual care.
for example, a single-blind, controlled study of 84 people suffering from low back pain compared manipulation to treatment with a diathermy machine (a physical therapy machine that uses microwaves to create heat beneath the skin) that was not actually functioning.
a subsequent large study involving 401 adults (aged 20-65 years old) with nonspecific back pain also supports the use of massage.
dechow e, davies rk, carr aj, et al.
the alexander technique is a special method  of postural training popular among dancers and other performers.
a comparison of physical therapy,  chiropractic manipulation, and provision of an educational booklet for the  treatment of patients with low back pain.
61 the herb devil's claw is used for the treatment of osteoarthritis , and has been tried for back pain as well.
19 leibing e, leonhardt u, koster g, et al.
at 10 weeks, those in the massage groups had improved function and  fewer symptoms compared to the usual care group.
20 newswanger dl, patel at, ogle a. osteopathic medicine in the treatment of low back pain.
in this 12-week study of 178 individuals, osteopathic  manipulation proved no more effective than standard treatment for back pain.
12 ongley mj, klein rg, dorman ta, et al.
identifiable causes includeosteoarthritis , fracture, or injury to the discs between the vertebrae.
52 cherkin dc, sherman kj, deyo ra, et al.
the little-known injection technique known as prolotherapy may be effective for back pain as well.
27 gobel h, heinze a, ingwersen m, et al.
back to previous page usesother principal proposed natural treatments other proposed natural treatments back
when ligaments and associated tendons are loose, the body is said to compensate by using muscles to hold the joint stable.
a double-blind,  placebo-controlled study of 197 individuals with chronic back pain found  devil's claw only marginally effective at best.
in a review of 23 randomized trials involving over 6,000 patients with chronic low back, researchers concluded that acupuncture is more effective than no treatment for short-term pain relief, but there was no significant difference between the effects of true and sham.
for more information on this potential risk, see the individual drug article in thedrug interactions section of this database.
randomised controlled trial of alexander technique lessons, exercise, and massage (ateam) for chronic and recurrent back pain.
an updated systematic review of randomized clinical trials.