we are preferred providers for most insurances including medicare,  united healthcare, cigna, aetna, coventry, 1stmn, southcare, principal, umr,  blue cross/blue shield and tricare.
after reviewing our website and services, please contact our office by phone or email using the "contact" tab on the menu.
for specialty medical services, pain management, physical medicine, physical therapy, chiropractic care, or massage therapy, contact one of our clinics in valdosta, tifton or nashville, georgia.
he is featured in  the pain management directory of your legal guide, a consumer resource  pertaining to legal topics, including how to find a personal injury or car  accident lawyer.
we have combined the best possible group of specialists, doctors and therapists that all work together under one roof to better serve you.
dr. ryan moorman, dr. norman case and dr. morgan baldridge are chiropractors at care medical center who treat patients who have been injured in amotor vehicle accident, including incidents involving a dui .
8:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.,  2:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. tifton tues.,
we offer all levels of spine, joint and muscle rehabilitation from conservative care to on-site pain management procedures.
9:00 a.m. –  12:00 p.m.,  1:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. nashville mon., tues.,
we also offer a unique and exciting knee surgery prevention program that is over 80% effective in eliminating or reducing knee pain and avoiding surgery.
nutritional counseling • school & work physicals • referrals to other specialties 3 convenient locations 2804-c n. oak street valdosta, ga 31602 917 w. 20th street tifton, ga 31794 203 w. hamilton avenue nashville, ga 31639 click on the locations tab for directions a healthcare center for you and your family from the moment you enter our center, we make sure that your visit is a pleasant one.
we are here to help you, your family, and friends.
additional links and memberships: american  chiropractic association • georgia chiropractic association hours of operation valdosta mon., tues.,
9:00 a.m. –  12:00 p.m.,  1:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.
we are preferred providers for most insurances including medicare, united healthcare, cigna, aetna, coventry, 1stmn, southcare, principal, umr, blue cross/blue shield and tricare.
freedom from pain is just a call away!
we thank our many patients who have trusted in us to eliminate their pain and improve their health.
9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m., 1:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.
our friendly and pleasant staff takes pride in providing  you with the best possible healthcare.
we file all paperwork for you and even  offer 0% financing for all treatments through care credit.
dr. ryan moorman, dr. norman case and dr. morgan baldridge are  chiropractors at care medical center who treat patients who have been injured  in amotor vehicle accident, including incidents involving a dui .
for more information, please review our many services provided by clicking on the left tabs.
9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m., 1:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. nashville mon., tues.,
our staff is featured in the chiropractic directory of your legal guide, a consumerresource pertaining to legal topics, including how to find a lawyer such as a car accident lawyer or personal injury lawyer .
contact one of our three locations in valdosta, tifton or nashville, ga for pain management, neurology, physical medicine, physical therapy, chiropractic care or massage therapy care medical center - setting the standard for spine, pain & neurology
click on the locations tab for directions a healthcare center for you and your family from the moment you enter our center, we make sure that your visit is  a pleasant one.
contact one of our three locations in valdosta, tifton or nashville, ga  for pain management, neurology, physical medicine, physical therapy,  chiropractic care or massage therapy care medical center - setting the standard for spine, pain & neurology home | our team | our staff | services | pain  management | knee program | knee forms | chiropractic care | physical therapy |  nerve studies | alcat allergy test | cox decompression | what is vax-d  |  causes of back pain | auto accidents | wellness care | upcoming events | new  patient forms | locations | contact care medical center - spine,  joint & pain care 2804-c n oak street
our team approach to treating your condition provides you with more convenience, more options and better reslults.
we welcome you and your family to come to our office and discover how we have helped thousands of people across south georgia live pain free.
we offer all levels of non-surgical spine, pain and joint rehabilitation services under one roof.
for specialty medical services,  pain management, physical medicine, physical therapy, chiropractic care, or  massage therapy, contact one of our clinics in valdosta, tifton or nashville,  georgia.
8:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m., 2:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. tifton tues.,
dr. geoffrey jones, md is an interventional pain physician and physical medicine & rehabilitation specialist who provides pain management services to patients injured in a motor vehicle collision.
no referral is needed for most of our services-call today!
he is featured in the pain management directory of your legal guide, a consumer resource pertaining to legal topics, including how to find a personal injury or car accident lawyer.
dr. geoffrey jones, md is an interventional pain physician and  physical medicine & rehabilitation specialist who provides pain management  services to patients injured in a motor vehicle collision.
additional links and memberships: american chiropractic association • georgia chiropractic association hours of operation valdosta mon., tues.,
getting rid of your pain, preventing surgery and improving your quality of life is our number 1 concern.
south georgia's leading non-surgical spine, joint & pain center pain management • chiropractic • physical medicine • physical therapy valdosta, tifton, & nashville, ga thank you for choosing care medical center, a comprehensive integrated multi-specialty medical center with three locations to serve you.
our friendly and pleasant staff takes pride in providing you with the best possible healthcare.
our staff is featured in the chiropractic directory of your legal  guide, a consumerresource pertaining to legal topics, including how to find a lawyer such as a car accident lawyer or personal injury lawyer .
after reviewing our website and the many services we provide, please call our office today for more information or to schedule a consultation.
our safe and effective treatments can help you live a normal, healthy, active lifestyle.
we specialze in treating the following conditions: other services include: fluoroscopic-guided spine, knee, sacroiliac, hip & epidural injections • electrodiagnostic testing & bone density tests • mris • x-rays corporate health fairs • work & disability evaluations • physical rehabilitation •
we file all paperwork for you and even offer 0% financing for all treatments through care credit.