all rights reserved.
treating patients in the clinic.
is the procedure painful?
there are mechanical and  biochemical effects that occur from imt.
intramuscular  manual therapy (imt) is an invasive procedure in which a solid filament needle  is inserted into the skin and muscle directly at a myofascial trigger point.
a regular exercise program  combined with good posture can prevent many problems.
the treatment of muscles has the greatest effect on reducing pain mechanisms in the nervous system.
recommendations may include applying heat or ice over the area, gentle stretches and modifications of activities.
the local twitch response elicits a very brief (less than a second) painful sensation.
again, we are trying to cause mechanical and biochemical changes without any pharmacological means.
typically, the soreness lasts between a few hours and two days.
imt is a western medical technique that is based on scientific studies and knowledge.
what is intramuscular manual therapy?
a  myofascial trigger point consists of multiple contraction knots, which are  related to the production and maintenance of the pain cycle.
getting local twitch responses with imt is the first step in breaking the pain cycle.
muscles are thought to be a primary contributing factor to the symptoms.
most patients do not feel the insertion of the needle.
such conditions include, but  are not limited to neck, back and shoulder pain, arm pain (tennis elbow, carpal  tunnel, golfer's elbow), headache to include migraines and tension-type  headaches, jaw pain, buttock pain and leg pain (sciatica, hamstrings strains,  calf tightness/spasms).
most patients do not feel  the insertion of the needle.
the musculoskeletal system is under  constant pressure from gravity, stress, work etc.
therefore, we are looking for a cumulative response to  achieve a certain threshold after which the pain cycle is disturbed.
in the us, imt is a relatively new method for treating myofascial pain and not everyone is already aware of this effective modality.
if the pain comes back, "tune-ups" are recommended to treat and prevent serious injuries.
the musculoskeletal system is under constant pressure from gravity, stress, work etc.
are the needles sterile?
our  recommendations vary depending on the amount of soreness you have and on the  individual response to the treatment.
based on the pioneering studies by dr. jay shah and colleagues at the national institutes of health, we know that inserting a needle into trigger points can cause favorable biochemical changes, which assist in reducing pain.
it is upon all of us to educate others about new and innovative ways to treat pain.
it is essential to elicit so-called local twitch responses, which are spinal cord reflexes.
the treatment of muscles has the greatest effect on  reducing pain mechanisms in the nervous system.
such conditions include, but are not limited to neck, back and shoulder pain, arm pain (tennis elbow, carpal tunnel, golfer's elbow), headache to include migraines and tension-type headaches, jaw pain, buttock pain and leg pain (sciatica, hamstrings strains, calf tightness/spasms).
again, the  therapeutic response occurs with the elicitation of local twitch responses and  that is a good and desirable reaction.
recommendations may include applying heat  or ice over the area, gentle stretches and modifications of activities.
typically, it takes several visits for a positive reaction to take place.
again, the therapeutic response occurs with the elicitation of local twitch responses and that is a good and desirable reaction.
muscles are thought to  be a primary contributing factor to the symptoms.
a regular exercise program combined with good posture can prevent many problems.
based on the pioneering studies by dr.  jay shah and colleagues at the national institutes of health, we know that  inserting a needle into trigger points can cause favorable biochemical changes,  which assist in reducing pain.
again, we are trying to cause mechanical and biochemical changes without any  pharmacological means.
[printable version] copyright 2012 sportscare physical therapy.
imt can be used for a variety of musculoskeletal problems.
sitemap •  physical therapy suwanee  •  physical therapy cumming   • physical therapy alpharetta physical therapy john's  creek ga  •  physical therapy duluth ga
a myofascial trigger point consists of multiple contraction knots, which are related to the production and maintenance of the pain cycle.
more frequently, imt is needed in the beginning in order to break the pain cycle.
more frequently, imt is needed in the  beginning in order to break the pain cycle.
feel free to inform your  doctor about this treatment option.
what type of problems can be treated with imt?
imt is a  western medical technique that is based on scientific studies and knowledge.
if the pain comes back,  "tune-ups" are recommended to treat and prevent serious injuries.
it is essential to elicit so-called local twitch  responses, which are spinal cord reflexes.
where does imt fit in the entire rehabilitation program?
once that is achieved, other treatment options are introduced.
once i am feeling better, how often do i need to come back to maintain my progress?
the soreness is described  as muscle soreness over the area treated and into the areas of referred  symptoms.
what should i do after having the procedure done?
there are mechanical and biochemical effects that occur from imt.
getting local twitch responses with
once that is achieved, other  treatment options are introduced.
imt is the first step in breaking the pain cycle.
is imt similar to acupuncture?
therefore, we are looking for a cumulative response to achieve a certain threshold after which the pain cycle is disturbed.
this is not the same  as acupuncture, an aspect of traditional chinese medicine, which is based on  the metaphysical theory of normalizing energy flow in the body.
generally speaking, imt is the modality of choice when it comes to
once i am feeling better, how often do i need to come back to  maintain my progress?
intramuscular manual therapy what is intramuscular manual therapy?
feel free to inform your doctor about this treatment option.
this is not the same as acupuncture, an aspect of traditional chinese medicine, which is based on the metaphysical theory of normalizing energy flow in the body.
how long does it take for the procedure to work?
intramuscular manual therapy (imt) is an invasive procedure in which a solid filament needle is inserted into the skin and muscle directly at a myofascial trigger point.
generally speaking, imt is the modality of choice when it comes to treating patients in the clinic.
why is my physician not familiar with imt?
some patients describe this as a little  electrical shock; others feel it more like a cramping sensation.
imt  can be used for a variety of musculoskeletal problems.
it is upon all of us to educate others  about new and innovative ways to treat pain.
yes, we only use sterile  disposable needles.
yes, we only use sterile disposable needles.
most patients report being sore after the procedure.
some patients describe this as a little electrical shock; others feel it more like a cramping sensation.
in the  us, imt is a relatively new method for treating myofascial pain and not  everyone is already aware of this effective modality.
what side effects can i expect after the treatment?
the soreness is described as muscle soreness over the area treated and into the areas of referred symptoms.
the local twitch response elicits a very brief  (less than a second) painful sensation.
our recommendations vary depending on the amount of soreness you have and on the individual response to the treatment.