wisdom is knowledge gained; ripe wisdom is knowledge ripened into practicability of practical use.
during the late 1990's and 2000, it proved necessary for me to move my  residence-office 5 times.
which client is going to withstand the rigorous muscle testing  endurance session while perhaps 5 remedies in 3 differing strengths are  confirmed for choice?
a flat bench, a stationary bike, and foot levelers or synergy wall tubing systems and any tabletop or stand-alone upper-body ergometer may also be used to assist in particular muscle development for the purpose of greater support of the skeletal structure in a balanced manner.
more complex equipment does not necessarily provide any significantly enhanced clinical results, and that's the bottom line."
much of the interim times were spent in the low physical activity work of planning and providing therapy, or otherwise working from a desk, as well as recovering from some form of chronic debilitating illness.
in this, the practitioner pushes the joint in the desired direction with one rapid movement and then releases it.
this requires even more self-direction, self-restraint, awareness,  persistence, and independence than the use of muscle testing if one is to  maintain accuracy in results.
using light, gentle movements, practitioners adjust each vertebra in relationship to the rest of the spine, on the belief that spine protects an essential channel of energy and information to the body.
the treatment is geared toward treating the whole body.
much of the interim times  were spent in the low physical activity work of planning and providing therapy,  or otherwise working from a desk, as well as recovering from some form of  chronic debilitating illness.
utilizing standard homeopathic remedies together  with the bach flower remedies i used for balancing, proved highly effective and  delivered near immediate results.
you may have a personality clash with a practitioner who is yet best skilled for you and offers the form of treatment which you can most benefit from.
the chiropractor allowed me to utilize his extensive supply of homeopathics for integration into the treatment of a few of my clients with very complex and compelling influences on their health.
the use of spiritual guidance to determine remedy selection and  strength/quantity of dosages is a way to attain efficient and relevant
by the end of the 3rd treatment, i could usually  adjust my neck myself.
" from introduction by gabriel cousens, m.d., to vibrational medicine: new choices for healing ourselves, by richard gerber, m.d. the bio-kinetics procedures were developed over the past thirty-plus years by dr. lawrence e. newsum of rancho palos verdes, california.
many of these  are noted on the earthtym pages.
network chiropractic may be performed on a group of patients,  simultaneously within a large treatment area in which the positive statements  of one person encourages the others present to expect a similar positive  outcome for themselves.
an old and most common form of nutritional advice is to rationalize what is expected to be of benefit to the client as an extension of published research associated to the symptoms of the individual.
muscle testing to determine the most efficient remedy and  strength/quantity of dosages has been advocated by health professionals since  the late 1970's.
in each case, all of the work had to be completed within a 24 hour period.
the use of spiritual guidance to determine food selection and supplement  dosages and inclusion is another way to attain efficient and relevant  nutrition.
second and third  visits may elicit more detail and symptoms and more remedies to apply.
[much of this approach utilizes muscle testing and the use of the point impact stim instrument.
other forms of therapy may be  best undertaken, by you, before, during, or after your use of chiropractic.
individualized eating profiles also conflicts with the cultural  pattern of shared meals in which one combination of foods has been prepared for  all.
in 2000, after the multiple movement of my resources and belongings to the stairs, down the stairs into a vehicle, from the vehicle into a house and down stairs, as well as from a truck up a stairs to a storage platform --- my back had sustained too much.
if the patient is not aware of this relevant  information, how can they share it?
i was out of the chiropractic  office for less than 10 minutes when i was back in just as much pain.
the difference lies in the sequence of the adjustments and the networking of the various methods.
eliminating the effects of stress: discoveries from fields of  neurology, neuro-physiology, psycho-neuro-immunology, endocrinology and  chiropractic have revealed insights into how this system works.
stretched tendons and  ligaments seldom shrink back to their more healthful length so additional  muscle support is a less invasive and less costly for of correction than  surgery.
in the reference available to the practitioner, both in paper manual form and computer analysis software, the description of the person so afflicted as to benefit from a specific remedy can be highly defined.
i paid attention to the movements he made with my neck to effect the pain relieving adjustment.
http://www.mctimoney-college.ac.uk/ mctimoney, an adherent of palmer's holistic view of chiropractic, believed  that subluxations impair nerve function and affect the correct functioning of  the body.
still, one must make the selections from what is available to one and obtainable with the resources at hand.
he observed from clinical experience that not all subluxations of the spine are the same.
[the manner in which bio-kinetics describes "stress reactions" and "stress memories" is very similar to how i have found regular energy blocks to be my balancing therapy, outlined elsewhere on earthtym.]
[reptilian structure]; and innate intelligence has a superior in knowledge in universal intelligence
i could lay on top of the platform they made and make the adjustments and/or rest, regardless of the weather conditions outside.
muscle testing to determine the most efficient remedy and strength/quantity of dosages has been advocated by health professionals since the late 1970's.
this time, i also had the skills to both release energy blocks developed from the experience as well as prevent the development of energy blocks as an extension of the stresses involved in recovery.
there are many websites and books available which can provide you with more detail.
as a child, i was unaware of what his profession was, other than some form of doctor.
chiropractors could only provide treatments several times each week at that time.
to enable me to function and continue working, i  adjusted my neck 3 to 9 times each day.
if diagnosis depends upon shared  information, how can such be possible when that information is either  unavailable to the patient, or, embarrassing or shameful to the person?
in 2000, after the multiple movement of my resources and belongings to  the stairs, down the stairs into a vehicle, from the vehicle into a house and  down stairs, as well as from a truck up a stairs to a storage platform --- my  back had sustained too much.
relevancy is of critical importance in your selection of a form of chiropractic therapy and your selection of a therapist.
you can get education  from people educated like yourself for better or for worse.
with foods occupying the significance of medicinal herbs, personal preference for selection on the basis of popularity, taste, or cost --- often becomes irrelevant.
i was fortunate to find 2 chiropractors with different added skills which assisted in my mentoring.
after 20 treatments, and my regular contributions, i was  pain free.
upper cervical,  http://www.tna-support.org/newlook/uppercervical.htm, or, nucca, or, atlas  subluxation complex.
for a time, i attended both of them, giving me a total of up to 4 treatments per week.
the true test of effectiveness is when a patient experiences dramatic improvement in some area of their health, through the process utilized by the therapist, without statements of expectation being made.
his employer, daniel david palmer, a magnetic healer,  recognized the relationship of spinal displacement and the reduced function of  the nervous system.
relevancy is of critical importance in your selection of a form of  chiropractic therapy and your selection of a therapist.
the balancing therapy i provided enabled individuals with chronic  problems not resolved by massage therapy, chiropractic, or homeopathy --- to  dramatically improve in their health, and on a wider scale.
each time, i was largely responsible for lifting and carrying to and from a truck or other vehicle several tons of books and reference materials packed into stacking crates.
in the mid-1970's, following a lower back injury which resulted in much pain unaided by conventional approaches and medications, i returned to chiropractic.
using light, gentle movements, practitioners adjust each vertebra  in relationship to the rest of the spine, on the belief that spine protects an  essential channel of energy and information to the body.
doughnut-shaped vertebra at the top of the  spine.
individualized treatment profiles also conflicts with  the cultural pattern of formulaic prescribing in which one remedy has been  prescribed for apparent singular symptoms individualized selection of remedies is the only way to effectively  address what may be one, or a combination of trauma induced patterns, and  enhance one's health.
the local  chiropractor came to practice in the region one day each week from his city  clinic.
the practice of chiropractic is very diverse and personalized to the practitioner.
the treatment is geared toward treating the  whole body.
there are extreme difficulties and inefficiencies with this approach for it follows the authoritarian conservative approach to medicine and health which assumes that all humans are clones of one another.
trillions of nerve fibers from the brainstem travel through the small  opening in atlas and flow down into the spinal column.
a prolific writer, lecturer and world traveler, he was president of the palmer school of chiropractic from 1906 until his death in 1961.
without a consideration of blood and metabolic type, gender, age, build, and the often promotional and idiosyncratic misuse of statistics, supplements are often prescribed which are inadequate or excessive in dosage, unbalanced in association with each other, and often costly and useless.
dr. epstein's system of network spinal analysis (nsa) integrates points of agreement from diverse chiropractic approaches.
dr. epstein's system of network spinal analysis (nsa) integrates points of  agreement from diverse chiropractic approaches.
the use of spiritual guidance to determine food selection and supplement dosages and inclusion is another way to attain efficient and relevant nutrition.
network chiropractic is an approach that has been developed by donald epstein, d.c.
the form of chiropractic which is of most benefit to you may change over time as you go through different levels of recovery.
individualized treatment profiles also conflicts with the cultural pattern of formulaic prescribing in which one remedy has been prescribed for apparent singular symptoms individualized selection of remedies is the only way to effectively address what may be one, or a combination of trauma induced patterns, and enhance one's health.
network chiropractic may be performed on a group of patients, simultaneously within a large treatment area in which the positive statements of one person encourages the others present to expect a similar positive outcome for themselves.
they  believe that misaligned vertebrae, referred to as subluxation, can interfere  with normal body function, through the interruption of nerve communication, and  if left uncorrected, can result in muscle and/or organ dysfunction, and other  imbalances.
bio-kinetics, through a unique and patented process, works to gently  activate, stimulate and synchronize areas of the brain, nerve system and body  that are subconsciously reacting to stored stress-memory patterns, causing  dysfunction and dis-ease.
if diagnosis depends upon shared information, how can such be possible when that information is either unavailable to the patient, or, embarrassing or shameful to the person?
not all are suitable for every person and some can be very beneficial to many persons for specific problems.
[spiritual  guidance].
all chiropractors are trained in this approach.
utilizing standard homeopathic remedies together with the bach flower remedies i used for balancing, proved highly effective and delivered near immediate results.
with the procedures developed in 2004, bio-kinetics can be performed in 3-7 minutes to clear physical problems (spinal problems, musculo-skeletal problems, organ malfunctions, etc.), chemical sensitivities (allergies), emotional stress patterns and electromagnetic frequency interference on most people.
from the other, i learned an early form of balancing using bach remedies and muscle testing.
muscle testing to determine the most efficient food combinations and  supplement dosages has been advocated by health professionals since the late  1970's.
in the early 1980's, part of my recovery from the chronic neck problems and recurring back problems came when i moved into toronto.
cold packs or ice may be used independently or alternately with hot packs  to reduce swelling and tension in the tissues surrounding and supporting the  vertebrae.
this becomes ever more difficult when the reality becomes known that there are hundreds of homeopathic remedies which can be ordered in at least 3 different potencies.
the benefit is that it can be much more widely  applied both beyond oneself and beyond the simple questions of a regular  interview.
"the most popular forms of chiropractic-applied traction are cervical intermittent and lumbar flexion-distraction techniques, exercises for muscle stretching and strengthening, are frequently advocated in order to strengthen muscles supporting connective tissues which have been damaged and to provide a balance between opposing muscle groups where one has been developed to the disadvantage of another.
this time,  i also had the skills to both release energy blocks developed from the  experience as well as prevent the development of energy blocks as an extension  of the stresses involved in recovery.
in the latter 4 months of the year, chiropractic, balancing, and massage services were used to help recover from my third severe whiplash injury.
alignment of the spine with acupuncture preparation.
some of those were of  questionable benefit; others were health enhancing.
as in all forms of chiropractic, it cannot remove sources of toxins in the body or toxin buildup from chemicals and heavy metals.
i provided services to clients in a territory that was 500 miles wide by 400 miles with few major roads.
i could lay on top of the platform they made and make the adjustments  and/or rest, regardless of the weather conditions outside.
in the reference available to the  practitioner, both in paper manual form and computer analysis software, the  description of the person so afflicted as to benefit from a specific remedy can  be highly defined.
pnf, or proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation, involves techniques to improve muscle and joint function.
our nutritional requirements are continuously changing.
during 2001/2002, i was fortunate to have my office in a chiropractic  clinic.
some longer duration therapists have continued to learn and perfect their  skills; others are little different than when they graduated.
this requires even more self-direction, self-restraint, awareness, persistence, and independence than the use of muscle testing if one is to maintain accuracy in results.
there are a few people who possess knowledge, but there are few people who possess wisdom. ...
this may begin as early as a forceps delivery, a  disciplinary slap to the head, a fall, a punch, wrestling holds or whips,  sudden vehicle stops, emotional tension from particular forms of fear or  anxiety, or many other possibilities.
the same techniques as other chiropractors are used, but in a much more  gentle way.
chemical imbalances come from frequency imbalances.
after the lengthy and frustrating legal experience connected with the first, i chose the more positive stress approach of a faster settlement and putting the incident behind me.
bartlett joshua (b.j.) palmer, d.c.
there are extreme difficulties  and inefficiencies with this approach for it follows the authoritarian  conservative approach to medicine and health which assumes that all humans are  clones of one another.
chiropractors focus on the body's “ innate” (inborn, reptilian)  strengths and defences to heal itself without the use of drugs or surgery.
not all are suitable for every person and some can be very  beneficial to many persons for specific problems.
i was not working in a city.
mctimoney, an adherent of palmer's holistic view of chiropractic, believed that subluxations impair nerve function and affect the correct functioning of the body.
for someone with a prior severe lower back injury, this was theoretically impossible.
the fellow we periodically visited checked our spinal alignment  and made adjustments as were indicated.
several months later, a driver on recreational drugs ran into my car,  wrote it off, and left me in a coma.
one should not be surprised at this, for this characteristic  applies to most practices of healthcare and medicine, whether conventional or  alternative.
it extends chiropractic's traditional adjustment techniques and works with the body's reptilian intelligence.
this new  understanding has made it possible to develop protocols to update the body's  reaction to stress, re-program the stress response, and re-connect the  communication pathways between the brain and body.
john mctimoney  founded the mctimoney method of chiropractic in banbury, britain, in 1951.
unfortunately, this simple skill cannot be patented and sold and so few practitioners make any effort to learn it for their own use as they cannot sell it to their clients.
bio-kinetics,  http://www.biokineticshealth.com "we as human organisms are a series of interacting multidimensional  subtle energy systems, and if these energy systems become imbalanced there may  be resulting pathological symptoms which manifest on the physical, emotional,  mental and spiritual planes.
sometimes, new research reveals the fallacies of decades old associations or months old pseudo-scientific releases.
with the procedures developed in 2004, bio-kinetics can be performed in 3-7  minutes to clear physical problems (spinal problems, musculo-skeletal problems,  organ malfunctions, etc.), chemical sensitivities (allergies), emotional stress  patterns and electromagnetic frequency interference on most people.
these promote the deposition and  formation of collagen and the repair of tissues may also be added.
a prolific writer, lecturer and world traveler, he was president of  the palmer school of chiropractic from 1906 until his death in 1961.
the same techniques as other chiropractors are used, but in a much more gentle way.
i was fortunate  to find 2 chiropractors with different added skills which assisted in my  mentoring.
by the late 1980's, i was becoming hypersensitive to many things and the environmental and physical stresses of my work were resulting in chronic pains again.
it can increase the awareness of and discernment of the reptilian structure to specific parasitic forms, such as viruses and fungi.]
unfortunately, this simple skill cannot be patented and sold  and so few practitioners make any effort to learn it for their own use as they  cannot sell it to their clients.
spiritually  guided supplements and other therapies were utilized concurrently together with  the occasional requirement for balancing with bach flower remedies.
this result is neither a reflection of the positive contribution possible with either towards enhanced health.
stress-memories result in negative frequency imbalances throughout  the brain/body system that then trigger a cascade of events leading to  dysfunction and, eventually disease.
a healthy body comes from a healthy brain, and a healthy brain comes from a healthy, active body.
the following represent some of the varieties i have used over the past 40 years in addition to several others i know of which have proven helpful to others.
during the 1950's my parents were progressive in their accessing of alternative healthcare options when conservative approaches failed.
the different forms of practice of chiropractic is an important  consideration regarding the choice of and success of the therapy.
a healthy body  comes from a healthy brain, and a healthy brain comes from a healthy, active  body.
as usual in chiropractic application, the therapist is likely to be  committed to their form of chiropractic as a panacea for all ills.
keeping the energy blocks at bay, i fully recovered this time in 3 months, in spite of major challenges in my work and social life.
some use an adjusting technique which results in loud cracking sounds.
unfortunately, this simple skill cannot be patented and sold and so few  practitioners make any effort to learn it for their own use as they cannot sell  it to their clients.
by using this  approach and extending it, i found i could release energy blocks and  sensitivities.
bio-kinetics is based on neuro-physiological insights and discoveries that make it possible to release accumulated biological stress, eliminate negative stress reactions and correct stored cellular stress memories anywhere in the body and mind.
this prompted me to find an enhanced health region in which i prepared to build a subdivision for professionals affected in such ways.
other forms of therapy may be best undertaken, by you, before, during, or after your use of chiropractic.
most of the time, the use of tension bandages, a back support, and a steady pace --- together with balancing therapy --- resulted in no lingering discomfort nor chiropractic requirement.
with very little chiropractic  intervention, i recovered a lot in 3 months, and fully in 9 months.
bio-kinetics, through a unique and patented process, works to gently activate, stimulate and synchronize areas of the brain, nerve system and body that are subconsciously reacting to stored stress-memory patterns, causing dysfunction and dis-ease.
one should not be surprised at this, for this characteristic applies to most practices of healthcare and medicine, whether conventional or alternative.
the benefit is that it can be much more widely applied both beyond oneself and beyond the simple questions of nutrition.
its uniqueness lies in its use of  a unified system of 12 techniques with special attention to their timing and  sequencing.
for those who choose this  direction, they often find it more effective and efficient than the  alternatives.
in this way, stress-reactions cause interference with the normal brain/body communication system, and cause interference with the flow of energy in, around and through the body.
still, one must make the selections from what is  available to one and obtainable with the resources at hand.
ultrasound therapy uses high-frequency sound waves that can penetrate one  to four inches, causing vasodilation, increased circulation, and increased  heat, while promoting collagen synthesis and deposition to form new tissue.
focus on the benefits.
the reverse may also occur.
in the field of nutrition, every week brings new reports of findings which extend our awareness about specific food ingredients.
the different forms of practice of chiropractic is an important consideration regarding the choice of and success of the therapy.
this result is neither a reflection of  the positive contribution possible with either towards enhanced health.
this becomes ever more difficult when the reality becomes known that there  are hundreds of homeopathic remedies which can be ordered in at least 3  different potencies.
by the end of the 3rd treatment, i could usually adjust my neck myself.
relevancy also concerns timing.
" here are a few different approaches: all chiropractors are trained in this approach.
it took me 7 years to fully recover, partly by learning better coping skills.
when i regained consciousness, i had sustained my first severe whiplash.
chiropractic started as an association 100 years ago, when harvey lillard  heard a "pop" in his neck after which there was a rapid deterioration  in his hearing.
i was out of the office for less than 40 minutes when i was back in  just as much pain.
with remedies occupying an authoritarian predictable  association to symptoms, an openness to the possibility of multiple influences  indicating one or more symptoms and one to many remedies simultaneously ---  often becomes irrelevant to the simplicity seeking rational brain.
stress-memories result in negative frequency imbalances throughout the brain/body system that then trigger a cascade of events leading to dysfunction and, eventually disease.
the fellow we periodically visited checked our spinal alignment and made adjustments as were indicated.
chiropractors focus on the body's innate (inborn, reptilian) strengths and defences to heal itself without the use of drugs or surgery.
the local chiropractor came to practice in the region one day each week from his city clinic.
network chiropractic is an approach that has been developed by donald  epstein, d.c.
bio-kinetics unique and patented approach finds hidden stress reaction patterns, then using the small hand-held new-stim instrument, mechanically stimulates specific neuro-receptor pathways triggering a nerve response into the brain that interrupts the abnormal patterns and normalizes the frequencies within the brain.
in the early 1990's, i was once again struck by another driver such  that i sustained a second severe whiplash.
mctimoney also treated animals with his technique and is considered to be a pioneer in this field.
use of infrared heat accomplishes a similar result.
i was fortunate to be able to attend a nearby chiropractor, yet the benefits were short lived.
gentle alignment of the spine and other bones.
the tendons and ligaments of the  joint are stretched by the rapid push and their natural elasticity is thought  to assist the bones to realign as they recoil when released.
because of the smallness of the opening and because of the atlas close proximity to the brain stem, if the atlas has moved out of position even one degree, two very serious things can result.
depending on the doctors technique, it feels like a light tap, a brisk thrust, or a soft massage at the side of the neck as the atlas is moved precisely back into its correct position.
the chiropractor  allowed me to utilize his extensive supply of homeopathics for integration into  the treatment of a few of my clients with very complex and compelling  influences on their health.
knowledge comes  from a superior--and man has no superior in education, but he has a superior in  knowledge his innate intelligence
exercise tubing has been shown to offer pain relief  and improve strength and conditioning for patients recovering from many joint  injuries.
"we as human organisms are a series of interacting multidimensional subtle energy systems, and if these energy systems become imbalanced there may be resulting pathological symptoms which manifest on the physical, emotional, mental and spiritual planes.
the longevity of the form of practice or of the practice of the individual bear little relevancy to effectiveness.
its uniqueness lies in its use of a unified system of 12 techniques with special attention to their timing and sequencing.
this approach is particularly beneficial to the treatment of whiplash and other head trauma injuries.
visual and manual inspection and diagnosis are usually preferred by most chiropractors to determine structural and functional problems.
again, i returned to chiropractic after conventional pain medications in huge doses were useless and deep massage and ultrasonic heat physiotherapy of minor benefit.
"universal intelligence [spiritual guidance] has scattered everywhere with amazing and beneficent profusion. ...
network chiropractic combines a variety of chiropractic techniques to enable the practitioner to adjust subluxations with the precise amount and type of force suggested by clinical findings.
this time, results were slower as all the muscle involved were often in spasm.
what did i have to lose?
therapeutic  devices can potentially do more harm than good," says dr. fedoryk.
it is great when the personality of the practitioner,  their skill level, and the form of their practice are beneficial to your health  recovery and maintenance.
by the end of the 5th treatment, i could usually adjust my back myself.
exercise tubing has been shown to offer pain relief and improve strength and conditioning for patients recovering from many joint injuries.
also in the 1950's, we drove 40 miles to see a chiropractor who was also an early adopter of nutritional supplements and organic farming and produce.
mctimoney also treated animals with his technique and is considered to be a  pioneer in this field.
some use an adjusting  technique which results in loud cracking sounds.
this prompted me to find an enhanced health  region in which i prepared to build a subdivision for professionals affected in  such ways.
the cost of a partial set often ranges to as much or more  than $10,000.
it took me 7  years to fully recover, partly by learning better coping skills.
the boxes carried my tools and supplies.
the balancing therapy i provided enabled individuals with chronic problems not resolved by massage therapy, chiropractic, or homeopathy --- to dramatically improve in their health, and on a wider scale.
the brain needs stimulation from the body to function properly, and the body needs proper communication from the brain to function properly.
these chiropractic approaches were by different practitioners who used different forms of chiropractic or integrated different additional modalities.
with the research i did into materials and spiritual guidance, i  began developing the balancing therapy outlined on earthtym.
when i regained consciousness, i had  sustained my first severe whiplash.
doughnut-shaped vertebra at the top of the spine.
this is different from attempting to match the vertebra being adjusted to a specific technique.
the tendons and ligaments of the joint are stretched by the rapid push and their natural elasticity is thought to assist the bones to realign as they recoil when released.
this has resulted in individuals incorporating other modalities into their practice of chiropractic in an attempt to extend and stabilize the benefit of the adjustments they offer.
bio-kinetics utilizes very specific contact points in the atlanto-occipital area as its primary window into the nervous system because the distribution of neuro-receptors is the highest in this region, allowing for precise brain activation.
i adjusted my back 2 to 4 times each day.
the human brain is a complex electro-chemical organ, producing chemicals from nerve cell frequencies.
yet, each of us experiences different levels of stress and cope in different degrees and manners with stress.
[spiritual guidance].
the benefit is that it can be much more widely  applied both beyond oneself and beyond the simple questions of nutrition.
you may have a personality clash with a practitioner who is yet best  skilled for you and offers the form of treatment which you can most benefit  from.
chiropractic "adjustment" usually refers to a variety of manual mechanical interventions.
for others, who may be sensitized to the  type of sound and paranoid about further injury and pain, these sounds can  almost be traumatic.
the form of chiropractic available to you may be restricted by location, financial resources, or availability.
energies demanded for coping create demand for nutrients according to the type of stress.
many chiropractors who have augmented their practice with nutritional supplements at an earlier time, have now abandoned this to the many health food stores and websites which compete for the business and often have staff who may be more familiar with some of the newer supplements, studies, and theories.
my parents were also receptive to therapies which had proven to be successful for others.
therabands and swiss ball activities, which are very effective in  rehabilitation, along with other low-tech, inexpensive equipment like  trampolines, balance boards, and bosu balls are also advocated by some  practitioners.
as environmental deterioration becomes pervasive and industrial farming persistently exhausts the soils and contaminates our crops with thousands of airborne and seeded chemicals --- we increasingly require nutritional supplementation just to maintain a previously normal level of nutrition.
he observed from clinical  experience that not all subluxations of the spine are the same.
the brain needs stimulation from the body to function properly, and the  body needs proper communication from the brain to function properly.
individualized selection of foods and supplemental nutrients is the only  way to effectively consume the best balance to recover, maintain, and enhance  one's health.
bio-kinetics unique and patented approach finds hidden stress reaction  patterns, then using the small hand-held new-stim instrument, mechanically  stimulates specific neuro-receptor pathways triggering a nerve response into  the brain that interrupts the abnormal patterns and normalizes the frequencies  within the brain.
during 2003 to 2005, there were a variety of periods during which i benefited from chiropractic treatments to help cope with the chronic illnesses i was repeatedly challenged with.
more complex equipment does not necessarily provide any significantly  enhanced clinical results, and that's the bottom line."
this is different from attempting to  match the vertebra being adjusted to a specific technique.
with remedies occupying an authoritarian predictable association to symptoms, an openness to the possibility of multiple influences indicating one or more symptoms and one to many remedies simultaneously --- often becomes irrelevant to the simplicity seeking rational brain.
http://www.chiropractic.org/
this attitude, allows, or leaves them in a state of profound denial and ignorance about more complex forms of illness, like multiple chronic burdens, and prevents a more constructive referral to other services when such could prove beneficial.
simply easier to guess, by association, and call it  rational.
my parents were also receptive to  therapies which had proven to be successful for others.
it is completely  “underwhelming.”
recovery and cure is subject to some of many  other options, being effectively integrated with the chiropractic, which is why  so many chiropractors include other modalities in their practice.
chiropractic started as an association 100 years ago, when harvey lillard heard a "pop" in his neck after which there was a rapid deterioration in his hearing.
in all areas of healthcare, where positive expectation is encouraged, rather than being allowed to present itself, there is a potential for placebo self-healing to occur, in addition to any improvements resulting from the applications carried out by the therapist.
i was fortunate to be able to attend a nearby chiropractor, yet  the benefits were short lived.
the repositioning of the atlas vertebrae is done by hand or by instrument.
as is noted in the main article above, there are many varieties of chiropractic.
be aware, that quality of treatment, like in most other healthcare  practices, depends upon the diagnostic, communication, and treatment skills of  the practitioner.
"the most  popular forms of chiropractic-applied traction are cervical intermittent and  lumbar flexion-distraction techniques, exercises for muscle stretching and strengthening, are frequently  advocated in order to strengthen muscles supporting connective tissues which  have been damaged and to provide a balance between opposing muscle groups where  one has been developed to the disadvantage of another.
homeopathy is usually, in my experience, applied by the practitioner  interviewing the client and then selecting the one remedy which correlates in  descriptive principle to the symptoms noted.
this new understanding has made it possible to develop protocols to update the body's reaction to stress, re-program the stress response, and re-connect the communication pathways between the brain and body.
mctimoney chiropractic is seen as a safer option than ordinary chiropractic  because of its lighter touch.
trillions of nerve fibers from the brainstem travel through the small opening in atlas and flow down into the spinal column.
the field of chiropractic is one which encourages the practitioner to follow a holistic perspective by reason of its emphasis on balancing the functions and energies of the body.
there are few young adults, and fewer mature persons, who have not experienced accidental, or intentional, physical shock to the head or upper back.
you can get education from people educated like yourself for better or for worse.
the basic form of chiropractic relieves symptoms.
" here are a few different approaches: basic physical realignment of the spine.
for the patient who needs to hear or see dramatic indications in order to believe that anything is being done, this approach may be beneficial.
combinations of remedies may be indicated for symptoms being expressed by  a multiple of influences, of which most are hidden from the consciousness of  the patient, themselves.
chiropractic  "adjustment" usually refers to a variety of manual mechanical  interventions.
with very little chiropractic intervention, i recovered a lot in 3 months, and fully in 9 months.
homeopathy is usually, in my experience, applied by the practitioner interviewing the client and then selecting the one remedy which correlates in descriptive principle to the symptoms noted.
be aware, that quality of treatment, like in most other healthcare practices, depends upon the diagnostic, communication, and treatment skills of the practitioner.
this rational association of two apparent similar facts, symptom and description, have a tendency to be incorrect and wasteful.
which client is going to withstand the rigorous muscle testing endurance session while perhaps 5 remedies in 3 differing strengths are confirmed for choice?
by using this approach and extending it, i found i could release energy blocks and sensitivities.
without a consideration of blood and metabolic type,  gender, age, build, and the often promotional and idiosyncratic misuse of  statistics, supplements are often prescribed which are inadequate or excessive  in dosage, unbalanced in association with each other, and often costly and  useless.
the basic form of  chiropractic relieves symptoms.
with patients  who have pacemakers, no electrical therapies should be used in the vicinity of  the heart.
[reptilian structure]; and innate  intelligence has a superior in knowledge in universal intelligence
a number of forms of electrical therapy, including the tens machine and  electrical stimulation acupuncture may also be used to stimulate and relax  nerves and muscles in an attempt to break up spasm frozen tissues which can  pull vertebrae out of their healthful position and result in nerve pinching  leading to inflammation and organ dysfunction.
therapeutic devices can potentially do more harm than good," says dr. fedoryk.
this is often used in place of an initial hand massage, tens  electro-stimulation, or thumper mechanical massage.
each time, i was largely responsible for lifting and  carrying to and from a truck or other vehicle several tons of books and  reference materials packed into stacking crates.
by the end  of the 5th treatment, i could usually adjust my back myself.
individualized selection of foods and supplemental nutrients is the only way to effectively consume the best balance to recover, maintain, and enhance one's health.
second and third visits may elicit more detail and symptoms and more remedies to apply.
exercise tubing [including swimming pool flotation noodles]: resistive-motion exercise using simple exercise tubes is also available at  almost any athletic store.
they're portable, simple to use, and don't take up nearly as much space as free weights.
these  are placed to reduce the muscle tension and inflammation which usually attends  subluxated vertebrae and pinched nerves.
[personal values], and superego [social values].
there are few young adults, and fewer mature  persons, who have not experienced accidental, or intentional, physical shock to  the head or upper back.
that  increase vasodilation and circulation to facilitate new tissue formation and  damaged tissue removal may also be used.
"universal intelligence [spiritual guidance] has scattered  everywhere with amazing and beneficent profusion. ...
mctimoney chiropractic is seen as a safer option than ordinary chiropractic because of its lighter touch.
the form of chiropractic which is of  most benefit to you may change over time as you go through different levels of  recovery.
this  attitude, allows, or leaves them in a state of profound denial and ignorance  about more complex forms of illness, like multiple chronic burdens, and  prevents a more constructive referral to other services when such could prove  beneficial.
in each case, all of the work  had to be completed within a 24 hour period.
mctimoney practitioners examine and treat the entire body in the course of each session to ensure correct skeletal alignment.
i paid attention to the movements he made with my back to effect the pain relieving adjustment.
he found two  types of subluxations: structural (arising from physical stresses), and  facilitated (arising from emotional stresses).
in this, the practitioner pushes the joint in the desired direction  with one rapid movement and then releases it.
"if there's an infection, heat may facilitate its spread.
an old and most common form of nutritional advice is to rationalize what is  expected to be of benefit to the client as an extension of published research  associated to the symptoms of the individual.
manipulation of the spine through twisting and pulling movements is used to correct or prevent structural misalignments and so promote normal bodily function.
these vary widely between the different forms and between  practitioners within a form of therapy.
[the manner in which bio-kinetics describes "stress reactions"  and "stress memories" is very similar to how i have found regular  energy blocks to be my balancing therapy, outlined elsewhere on earthtym.]
there  are many websites and books available which can provide you with more detail.
alignment of the spine with a focus on one area.
traction stretches the spinal muscles and ligaments, decompresses  compromised or irritated spinal nerve roots, and increases the biomechanical  function of degenerative spinal and discopathic conditions.
this may begin as early as a forceps delivery, a disciplinary slap to the head, a fall, a punch, wrestling holds or whips, sudden vehicle stops, emotional tension from particular forms of fear or anxiety, or many other possibilities.
with several organ systems dysfunctioning and  chronic pain, i was back again at a chiropractor's office, with an emergency.
with the research i did into materials and spiritual guidance, i began developing the balancing therapy outlined on earthtym.
to enable me to function and continue working, i fitted out the back of my chevy blazer with wooden boxes, i could make into a platform.
some longer duration therapists have continued to learn and perfect their skills; others are little different than when they graduated.
in this way, stress-reactions cause  interference with the normal brain/body communication system, and cause  interference with the flow of energy in, around and through the body.
this self-direction and self-restraint requires a discerning ability to use muscle testing which one can easily and quickly confirm to be accurate and note distorted by the desires or fears of one's ego
chiropractors focus on physical, emotional, and immune irregularities that  can result from dislocations of spinal structure or restrictions on movement.
as in all forms of chiropractic, it cannot remove  sources of toxins in the body or toxin buildup from chemicals and heavy metals.
they favor a technique known as the "toggle-recoil"  thrust.
this rational association of two apparent similar facts, symptom and  description, have a tendency to be incorrect and wasteful.
the cost of a partial set often ranges to as much or more than $10,000.
i paid attention to the movements he made with my neck to effect the  pain relieving adjustment.
from the  other, i learned an early form of balancing using bach remedies and muscle  testing.
in the early 1980's, part of my recovery from the chronic neck problems  and recurring back problems came when i moved into toronto.
ph.c., the son of daniel david palmer,  became the marketer, educator and inventor who further developed and publicized  the science of chiropractic.
many chiropractors who have augmented their practice with nutritional  supplements at an earlier time, have now abandoned this to the many health food  stores and websites which compete for the business and often have staff who may  be more familiar with some of the newer supplements, studies, and theories.
the difference lies  in the sequence of the adjustments and the networking of the various methods.
several months later, a driver on recreational drugs ran into my car, wrote it off, and left me in a coma.
" from introduction by gabriel cousens,  m.d., to vibrational medicine: new choices for healing ourselves, by  richard gerber, m.d. the bio-kinetics procedures were developed over the past thirty-plus years  by dr. lawrence e. newsum of rancho palos verdes, california.
eliminating the effects of stress: discoveries from fields of neurology, neuro-physiology, psycho-neuro-immunology, endocrinology and chiropractic have revealed insights into how this system works.
you may find a practitioner very attuned to you on a personal basis, yet, their skills are substandard, or their manner of practice is not helpful.
bio-kinetics utilizes very specific contact points in the  atlanto-occipital area as its primary window into the nervous system because  the distribution of neuro-receptors is the highest in this region, allowing for  precise brain activation.
you may find a practitioner very attuned to  you on a personal basis, yet, their skills are substandard, or their manner of  practice is not helpful.
the following represent some of the varieties i have used over the past 40  years in addition to several others i know of which have proven helpful to  others.
the practice  of chiropractic is very diverse and personalized to the practitioner.
spiritually guided supplements and other therapies were utilized concurrently together with the occasional requirement for balancing with bach flower remedies.
sometimes, new research  reveals the fallacies of decades old associations or months old  pseudo-scientific releases.
with the help of colleague, dr. donald baune, a chiropractic neurologist, he was able to compile the information explaining how it works, and develop a concise and teachable program.
during 2002, there were minor periods during which i used chiropractic  services in australia associated with chronic illness and travelling (moving  heavy suitcases).
together with a keen eye on preventing energy block building, and with a resorting to qi gong / acupuncture, the combination with chiropractic lead to a resolution after 7 months.
during 2001/2002, i was fortunate to have my office in a chiropractic clinic.
the integration of homeopathic and chiropractic can be a very effective approach, although it usually is not.
the integration of homeopathic and chiropractic can be a very effective  approach, although it usually is not.
his early work and original research in the field  of chiropractic is the foundation upon the present day teachings of the  science.
mctimoney practitioners examine and treat the entire body in the course of  each session to ensure correct skeletal alignment.
if the problem is indeed related to a very specific traumatic event, it may be resolved by the use of one remedy.
his approach altered to a "whole body" one.
they rarely use x-rays or other diagnostic tools, preferring to rely on what they feel with their hands.
with a couple of sessions' instruction in the chiropractic office, the patient can be taught to use exercise tubing for almost any upper - and lower - body strengthening exercise.
in all areas of healthcare, where positive expectation  is encouraged, rather than being allowed to present itself, there is a  potential for placebo self-healing to occur, in addition to any improvements  resulting from the applications carried out by the therapist.
visual and manual inspection and diagnosis are usually preferred by most  chiropractors to determine structural and functional problems.
most of the time, the use of tension bandages, a  back support, and a steady pace --- together with balancing therapy ---  resulted in no lingering discomfort nor chiropractic requirement.
manipulation of  the spine through twisting and pulling movements is used to correct or prevent  structural misalignments and so promote normal bodily function.
these chiropractic approaches were by  different practitioners who used different forms of chiropractic or integrated  different additional modalities.
i was out of the office for less than 40 minutes when i was back in just as much pain.
simply easier to guess, by association, and call it rational.
development of the skill also requires a  degree of patience, persistence, and self-awareness --- which is difficult to  encourage in a culture focused on aggressive, fast-paced, competitive,  materialistic obsession.
wisdom is knowledge gained; ripe wisdom is knowledge ripened into  practicability of practical use.
yet, each of us experiences different levels of stress and cope  in different degrees and manners with stress.
for others, who may be sensitized to the type of sound and paranoid about further injury and pain, these sounds can almost be traumatic.
that proved often enough, successful, such as when i had a severe intestinal parasite problem which could neither be effectively diagnosed nor treated by the regional general practitioner/surgeon.
as usual in chiropractic application, the therapist is likely to be committed to their form of chiropractic as a panacea for all ills.
development of the skill also requires a degree of  patience, persistence, and self-awareness --- which is difficult to encourage  in a culture focused on aggressive, fast-paced, competitive, materialistic  obsession.
free exam, available in the usa, 866-697-1740 comment this page almost did not happen.
muscle testing to determine the most efficient food combinations and supplement dosages has been advocated by health professionals since the late 1970's.
chiropractors could  only provide treatments several times each week at that time.
this self-direction  and self-restraint requires a discerning ability to use muscle testing which  one can easily and quickly confirm to be accurate and note distorted by the  desires or fears of one's ego
together with a keen eye on preventing energy block building, and with a  resorting to qi gong / acupuncture, the combination with chiropractic lead to a  resolution after 7 months.
as is noted in the main article above, there are many varieties of  chiropractic.
this page is a simple introduction to chiropractic therapies.
chiropractors focus on physical, emotional, and immune irregularities that can result from dislocations of spinal structure or restrictions on movement.
if the  problem is indeed related to a very specific traumatic event, it may be  resolved by the use of one remedy.
rather than maintaining an expensive and extensive stock of supplements which will likely have a low turnover, and thus a high storage cost --- many practitioners have abandoned this attempt at increasing the permanence of their chiropractic manipulations to the adoption of other modalities.
some of those were of questionable benefit; others were health enhancing.
alignment of the spine and energy balancing.
some  chiropractors begin their treatment with the use of acupuncture needles.
exercise tubing [including swimming pool flotation noodles]: resistive-motion exercise using simple exercise tubes is also available at almost any athletic store.
with a couple of sessions' instruction in the chiropractic office,  the patient can be taught to use exercise tubing for almost any upper - and  lower - body strengthening exercise.
to enable me to function and continue working, i adjusted my neck 3 to 9 times each day.
comment this page almost did not happen.
they believe that misaligned vertebrae, referred to as subluxation, can interfere with normal body function, through the interruption of nerve communication, and if left uncorrected, can result in muscle and/or organ dysfunction, and other imbalances.
in the mid-1970's, following a lower back injury which resulted in much  pain unaided by conventional approaches and medications, i returned to  chiropractic.
because of the smallness  of the opening and because of the atlas’ close proximity to the brain  stem, if the atlas has moved out of position even one degree, two very serious  things can result.
these vary widely between the different forms and between practitioners within a form of therapy.
there are many educated people; there are more educated fools.
ultrasound therapy uses high-frequency sound waves that can penetrate one to four inches, causing vasodilation, increased circulation, and increased heat, while promoting collagen synthesis and deposition to form new tissue.
the true test of  effectiveness is when a patient experiences dramatic improvement in some area  of their health, through the process utilized by the therapist, without  statements of expectation being made.
it is great when the personality of the practitioner, their skill level, and the form of their practice are beneficial to your health recovery and maintenance.
i adjusted my back 2  to 4 times each day.
again, i returned to chiropractic after  conventional pain medications in huge doses were useless and deep massage and  ultrasonic heat physiotherapy of minor benefit.
to enable me to  function and continue working, i fitted out the back of my chevy blazer with  wooden boxes, i could make into a platform.
for a time, i attended both of them, giving me a total of up to 4  treatments per week.
in the field of nutrition, every week brings new reports of findings which  extend our awareness about specific food ingredients.
with patients who have pacemakers, no electrical therapies should be used in the vicinity of the heart.
recovery and cure is subject to some of many other options, being effectively integrated with the chiropractic, which is why so many chiropractors include other modalities in their practice.
these promote the deposition and formation of collagen and the repair of tissues may also be added.
i was out of the chiropractic office for less than 10 minutes when i was back in just as much pain.
the field of chiropractic is one which encourages the practitioner to  follow a holistic perspective by reason of its emphasis on balancing the  functions and energies of the body.
with foods occupying the significance of medicinal herbs,  personal preference for selection on the basis of popularity, taste, or cost  --- often becomes irrelevant.
a number of forms of electrical therapy, including the tens machine and electrical stimulation acupuncture may also be used to stimulate and relax nerves and muscles in an attempt to break up spasm frozen tissues which can pull vertebrae out of their healthful position and result in nerve pinching leading to inflammation and organ dysfunction.
energies demanded for coping  create demand for nutrients according to the type of stress.
as environmental deterioration becomes pervasive  and industrial farming persistently exhausts the soils and contaminates our  crops with thousands of airborne and seeded chemicals --- we increasingly  require nutritional supplementation just to maintain a previously normal level  of nutrition.
as a child, i was unaware of what his profession was, other than some  form of doctor.
i developed a keen awareness about lifting correctly.
therabands and swiss ball activities, which are very effective in rehabilitation, along with other low-tech, inexpensive equipment like trampolines, balance boards, and bosu balls are also advocated by some practitioners.
as the latter assisted in releasing the energy blocks supporting the whiplash and lower back injuries, i gradually required fewer and fewer treatments.
our nutritional  requirements are continuously changing.
network  chiropractic, http://www.10ac.com/network_chiropractic.htm also known as:  network spinal analysis (nsa), and the somato-respiratory integration (sri)  methodology.
the benefit is that it can be much more widely applied both beyond oneself and beyond the simple questions of a regular interview.
he found two types of subluxations: structural (arising from physical stresses), and facilitated (arising from emotional stresses).
from the one, i learned touch-for-health kinesiology.
combinations of remedies may be indicated for symptoms being expressed by a multiple of influences, of which most are hidden from the consciousness of the patient, themselves.
the form of chiropractic available to you may be restricted by  location, financial resources, or availability.
during 2002, there were minor periods during which i used chiropractic services in australia associated with chronic illness and travelling (moving heavy suitcases).
alignment of the spine and nutritional counseling.
alignment of the spine with hypnotic enhancement.
the boxes carried my tools and  supplies.
bio-kinetics is based on neuro-physiological insights and discoveries that  make it possible to release accumulated biological stress, eliminate negative  stress reactions and correct stored cellular stress memories anywhere in the  body and mind.
the atlas is a single, 2 oz.
they rarely use x-rays or  other diagnostic tools, preferring to rely on what they feel with their hands.
in addition to  the above physical orientation chiropractic adjustment and one or more  facilitative and remedial therapies, chiropractors have long integrated one of  several forms of nutritional support approaches.
in the latter 4 months of the year, chiropractic, balancing,  and massage services were used to help recover from my third severe whiplash  injury.
for someone with a prior severe  lower back injury, this was theoretically impossible.
they favor a technique known as the "toggle-recoil" thrust.
what may have worked  miraculously for a friend may have little benefit for you, as well as the  opposite.
he came to the view that although the spine was the primary source of misalignments, or subluxations, the other joints of the body could also be put out of alignment by everyday stresses and strains, and that, in order to achieve a complete realignment, all the joints of the body should be treated -not just the spine.
after 20 treatments, and my regular contributions, i was pain free.
many of these are noted on the earthtym pages.
he came to the  view that although the spine was the primary source of misalignments, or  subluxations, the other joints of the body could also be put out of alignment  by everyday stresses and strains, and that, in order to achieve a complete  realignment, all the joints of the body should be treated -not just the spine.
after the lengthy and frustrating  legal experience connected with the first, i chose the more positive stress  approach of a faster settlement and putting the incident behind me.
i provided services to clients in a  territory that was 500 miles wide by 400 miles with few major roads.
also in the 1950's, we drove 40 miles to see a chiropractor who was  also an early adopter of nutritional supplements and organic farming and  produce.
it is a method which is drug free and  allows the body to begin correction while the practitioner is adjusting another  client.
his employer, daniel david palmer, a magnetic healer, recognized the relationship of spinal displacement and the reduced function of the nervous system.
there are a  few people who possess knowledge, but there are few people who possess wisdom.
with the help of  colleague, dr. donald baune, a chiropractic neurologist, he was able to compile  the information explaining how it works, and develop a concise and teachable  program.
cold packs or ice may be used independently or alternately with hot packs to reduce swelling and tension in the tissues surrounding and supporting the vertebrae.
the use of spiritual guidance to determine remedy selection and strength/quantity of dosages is a way to attain efficient and relevant treatment.
in the early 1990's, i was once again struck by another driver such that i sustained a second severe whiplash.
traction stretches the spinal muscles and ligaments, decompresses compromised or irritated spinal nerve roots, and increases the biomechanical function of degenerative spinal and discopathic conditions.
development of the skill also requires a degree of patience, persistence, and self-awareness --- which is difficult to encourage in a culture focused on aggressive, fast-paced, competitive, materialistic obsession.
i paid attention to the movements he made with my back to  effect the pain relieving adjustment.
a flat bench, a stationary bike, and foot levelers or synergy wall tubing  systems and any tabletop or stand-alone upper-body ergometer may also be used  to assist in particular muscle development for the purpose of greater support  of the skeletal structure in a balanced manner.
this has resulted in individuals  incorporating other modalities into their practice of chiropractic in an  attempt to extend and stabilize the benefit of the adjustments they offer.
it extends chiropractic's traditional adjustment techniques and  works with the body's reptilian intelligence.
alignment of the spine and homeopathic treatment.
pnf, or proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation, involves techniques to  improve muscle and joint function.
chemical imbalances come from frequency  imbalances.
use of  infrared heat accomplishes a similar result.
his early work and original research in the field of chiropractic is the foundation upon the present day teachings of the science.
stretched tendons and ligaments seldom shrink back to their more healthful length so additional muscle support is a less invasive and less costly for of correction than surgery.
what may have worked miraculously for a friend may have little benefit for you, as well as the opposite.
if the patient is not aware of this relevant information, how can they share it?
newfound health did not last long.
as the latter assisted in releasing the energy blocks  supporting the whiplash and lower back injuries, i gradually required fewer and  fewer treatments.
they're portable, simple to use, and don't  take up nearly as much space as free weights.
it can increase the awareness of and discernment of the reptilian structure to  specific parasitic forms, such as viruses and fungi.]
during the late 1990's and 2000, it proved necessary for me to move my residence-office 5 times.
knowledge comes from a superior--and man has no superior in education, but he has a superior in knowledge his innate intelligence
a week of pain and disability and the potential to be laid off or terminated.
keeping the energy blocks at bay, i fully recovered this time in 3  months, in spite of major challenges in my work and social life.
a week of pain  and disability and the potential to be laid off or terminated.
the longevity of the form of practice  or of the practice of the individual bear little relevancy to effectiveness.
during the 1950's my parents were progressive in their accessing of  alternative healthcare options when conservative approaches failed.
hot packs and other heat therapies, as well as other types of therapy
individualized eating profiles also conflicts with the cultural pattern of shared meals in which one combination of foods has been prepared for all.
rather than maintaining an expensive and extensive stock of supplements which  will likely have a low turnover, and thus a high storage cost --- many  practitioners have abandoned this attempt at increasing the permanence of their  chiropractic manipulations to the adoption of other modalities.
they ranged from 2 to 8 sessions.
that proved  often enough, successful, such as when i had a severe intestinal parasite  problem which could neither be effectively diagnosed nor treated by the  regional general practitioner/surgeon.
the human brain is a complex electro-chemical organ, producing chemicals  from nerve cell frequencies.
it is completely underwhelming.
[much of this approach utilizes muscle testing and the use of the point  impact stim instrument.
this approach is particularly beneficial to the treatment of whiplash and  other head trauma injuries.
ph.c., the son of daniel david palmer, became the marketer, educator and inventor who further developed and publicized the science of chiropractic.
depending on the doctor’s technique, it feels like a light tap, a brisk  thrust, or a soft massage at the side of the neck as the atlas is moved  precisely back into its correct position.
by the late 1980's, i was becoming hypersensitive to many things and  the environmental and physical stresses of my work were resulting in chronic  pains again.
during 2003 to 2005, there were a variety of periods during which i  benefited from chiropractic treatments to help cope with the chronic illnesses  i was repeatedly challenged with.
for the patient who needs  to hear or see dramatic indications in order to believe that anything is being  done, this approach may be beneficial.
hot packs and other heat therapies, as well as other types of therapy that increase vasodilation and circulation to facilitate new tissue formation and damaged tissue removal may also be used.
with several organ systems dysfunctioning and chronic pain, i was back again at a chiropractor's office, with an emergency.
network chiropractic combines a variety of chiropractic techniques to  enable the practitioner to adjust subluxations with the precise amount and type  of force suggested by clinical findings.