strong core muscles serve as good allies to your back muscles in supporting your spine.
- heat therapy: heat therapy is one of the most preferred methods of reducing chronic aches and pains associated with fibromyalgia.
active treatments active treatments help address  core stability, flexibility, strength, and joint movement.
it's essential that you learn the exercises and continue them after the formal therapy ends.
strong, lean muscles better handle pain.
when you feel ready, you will start active treatments that strengthen your body  and prevent further fibromyalgia pain.
updated on: 01/04/10 - continue reading: rest to relieve fibromyalgia pain about fibromyalgia - what is fibromyalgia?
- hydrotherapy: as the name suggests, hydrotherapy involves water.
active treatments include: - core stability: your core (abdominal) muscles have a greater impact on your overall health than you may think.
conditions › fibromyalgia › text size: a a a physical therapy for fibromyalgia written by kelly rehan; reviewed by edward j. kowlowitz, md tweet physical therapy often takes a hands-on approach, which may make you cringe if you're experiencing pain from multiple hypersensitivetender points.
if you're using a heating pad, set it to low or medium.
by taking care of your back on your own, you'll reduce further fibromyalgia pain.
naturally, a healthy  core provides your body with a strong, stable center point.
heat may not completely eliminate the source of your pain, but it can  effectively reduce your pain.
spasms prevent muscle motion at the affected level, which is one of the reasons people with fibromyalgia experience a decreased range of motion.
this technique reduces  muscle spasms and is generally believed to trigger the release of endorphins,  which are your body's natural pain killers.
naturally, a healthy core provides your body with a strong, stable center point.
active treatments include: core stability: your core (abdominal) muscles have a  greater impact on your overall health than you may think.
passive treatments  relax your body and include deep tissue massage, heat therapy, hydrotherapy,  electric muscle stimulation, and ultrasound.
ultrasound  helps reduce muscle spasms, inflammation, stiffness, and pain and is most  effective in relieving range of motion limitations in chronic pain sufferers,  as opposed to those with acute inflammatory conditions.
- hydrotherapy: water-based exercises may be recommended to provide gentle aerobic conditioning.
hydrotherapy: as the name suggests, hydrotherapy involves  water.
cannabis-based drug improves sleep in fibromyalgia patients fibromyalgia research and treatment updates passive treatments deep tissue massage: unless you're in an extreme amount  of pain, deep tissue massage is an ideal fibromyalgia treatment because it uses  a great deal of pressure to relieve deep muscle tension and spasms.
your physical therapist will teach you self-care principles so you  understand how to best treat your symptoms.
this will not only curb recurrent pain but will also benefit your overall health.
however, physical therapy uses methods that are gentle, effective, and will most likely play a major role in managing your fibromyalgia symptoms.
this treatment may be combined with heat or cold therapies to boost the benefits.
unless you're in an extreme amount of pain, deep tissue massage is an ideal fibromyalgia treatment because it uses a great deal of pressure to relieve deep muscle tension and spasms.
- alternative treatments - chiropractic treatment - medications - exercise - mental and emotional therapy - physical therapy - rest and sleep - stress management - fibromyalgia treatment resources fibromyalgia resources - common fibromyalgia questions - fibromyalgia lifestyle tips related conditions treatment update could my low back pain be si-joint related?
the ultimate goal is for you to develop the knowledge to help control your symptoms.
you may be interested in these related articles: - how psychologists help fibromyalgia patients - what is fibromyalgia?
this therapy is used in a couple of ways—through dry heat (a heating pad or a dry, hot towel) or moist heat (steam heat or a moist, warm cloth).
- anatomy - symptoms - causes - exams and tests fibromyalgia treatments - who treats fibromyalgia?
if you  fail to keep with a fitness regimen, you won't enjoy long-term results from  your physical therapy.
physical therapy techniques, including deep tissue massage, will help you use your muscles more effectively.
related resources - resource center minimally invasive alternatives to traditional spine surgery sponsored by: - slideshow dealing with stress to deal with back pain - slideshow slideshow: five fibromyalgia-friendly lifestyle tips - slideshow unusual treatments for back pain - quiz chronic pain treatments quiz - from our sponsor could your low back pain be si-joint related?
physical therapy  techniques, including deep tissue massage, will help you use your muscles more  effectively.
as a passive treatment, hydrotherapy may simply involve sitting in a whirlpool bath to relieve pain, relax muscles, and condition your body without adding unnecessary stress.
you may be interested in these  related articles: how psychologists help fibromyalgia patients what is fibromyalgia?
this will not only curb  recurrent pain but will also benefit your overall health.
when you feel ready, you will start active treatments that strengthen your body and prevent further fibromyalgia pain.
it's called  the core because it's the central powerhouse of your body.
it's essential that you  learn the exercises and continue them after the formal therapy ends.
ultrasound: this therapy uses sound waves to create a  gentle heat that increases blood circulation to your deep tissues.
heat triggers the body's natural healing process by relaxing your muscles and speeding up blood flow to the affected area.
this information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient.
however,  physical therapy uses methods that are gentle, effective, and will most likely  play a major role in managing your fibromyalgia symptoms.
for professionals - conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - juvenile rheumatoid arthritis - kyphosis - low back pain - neck pain - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sacroiliac joint dysfunction - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal cord injury - spinal fractures - spinal stenosis - spinal tumors - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - sprains and strains - upper back pain - whiplash - other back problems
when using heat therapy on your own after physical therapy ends, never overheat painful areas.
learn more » - email page - print - rss - discuss stay informed with spineuniverse sign up to receive free updates on news, research, community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics.
updated on: 01/04/10 continue reading:  rest to relieve fibromyalgia pain about fibromyalgia
ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, inflammation, stiffness, and pain and is most effective in relieving range of motion limitations in chronic pain sufferers, as opposed to those with acute inflammatory conditions.
using customizedstretching and strengthening exercises, your physical therapist  will help you lengthen and strengthen your muscles, and improve joint movement.
by taking care of your back on your own, you'll reduce  further fibromyalgia pain.
- resource center surgical & non-surgical options for a pain-free life sponsored by: connect with others in the patient community!
electric muscle stimulation: electric muscle  stimulation sounds intense, but it really isn't painful.
when using a hot towel, touch it first to make sure it's not too hot.
electric muscle stimulation sounds intense, but it really isn't painful.
your physical therapist will teach you self-care principles so you understand how to best treat your symptoms.
always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem.
an exercise program  may also be prescribed to achieve optimal results.
- muscle flexibility and strengthening: your range of motion will likely be restricted if you're experiencing fibromyalgia pain.
your physical  therapist will work with you to develop a program based on your specific  symptoms and health history.
there are a variety of physical therapy techniques.
heat  triggers the body's natural healing process by relaxing your muscles and  speeding up blood flow to the affected area.
your physical therapist will work with you to develop a plan that best suits you.
this therapy is used in a couple of  ways—through dry heat (a heating pad or a dry, hot towel) or moist heat  (steam heat or a moist, warm cloth).
heat therapy: heat therapy is one of the most preferred  methods of reducing chronic aches and pains associated with fibromyalgia.
as a passive treatment, hydrotherapy may simply involve sitting in a  whirlpool bath to relieve pain, relax muscles, and condition your body without  adding unnecessary stress.
this treatment may be combined with heat or cold therapies to  boost the benefits.
an exercise program may also be prescribed to achieve optimal results.
- ultrasound: this therapy uses sound waves to create a gentle heat that increases blood circulation to your deep tissues.
blood also removes waste byproducts from muscle spasms.
text size: a a a physical therapy for fibromyalgia written by kelly rehan; reviewed by  edward j. kowlowitz, md tweet physical therapy often takes a hands-on approach, which may make you cringe  if you're experiencing pain from multiple hypersensitivetender points.
muscle flexibility and strengthening: your range of  motion will likely be restricted if you're experiencing fibromyalgia pain.
excessive heat may not only exacerbate your fibromyalgia pain but also potentially cause burns.
it's called the core because it's the central powerhouse of your body.
strong core muscles  serve as good allies to your back muscles in supporting your spine.
this technique reduces muscle spasms and is generally believed to trigger the release of endorphins, which are your body's natural pain killers.
spineuniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
excessive heat may not only exacerbate your  fibromyalgia pain but also potentially cause burns.
the ultimate goal is for you to  develop the knowledge to help control your symptoms.
extra blood delivers extra oxygen  and nutrients.
your physical therapist will work with  you to develop a plan that best suits you.
your physical therapy program will usually begin with passive treatments.
when using heat therapy on your  own after physical therapy ends, never overheat painful areas.
when using a hot towel, touch it first  to make sure it's not too hot.
hydrotherapy: water-based exercises may be recommended to  provide gentle aerobic conditioning.
- cannabis-based drug improves sleep in fibromyalgia patients - fibromyalgia research and treatment updates passive treatments - deep tissue massage:
extra blood delivers extra oxygen and nutrients.
- electric muscle stimulation:
active treatments active treatments help address core stability, flexibility, strength, and joint movement.
chronic pain fibromyalgia pain management physical therapy discuss your fibromyalgia with the patient community.
spasms  prevent muscle motion at the affected level, which is one of the reasons people  with fibromyalgia experience a decreased range of motion.
passive treatments relax your body and include deep tissue massage, heat therapy, hydrotherapy, electric muscle stimulation, and ultrasound.
if you're using  a heating pad, set it to low or medium.
heat may not completely eliminate the source of your pain, but it can effectively reduce your pain.
your physical therapist will work with you to develop a program based on your specific symptoms and health history.
a specialist - expert blogs spine conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - kyphosis - neck pain back pain and neck pain resources - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal stenosis - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - other back problems a-z - spinal anatomy - community advice - clinical trials - exams and tests - expert blogs policy and contact - find a doctor for your back pain - spineuniverse en español - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - back pain resource centers - back pain video directory - about spineuniverse - press releases - our awards - advertising opportunities - editorial board - editorial guidelines - partners and sponsors - privacy policy - advertising policy - terms of use - contact us - for professionals © 1999-2012 vertical health, llc
a-z - treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic - drugs and medications - mental & emotional therapy - pain management - physical therapy - spinal bracing - surgery - wellness - ergonomics - exercise - weight loss - resources - back products - clinical trials - exams and tests - links of interest - partners in education - podcasts - recommended books - resource centers - spinal anatomy - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - spineuniverse en español - video directory - community advice - find
use of the spineuniverse.com site is conditional upon your acceptance of ouruser agreement edward j. kowlowitz, md this article was reviewed by edward j. kowlowitz, md.
using customizedstretching and strengthening exercises, your physical therapist will help you lengthen and strengthen your muscles, and improve joint movement.
if you fail to keep with a fitness regimen, you won't enjoy long-term results from your physical therapy.