sherril  worked for nine years in family practice in both sevier and roane counties, and  then worked more than three years at the parkwest sleep center before  joining the covenant weight management center in april of 2008 as a  clinical team leader.
she has also supported other community programs such as the charles r. drew university of medicine & science summer program, where she prepared inner-city youths for the scholastic aptitude test (sat).
she completed a neurology residency at the university of  vermont/fletcher allen health care in burlington, vermont.
dr. rambally is committed to improving her community and empowering those she serves.
dr. rambally has been recognized for her  participation and support of community programs.
we see patients referred by their doctors.
we offer several treatment options based on your needs.
dr. rambally is double-boarded in both neurology and sleep medicine.
what are the treatment options?
but when you are often exhausted,  have trouble falling asleep, wake up a lot during the night, fall asleep during  the day, or don't feel refreshed by sleep, you may need to be evaluated.
during the test, the technician  keeps a close watch to make sure you are comfortable.
new patients seeing sherril boozer, fnp, should click here to print and complete her questionnaire.
dr. rambally also provided volunteer services for a  homeless outreach project.
soak in a warm bath before bed, or listen to some soft music.
dr.  rambally also received the "award for a conscious effort in the  community" from ucla for commitment to third world communities of los  angeles.
enjoy quiet time before bed, or read a relaxing book.
but when you are often exhausted, have trouble falling asleep, wake up a lot during the night, fall asleep during the day, or don't feel refreshed by sleep, you may need to be evaluated.
download a sleep apnea self-assessment test accreditation the american academy of sleep medicine (aasm) accredited methodist sleep diagnostic center of oak ridge in spring 2001.
in the news read more about pediatric sleep disorders in a one-on-one interview with dr. cherridan rambally in the spring 2010 issue of well aware health magazine.
she joined the methodist sleep diagnostic center in 2011  and is now accepting new patients.
sleep diagnostic  center back to document health tip: better sleep can mean less arthritis pain (healthday news) --
the nationally accredited methodist sleep diagnostic center is  committed to offering exceptional care for people with sleep disorders.
however, these are usually temporary.
here are recommendations to help you get enough rest: exercise regularly at a moderate intensity, and remember to schedule it  well before bedtime.
she completed a neurology residency at the university of vermont/fletcher allen health care in burlington, vermont.
treatment options  vary, depending on the type of sleep disorder.
back to document (healthday news) -- getting plenty of sleep each night can help you better manage arthritis pain, the arthritis foundation says.
you will need to complete a specific form  depending on which provider you are scheduled to see.
dr. rambally is committed to improving her community and empowering those she  serves.
how do i schedule a sleep study?
about our providers medical  director cherridan rambally, m.d. earned her medical degree from the drexel university college of medicine in  philadelphia.
at the methodist sleep diagnostic center, we care about  your health and well-being.
for more information, please call methodist sleep  diagnostic center, (865) 835-3810.
treatment options vary, depending on the type of sleep disorder.
most people occasionally experience changes in their normal sleep patterns.
at the methodist sleep diagnostic center, we care about your health and well-being.
download a sleep apnea self-assessment testdownload a sleep apnea self-assessment test the american academy of sleep medicine (aasm) accredited methodist sleep diagnostic center of oak ridge in spring 2001.
dr.  rambally’s new patients shouldclick here to print and  complete her questionnaire.
this dedication is evident through her support and participation in  community programs.
frequently asked questions what happens  during a sleep study?
please bring it to your first appointment.
it's difficult to live life to the fullest when you have trouble sleeping.
dr. rambally’s new patients shouldclick here to print and complete her questionnaire.
we see patients  referred by their doctors.
we are conveniently located on the 3rd floor of the cheyenne ambulatory center on the methodist medical center campus.
aasm is a professional membership organization dedicated to quality care for patients with sleep disorders, advancement of sleep research, and public and professional education.
the methodist sleep diagnostic center is here to help.
she is a member of the american academy of neurology and the american academy of sleep medicine.
frequently asked questions what happens during a sleep study?
for more  information or to make an appointment, please call 865-835-3810.
getting plenty of sleep each night can help you better  manage arthritis pain, the arthritis foundation says.
we provide information on sleep apnea, insomnia, narcolepsy and other  disorders to help you better understand your problem.
they mean that the sleep center meets high national standards of care and that the doctors and technologists have received specialized training, been evaluated by their peers, and have shown outstanding levels of clinical knowledge and expertise.
© 2012 methodist medical center of oak ridge© 2012 methodist medical center of oak ridge
© 2012 methodist medical center of oak ridge 990 oak  ridge turnpike
call (865) 835-3810 for more information.
the c-pap keeps your airway open while you sleep.
please bring it to your first  appointment.
don't use sleeping pills, unless your doctor suggests them.
they include behavior modification, dental devices, and a nasal mask called a c-pap (for continuous positive airway pressure).
about our providers medical director cherridan rambally, m.d. earned her medical degree from the drexel university college of medicine in philadelphia.
dr. rambally has a special interest in sleep disorders, specific to  women and children (ages 12 and older).
we are conveniently located on  the 3rd floor of the cheyenne ambulatory center on the methodist medical center  campus.
they include behavior  modification, dental devices, and a nasal mask called a c-pap (for continuous  positive airway pressure).
while at  uvm/fletcher allen health care she completed a sleep medicine fellowship.
dr. rambally served as the program director for ucla's  inner city tutorial project, as well as acted as the intake coordinator at the  salvation army drug rehabilitation clinic.
she joined the methodist sleep diagnostic center in 2011 and is now accepting new patients.
before your first appointment new patients are asked to complete a questionnaire and bring  it to your first appointment.
dr. rambally also provided volunteer services for a homeless outreach project.
don't consume caffeine or alcohol, particularly close to bedtime.
before your first appointment new patients are asked to complete a questionnaire and bring it to your first appointment.
rambally in the spring 2010 issue of well aware health magazine.
she has received awards from operation hope for "outstanding accomplishment" and charles r. drew university of medicine & science for "exemplary leadership."
for more information or to make an appointment, please call 865-835-3810.
here are recommendations to help you get enough rest: exercise regularly at a moderate intensity, and remember to schedule it well before bedtime.
you will need to complete a specific form depending on which provider you are scheduled to see.
they mean that the sleep center meets high national standards of care and that  the doctors and technologists have received specialized training, been  evaluated by their peers, and have shown outstanding levels of clinical  knowledge and expertise.
dr. rambally has been recognized for her participation and support of community programs.
during the test, the technician keeps a close watch to make sure you are comfortable.
in the news read more about  pediatric sleep disorders in a one-on-one interview with dr. cherridan
dr. rambally served as the program director for ucla's inner city tutorial project, as well as acted as the intake coordinator at the salvation army drug rehabilitation clinic.
she is a  member of the american academy of neurology and the american academy of sleep  medicine.
sherril worked for nine years in family practice in both sevier and roane counties, and then worked more than three years at the parkwest sleep center before joining the covenant weight management center in april of 2008 as a clinical team leader.
this dedication is evident through her support and participation in community programs.
aasm  is a professional membership organization dedicated to quality care for  patients with sleep disorders, advancement of sleep research, and public and  professional education.
a- a+ home | print | email | add this | adjust  text size home » specialties & services »
nurse practioner sherril boozer, msn, apn, fnp-bc received her bachelor's degree in family child development and early childhood education form virginia tech in 1992 and her master’s in nursing from the university of tennessee, knoxville in 1995.
dr. rambally also received the "award for a conscious effort in the community" from ucla for commitment to third world communities of los angeles.
a sleep technician attaches wires to your scalp and other areas to monitor your brain wave activity, heart rate, eye movement and oxygen level while you sleep.
surgery presents another treatment option.
our entire team of sleep specialists are ready to help you sleep - and feel - better.
she has also supported other  community programs such as the charles r. drew university of medicine &  science summer program, where she prepared inner-city youths for the scholastic  aptitude test (sat).
a sleep technician attaches wires to your  scalp and other areas to monitor your brain wave activity, heart rate, eye  movement and oxygen level while you sleep.
for more information, please call methodist sleep diagnostic center, (865) 835-3810.
new patients seeing sherril boozer, fnp, should click here to print and complete her questionnaire.
dr. rambally is accepting new patients!
we have… - a spacious and comfortable 10-suite sleep center, which means you can relax as you receive the latest sleep study evaluations - expanded sleep study and clinical data, including state-of-the-art technology that providesspecialized diagnostic and therapeutic capabilities for specific disease processes - specialty in women and pediatric (ages 12 and older) sleep disorders - an individualized c-pap clinic for new and existing patients - board-certified and fellowship-trained sleep medicine physician - nationally registered sleep medicine technologists accreditation, board certification and national registration are important.
dr.  rambally is double-boarded in both neurology and sleep medicine.
our entire team of sleep specialists are ready to help you sleep - and feel  - better.
please note that questionnaires are different for each provider.
she is proficient in spanish.
she is a registered nurse and is board certified as a family nurse practitioner through the american nurses credentialing center (ancc).
we have… - a spacious  and comfortable 10-suite sleep center, which means you can relax as  you receive the latest sleep study evaluations - expanded sleep study and clinical data, including state-of-the-art  technology that providesspecialized diagnostic and therapeutic  capabilities for specific disease processes - specialty in women and pediatric (ages 12 and older) sleep  disorders - an individualized c-pap clinic for new and existing  patients - board-certified and fellowship-trained sleep  medicine physician - nationally registered sleep medicine technologists accreditation, board certification and national registration are important.
dr. rambally has a special interest in sleep disorders, specific to women and children (ages 12 and older).
she is a registered nurse and is board certified as a family nurse  practitioner through the american nurses credentialing center (ancc).
she has received awards from  operation hope for "outstanding accomplishment" and charles r. drew  university of medicine & science for "exemplary leadership."
nurse practioner sherril boozer,  msn, apn, fnp-bc received her bachelor's degree in family child  development and early childhood education form virginia tech in 1992 and her  master’s in nursing from the university of tennessee, knoxville in  1995.
the nationally accredited methodist sleep diagnostic center is committed to offering exceptional care for people with sleep disorders.
we conduct sleep studies in a homey, comfortable atmosphere.
create a consistent schedule of sleep and wake times, and stick to it daily.
while at uvm/fletcher allen health care she completed a sleep medicine fellowship.
please note that questionnaires are  different for each provider.