passive treatments help to relax you and your body.
they're called passive because you don't have to actively participate.
hot and cold therapies: by using heat, the physical  therapist seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood  flow brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
even after you recover from whiplash, this posture work should help you because you'll be able to prevent other forms of neck pain that develop from daily living.
your physical therapy program is individualized, taking into consideration your health and history.
your exercises may not be suitable for another person with whiplash and neck pain.
- hot and cold therapies for pain and discomfort - what disorders do physical therapists treat?
sacroiliac joint dysfunction center deep tissue massage:
in  whiplash, the soft tissues in your neck are damaged, so a physical therapist  can work with you to restore proper function and movement of those tissues.
learn more » - email page - print - rss - discuss stay informed with spineuniverse sign up to receive free updates on news, research, community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics.
use of the spineuniverse.com site is conditional upon your acceptance of ouruser agreement jason m. highsmith, md this article was reviewed by jason m. highsmith, md.
if needed, you will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate ergonomic principles into your daily activities.
in the active part of physical therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to work on your strength and range of motion (how easily your joints move).
spineuniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
a-z - treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic - drugs and medications - mental & emotional therapy - pain management - physical therapy - spinal bracing - surgery - wellness - ergonomics - exercise - weight loss - resources - back products - clinical trials - exams and tests - links of interest - partners in education - podcasts - recommended books - resource centers - spinal anatomy - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - spineuniverse en español - video directory - community advice - find
in whiplash, the soft tissues in your neck are damaged, so a physical therapist can work with you to restore proper function and movement of those tissues.
the heat will help relax tense muscles, and it will increase circulation to the injured area.
as a reminder,  never put ice or heat directly on your skin—wrap it in a towel, for  example.)
these are therapeutic exercises that strengthen your body so that your spine has better support.
your physical therapist will alternate between hot and cold therapies.
always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem.
they're called passive because you  don't have to actively participate.
(when you first injure yourself—either in a car  accident or in another trauma-inducing event—you can use this hot and  cold therapy technique at home.
- sacroiliac joint dysfunction center - deep tissue massage: this technique targets muscle tension that can develop as a result of whiplash.
passive treatments for whiplash you may be  interested in these related articles: what is a physical therapist?
use ice first to bring down the inflammation,  and after the first 24 to 48 hours, you can switch between ice and heat.
overall, the goal of physical therapy for whiplash patients is to help reduce muscle spasms, increase blood circulation, and promote healing of the neck tissues.
by increasing blood circulation, an ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
the therapist uses direct  pressure and friction to try to release the tension in your soft tissues  (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
in the active part of  physical therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to work on  your strength and range of motion (how easily your joints move).
your exercises may not be suitable for another person with whiplash  and neck pain.
overall, the goal of physical therapy for whiplash patients is to help  reduce muscle spasms, increase blood circulation, and promote healing of the  neck tissues.
conditions › whiplash › text size: a a a physical therapy for whiplash written by kamiah a. walker; reviewed by jason m. highsmith, md tweet physical therapy is an effective treatment option for whiplash, especially when combined with other treatments, such as bracing and medications.
cold therapy slows circulation, helping to reduce inflammation, muscle  spasms, and pain.
but the goal of physical therapy is to  get into active treatments.
your physical therapist will alternate between hot and cold  therapies.
this should help them heal faster.
- hot and cold therapies: by using heat, the physical therapist seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
blood is also needed to  remove waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
passive treatments for whiplash you may be interested in these related articles: - what is a physical therapist?
as a reminder, never put ice or heat directly on your skin—wrap it in a towel, for example.)
but the goal of physical therapy is to get into active treatments.
increased circulation promotes faster healing.
a specialist - expert blogs spine conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - kyphosis - neck pain back pain and neck pain resources - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal stenosis - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - other back problems a-z - spinal anatomy - community advice - clinical trials - exams and tests - expert blogs policy and contact - find a doctor for your back pain - spineuniverse en español - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - back pain resource centers - back pain video directory - about spineuniverse - press releases - our awards - advertising opportunities - editorial board - editorial guidelines - partners and sponsors - privacy policy - advertising policy - terms of use - contact us - for professionals © 1999-2012 vertical health, llc
even after you recover from  whiplash, this posture work should help you because you'll be able to prevent  other forms of neck pain that develop from daily living.
your physical  therapy program is individualized, taking into consideration your health and  history.
if needed, you will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate  ergonomic principles into your daily activities.
physical therapy includes both passive and active treatments.
blood is also needed to remove waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
related resources - slideshow pain management slideshow - slideshow slideshow: how to keep a healthy spine - slideshow is your neck pain serious or not?
ultrasound: by increasing blood circulation, an  ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
updated on: 12/10/09 - continue reading: spinal bracing: a treatment option for whiplash about whiplash - what is whiplash?
hot and cold therapies for pain and discomfort what disorders do physical therapists treat?
cold therapy slows circulation, helping to reduce inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
- neck anatomy - symptoms - causes - exams and tests whiplash treatments - chiropractic - medications - exercise - physical therapy - spinal bracing - surgery whiplash resources - all whiplash articles - whiplash videos and animations - common whiplash questions related conditions treatment update could my low back pain be si-joint related?
- slideshow 4 exercises to prevent neck pain - video series video series: exercises to keep a healthy back - video series video series: exercises for whiplash - video series exercises for sciatica caused by spinal stenosis - slideshow rheumatoid arthritis exercises slideshow - video series video series: exercises for spondylolisthesis connect with others in the patient community!
active treatments for whiplash
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a  gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
the therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to release the tension in your soft tissues (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
these are therapeutic exercises that strengthen  your body so that your spine has better support.
for professionals - conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - juvenile rheumatoid arthritis - kyphosis - low back pain - neck pain - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sacroiliac joint dysfunction - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal cord injury - spinal fractures - spinal stenosis - spinal tumors - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - sprains and strains - upper back pain - whiplash - other back problems
most likely, you're experiencing acute pain because of whiplash, so you'll probably start with passive treatments as your body heals and/or adjusts to the pain.
most likely, you're experiencing acute pain  because of whiplash, so you'll probably start with passive treatments as your  body heals and/or adjusts to the pain.
the  heat will help relax tense muscles, and it will increase circulation to the  injured area.
text size: a a a physical therapy for whiplash written by kamiah a. walker; reviewed by jason m. highsmith, md tweet physical therapy is an effective treatment option for whiplash, especially  when combined with other treatments, such as bracing and medications.
(when you first injure yourself—either in a car accident or in another trauma-inducing event—you can use this hot and cold therapy technique at home.
updated on: 12/10/09 continue reading:  spinal bracing: a treatment option for  whiplash about whiplash
use ice first to bring down the inflammation, and after the first 24 to 48 hours, you can switch between ice and heat.
neck pain physical therapy spinal bracing whiplash discuss your neck pain with the patient community.
this technique targets muscle  tension that can develop as a result of whiplash.
passive  treatments help to relax you and your body.
this information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient.
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.