conditions treated physical therapy is used to treat almost all back and neck pain problems including herniated disc, spondylolisthesis, stenosis, disc degeneration, facet and sacroiliac joint pain, whiplash, radicular pain and other problems.
physical therapists and  their assistants work closely with patients to tailor a program for their  specific condition and needs.
- other treatments such as hot and cold packs, electrical stimulation, massage, manipulation and other modalities are often used as well.
generally, you will be given a home program to exercise during and after  discharge from your physical therapy care.
- during the first visit with the therapist, an evaluation will be performed.
areas needing treatment will be identified and a treatment plan created.
most  patients will be prescribed physical therapy after surgery to help strengthen  muscles and accelerate recovery.
physical therapists and their assistants work closely with patients to tailor a program for their specific condition and needs.
the number of therapy treatments will vary with the type and severity of  the problem being treated.
fusion - posterior lumbar fusion (plf) - extreme lateral interbody fusion (xlif) - transforaminal interbody fusion (tlif) - anterior lumbar interbody fusion (alif - trans-sacral interbody fusion (axialif) - 360° fusion (anterior and posterior) fusion alternative - lumbar total disc replacement (tdr) - cervical total disc replacement (tdr) - dynamic stabilization - spinal cord stimulation (scs) other surgical procedures - spinal deformity reconstruction - facet and sacroiliac joint (si) rhizotomy - vertebral fracture repair - about us - history - patient forms - careers - medical fellowships - news and media - disclosure of interests - terms and conditions - back pain links - site map back pain, back doctors, back specialists - back specialists - back & leg pain - herniated discs - spinal stenosis - degenerative disc disease - radicular syndrome - spondylolisthesis - failed back surgery syndrome - chronic back pain - acute back pain - spinal instability - spinal deformity - osteoporosis - nerve compression - whiplash - sacroiliac joint pain - facet joint pain - physical therapy treatments - medication back pain treatment - exercises back pain - acute back pain management - chronic back pain management - psychological support - epidural steroid injection treatments - selective nerve root block treatments - facet injection treatments - sacroiliac joint injection treatments - medical branch block treatments - trigger point injection treatments - botox injection treatments - discectomy surgery - decompression surgery - minimally invasive spinal surgery - fusion surgery - anterior cervical fusion surgery - posterior cervical fusion surgery - posterior lumbar fusion surgery - extreme lateral interbody fusion surgery - transforminal interbody fusion surgery - anterior lumbar interbody fusion surgery - trans-sacral interbody fusion surgery - 360 fusion surgery - lumbar total disc replacement surgery - cervical total disc replacement surgery - dynamic stabilization surgery - spinal cord stimulation surgery - spinal deformity reconstruction surgery - facet & sacroiliac joints rhizotomy surgery - vertebral fracture repair surgery - myelography - discography - nerve conduction study - bone mineral density assessment © copyright 2010 texas back institute
most patients will be prescribed physical therapy after surgery to help strengthen muscles and accelerate recovery.
- almost all therapy programs include stretching, strengthening exercises and education about the treatments undertaken and body mechanics (how to move your body to avoid future injury).
- generally, you will be given a home program to exercise during and after discharge from your physical therapy care.
often, physical therapy is used in conjunction  with medications and/or chiropractic care.
during the first visit with the therapist, an evaluation will be  performed.
what does physical therapy involve?
other treatments such as hot and cold packs, electrical stimulation,  massage, manipulation and other modalities are often used as well.
the goal of physical therapy is to reduce pain and restore function.
texas back institute search this site about us conditions treatments appointments doctors ask a doc faqs contact us find location join us.
non-surgical treatments
conditions treated physical therapy is used to treat almost all back and neck pain problems  including herniated disc, spondylolisthesis, stenosis, disc degeneration, facet  and sacroiliac joint pain, whiplash, radicular pain and other problems.
- areas needing treatment will be identified and a treatment plan created.
almost all therapy programs include stretching, strengthening exercises  and education about the treatments undertaken and body mechanics (how to move  your body to avoid future injury).
often, physical therapy is used in conjunction with medications and/or chiropractic care.
this may be applicable before surgery or may be used after surgery.
this may be  applicable before surgery or may be used after surgery.
physical therapy description physical therapists are specialists who treat musculoskeletal problems.
minimally invasive spinal surgery - fusion cervical (neck) fusion - anterior cervical fusion (acf) - posterior cervical fusion (pcf) lumbar (lower back)
non-surgical treatments - physical therapy - medication - patient education - home exercise program - acute pain management - chronic pain management - psychological support injections - epidural steroid injection (esi) - selective nerve root block (snrb) - facet injection - sacroiliac joint injection - medial branch block - trigger point injection - botox injection surgical treatments - discectomy - decompression -
the  goal of physical therapy is to reduce pain and restore function.
- the number of therapy treatments will vary with the type and severity of the problem being treated.