chances are if you’re not sure….your products have  expired and your skin care routine is probably not very effective.
don't sterilize your skin.
have your skin analyzed and re-stock with the essentials.
there are important, simple guidelines for "clean" skin.
for example, you and your friends dress up as kiss for halloween.
the only efficient and non-damaging way to cleanse your pores and get rid of unsightly "blackheads" is by getting facials regularly.
4) clean out your cosmetic drawer!
if you have very oily skin, use blotting sheets throughout the day.
if your are cleaning your brushes, maybe you are using the wrong blush.
using expired makeup and skin care  products may not only smell or be ineffective, but some can also damage your  skin!
3) clean your pores.
"squeezing" at home without exfoliating, heating the skin improperly, or using inappropriate tools can lead to permanent capillary damage and can permanently stretch the pores.
facials are most effective when done every 4-6 weeks.
there are many specific ingredients that will actually damage your skin if used after they have been overly oxidized (vitamin c to name one).
and ask a professional for suggestions and time frames to keeping your products.
if you have very oily skin, use blotting sheets throughout the  day.
if you have any questions about your skin or skin care products,  please contact our licensed aesthetician christiana santana at  christiana@jointvenutrespt.com.
pay  attention to where your breakouts are.
leave a comment copyright © 2011 joint ventures physical therapy and fitness home
1) clean your makeup brushes.
if you have any questions about your skin or skin care products, please contact our licensed aesthetician christiana santana at christiana@jointvenutrespt.com.
using cleansers that are detergent-like or contain alcohol dry the outer layers, damaging the skin.
and ask a professional for suggestions and time frames to keeping  your products.
many of us are misinformed or just plain unaware of our skin's most basic needs.
leave a comment 4 quick tips for better skin!
for example, you and your friends dress up as kiss for  halloween.
if you are  using disposable sponges, try a different sponge.
sign up for our newsletter joint ventures' blog 4 quick tips for better skin!
“dewy”/natural looking skin is healthy and attractive  looking.
dish soap and a brillo pad?
"squeezing" at home without exfoliating, heating  the skin improperly, or using inappropriate tools can lead to permanent  capillary damage and can permanently stretch the pores.
to schedule a free skin analysis, email christiana directly.
now how do you get all that makeup off?
using cleansers that are detergent-like or contain alcohol dry the outer  layers, damaging the skin.
not only does this make skin look tight and feel  itchy, but it will force the skin to produce more oil which then gets trapped  under the dead skin and produces breakouts.
“dewy”/natural looking skin is healthy and attractive looking.
have your  skin analyzed and re-stock with the essentials.
if your are  cleaning your brushes, maybe you are using the wrong blush.
not only does this make skin look tight and feel itchy, but it will force the skin to produce more oil which then gets trapped under the dead skin and produces breakouts.
over-cleansing is very bad  for the skin because it strips away its natural oils.
if you are using your  fingers, make sure your hands are clean before you apply.
over-cleansing is very bad for the skin because it strips away its natural oils.
using expired makeup and skin care products may not only smell or be ineffective, but some can also damage your skin!
are they on your cheeks?
if you are using disposable sponges, try a different sponge.
previous next copyright © 2011 joint ventures physical therapy and fitness
if you tend to breakout, this should be done weekly at the very least.
chances are if you’re not sure….your products have expired and your skin care routine is probably not very effective.
to schedule a free skin analysis, email  christiana directly.
the only efficient and non-damaging way to cleanse  your pores and get rid of unsightly "blackheads" is by getting  facials regularly.
wednesday, march 02, 2011 many of us are misinformed or just plain unaware of our skin's most  basic needs.
there are many specific ingredients that will actually damage your skin  if used after they have been overly oxidized (vitamin c to name one).
not only will it keep  your brush resilient, but it will prevent bacteria from spreading on the skin.
not only will it keep your brush resilient, but it will prevent bacteria from spreading on the skin.
dish  soap and a brillo pad?
pay attention to where your breakouts are.
this is very important.
if you are using your fingers, make sure your hands are clean before you apply.
facials are most  effective when done every 4-6 weeks.