chiropractic was found to be  more effective, especially for those with "short current episodes, a  history of back pain, and initially high [pain scale] scores."
patients received chiropractic manipulation, physical therapy (pt), or a booklet on self-managing back pain.
published from january 1994 through  june 2003 citation description findings hurwitz et al., 2002  randomized clinical trial  (rct) of patients in a managed care organization compared chiropractic care  (with and without any of the following added: heat or cold therapy, ultrasound,  electrical muscle stimulation) with conventional medical care (with and without  physical therapy added).
outcomes were measured mainly with a pain disability questionnaire, at six weeks, six months, and one, two, and three years.
participants (1,633) had acute  pain of less than 10 weeks' duration.
the outcomes for those who received manipulation or pt were better than those who received the booklet, but "only marginally better."
however, authors concluded overall that none of the changes in physical outcomes measured was significantly different between groups.
clickterms of use for more information.
greater improvement was found in the manipulation group than in other groups.
pope et  al., 1994  prospective rct compared chiropractic spinal manipulation for  treatment ofsubacute low back pain to massage, use of a  corset, and tms (electrical muscle stimulation).
presentation back pain treatment back pain medication back surgery lower back surgery artificial discs and back surgery back exercises chiropractic back pain healthy back maintenance lifting techniques for preventing back injuries preventing back injuries referring pages articles terms of use advertise with us contact us about emedtv
triano et al., 1995 rct comparing chiropractic spinal manipulation, sham manipulation, and a back-education program.
there were no significant differences between the manipulation and pt groups.
pain sciatica lower back pain spinal stenosis whiplash piriformis syndrome lower back pain relief back exercises back surgery back pain treatment flexeril sciatica symptoms ultracet skelaxin endocet ultram hydrocodone oxycodone site map healthsavvy sign
no statistically significant differences were found between groups  at three weeks or six months.
pain relief continued to end after the evaluation period.
meade et al., 1995 rct of 741 patients who came to chiropractic and hospital outpatient clinics in 11 centers forlow back pain.
switch to mobile view - home - emedtv
the  manipulation group had the most improvement in flexion and pain.
presentation back pain treatment
time to recovery was "essentially  the same," regardless of who provided the care.
patients (164) were treated for three weeks and evaluated through various standardized instruments and examinations.
benefit was less evident at two and three years than earlier.
other  chiropractic research on back pain focused just on adults with the condition.
participants (178) had lbp for either longer than three weeks but less than six months in a current episode or more than two months within the preceding eight months for recurrent lbp, and were evaluated three weeks and six months after treatment.
participants (170) hadlow  back pain (lasting seven weeks or longer or consisting of at least six  episodes in 12 months) and were evaluated for pain and activity tolerance at  enrollment, after two weeks of treatment, and after two weeks of no treatment.
back pain  intensity and back-related disability were measured.
chiropractic was found to be more effective, especially for those with "short current episodes, a history of back pain, and initially high [pain scale] scores."
advertisement written  by/reviewed by: arthur schoenstadt, md last reviewed by: arthur  schoenstadt, md advertisement other articles in this  emedtv
" carey et al., 1995 prospective observational study on the outcomes of care foracute low back pain by chiropractors, primary care practitioners, and orthopedic surgeons, including how long it took to return to functional status.
sitemap back pain sitemap please sign in to your healthsavvy account to continue: lost password don't have a healthsavvy account yet?click
time to recovery was "essentially the same," regardless of who provided the care.
back pain intensity and back-related disability were measured.
back pain treatments chiropractic research on back pain: a summary the following table  describes descriptions and findings for various   chiropractic research  studies onback pain.
participants (170) hadlow back pain (lasting seven weeks or longer or consisting of at least six episodes in 12 months) and were evaluated for pain and activity tolerance at enrollment, after two weeks of treatment, and after two weeks of no treatment.
hsieh et al., 2002 rct compared four treatments forsubacute low back pain (lbp): "joint manipulation" by a chiropractor, back school (program of counseling and exercises), myofascial therapy, and joint manipulation plus myofascial therapy.
advertisement written by/reviewed by:
after six months of  follow-up, the conventional medical care and chiropractic regimens were found  to be comparably effective.
enrollees (174) were measured for low back pain, disability, and functional  health status at 5 and 11 weeks.
home - back pain home - health topics - emedtv health topics - back pain health topics - disease & conditions - tests & procedures - drugs & supplements - symptoms - articles - emedtv
this site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
hsieh et al., 2002  rct compared four  treatments forsubacute low back pain (lbp): "joint  manipulation" by a chiropractor, back school (program of counseling and  exercises), myofascial therapy, and joint manipulation plus myofascial therapy.
rct in an hmo  setting of 321 adults aged 20 to 64 withlow back pain.
various improvements were seen in all four groups.
privacy policy copyright © 2006-2012 clinaero, inc. emedtv serves only as an informational resource.
authors note that manipulation and pt "may slightly reduce symptoms."
published from january 1994 through june 2003 citation description findings hurwitz et al., 2002 randomized clinical trial (rct) of patients in a managed care organization compared chiropractic care (with and without any of the following added: heat or cold therapy, ultrasound, electrical muscle stimulation) with conventional medical care (with and without physical therapy added).
cherkin et al., 1998
bronfort et al., 1996 for chronic low back pain, prospective rct compared: (1) chiropractic spinal manipulation therapy (smt) plus trunk-strengthening exercises with (2) chiropractic smt plus trunk-stretching exercises and (3) trunk-strengthening exercises combined with annsaid (drug).
other chiropractic research on back pain focused just on adults with the condition.
after six months of follow-up, the conventional medical care and chiropractic regimens were found to be comparably effective.
" carey et al., 1995  prospective observational  study on the outcomes of care foracute low back pain by  chiropractors, primary care practitioners, and orthopedic surgeons, including  how long it took to return to functional status.
participants were randomized to receive either chiropractic or hospital-outpatient management.
outcomes were measured mainly with a pain disability questionnaire, at six  weeks, six months, and one, two, and three years.
arthur schoenstadt, md last reviewed by: arthur schoenstadt, md advertisement other articles in this emedtv
the outcomes for  those who received manipulation or pt were better than those who received the  booklet, but "only marginally better."
authors note that  manipulation and pt "may slightly reduce symptoms." bronfort et al., 1996  for chronic low back pain, prospective  rct compared: (1) chiropractic spinal manipulation therapy (smt) plus  trunk-strengthening exercises with (2) chiropractic smt plus trunk-stretching  exercises and (3) trunk-strengthening exercises combined with annsaid (drug).
back pain treatments chiropractic research on back pain: a summary the following table describes descriptions and findings for various chiropractic research studies onback pain.
each of the three regimens yielded a "similar and clinically important improvement over time that was considered superior to the expected natural history of long-standing chronic low back pain.
enrollees (174) were measured for low back pain, disability, and functional health status at 5 and 11 weeks.
participants were  randomized to receive either chiropractic or hospital-outpatient management.
meade et al.,  1995  rct of 741 patients who came to chiropractic and hospital outpatient  clinics in 11 centers forlow back pain.
participants (652) hadacute , subacute , or chronic low back pain with or without leg pain.
articles - back pain articles - video back pain medications advertisement view all related emedtv health channels back
the manipulation group had the most improvement in flexion and pain.
healthsavvy sign in | chiropractic research on back pain chiropractic research on back pain can be found in various scientific  studies that have been published from january 1994 through june 2003.
patients received chiropractic manipulation, physical therapy (pt), or a  booklet on self-managing back pain.
chiropractic research on back pain article continues on next page >
there were no significant  differences between the manipulation and pt groups.
pope et al., 1994 prospective rct compared chiropractic spinal manipulation for treatment ofsubacute low back pain to massage, use of a corset, and tms (electrical muscle stimulation).
site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with their own physician.
in | chiropractic research on back pain chiropractic research on back pain can be found in various scientific studies that have been published from january 1994 through june 2003.
they were monitored for two years and  evaluated for bothersome symptoms and level of dysfunction.
participants (1,633) had acute pain of less than 10 weeks' duration.
participants (178) had lbp for either longer than three weeks but less than six  months in a current episode or more than two months within the preceding eight  months for recurrent lbp, and were evaluated three weeks and six months after  treatment.
benefit was  less evident at two and three years than earlier.
authors noted that further  trials are needed, for example, on specific components of chiropractic care.
cherkin et al., 1998 rct in an hmo setting of 321 adults aged 20 to 64 withlow back pain.
the descriptions and findings of these research studies are based on randomized clinical trials and primarily focused on people with low back pain.
triano et al., 1995  rct comparing chiropractic spinal manipulation, sham  manipulation, and a back-education program.
the  descriptions and findings of these research studies are based on randomized  clinical trials and primarily focused on people with low back pain.
patients (164) were treated  for three weeks and evaluated through various standardized instruments and  examinations.
they were monitored for two years and evaluated for bothersome symptoms and level of dysfunction.
each of the three regimens yielded a  "similar and clinically important improvement over time that was  considered superior to the expected natural history of long-standing chronic  low back pain.
however,  authors concluded overall that none of the changes in physical outcomes  measured was significantly different between groups.
no statistically significant differences were found between groups at three weeks or six months.
authors noted that further trials are needed, for example, on specific components of chiropractic care.