in 2011, an (updated) cochrane (good!) review of smt research was published.
manual therapy. 2010.
i’m close to the end of a health sciences degree  — 2 courses left! — and i am on the editorial team ofscience-based  medicine.
such terminology is nice and safe.
what the nervous system does with novel  sensory input certainly depends on a lot of factors.
comments: this paper describes the case  of a man who developed severe neck and shoulder pain after a fall.
even if you put aside all concerns about the quality of the theory, there is still not a shred of scientific evidence that any kind of spinal joint dysfunction — no matter how you define it — has any importance to your general health.
with the use of an anterior approach, diskectomy, tricortical bone grafting, and insertion of a cervical plate were carried out, with a good outcome.
but there’s some hard  math here, and it all depends on how you look at it.
similarly, you could analyze dozens of studies of the health effects of hiking, but probably none of them would have data about bear attacks — yet bears do attack hikers!back to text
“100% more likely to be injured” is the same as “twice as likely,” which sounds bad — really bad.
it’s difficult to imagine a more daft and irresponsible rationalization for a serious treatment mistake.
joint mechanics and neurology are just insanely complex, and when that  complex system fails in any way, we could (and should) call it a “joint  dysfunction.”
half of all manual therapy treatments of any kind  will result insome kind of unpleasant side effect.38 unsurprisingly,  neck manipulation can cause trouble — it’s a vulnerable structure.
only extremely aggressive smt could injure a healthy spine, and even if it did, it would probably just be a minor strain — hardly the result you want, but not that big deal and not that common.
the same data could also suggest basically the  opposite: that there probably are no noteworthy harms, or they would have  showed up nice and clearly.
that interference with nerves does not cause a wide variety of health problems is plainly evident in people with spinal injuries: they areparalyzed, not diseased.13
most will argue  that subluxations areat least responsible for chronic low back pain.
“subluxation: chiropractic's elusive buzzword,” a webpage on  chirobase.org.
they argue that chiropractors still can’t prove they can evenfind alleged subluxations reliably, let alone treat them.
in 2004,bronfort wrote in spine that “there are few  studies, and the evidence is currently inconclusive,” and that for  chronic neck pain, mobilization/manipulation “offers at most similar pain  relief to … rehabilitative exercise in the short and long term.”
the same data could also suggest basically the opposite: that there probably are no noteworthy harms, or they would have showed up nice and clearly.
in 2004, a big review of the literature published inspine presented  a lovely rats’ nest of conclusions, some of which were positive, some  negative, all of which amounted to, “um, it’s kinda complicated,  and we’re not really sure.
back to text chiropractors have an ethical duty to tell their patients about risks: a  survey suggests fewer than half of chiropractors always discuss the risks of  cervical manipulation with patients.
journal  of the american medical association.
trigger points form in response to a joint that is dysfunctional for some other reason.
for instance, in recent years the journalphysical therapy concluded  that “the literature does not demonstrate that the benefits of  manipulation of the cervical spine outweigh the risks,”46 and the journal
a typical case is described inwhat happened to my barber?.
the strength of this idea is that it has the potential to explain a lot, but without claiming too much.
however, manual therapists know from experience that spinal manipulation is often more effective for providing immediate short-term relief for some types of back pain.
back to text senna et al.
people tend to emerge from such experiences hopelessly tangled up in the idea that they are fragile, broken and need regular smt for the rest of their lives.
that’s what the science  says.
and there is always the chance that the tastiest cherries contain a few artificial sweeteners.
after decades of study, the  effectiveness of a therapy should bequite clear and significant.
comments: from the abstract, “in  the first week following [spinal] manipulation, these patients improved to a  greater degree ... and more rapidly ....”
the 2006 cochrane review  of smt found only 39 experiments to analyze, and most of those had small sample  sizes.
the researchers found that  “smt is unlikely to result in relevant early pain reduction in patients  with acute low back pain.”
they believe that either  subluxations do not exist at all, or they only exist in some clinically  insignificant form.
attempts to extract an  overall research conclusion from the studies that have been done are pretty  tentative.
35 so the jury is way out, here.
friday, october 8, 2010 — a good thorough editing and  cleanup.
considering that even standard smt isn’t working any miracles, you  need to be skeptical of obscure variations on it, especially the  “subtle” ones that hardly seem to be doing anything.
the benefits are almost certainly there, for some people, some of the time.
some chiropractors attribute great importance to subluxation,  and “use spinal manipulation to treat visceral disease.
cochrane database of systematic reviews.
i revised and improved content and referencing throughout the article in this update.
the complexity of this experiment’s  results must be seen to be believed!
two months before presentation, he had fallen from standing height but did not report subsequent cervical pain, weakness, or paresthesia.
i can save you some  reading time: the bottom line of the article is that a century of debate has  failed to produce any clear answers.
it’s still a bit heavy going for patients, but it’s  worthwhile for anyone who’s really keen to understand the subject matter.
dislocation of the cervical spine.
trigger points form  in response to a joint that is dysfunctional for some other reason.
some chiropractors attribute great importance to subluxation, and “use spinal manipulation to treat visceral disease.
it is under the same security and copyright protection as the tutorials.
now you might say, “well, good: chiropractic was as good as drugs, so it could replace drugs.
more certainly and strikingly, smt patients are 100% more likely to have “transient neurological symptoms” — anything from  feeling a bit woozy all the way up to serious unpleasantness, such as severe  dizziness, nausea and vomiting.
further reading sy review of art® therapy — concepts and controversies in  the “active release techniques®” (art) method of massage  therapy for chiropractors.
every published review of the literature comments on the lack of good quality evidence, making it impossible to be confident of anything.22 even the most promising sources of research have had serious quality control problems.23
an effective therapy should have no problem  passing fair tests with flying colours.
no one — or almost no one — is getting “cured.”
even if subluxations exist, chiropractic subluxation theory depends heavily  on one premise, a conceptual bottleneck through which the entire theory must  pass: that spinal nerve roots are terribly important to your health, and  interfering with them spells t-r-o-u-b-l-e.
perhaps it has too much baggage to be a useful term.
“good science-based chiropractors who do not subscribe to the  vertebral subluxation theory and who use manipulation appropriately can offer a  service of value,” sam homola writes.
notes in august 2010, kaiser permanente cut neck manipulation from their  chiropractic coverage.
going from bad to worse, in 2006spine published an even more authoritative  review of the scientific literature fromthe cochrane collaboration, concluding  that neck adjustments are “not beneficial” when used alone (it did  qualify that there was evidence that neck adjustments could workwhen  combined with exercises, which doesn’t exactly make it sound like a  miracle cure).
instead, i encourage you to think in terms of  the broader concept of “joint dysfunction” — that spinal  joints can “misbehave,” perhaps in a variety of ways.
since trigger points are clinically significant in general, and the likely  cause of most back pain, and can often be lessened or relieved by virtually any  physical stimulation, it’s not surprising that there is a strong  resemblance between the satisfaction of a good rub and the satisfaction of a  good crack.
at first glance, the lack of a smoking gun  might seem to indicate that such serious harms are unlikely —  wouldn’t a problem show up if it were serious?
joint mechanics and neurology are just insanely complex, and when that complex system fails in any way, we could (and should) call it a “joint dysfunction.”
probably in a  few cases, yes.
stroke and death  due to neck manipulation has been reported in the scientific literature for  over 50 years.
this article covers these topics thoroughly —  it is one the most detailed online guides that i know of.
above we discussed a study by carlesso et al showing strong evidence that minor to moderate neurological side effects are more than twice as likely with smt than with other neck treatments.
ligaments around the joint may be painfully  sprained, and cause severe pain closely coupled to movement, slowly fading over  many weeks, like any other sprain.
can your spine be “out”?
despite the importance of the topic, only about 5% of the us  population usesany kind of alternative therapy for their back pain,  and only about 75% of those go to chiropractors.20 (smt provided by physical  therapists may be more common — i don’t have a statistic for that.)
back to text bronfort et al. efficacy of spinal manipulation and  mobilization for low back pain and neck pain: a systematic review and best  evidence synthesis.
in “finding a good chiropractor”, sam homola writes,  “with the development of osteopathy in 1874 and the appearance of  chiropractic in 1895, spinal manipulation gave birth to a new theory.
back to text logically, if subtle interference with nerve root function could  cause disease or even just mild malaise, thensevere injury to the  spine and/or nerve roots would cause much more noticeable disease states  — but it does not!
magnetic resonance imaging was performed.
and any such variation that is too subtle to be easily agreed upon is also unlikely to be clinically significant — and chiropractors, when tested, routinelycannot agree which joints in a given patient are actually “out.
back to text “joint mobilization” is the formal term for a type of passive  movement of a skeletal joint.
the chiropractic concept of subluxation has been both popular and controversial for many decades now, but it has never achieved medical respectability.
if smt is largely supposed to treat a problem that is poorly defined and highly controversial at best, and maybe doesn’t exist at all, how good can it possibly be?
back to text moon et al.
their concerns are outlined in a detailed document, “statement of concern to the canadian public from canadian neurologists regarding the debilitating and fatal damage manipulation of the neck may cause to the nervous system.
common trouble with nerve  roots is limited to the garden-variety symptoms like pain, tingling, numbness,  weakness, and so on — not organ failure and disease.12 that interference  with nerves does not cause a wide variety of health problems is plainly evident  in people with spinal injuries: they areparalyzed, not diseased.13
barrett. quackwatch.org.
benedetti and wayne macphail.amazon.com i include this  selection as much for its canadian content as because it is a good book.
abstract: study design:
sciencebasedmedicine.org. 2010.
physical  therapy. 1999.
the congenital absence of a cervical pedicle  is a relatively uncommon developmental anomaly that is frequently mistaken for  a unilateral facet fracture-dislocation in the context of acute trauma.
this  fact undermines vertebral subluxation theory in another interesting way —  it explains a fairly straightforward mechanism by which chiropractors may have  been fooled into believing subluxation theory in the first place.
a recent study by the institute of clinical evaluative sciences (ices ontario) indicates that patients with posterior circulation strokes under the age of 45 are 5 times more likely than controls to have visited a chiropractor within one week of the event.
and you pay through the nose for this!
on the one hand, according to this study, smt is likely to be more  effective for mild neck pain (and that’s a pretty reasonable idea).
chiropractic: a critical evaluation.
the pretty obvious honest answer is that no one knows.
i’m  thrilled for smt that it can hold it’s own against “back  school” — which, of course, is so legendary for curing low back  pain!
they did equally well — or equally poorly, if you prefer.
unfortunately, the rationale and scientific evidence to support the use of  smt for neck pain is poor, and some methods of smt are almost certainly  useless.
the fact is that the holes through which  nerve roots exit the spine are quite generous, not at all a tight fit, and that  only major injuries or disease processes can result in a pinched nerve root in  this way.
thus we are still left with smt being damned with faint praise here.
but by focusing on one particular cherry that seems so ripe and juicy we might miss the bigger picture from the rest of the tree.
i’m just another health care professional, with no special knowledge or experience with chiropractic.
this is unlikely but extremely serious, and i’ll cover that separately in thenext section.
we make the following recommendations for the  attention of the canadian public, the practitioners of manipulation, the  medical community, the provincial ministries of health and the health care  professional regulatory bodies.
is this the best smt can do?
no one — or almost no  one — is getting “cured.”
another surprising risk is that, even if all you have is back pain,  chiropractors may recommend smt for the neck even when your only symptoms are  in your low back.41
perceived benefit of complementary and  alternative medicine (cam) for back pain: a national survey.
in the best case scenario, could such a simple sensory experience help to  actually “cure” severe or chronic neck and back pain?
in 2006, the authors came to the underwhelming conclusion that  “there is no evidence that spinal manipulative therapy is superior to  other standard treatments for patients with acute or chronic low back  pain.”
and yet spinal joint popping/cracking is a sensation that people crave.
adverse events and manual therapy: a systematic  review.
another case report in the journal spine describes a man who was born with part of a neck vertebraentirely missing — he also had no serious symptoms until he fell one day, and his unstable spine was dislocated “.7 after that he certainly was symptomatic: he had severe pain, but only pain.
the chiropractic idea of subluxation has been defined in many different ways over the years, but most definitions imply some kind of “misalignment” of the spinal joints that needs to be “adjusted” because it’s causing a disproportionate amount of trouble, both painand poor health.
after decades of study, the effectiveness of a therapy should bequite clear and significant.
whatever you have been told before, and despite the availability of many  explanations on the internet, the nature of joint popping isnot well  understood.49
unfortunately, the problems are identical.
new deaths, in the past few years, have been reported to the canadian stroke consortium.
canadians visit chiropractors about thirty million times a year, and surveys  show that patients are generally satisfied with their treatment.
most practitioners are unlikely to use aggressive smt on a spine exhibiting symptoms of any trauma, disease or other vulnerability.
according to dr. homola, responsible chiropractic therapy for back pain should mostly be limited to mobilizing (wiggling) the lumbar intervertebral joints.
reality check: is there such a thing as a chiropractic  “subluxation”?
although that’s not the kind of “subluxation” that this  article is about, such casesdo provide important perspective, in that  a true dislocation can be amazingly asymptomatic.
and most clinicians — including myself, and including serious skeptics like dr. homola — believe that some forms of smt can be helpful to some of their patients, some of the time.
our concerns are significant.
nearly all medical science experts  and many chiropractors reject the century-old chiropractic belief that smt can  prevent or cure diseases.
an emotionally neutral evaluation  of the chiropractic idea of intervertebral subluxation.
for example, in  1998, daniel cherkin (with medical back pain expert richard deyo) published a  paper in thenew england journal of medicine showing that, over the long-term,  “patients receiving [chiropractic manipulation] treatments had only  marginally better outcomes than those receiving the minimal intervention of an  educational booklet.
national chiropractic mutual insurance company . 2005.
with the use of an anterior  approach, diskectomy, tricortical bone grafting, and insertion of a cervical  plate were carried out, with a good outcome.
i also strongly recommend dr. homola’s 1998 book for health care  consumers,inside chiropractic: a patient’s guide.
half of all manual therapy treatments of any kind will result insome kind of unpleasant side effect.38 unsurprisingly, neck manipulation can cause trouble — it’s a vulnerable structure.
proponents of a  flavour of smt have a handy, comfortable defense: “my method is better  than the method that was tested.”
but seriously, this guy is smart, and if he  says it doesn’t work, he’s got good reasons for it.
however, “men of science” (and women)  remain unconvinced.
back to text cherkin et al.
mr. o’connell readily identified numerous serious problems with this research in an article for body in mind: it is of course possible that the results of this study are accurate and maintenance manipulations are effective, but these problems make it difficult to judge.
the joints of the spine may be wiggled, popped, stretched, tapped and more.
i make a living from this website, selling some of mymost  detailed tutorials as ebooks.
but many  chiropractors have argued that this is all they really mean by  “subluxation” these days anyway … is chiropractic subluxation theory really so different?
for instance, an intervertebral joint mightmove unevenly , as opposed to being out of place, and this could be clinically  significant — but no one really knows.
a crack is effectively just a kind of “massage” of the  joint and the tissues around it, and thus smt may be about as relieving as  anything else (i.e. heat, massage, stretching) that tends to reduce the  discomfort of trigger points and stagnant, “grouchy” tissues.
“chiropractic vertebral subluxations: science vs.  pseudoscience,” a webpage on sciencebasedmedicine.org.
predictors for the immediate responders to  cervical manipulation in patients with neck pain.
the patient pictured here, as reported innew england journal of medicine, had no “pain, weakness, or parasthesia”!6zoom for perspective, here’s an example of a spine that is genuinely “out of line.”
i explain this in a little more detail in another article,spinal nerve roots do not hook up to organs!
different styles may be intense or gentle — so gentle in some cases that you can hardly tell that anything is being done to you.
every published review of the literature comments on the lack of good  quality evidence, making it impossible to be confident of  anything.22 even the most promising sources of research have had serious  quality control problems.23
”48 even the most dire risks to treatment are not necessarily unacceptable,  however.
the chiropractic idea of subluxation has been defined in many  different ways over the years, but most definitions imply some kind of  “misalignment” of the spinal joints that needs to be  “adjusted” because it’s causing a disproportionate amount of  trouble, both painand poor health.
we performed anterior interbody fusion at c6-c7  because of persistent neck pain and progressive instability.
that concern could be the wisdom of your body talking to you (or it could also be irrational).
for the chronic neck pain patient, the risks may be acceptableif there’s a reason to believe the treatment might actually work.
a.r.t.® is a massage technique routinely offered  by chiropractors.
however,  mistakes happen — it’s unlikely, but possible.
some evidence may support smt,  but it doesn’t support itstrongly.
even a  completely healthy spinal joint could be mildly injured by a strong enough  spinal manipulation.
inquire about the possibility of treating the neck by adjusting the thoracic spine.
the resulting stroke and debilitation from such a large number is very significant.
in standard medical terminology, a subluxation simply refers to a partial  traumatic dislocation of a joint.
this is a chiropractic concept of some kind of spinal joint dysfunction, with many shades of meaning — too many!
in fact, interfering with the nerve roots can only do so much harm to a person.
vertebral subluxation on wikipedia.com.
a fair criticism of big reviews of the science is that they lump together too many kinds of smt for too many different kinds of patients.
paul benedetti is an award-winning  journalist who, for more than a decade, has written investigative stories about  alternative medicine and health fraud.
is this anything more than an eye-popping novelty?
if neck mobilization/manipulation  is going to help you, you should not experienceany severe side effects  — a little soreness or increased symptoms at the worst.
and, even if they did, would they actually cause any problem, serious or otherwise?
sam homola points out that “there are at least 97 named antithetical adjustive techniques, all based on a nonsensical, nonfalsifiable chiropractic vertebral subluxation theory”21 — almost a hundred variations of smt that cannot peacefully co-exist, the truth of one invalidating the others, like religions.
avoid rationalizing of adverse effects.
they argue that chiropractors still can’t prove they  can evenfind alleged subluxations reliably, let alone treat them.
chiropr osteopat. 2010.
the  rationale for the use of the activator is extremely thin, in my opinion, and  there is no credible evidence whatsoever that it actually does anything —  it’s virtually unstudied, nor is there much reason to study it —  it’s just not a strong idea.
back to text bronfort et al.
some people, some of the  time, seem to be able to enjoy and “exploit” such sensations and  get a therapeutic effect.
its origins in chiropractic are  dubious, its benefits are not major, and there are serious risks, including  paralysis and even death.
another excellent online  introduction to dr. homola’s writings is his recent article for  sciencebasedmedicine.org,chiropractic vertebral subluxations.
if the body doesn’t  “get it” after a few tries on a few different days, it’s  probably not going to “get it” later.
complete restoration of the c6-c7 subluxation was achieved with resolution of the presenting symptoms.
this is a  particularly worthwhile option to consider if you feel nervous about neck  adjustments.
please be aware that not  all physical therapists will recognize these symptoms as warning signs!
and their  low cost was roughly appropriate for their took-the-edge-off effectiveness.
that’s what the science says.
ernst concludes: “it seems questionable whether such research is  worthwhile.”back
zoom traumatic dislocation.
for the chronic neck pain patient, the risks may be  acceptableif there’s a reason to believe the treatment might  actually work.
i admit to being  skeptical for no clear reasons.
i’m not  saying this is a bad review — i’m just saying it’s mired in  the poor quality of the body of literature, and the complexity of the problem.
clients must be informed and presented with a range of options and allowed to make their choices with an absolute  minimum of interference — not threatened with the consequences of failure  to adhere to the most expensive therapeutic option available!
they  doubt that a spinal joint can be literally “out” in a clinically  significant way, and the belief that it can “keeps chiropractic  marginalized and subject to ridicule by the scientific community”.9  edzard ernst writes, “the concepts of chiropractic are not based on solid  science and its therapeutic value has not been demonstrated beyond reasonable  doubt.
especially when  the condition may be aggravated by the perception that it is problematic!
most such injuries would be both rare and minor.
the correct umbrella term for these treatments is  “spinal manipulative therapy” or smt.
also, the validity of the upper-cervical  stability tests is questionable.”back
evidence published bymanual
”both groups did equally well — or equally poorly, if you prefer.
to text hadler et al.
at 18 months follow-up, flexion and extension dynamic radiographs demonstrated good alignment with solid fusion at c6-c7.
many chiropractors still believe in them, in one form or another, and some do not.8 sam homola writes: what i read in books written by orthopedic and physical medicine specialists made more sense to me than what i was being taught in chiropractic college.
the chances of dying in an accident on the way to the dry cleaner is  probably much greater.
stroke and death due to neck manipulation has been reported in the scientific literature for over 50 years.
and so, although many  clients have reported being “cured” by chiropractic treatment  (sometimes even as they limp into my office still suffering from significant  symptoms), many also have reported being “ruined” by a chiropractic  treatment they found to be intense and terrifying and painful.
on examination, there was a reduced range of movement of the cervical spine without other neurologic deficits.
back to text study design: case description.
if you sense that a chiropractor or other health care professional wants to set you up for long term regular therapy, find someone else to help you.
even if subluxations exist, chiropractic subluxation theory depends heavily on one premise, a conceptual bottleneck through which the entire theory must pass: that spinal nerve roots are terribly important to your health, and interfering with them spells t-r-o-u-b-l-e.
the canadian stroke consortium recently published a major prospective study.
but those drugs, taken in the quantities the subjects took them, are cheap and safe as houses.
for perspective, here’s an example of a spine that is genuinely  “out of line.”
radiography of the cervical spine showed a marked reversal of the cervical lordosis, anterior displacement of 60% of c4 on c5, anterior callus formation, bilateral facet dislocation, and increased posterior interspinous distance (double arrow) (panel a).
however, there is also limited evidence  that mobilization is inferior to back exercise after disc herniation surgery.
to  describe a case of traumatic subluxation in association with a congenitally  absent cervical pedicle, and review the pertinent medical literature.
since all living systems seem to thrive on sensory input, and generally suffer without it, i speculate that a joint crack or mobilization feels something like getting “unstuck,” roughly the same feeling as finally getting to stretch your legs after getting off a long flight — and that analogy is not intended to trivialize it.
in fact, they didn’t even try to calculate  the relative risk — the data just wasn’t up to the task.
what if smt  works really well when done one way, with one kind of patient, but quite poorly  otherwise?
so it’s hardly surprising that it’s difficult to determine, scientifically, what works and what doesn’t.
journal of manipulative &  physiological therapeutics.
cautiously not criticizing chiropractors
real benefits in specific situations might disappear or “wash  out” when mixed in with too many other scenarios where a therapy is  doomed to failure.
back to text fernandez-de-las-penas writes “there are few published randomized  controlled trials analyzing the effectiveness of spinal manipulation and/or  mobilization … in the last decade.
i’ll address these questions over the next few sections.
we performed anterior interbody fusion at c6-c7 because of persistent neck pain and progressive instability.
spine  (phila pa 1976).
sam homola: although many chiropractors are now backing away from the chiropractic  vertebral subluxation theory, many continue to use the theory to justify  treating a broad scope of health problems by “adjusting” the spine.
the sensation of relief may  be extremely strong!
the patient pictured here, as reported innew  england journal of medicine, had no “pain, weakness, or  parasthesia”!6 zoom traumatic dislocation.
thursday, july 14, 2011 — added reference to article in the  guardian aboutchiropractor disclosure of risk to patients.
for more, see who am i to say?
this is certainly not a life-threatening risk, but it’s not trivial either.
comments: this  study supports the usefulness of spinal adjustment for acute pain only.
minimizing the risks of smt what you almost certainly want to avoid is the worst-of-both-worlds  scenario in which you take the risks for the sake of a treatingmild neck pain or — yeeks — only as a preventative treatment (as  chiropractors often recommend).52 don’t do that!
sometimes even major journals publish results that sound fabulous, but critics find flaws so major that it one wonders if it was even worth doing.
the details of such a physiological effect are definitely not well understood, but the effect probably exists in some form.
so much for that hype.
his book is  an essential patient guide to a profession that is so full of controversy that  consumers need a guide before going to chiropractic office.
…there is a “paucity of data related to beneficial effects of chiropractic manipulation of the cervical spine” and a “real potential for catastrophic adverse events.”
there seems to be almost no doubt that there issomething of therapeutic interest going on in smt.
another  patient with extreme scoliosis, although often uncomfortable, was generally  surprisingly fine and even fit.
college of physicians and surgeons of the province of quebec in 1966 in “the scientific brief against chiropractic”11
but, just as clearly, smt is not working any miracles, and thus it fails  the “impress me” test completely.
this does  not inspire confidence in the idea of subluxation.
when performed intensely and/or carelessly — in the presence of  undiagnosed vulnerabilities, say — smt can cause direct injury.
for instance, the authors write that smt is effective but  “similar in effect to other commonly used efficacious therapies such as  usual care, exercise, or back school.”
such  prescriptions constitute a serious conflict of interest.
less serious but extremely unpleasant consequences are also  possible for patients with aai.
expert opinions on smt range  widely, with some prominent doctors and medical scientists expressing the  strongest possible concern and skepticism.
back to text jüni et al.
chiropractors believe that they know: “subluxation.”
so joint dysfunction almost certainly does not involve partial dislocation, misalignment, and serious interference with nerve root function, as implied by thetraditional definition of “subluxation.”
most of our health and vitality is regulated by mechanismsother than nerve signals travelling through nerve roots — by other kinds of  nerves, and by hormones (see sidebar for details).
mr. o’connell readily identified numerous serious problems  with this research in an article for body in mind: it is of course possible that the results of this study are accurate and  maintenance manipulations are effective, but these problems make it difficult  to judge.
meanwhile, suffice it to say that the dominant theory of joint popping depends  on the concept of “cavitation” — the rapid formation and  explosive collapse of bubbles in a liquid due to pressure changes.
in more than a century, nothing like that has ever been shown to be true.3 so do chiropractic subluxations even exist?
but if nccam cannot produce the  best quality studies of alternative medicine, who can?
chiropractors  everywhere must havestrong opinions about this site.
if smt works, why does it work, and does it have anything to do with this relieving sensation?
however, increased neck pain is not an unrelated side effect that can be tolerated as a cost of overall progress: it’s a worsening of the symptom being treated, a backfire!
”straights subscribe to the full, traditional “subluxation theory” more or less exactly as formulated more than a hundred years ago, they practice “subluxation-based chiropractic,” and they definitely think of a chiropractic subluxation as beingfundamentally different than how a doctor would define subluxation.
see you might just be  weird:
— if we can believe our eyes: man turns his head 180 degrees 2:05 what are we to make of this?
there are many case reports of true spinal joint derangement and injury that cause little or no trouble, or certainly much less than most people expect.
these dangers are, like everything else about smt, controversial.
“100% more likely to be injured” is the same as “twice as  likely,” which sounds bad — really bad.
the evidence for mobilization is less substantial, with fewer  studies reporting smaller immediate changes.”back
here are some guidelines that may improve your chances of getting benefit from this approach, and minimizing risk.
manual therapists routinely  claim that their services are much safer and more effective than drug  therapies.
all i can do here is summarize the controversies.
sam homola: although many chiropractors are now backing away from the chiropractic vertebral subluxation theory, many continue to use the theory to justify treating a broad scope of health problems by “adjusting” the spine.
and most chiropractors don’t inform their  patients about the risks.42 let’s look at that topic now.
many chiropractors still believe in them, in one form or another,  and some do not.8 sam homola writes: what i read in books written by orthopedic and physical medicine  specialists made more sense to me than what i was being taught in chiropractic  college.
a good example is the common use of an “activator” — a  little tool that gently thumps the skin and muscle over the joint.
what’s new in this article?
similarly, you could analyze dozens of studies of the  health effects of hiking, but probably none of them would have data about bear  attacks — yet bears do attack hikers!back to text triano et al.
however, there are numerousother methods.
for perspective, “aspirin use, even at doses below 300 mg/day and despite modified release formulations, has been associated with a two to threefold increased risk of developing upper gastrointestinal tract complications (i.e., bleeding or perforation)”
but that signal would show up  only if the research were actually designed to detect it in the first place.
major upgrades inspired by a new  scientific paper aboutthe dangers of spinal manipulative therapy, and by dr.  sam homola’s new article at sciencebasedmedicine.org,chiropractic  vertebral subluxations.
i am a science journalist, and i was a massage  therapist for ten years.
an orthopedic subluxation, a true vertebral misalignment, or a mechanical  joint dysfunction that affects mobility in the spine is not the same as a  mysterious asymptomatic “chiropractic subluxation” that is alleged  to cause disease by interfering with nerve supply to organs.
when applied to the spine, it is known as spinal  mobilization.
quadriplegics with completely destroyed spinal nerve  root function have many problems, but “disease” is the least of  their worries.
this section covers the lesser risks.
in any event, it’s also anatomically impossible for spinal joints to physically “pinch” nerve roots with anything less than extreme deformities of the spine.14 some chiropractors go further with subluxation theory than others, and the further they go, the further out on a scientific limb they go.
thoracic spinal adjustment may help with neck pain,56 but  feels safer because it almost certainlyis safer.
in all the years that they have been talking about them, chiropractors have never been able to furnish proof of these mysterious subluxations which they alone are able to see.
the message from this one back pain trial might seem appealing and i  can see why the email was so enthusiastic.
thursday, august 26, 2011 — added footnote to  “minimizing the risks of smt”, explaining how much smt is too much.
in 2006, the authors came to the underwhelming conclusion that “there is no evidence that spinal manipulative therapy is superior to other standard treatments for patients with acute or chronic low back pain.”
the joints of the spine may be wiggled, popped, stretched,  tapped and more.
overview of a messy topic the idea of “adjusting” the spine refers to many different  manual therapies.
back to text back in 1996, hurwitz wrote that “cervical spine manipulation and  mobilization probably provide at least short-term benefits for some patients  with neck pain and headaches.”
acute  neck pain: there are few studies, and the evidence is currently  inconclusive.”
there is little  doubt that spinal pain often involvessome kind of “joint  dysfunction.”
adjusting the spine (spinal manipulative therapy, orsmt) is complex and  controversial, largely based on the chiropractic concept of a joint  “subluxation.”
indeed, it might explain both why smt works, and why it doesn’t work particularly well.
’”back to text akhaddar et al.
a randomised controlled trial of spinal  manipulative therapy in acute low back pain.
summary of background data:
back  to text a chiropractor who recommends anything more than a dozen appointments for  back pain is probably pushing the limits.
the article isavailable for free at this address.
that’s a fair point, but also a debatable one.
such an unpleasant psychological  context is probably all the more severe in the case of low back pain, where  structural problems are so often feared by patients.
what this mess of science (more  examples!36) amounts to for patients is that smt is pretty unimpressive on  average, and a bit of a crapshoot … but possibly worth a shot for the  particularly desperate patient.
if this  sounds vague, you’re right — but that’s appropriate, because  strong confidence in anything more specific than that is not really justified  by the science.
why does joint popping feel good?
and there is always the chance that the tastiest cherries  contain a few artificial sweeteners.
personally i would lay off the caps lock  for now.
major reviews of that literature published in recent years came to “underwhelming” and half-baked conclusions.
i find it hard to imagine life without  joint popping!
publishing negative conclusions about chiropractic treatments  is best left to the many experts and organizations who have chosen to fight  that fight.
chiropractor sam homola sums the situation up nicely: there is no definitive evidence that spinal manipulative therapy is more effective than other forms of treatment for patients with acute or chronic low-back pain.
it can  account for the satisfied feelings many people report, but it doesn’t  promise the moon, either.
these are also therefore the patients most likely to desperately try a wide variety of treatment options,including more aggressive and frequent neck adjustments.
alight poke in the brain stem won’t kill you, but it can sure ruin your day!
chiropractor sam homola sums the situation up  nicely: there is no definitive evidence that spinal manipulative therapy is more  effective than other forms of treatment for patients with acute or chronic  low-back pain.
few treatments are completely safe, of course.
such an unpleasant psychological context is probably all the more severe in the case of low back pain, where structural problems are so often feared by patients.
and most chiropractors don’t inform their patients about the risks.42 let’s look at that topic now.
back to text sam homola describes in detail a scientific experiment in which a  dissected spine is mangled by machinery in the attempt to discover just how far  you have to bend a spinal joint before its nerve roots are impinged.
note that the 25% and 100% stats are relative risk measurements: the risk compared tonot getting treated — not the overall likelihood, which cannot be measured from this kind of data.
as a group of canadian neurologists ask, “is a headache  worth dying for?”
so it remains entirely  possible that the phenomenon of severe neck injury from smt is real but rare,  and simply didn’t occur in any of those 32 studies, or wasn’t  observed and tracked.
disturbingly, aai is such a complex condition that even substantial dislocation of the upper cervical spine can be clinically silent, and virtually impossible to diagnose without a specific type of x-ray (a type that chiropractors donot generally do).43 thus, some people with aai are walking around without so much as a headache as a warning sign … yet they are vulnerable to severe brain stem injury if they receive cervical smt.
if you discover, or already know, that cervical spine adjustment is helpful for you, make an effort to find a chiropractor you trust, and establish a long term relationship, confident that most of the risks discussed here will be eliminated.
is this anything more than an eye-popping  novelty?
friday, october 8, 2010 — a good thorough editing and cleanup.
in a 2006fernandez-de-las-penas  wrote, “no controlled trials analyzing exclusively the effects of spinal  mobilization were found,” and that what does exist has “overall  poor methodology.”
however, increased neck pain is not an unrelated side effect that can be  tolerated as a cost of overall progress: it’s a worsening of the symptom  being treated, a backfire!
and, even if  they did, would they actually cause any problem, serious or otherwise?
bear in mind what gives trigger points their clinical importance: they often  bothcause and complicate other problems.
i revised and improved content and referencing  throughout the article in this update.
this article is inspired and informed particularly by the work of dr. samuel homola, a chiropractor, and i quote him extensively.
amazon.com dr. homola is a  chiropractor, and the most prominent critic of his own profession.
for many years now, i have been looking forward to getting around to  writing an article all about this.
patients may be nervous because: combining these factors — acute pain, minor potential therapeutic benefits, a high rate of harm, fear of your spine’s fragility, fear of the treatment — is all just a recipe for disaster.
although there are other definitions — for instance, definitions that might be less controversial — they probably should not be used, because they are too easily confused with the main and original chiropractic definition.
smt for the neck can probably maim and kill smt can probably cause stroke in one of two ways, either by tearing  delicate blood vessels in the neck, or by causing brain stem injury in persons  with unsuspected instability of the upper spine (atlantoaxial instability,  aai).
i take bogduk’s opinion very seriously, as he is one of a small  group of elite pain scientists in the world today whose opinions are  relentlessly well-informed and sensible (seejackson for an intriguing example,  or his short and readable editorial,“what's in a name?
many of my joints pop easily and pleasantly, even if i  don’t make the effort to do so.
recommended reading this article is inspired and informed particularly by the work of dr.  samuel homola, a chiropractor, and i quote him extensively.
plain radiographs and computed tomography of the cervical spine showed the typical features of a congenitally absent pedicle at c6 with anterolisthesis of c6 on c7.
remember that most cases of back pain  resolve on their own within three weeks!
as a group of canadian neurologists ask, “is a headache worth dying for?”
a good example is the common use of an “activator” — a little tool that gently thumps the skin and muscle over the joint.
i particularly discuss the pros and cons of smt as it relates to the treatment ofneck pain, back pain, and muscle pain.
(as my high school german language teacher used to say.)
another patient with extreme scoliosis, although often uncomfortable, was generally surprisingly fine and even fit.
chiropractic vertebral subluxations: science vs. pseudoscience, homola ( sciencebasedmedicine.org) spinal manipulative therapy (smt): adjustment, manipulation and cracking  of the spinal joints
“can chiropractors and evidence-based manual therapists work  together?”
joint dysfunction and trigger points probably reinforce each other.
dr. hallreported on the decision in detail.
asneil o’connell of body in  mind described these results: “a tiny effect size for manipulation that  doesn’t really tickle the undercarriage of clinical significance.”
comments: this review of manual therapies focusses on spinal  manipulative therapy and massage therapy for low back and neck pain, with  predictably underwhelming results: both are “effective” in some  circumstances but certainly not impressively so, and generally no different  from other therapies that help a little but haven’t exactly put a dent in  the epidemic.
effectiveness of traditional bone setting in  chronic neck pain: randomized clinical trial.
also in 2006,lenssinck concluded that “there is  insufficient evidence to either support or refute the effectiveness of  physiotherapy and (spinal) manipulation in patients with tension-type  headache.”back
how many  chiropractors even believe it?
on the other hand, any truly worthwhile benefits to smt (in any  situation) should be obvious, noteworthy, and more than capable of standing out  and pulling up the average.
that’s an awkward question for a lot of alternative therapies.
sometimes the knuckle-like facet joints pop, and sometimes they don’t.
these authors were simply going through data from many small studies of neck  adjustment, in which some rotten reactions were noted, while many other studies  were disqualified for not tracking harms at all and — this is interesting  — for “notable ascertainment bias.”
subluxations remain elusive.
this conclusion was published in 1995 by a phd and another chiropractor  criticicizing his own profession: seenansel and szlazak.
on the one  hand, it’s not as bad as it sounds: these “events” are minor  and moderate in severity; only 1 or 2 per thousand visits causes a serious  problem; and drugs are actually relatively worse.
the latest data from the stroke consortium indicates that “more than 100 cases of dissection per year are associated with neck manipulation.”
people tend to emerge from such experiences hopelessly tangled up in  the idea that they are fragile, broken and need regular smt for the rest of  their lives.
does spinal manipulative therapy (smt) work?
in a word, no: smt is definitely not a risk-free treatment.
the value of a treatment must be weighed against the  potential harm.
that such a serious injury can have so little  impact on a person is quite interesting!abstract: a 22-year-old man presented with a 10-day history of  torticollis.
comments: from the abstract: “the presence of four or more of  these predictors increased the probability of success with manipulation to 89%.
bear in mind what gives trigger points their clinical importance: they often bothcause and complicate other problems.
we can cram almost any kind of theory into that label — almost anything that might go wrong with spinal joints — without going too far out on a limb.
the rationale for the use of the activator is extremely thin, in my opinion, and there is no credible evidence whatsoever that it actually does anything — it’s virtually unstudied, nor is there much reason to study it — it’s just not a strong idea.
hardly a day goes by without a client telling me they are “freaked  out” by the idea of being cracked, and many people with back pain are  also uneasy about traction (another common chiropractic treatment method).back  to text chiropractors do this because many of them either subscribe to a belief  that the whole spine is greatly affected by the condition of the cervical  joints, particularly the top one.
some people, some of the time, seem to be able to enjoy and “exploit” such sensations and get a therapeutic effect.
that’s  the important question, and a hard one to answer.
your neck pain is on both sides some or all of the time your neck feels better with movement and exercise you aren’t stuck in a chair more than 5 hours a day tipping the head back isn’t a problem you have no sharp, shooting pains into the arms
a 22-year-old man presented with a 10-day history of torticollis.
but  more recent and thorough reviews of the literature have been even less  enthusiastic.
publishing negative conclusions about chiropractic treatments is best left to the many experts and organizations who have chosen to fight that fight.
if  it’s still hopelessly mired in controversy, how good can it possibly be?
what is reasonably certain is that joint pops (and mobilizations) probably constitutesnovel sensory input: a little blast of proprioceptive stimulation.50
it is firmly in that category of trivial mysteries for which there is simply no research funding, and as such it will probably remain unexplained for some time to come.
i rejected the vertebral subluxation theory as a basis for use of  spinal manipulation.
it should actually pretty much pull out a can of whupass on “advice and meds.”
it’s  problematic that smt is often based on such a slippery concept.
if smt works, why does it work, and does  it have anything to do with this relieving sensation?
they believe that subluxations cause not only back and neck pain,  but practicallyany health problem, simply by impinging or irritating  spinal nerve roots.
for instance, an intervertebral joint mightmove unevenly , as opposed to being out of place, and this could be clinically significant — but no one really knows.
sam homola, doctor of chiropractic, in “can chiropractors and  evidence-based manual therapists work together?”
this has been a subject of fierce debate for many years, with the chiropractic profession consistently on the defensive.45 credible experts continue to publish evidence that concern about this issue is justified.
in this review ofthe national center for complementary  and alternative medicine (nccam) studies of chiropractic therapy, he finds that  “their quality was frequently questionable.
… some who do not use the word “subluxation” simply substitute another word or words, such as “joint dysfunction,” in support of their belief that some kind of segmental spinal “lesion” can affect overall health.
people tend to emerge from bad smt experiences hopelessly tangled up in the idea that they are fragile.
here are the main concerns about smt: dubious provenance.
and here are few more guidelines for safety of my own: avoid cervical adjustment if you have a history of nausea and/or vomiting associated with your neck pain, or with neck movement.
it is  available only to customers who have purchased tutorials on this website.
at 18 months follow-up, flexion and extension dynamic  radiographs demonstrated good alignment with solid fusion at c6-c7.
ligaments around the joint may be painfully sprained, and cause severe pain closely coupled to movement, slowly fading over many weeks, like any other sprain.
enjoy this campy, cringe-inducing bit news reel about a dude who can “owl” his neck — rotate 180˚ degrees!
to text here be statistical dragons.
virtually all treatments have risks!
only  extremely aggressive smt could injure a healthy spine, and even if it did, it  would probably just be a minor strain — hardly the result you want, but  not that big deal and not that common.
there is a risk of life-threatening injury to the brain stem or vertebral arteries.
there is simply no justification for smt for the neck unless you have a problem that isworth the risk.
this is a particularly worthwhile option to consider if you feel nervous about neck adjustments.
and most clinicians — including myself, and including  serious skeptics like dr. homola — believe that some forms of smt can be  helpful to some of their patients, some of the time.
a spinal joint pop/crack is probably not a required effect of smt, and plenty of smt is done without the intention of cracking.
another case report in the journal spine describes a man who was born with  part of a neck vertebraentirely missing — he also had no serious  symptoms until he fell one day, and his unstable spine was dislocated “.7  after that he certainly was symptomatic: he had severe pain, but only pain.
in manual  therapy, most adverse events are backfires — that is, you go for a neck  adjustment at the chiropractor, and you come out with more neck pain instead of  less.
sagittal t2-weighted imaging revealed a spinal cord  angulation with mild compression but without intramedullary edema or hemorrhage  (panel b).
the conclusions about smt in particular are silly.
he covers this topic brilliantly in his 2006 article“can chiropractors and evidence-based manual therapists work together?”
according to dr. homola, responsible chiropractic therapy for back  pain should mostly be limited to mobilizing (wiggling) the lumbar  intervertebral joints.
so while i concede that modest real benefits of smt might get obscured and overshadowed in a big review, i doubt thatsignificant benefits would ever vanish into the statistics.
…the chances of injury are multiplied when chiropractic neck manipulation is routinely used many times on every patient in a misguided attempt to improve health, as opposed to occasional use of neck manipulation by physical therapists and other manual therapists who are concerned only about restoring mobility in a stiff spine.
spinal manipulative therapy is an extremely controversial topic, partly  because of its connection to subluxation theory, and partly in its own right  — is it safe and does it work?
this has been a subject of fierce debate for many years,  with the chiropractic profession consistently on the defensive.45 credible  experts continue to publish evidence that concern about this issue is  justified.
i avoid strong conclusions of my own, deferring to the many credible experts who have already studied and written extensively on this subject.
thoracic spinal adjustment may help with neck pain,56 but feels safer because it almost certainlyis safer.
spin doctors takes a hard, dramatic, and  spine-chilling look into the world of chiropractic medicine.
the researchers found that “smt is unlikely to result in relevant early pain reduction in patients with acute low back pain.
this is  certainly one of the advantages of massage therapy as a therapy.
but studies also show that as many as two hundred canadians a year may suffer strokes  brought on by neck manipulation.
its origins in chiropractic are dubious, its benefits are not major, and there are serious risks, including paralysis and even death.
what is reasonably certain is that joint pops (and mobilizations) probably  constitutesnovel sensory input: a little blast of proprioceptive  stimulation.50
some cases of neck pain and crick are extremely severe —  and such patients may literally feel they have little to lose.
accessed july  14, 2011.back to text swinkels et al.
they may convince their clients, but never have they  provided proof of their pretensions to men of science.
cut one completely, and you’ll  paralyze something — but not an organ.
for instance, under the right conditions, the novel sensory input of smt  might have a significant therapeutic effect on muscle knots (trigger points).
for instance, under the right conditions, the novel sensory input of smt might have a significant therapeutic effect on muscle knots (trigger points).
this echoes his opinion in his 1999 book, inside chiropractic: a  patient’s guide, that “many patients have told me that manipulation  was more effective [than physiotherapeutic management] in providing immediate  relief.”37
for more information about this delicate balance, please read mymore general summary of the controversies around chiropractic.
if we knew how smt worked, we would also know if it works!
spinal manipulative therapy for chronic  low-back pain.
as far as most doctors and scientists are concerned, and even for many chiropractors, the argument islong over.
(as my high school  german language teacher used to say.)
it also performed no worse, though, and was more effective than a  fake intervention — so at least there’s that.
yet this data pretty clearly shows that the difference is really not  great.
it also performed no worse, though, and was more effective than a fake intervention — so at least there’s that.
back to text nansel and szlazak explain that pain and other symptoms referred from a  spinal segment can “create overt signs and symptoms that canmimic , orsimulate (rather than cause), internal organ disease.”
once they’ve popped, they tend not to pop again for a while — what is known as the “recharge” phenomenon — and yet smt can continue.
these hazards are  certainly more likely for patients with severe and chronic symptoms.
there is limited evidence that  smt is superior to sham smt in the short term and superior to chemonucleolysis  for disc herniation in the short term.
but by focusing on one particular  cherry that seems so ripe and juicy we might miss the bigger picture from the  rest of the tree.
another excellent online introduction to dr. homola’s writings is his recent article for sciencebasedmedicine.org,chiropractic vertebral subluxations.
finally, there is the problem of smt methods that are probably less effective.
disturbingly, aai is such a complex condition that even substantial  dislocation of the upper cervical spine can be clinically silent, and virtually  impossible to diagnose without a specific type of x-ray (a type that  chiropractors donot generally do).43 thus, some people with aai are  walking around without so much as a headache as a warning sign … yet  they are vulnerable to severe brain stem injury if they receive cervical smt.
a recent study by the institute of clinical  evaluative sciences (ices ontario) indicates that patients with posterior  circulation strokes under the age of 45 are 5 times more likely than controls  to have visited a chiropractor within one week of the event.
spinal manipulative therapy is an extremely controversial topic, partly because of its connection to subluxation theory, and partly in its own right — is it safe and does it work?
there is obviously less potential harm  in a gentler treatment (except to your pocket book, perhaps).
even if you put aside all concerns about the quality of the theory, there  is still not a shred of scientific evidence that any kind of spinal joint  dysfunction — no matter how you define it — has any importance to  your general health.
personally i would lay off the caps lock for now.
i explain this in a little more detail in another article,spinal  nerve roots do not hook up to organs!
dr. homola manages to be  precise and thorough without losing his amiable tone -- exactly what i aim for  on this website, actually.
… some who do not use the word “subluxation” simply  substitute another word or words, such as “joint dysfunction,” in  support of their belief that some kind of segmental spinal “lesion”  can affect overall health.
it’s extremely important to appreciate that minor variations in  spinal anatomy arenormal.15
they do not send or receive signals  from your “guts” at all.
the labelling of  back pain”).
slightly pinched nerve roots only spell p-a-i-n and a-n-n-o-y-a-n-c-e, at worst — no fun, no indeed, but hardly disease.
annals of the rheumatic diseases.
people tend  to emerge from bad smt experiences hopelessly tangled up in the idea that they  are fragile.
i am cautious about criticizing chiropractors  directly on this website, because of their tendency to attack their critics  legally, most notably in the case of the distinguished science writer simon  singh in the uk.
radiography of the cervical spine showed a  marked reversal of the cervical lordosis, anterior displacement of 60% of c4 on  c5, anterior callus formation, bilateral facet dislocation, and increased  posterior interspinous distance (double arrow) (panel a).
more certainly and strikingly, smt patients are 100% more likely to have “transient neurological symptoms” — anything from feeling a bit woozy all the way up to serious unpleasantness, such as severe dizziness, nausea and vomiting.
in rare cases involving joint adhesions, mechanical “locking” and loss of mobility, appropriate manipulation has clear value — which is primarily why physical therapists perform spinal manipulation.
new deaths, in the past few years, have been reported to the  canadian stroke consortium.
another client faced down a chiropractor who was demanding that he  sign a contract for a “two-year, $7,000 treatment plan.”
obviously, if there were any clear science on this, smt wouldn’t be controversial.
regardless of how you feel about being “adjusted”, the  therapeutic “message” of a joint wiggle or crack can really only be  repeated, not significantly modulated: a crack is a crack is a crack, and one  traction or joint wiggle is pretty much like another.
i avoid strong  conclusions of my own, deferring to the many credible experts who have already  studied and written extensively on this subject.
the  chiropractic concept of subluxation has been both popular and controversial for  many decades now, but it has never achieved medical respectability.
chiropractic therapy, by contrast, would have cost an order of magnitude more and required spending time on appointments with chiropractors.
so it’s hardly surprising that it’s difficult to  determine, scientifically, what works and what doesn’t.
however, manual therapists know from experience that spinal  manipulation is often more effective for providing immediate short-term relief  for some types of back pain.
that concern could be the wisdom of your body talking to you (or it  could also be irrational).
headaches are a closely related issue, so what if we look there?
proponents of a flavour of smt have a handy, comfortable defense: “my method is better than the method that was tested.”
if you discover, or already know, that cervical spine adjustment is helpful  for you, make an effort to find a chiropractor you trust, and establish a long  term relationship, confident that most of the risks discussed here will be  eliminated.
in the low back pain tutorial, i describe one of my own former patients with a very serious lumbar dislocation — and no low back pain (she came to see me for a foot problem).
the  benefits are almost certainly there, for some people, some of the time.
but when you take a pill, the side  effect is usually unrelated to the problem (i.e. it doesn’t make the  problem you’re treating worse), you are generally trading those side  effects for some pretty clear benefits, and it’s usually cheap.
this may explains why the  effectiveness of smt treatment tends to lessen over time (a well-known  characteristic of chiropractic therapy).
subluxation can mean many different things, depending on who is talking about it.
it is firmly in that category of trivial mysteries for which  there is simply no research funding, and as such it will probably remain  unexplained for some time to come.
incredibly, some therapists may dismiss such severe reactions with the absurdly unsafe theory that the body is just processing toxins released during the treatment.
even if they are right, it admits that the profession is still burdened with a  faction thatdoes believe.
dr. sam homola covers the topics of subluxation theory and spinal  manipulative therapy in this 2006 article, managing to be precise and thorough  without losing his amiable tone — exactly what i aim for on this website,  actually.
i have also observed many clients expressing relief  and pleasure in response to incidental spinal “adjustments” —  joint pops that occur in the course of doing massage therapy, little explosions  as i glide up the spine.
journal of manipulative & physiological therapeutics.
the strength of this idea is that it has the potential to explain a lot,  but without claiming too much.
the evidence for this will be discussed as we proceed.
this does not inspire confidence in the idea of subluxation.
because  there is little evidence of recovery after surgery, and the symptoms are  usually not disabling, surgery is not recommended for most cases.
different styles may be intense or gentle — so gentle in  some cases that you can hardly tell that anything is being done to you.
now you might say, “well, good: chiropractic was as good as drugs, so  it could replace drugs.
so chiropractors may well throw in a little  neck adjusting, with varying degrees of conviction about its importance.
strong neck adjustments may be dangerous, subtle ones may be useless.
and, as mentioned above, there may be substantial risks to neck adjustment.
(bmc medicine, hernández-díaz, rodríguez, 2006).
however, most of those conclusions are also qualified by various gotchas and uncertainties.
when performed intensely and/or carelessly — in the presence of undiagnosed vulnerabilities, say — smt can cause direct injury.
chiropractic vertebral subluxations: science vs. pseudoscience, homola ( sciencebasedmedicine.org)
note that it has often been argued that smt is best for acute low back pain, not chronic, so this is right in chiropractic’s strike zone: if there is anything special, anything even remotely impressive about smt, itshould have done rather well in this contest.
spinal nerve roots — the big bundles of nerves that pass between vertebrae — only handle nerve messages formusculoskeletal structures , such as bones, muscles and skin.
this article covers these topics thoroughly — it is one the most detailed online guides that i know of.
what you almost certainly want to avoid is the worst-of-both-worlds scenario in which you take the risks for the sake of a treatingmild neck pain or — yeeks — only as a preventative treatment (as chiropractors often recommend).52 don’t do that!
can it be “adjusted”?
journal of pain and symptom  management. 2008.
several randomized controlled  trials failed to report adverse effects and the majority was not described in  sufficient detail to allow replication.”
some evidence may support smt, but it  doesn’t support itstrongly.
chiropractors often propose “subluxation” as both the  main cause of back and neck painand of disease and poor health in  general.5
vertebrae are not lego bricks, each one exactly like the other — they are biological and imperfect.
the researchers took a hundred patients with nasty, fresh cases of acute low back pain, and delivered half of them into the care of chiropractors, and the other half into “standard care” — advice and ordinary pain medications, namely.
this is a complex issue.
comments: from the abstract:  “most reviews of these trials indicate that spinal manipulative therapy  provides some short-term benefit to patients, especially with acute low back  pain.”back
there may be some truth somewhere in the chiropractic idea of subluxation, but it is clearly loaded and controversial and variable in meaning — too much so to be clinically useful.
smt probably has some therapeutic effects  on low back and neck pain, but they seem quite limited, and some methods of smt  probably don’t work at all.
although that’s not the kind of “subluxation” that this article is about, such casesdo provide important perspective, in that a true dislocation can be amazingly asymptomatic.
for that not-so-minor minority who find joint popping kind of alarming, smt won’t seem refreshing and relieving, but more like a bitter medicine (at best) or just a bad idea.
once  they’ve popped, they tend not to pop again for a while — what is  known as the “recharge” phenomenon — and yet smt can  continue.
evidence published bymanual therapy shows that, if neck manipulation works at all, it may be more likely to work for people with these signs and symptoms.53 perhaps to some extent this is also true of low back pain.
(how much is too much?55)
2009.pubmed #18775942.
so the jury is way out, here.
real benefits in specific situations might disappear or “wash out” when mixed in with too many other scenarios where a therapy is doomed to failure.
in the case of the neck, the risks are almost certainly much higher — it’s potentially lethal, in fact.19 i’ll discuss this more below.
sy your back is not “out” and your leg length is fine  — the story of the obsession with crookedness in the physical therapies sy extraordinary claims — a guide to critical thinking,  skepticism and smart reading about health care on the web sy choose the therapist, not the therapy — when you’re in  pain, you want to know “what works,” but what you should look for  is an honest therapist of any kind sy save yourself from low back pain!
common trouble with nerve roots is limited to the garden-variety symptoms like pain, tingling, numbness, weakness, and so on — not organ failure and disease.12
of course, guess i can’t quite give up  thinking for myself … :-)
if you like getting  your spine cracked, or you think you need to be “adjusted,” read  this book before making your next chiropractic appointment!
back to text undercover investigations of chiropractors.
the chances of dying in an accident on the way to the dry cleaner is probably much greater.
the patient was admitted for surgery.
last updated 72 days ago, dec 29th, 2011 by gary lyons spinal manipulation: underwhelming effects on back pain since 1895.
”bronfort: “there have  been few high-quality trials distinguishing between acute and chronic patients,  and most are limited to shorter-term follow-up.”
for example, in 1998, daniel cherkin (with medical back pain expert richard deyo) published a paper in thenew england journal of medicine showing that, over the long-term, “patients receiving [chiropractic manipulation] treatments had only marginally better outcomes than those receiving the minimal intervention of an educational booklet.
the idea of “adjusting” the spine refers to many different  manual therapies, usually performed by chiropractors, but also sometimes  performed by other professionals.17 the knuckle-like facet joints of the low  back may be mobilized (wiggled, basically18), cracked (like knuckles), tapped  with a chiropractic “activator,” gently stretched or pushed on, and  so on and on.
smt for low back pain has the potential to  frighten patients and worsen their symptoms.
last updated 72 days ago, dec 29th, 2011by gary lyons spinal manipulation: underwhelming effects on back pain since 1895.
but  the idea is as controversial and questionable as any idea in all of  chiropractic.
in the end, only 32 studies could be analyzed.
the nervous patient has much to lose with smt.
d. d.  palmer, the founder of chiropractic, a grocer, and a magnetic healer who healed  by touch, announced his discovery that ‘…95 percent of diseases  are caused by displaced vertebrae; the remainder by luxations of other  joints.
in rare cases involving joint adhesions, mechanical “locking”  and loss of mobility, appropriate manipulation has clear value — which is  primarily why physical therapists perform spinal manipulation.
on the other hand, any truly worthwhile benefits to smt (in any situation) should be obvious, noteworthy, and more than capable of standing out and pulling up the average.
unfortunately, the rationale and scientific evidence to support the use of smt for neck pain is poor, and some methods of smt are almost certainly useless.
in a word, no: smt is definitely not a risk-free  treatment.
sometimes even major journals publish results that sound  fabulous, but critics find flaws so major that it one wonders if it was even  worth doing.
smt can probably cause stroke in one of two ways, either by tearing delicate blood vessels in the neck, or by causing brain stem injury in persons with unsuspected instability of the upper spine (atlantoaxial instability, aai).
for instance, one of my clients was recently told by  a chiropractor that he could only get relief from back pain if he made a  commitment totwo years of weekly appointments — at a cost of at  least $2000!
this is certainly not a life-threatening risk, but it’s not  trivial either.
full abstract: we canadian neurologists hereby express our strong concern and  thereby issue this warning to canadians.
for perspective, here’s an example of a spine that is genuinely “out of line.”
for instance, it’s consistent  with a widely reported problem with spinal adjustments: the benefits often  don’t last long!
the message from this one back pain trial might seem appealing and i can see why the email was so enthusiastic.
for that not-so-minor minority who find joint popping kind  of alarming, smt won’t seem refreshing and relieving, but more like a  bitter medicine (at best) or just a bad idea.
there has been little high quality scientific research to determine whether or  not smt really “works,” but what little does exist is discouraging  indeed.
however, most of those conclusions are also qualified by various gotchas  and uncertainties.
many doctors and scientists disagree!
and that is exactly how i  would spin my analysis if i were a chiropractor!
methods: a 62-year-old man presented with severe neck and right shoulder pain after falling.
dr. harriet hall on sciencebasedmedicine.org, aug 31, 2010 controversial it may be, but the science is clear enough to have caused a  major american health insurer to stop paying for cervical spine smt in
however, “at discharge there was no significant difference between the  two groups because both showed substantial improvement.”back
plain radiographs and computed tomography of the cervical spine  showed the typical features of a congenitally absent pedicle at c6 with  anterolisthesis of c6 on c7.
there was basically no difference between the groups.
many of these examples of dramatic joint  injury and dysfunction actually causeless trouble than chiropractic  subluxationsmany of these examples of dramatic joint injury and dysfunction  actually causeless trouble than much less obvious chiropractic  subluxations., never mind the more dire neurological problems that most people  would assume to be the case, or the diseases and organ failures that much  milder chiropractic subluxations can supposedly cause.
instead, i encourage you to think in terms of the broader concept of “joint dysfunction” — that spinal joints can “misbehave,” perhaps in a variety of ways.
wayne macphail is a journalist who has  written about aids, alternative medicine and other health, science, and social  issues for twenty-five years.
as the saveyourself.ca inventory of tutorials expands, special supplements like these will be a useful new way of providing detailed information to customerswithout having to repeat it in multiple tutorials.
back to text ernst et al.
even if they are right, it admits that the profession is still burdened with a faction thatdoes believe.
joint manipulation may help to break this vicious cycle, either relieving some of the reason the trigger points are persisting, or relieving the trigger points themselves.
they doubt that a spinal joint can be literally “out” in a clinically significant way, and the belief that it can “keeps chiropractic marginalized and subject to ridicule by the scientific community”.9
popping and cracking versus mobilizing a spinal joint pop/crack is probably not a required effect of smt, and  plenty of smt is done without the intention of cracking.
all the patients had the same experience that pretty much everyone with chronic back pain has: they got better slowly but surely over the course of a few weeks, roughly exactly as they would have without any therapy at all.
alight poke in the brain stem  won’t kill you, but it can sure ruin your day!
it turned  out that a part of one of his neck vertebrae was entirely missing, since birth  (“a relatively uncommon developmental anomaly”).
spinal manipulative therapy for low back pain.
in chiropractic offices with a traditional view (the majority), most of the point of smt is to treat “subluxation” -- which, as we've discussed, is an idea so under siege that many chiropractors themselves have denounced it.
that is, you are modestly more likely to have an “adverse event” if you are given a  pill.
there is a decades-old argument between doctors and chiropractors about the existence or nature of chiropractic-style subluxations.
the rhyme  and the simplicity have been used to sell chiropractic services for a century.
also, the cavitation  hypothesis does not explain why there is such significant variation between  individuals and between joints.
spine concluded that “adverse reactions to chiropractic care for neck  pain are common.
we concluded that using favourable predictors to identify treatment responders  before administering cervical manipulations could significantly increase the  probabilities of a successful treatment.”back
the researchers took a hundred patients with nasty, fresh cases of acute  low back pain, and delivered half of them into the care of chiropractors, and  the other half into “standard care” — advice and ordinary  pain medications, namely.
the congenital absence of a cervical pedicle is a relatively uncommon developmental anomaly that is frequently mistaken for a unilateral facet fracture-dislocation in the context of acute trauma.
”30 dr. nikolai bogduk weighs in with a paper stating  his conclusion right in the title, “spinal manipulation for neck pain  does not work.
a comparison of physical therapy, chiropractic  manipulation, and provision of an educational booklet for the treatment of  patients with low back pain.
chronic mechanical neck pain in adults treated by  manual therapy: a systematic review of change scores in randomized controlled  trials of a single session.
i have no ideahow he can do that, but can i extract some clinical relevance from it anyway?natürlich!
these hazards are certainly more likely for patients with severe and chronic symptoms.
sagittal t2-weighted imaging revealed a spinal cord angulation with mild compression but without intramedullary edema or hemorrhage (panel b).
in the fall of 2009, the annals of the rheumatic diseases published a reasonably good test of smt.32
considering the relatively minor benefits and the high stakes, is any risk acceptable?
”straights subscribe to the full,  traditional “subluxation theory” more or less exactly as formulated  more than a hundred years ago, they practice “subluxation-based  chiropractic,” and they definitely think of a chiropractic subluxation as  beingfundamentally different than how a doctor would define  subluxation.
one of the most recent experiments is a good one to zoom in on, because it  damns smt with faint praise: it is one of the “positive” studies,  but so mildly positive that one can’t help feeling disappointed by it.
if neck mobilization/manipulation is going to help you, you should not experienceany severe side effects — a little soreness or increased symptoms at the worst.
and so, although many clients have reported being “cured” by chiropractic treatment (sometimes even as they limp into my office still suffering from significant symptoms), many also have reported being “ruined” by a chiropractic treatment they found to be intense and terrifying and painful.
effectiveness of manual therapies: the uk  evidence report.
the results were inconsistent, and make for some  fascinating and disturbing reading.
chiropractors believe that they know:  “subluxation.”
one of the most recent experiments is a good one to zoom in on, because it damns smt with faint praise: it is one of the “positive” studies, but so mildly positive that one can’t help feeling disappointed by it.
proof of the danger is hard to come by.
depending on how you look at it, drugs are only a little worse in some  ways, or maybe a little better in other ways.
many people feel uncomfortable with the idea of neck  adjustment.
smt for the neck joints has the  same risks, but with the chilling additional possibility that it can cause  paralysis or death.
but those drugs, taken in  the quantities the subjects took them, are cheap and safe as houses.
what does the science say?
the idea of “adjusting” the spine refers to many different manual therapies.
sam homola, doctor of chiropractic, in “can chiropractors and evidence-based manual therapists work together?”
back to text rubinstein et al.
in a series of informal but devious and persuasive tests,  physician stephen barrett contrived to challenge the diagnostic skills of a  number of chiropractors.
dr. stephen barrett’s take on chiropractic subluxation  theory.
avoid any practitioner who tries to explain away significant side effects (i.e., “it’s just the toxins being cleared out”).
no organization has ever  been better funded (or motivated) to validate alternative therapies.
openly defending the original chiropractic subluxation theory are many chiropractors who often call themselves “straight” chiropractors, meaning “pure.
although this is a serious dislocation, the patient  was quite healthy.
other data shows this is 25% more likely than if you did nothing at all  (seecarlesso).
for instance, in recent years the journalphysical therapy concluded that “the literature does not demonstrate that the benefits of manipulation of the cervical spine outweigh the risks,”46 and the journal spine concluded that “adverse reactions to chiropractic care for neck pain are common.
adverse events associated with the use of  cervical manipulation and mobilization for the treatment of neck pain in  adults: a systematic review.
some cases of neck pain and crick are extremely severe — and such patients may literally feel they have little to lose.
34 cochrane reviews are pretty much the best available summaries of the available evidence, and unfortunately the authors just weren’t that impressed.
it is  under the same security and copyright protection as the tutorials.
34 cochrane reviews are pretty much the best available summaries of the  available evidence, and unfortunately the authors just weren’t that  impressed.
but is there even any such thing?
many of my joints pop easily and pleasantly, even if i don’t make the effort to do so.
attempts to extract an overall research conclusion from the studies that have been done are pretty tentative.
the latest data from the stroke consortium indicates  that “more than 100 cases of dissection per year are associated with neck  manipulation.”
there is only so much  novel sensory input these techniques can provide.
from  the abstract: “patients who received [spinal] manipulative treatment were  much more likely to report immediate relief after the first treatment.”
back to text good examples of those who do not include chiropractor dr. sam homola,  author ofinside chiropractic; dr. edzard ernst, author of trick or treatment:  the undeniable facts about alternative medicine (and who is not quite a  chiropractor, but close enough); and dr. murphy , one of five research-oriented  chiropractors who have bared their profession’s shortcomingsin a 2008  article that calls for “dramatic changes” and states that  chiropractic “finds itself in a situation in which it is rated dead last  amongst healthcare professions with regard to ethics and honesty.”back
and yet people find the benefits of aspirin to be worth the risks.
we canadian neurologists hereby express our strong concern and thereby issue this warning to canadians.
i have no ideahow he can do that, but can i extract some  clinical relevance from it anyway?natürlich!
just because there is a slight variation in the lumps and bumps of your spine — something many of my patients worry about — does not mean that something is “subluxed.”
it’s not really surprising that neck manipulation is twice as likely  to do harm asnot manipulating — but is it worth it?
to the extent  that smt is used to treat subluxations, it may be ill-conceived,  over-prescribed, and inconsistent.
despite the importance of the topic, only about 5% of the us population usesany kind of alternative therapy for their back pain, and only about 75% of those go to chiropractors.20 (smt provided by physical therapists may be more common — i don’t have a statistic for that.)
journal of manipulative & physiological  therapeutics.
july 24, 2009 — original publication.
back to text minor variation in any anatomy is normal!
spinal manipulation for neck pain does not work.
the data is  consistent with what other major reviews have concluded, most notably the 2011  cochrane review (rubinstein et al).
the main common risk of smt, however, is psychological: smt can badly frighten patients, which is a serious risk factor for chronic neck and back pain.
it’s difficult to imagine a more daft and irresponsible  rationalization for a serious treatment mistake.
you don’t seethis every day.
rosner, the role of subluxation in chiropractic, 1997 i’ve heard many chiropractors scoff dismissively that “most  chiropractors don’t believe subluxation theory anymore anyway.”
both groups did equally well — or  equally poorly, if you prefer.
if it’s still hopelessly mired in controversy, how good can it possibly be?
in more than a century, nothing like that has ever been  shown to be true.3 so do chiropractic subluxations even exist?
joint  manipulation may help to break this vicious cycle, either relieving some of the  reason the trigger points are persisting, or relieving the trigger points  themselves.
a “spine out of line.”4
complete restoration of the c6-c7 subluxation was achieved with resolution of  the presenting symptoms.
considering that even standard smt isn’t working any miracles, you need to be skeptical of obscure variations on it, especially the “subtle” ones that hardly seem to be doing anything.
for instance, it’s consistent with a widely reported problem with spinal adjustments: the benefits often don’t last long!
the spirit of this statement is just as valid as it was  more than forty years ago.
even a completely healthy spinal joint could be mildly injured by a strong enough spinal manipulation.
most practitioners are unlikely to use aggressive smt on a spine  exhibiting symptoms of any trauma, disease or other vulnerability.
the resulting stroke and debilitation from such a large  number is very significant.
please think of the special supplement as a  part of your tutorial(s) that just happens to be on another page.
for perspective, “aspirin use, even at doses below 300 mg/day  and despite modified release formulations, has been associated with a two to  threefold increased risk of developing upper gastrointestinal tract  complications (i.e., bleeding or perforation)”
enjoy this campy,  cringe-inducing bit news reel about a dude who can “owl” his neck  — rotate 180˚ degrees!
i deal with it in the free article, what happened  to my barber?, and in more detail in the neck pain tutorial.
for an emotionally compelling example of such dangerous incompetence, see the articlewhat happened to my barber?
slightly subluxed spinal joints often return  to a more or less normal position immediately, like a dislocated shoulder  popping back in.
chiropractic therapy, by contrast, would have cost an order of magnitude more  and required spending time on appointments with chiropractors.
back  to text spinal cracks and other chiropractic manipulations — like traction  — are downright frightening to a significant portion of the population.
the goal of smt is to stimulate the joint, not to pop it.
please be aware that not all physical therapists will recognize these symptoms as warning signs!
joint  dysfunction and trigger points probably reinforce each other.
soon the “itch” needs to be  “scratched” again.51
there was a particularly noteworthy example early in 2011.29 neil o’connell: the email from the industry was effusive.
new england journal of medicine.
i find it hard to imagine life without joint popping!
other manual therapies are also unsafe.
an excellent,  expert treatment of a tricky subject by skeptical chiropractor and writer sam  homola.
“unfortunately, such  chiropractors are not easy to find.”
slightly pinched nerve roots only spell p-a-i-n and a-n-n-o-y-a-n-c-e, at worst  — no fun, no indeed, but hardly disease.
another fun example of congential deformity or anatomical variation is the amazing owl man!
and yet plenty of that research evidence — weak though it may be — does give some hope that certain kinds of smt might have some benefits.2425262728
it’s not really surprising that neck manipulation is twice as likely to do harm asnot manipulating — but is it worth it?
if you sense that a  chiropractor or other health care professional wants to set you up for long  term regular therapy, find someone else to help you.
the conclusions seem too strong, too much at  odds with a lot of other very mixed evidence on this topic.
on  examination, there was a reduced range of movement of the cervical spine  without other neurologic deficits.
manual therapy is much  more expensive than most drug therapy.
it’s all relative note that the 25% and 100% stats are relative risk measurements:  the risk compared tonot getting treated — not the overall  likelihood, which cannot be measured from this kind of data.
the idea of “adjusting” the spine refers to many different manual therapies, usually performed by chiropractors, but also sometimes performed by other professionals.17 the knuckle-like facet joints of the low back may be mobilized (wiggled, basically18), cracked (like knuckles), tapped with a chiropractic “activator,” gently stretched or pushed on, and so on and on.
back to text sy ingraham.
thus we are still left  with smt being damned with faint praise here.
an excellent  overview of medical concerns about smt for the neck can be found in this statement of concern by a group of canadian neurologists.
back to text chiropractic vertebral subluxations: science vs. pseudoscience.
combining these factors — acute pain, minor potential therapeutic  benefits, a high rate of harm, fear of your spine’s fragility, fear of  the treatment — is all just a recipe for disaster.
and how serious are chiropractors about all this anyway?
it’s a complex picture, and it’s made even more complex by the  messy idea of “subluxation.”
i’m just another health care professional, with no special knowledge  or experience with chiropractic.
this is a chiropractic concept of some kind of spinal joint dysfunction, with many shades of meaning —  too many!
it’s a bit heavy going for patients, but it’s worthwhile for anyone  who’s really keen to understand this subject.
there are many case reports  of true spinal joint derangement and injury that cause little or no trouble, or  certainly much less than most people expect.
in chiropractic offices with a traditional view (the majority), most  of the point of smt is to treat “subluxation” -- which, as we've  discussed, is an idea so under siege that many chiropractors themselves have  denounced it.
perspective cuts both ways here.
as with tutorials, please feel free to share links to this articleprivately, but do not publish links to it.
still, even a small slice of the entire population is an awful lot of people.
the details of such a physiological effect are definitely not well  understood, but the effect probably exists in some form.
i knew a woman with a confirmed case of post-traumatic aai who was treated too roughly by a student massage therapist, and she suffered about a day of severe disorientation, vertigo, and vomiting.
incredibly, some therapists may dismiss such severe reactions with the  absurdly unsafe theory that the body is just processing toxins released during  the treatment.
to text swenson et al.
the same feeling can result even without a pop.
for more information about  this delicate balance, please read mymore general summary of the controversies  around chiropractic.
the clinical significance of normal — and not so normal —  anatomical variation.
it’s a messy decision, no doubt about it.
but many chiropractors have argued that this is all they really mean by “subluxation” these days anyway … … we [chiropractors] have successfully distanced the concept of a chiropractic subluxation from that of an orthopedic subluxation.
we make the following recommendations for the attention of the canadian public, the practitioners of manipulation, the medical community, the provincial ministries of health and the health care professional regulatory bodies.
by contrast, i have always been  grateful for the large number of ways that massage therapy can be used to  manipulate tissues in the low back, creating a rich variety of fresh sensory  experiences for clients for an hour at a time, week after week.
on a scale of  ten? formal reviews of and expert opinions on this mess the scientific bottom line is (obviously) ambiguous.
in all the years that they have been talking about them, chiropractors have  never been able to furnish proof of these mysterious subluxations which they  alone are able to see.
the fall subluxed  the joint substantially.
i also strongly recommend dr. homola’s 1998 book for health care consumers,inside chiropractic: a patient’s guide.
it is, in short, almost certainly wrong or  incomplete.
i have spent many years studying therapy science, and my work is  greatly enriched by thousands of conversations with readers and experts from  around the world.
really damned far — you have to take the spine way beyond its normal anatomical limits.
the ultimate  verdict on alternative medicine is delivered for the first time with clarity,  rigour and authority.
this echoes his opinion in his 1999 book, inside chiropractic: a patient’s guide, that “many patients have told me that manipulation was more effective [than physiotherapeutic management] in providing immediate relief.”37
i certainly  don’t reject it outright, but i think a careful reading of the whole  paper would probably turn up concerns.
dr. harriet hall on sciencebasedmedicine.org, aug 31, 2010 controversial it may be, but the science is clear enough to have caused a major american health insurer to stop paying for cervical spine smt in 2010.1 there has been little high quality scientific research to determine whether or not smt really “works,” but what little does exist is discouraging indeed.
back to text kanodia et al.
if smt is largely supposed to treat a problem that is poorly  defined and highly controversial at best, and maybe doesn’t exist at all,  how good can it possibly be?
although this is a serious dislocation, the patient was quite healthy.
here are some guidelines that may improve your chances of getting  benefit from this approach, and minimizing risk.
back  to text carnes et al.
this is a very well-used bit of chiropractic marketing language.
the correct umbrella term for these treatments is “spinal manipulative therapy” or smt.
openly defending the original chiropractic subluxation theory are many  chiropractors who often call themselves “straight” chiropractors,  meaning “pure.
manipulation of the cervical spine: risks and benefits.
thursday, december 1, 2011 — added scientific cases studies,  examples, pictures and video of true dislocation and abnormal anatomy to help  drive home the point that even significant spinal joint dysfunction can be  surprisingly harmless … never mind subtle joint problems.
there was a particularly noteworthy example early in 2011.29 neil  o’connell: the email from the industry was effusive.
if this sounds vague, you’re right — but that’s appropriate, because strong confidence in anything more specific than that is not really justified by the science.
since trigger points are clinically significant in general, and the likely cause of most back pain, and can often be lessened or relieved by virtually any physical stimulation, it’s not surprising that there is a strong resemblance between the satisfaction of a good rub and the satisfaction of a good crack.
adjusting the spine (spinal manipulative therapy, orsmt) is complex and controversial, largely based on the chiropractic concept of a joint “subluxation.”
their concerns are outlined in a detailed document,  “statement of concern to the canadian public from canadian neurologists  regarding the debilitating and fatal damage manipulation of the neck may cause  to the nervous system.
all your treatment and  self-help options for a crick in the neck explained and reviewed here are some books i recommend: inside chiropractic: a patient’s guide, a book by samuel homola ( book review).
this unfortunate situation may then be more deeply aggravated by the  therapist’s response: using the bad reaction as evidence of profound  structural instability in the spine, and as a justification for (much) more  treatment.
other manual  therapies are also unsafe.
many people seem to feel that a successful spinal  adjustment feels like “scratching an itch you can’t reach.”
back to text hoehler et al.
and here are few more guidelines for safety of my own: avoid cervical adjustment if you have a history of nausea and/or vomiting  associated with your neck pain, or with neck movement.
back to text tseng et al.
organs are controlled entirely by nerve tissues that do not pass through the spinal column, and by hormone signalling.
in 2011, considering  a bunch of new evidence, they still found smt to be “no better or  worse” than other therapies … which damned it again with very  faint praise, of course, becauseno therapy has ever been shown to be  all that effective for low back pain.
i knew a woman with a  confirmed case of post-traumatic aai who was treated too roughly by a student  massage therapist, and she suffered about a day of severe disorientation,  vertigo, and vomiting.
in spite of everything i know myself, when i encounter an  opinion from someone like dr. bogduk, i’m inclined to just go with  “what he said.”
it’s difficult to address them all at once, because there are so many different ways of going about it.
no matter how much i learn about the subject, i can always learn  something new from sam.
thus, smt failsthe “impress me” test — it might work, but it can’t possibly work particularly well.
there was a bit of a mess in the aftermath of the upgrades a few days  ago.
that’s the important question, and a hard one to answer.
the sensation of relief may be extremely strong!
they believe that either subluxations do not exist at all, or they only exist in some clinically insignificant form.
it can account for the satisfied feelings many people report, but it doesn’t promise the moon, either.
you will be  surprised to learn what chiropractors treat and why — and how much it  costs you as a taxpayer.
”48 even the most dire risks to treatment are not necessarily unacceptable, however.
this article is a special tutorial supplement.
(in both the case of a joint pop and the stretching example.)
so while i concede that modest real benefits of smt  might get obscured and overshadowed in a big review, i doubt thatsignificant benefits would ever vanish into the statistics.
current concepts: spinal manipulation and  cervical arterial incidents 2005.
although there  are other definitions — for instance, definitions that might be less  controversial — they probably should not be used, because they are too  easily confused with the main and original chiropractic definition.
the results were inconsistent, and make for some fascinating and  disturbing reading.
please think of the special supplement as a part of your tutorial(s) that just happens to be on another page.
ineffective variants of smt finally, there is the problem of smt methods that are probably less  effective.
chirobase: your skeptical guide to chiropractic history, theories, and  practices (http://www.chirobase.org/).
“can chiropractors and evidence-based manual therapists work together?”
in standard medical terminology, a subluxation simply refers to a partial traumatic dislocation of a joint.
however, smt for the low back joints is  notably much safer and thereforeless controversial than smt for the  neck.
it’s a bit heavy going for patients, but it’s worthwhile for anyone who’s really keen to understand this subject.
and some studies, of course, have had negative results.
they may convince their clients, but never have they provided proof of their pretensions to men of science.
there may be some truth somewhere in the chiropractic idea of subluxation,  but it is clearly loaded and controversial and variable in meaning — too  much so to be clinically useful.
mix of acute and chronic low back pain: smt/mobilization provides either  similar or better pain outcomes in the short and long term when compared with  placebo and with other treatments, such as mckenzie therapy, medical care,  management by physical therapists, soft tissue treatment and back school.
comments: the sound bite in this study is that 20-40% of all manual therapy treatments  — massage, chiropractic, physiotherapy — will cause some kind of  unpleasantness, side effect or “adverse event” in medicalspeak.
in 2010, carlesso et al analysed the scientific literature looking for evidence of harm from smt for the neck.39 they found a statistically insignificant trend towards the negative, an uncertain number that leaned in the direction of bad news: increased neck pain might be25% more likely with smt than if you did nothing, or if you just stuck to safe and neutral treatments.
how impressed are you by smt’s performance in this test?
it is quite tragic how one bad day can convince people that they have areally “bad back” that needs regular therapy almost forever.
their revised policy states: “given the paucity of  data related to beneficial effects of chiropractic manipulation of the cervical  spine and the real potential for catastrophic adverse events, it was decided to  exclude chiropractic manipulation of the cervical spine from coverage.”
spinal nerve roots do not hook up to organs!
could benefits of some smt have been “washed out”?
objectives: to describe a case of traumatic subluxation in association with a congenitally absent cervical pedicle, and review the pertinent medical literature.
therapy shows that, if neck manipulation works at all, it may be more likely to  work for people with these signs and symptoms.53 perhaps to some extent this is  also true of low back pain.
comments: this seems to a straightforward “thumbs up” study showing  that “traditional bone setting” (chiropractic adjustment, spinal  manipulative therapy) has a good effect on chronic neck pain.
most will argue that subluxations areat least responsible for chronic low back pain.
and some more immediately accessible resources: “can chiropractors and evidence-based manual therapists work  together?,” an article in journal of manual & manipulative therapy,  2006.
it’s extremely important to appreciate that minor variations in spinal anatomy arenormal.15
in the low back pain tutorial, i  describe one of my own former patients with a very serious lumbar dislocation  — and no low back pain (she came to see me for a foot problem).
so, yes, smt “worked” — but how well?
athorough  examination and judgement of more than thirty of the most popular  “alternative” treatments, such as acupuncture, homeopathy,  aromatherapy, reflexology, chiropractic and herbal medicine.
manual therapy. 2006.
trust your instincts!
here are some books i recommend: and some more immediately accessible resources: thursday, december 1, 2011 — added scientific cases studies, examples, pictures and video of true dislocation and abnormal anatomy to help drive home the point that even significant spinal joint dysfunction can be surprisingly harmless … never mind subtle joint problems.
dr. homola manages to be precise and thorough without losing his amiable tone -- exactly what i aim for on this website, actually.
chiropractic vertebral subluxations: science vs. pseudoscience, homola ( sciencebasedmedicine.org) the risks to an unhealthy spine are also quite rare, but somewhat  more serious.
that really clears things up!
in fact, interfering with the nerve roots can only do so much harm to a  person.
expert opinions on smt range widely, with some prominent doctors and medical scientists expressing the strongest possible concern and skepticism.
another fun example of congential deformity or anatomical variation is the  amazing owl man!
finding a good chiropractor.
if a painful or stuck-feeling neck or low back involves a “subluxation” in any sense other than partial dislocation, then, it must be somethingmore subtle — something nowhere near so obvious as a traumatic injury — which puts it firmly in the category of the classic chiropractic subluxation.
the theory  is full of holes and doesn’t begin to explain many features of joint  popping, in particular the “recharge” phenomenon, wherein joints  that supposedly cavitated nicely just a moment ago need to be left alone for  seconds, minutes or hours before they can cavitate again.
indeed, not as many people want their spines “adjusted” as you  might think.
it is quite tragic how one bad day can convince people that they  have areally “bad back” that needs regular therapy almost  forever.
probably in a few cases, yes.
smt for the back probably has modest benefits and  tolerable risks, while smt for necks involves less benefit … and the  rare but real risks of paralysis and death!
major upgrades inspired by a new scientific paper aboutthe dangers of spinal manipulative therapy, and by dr. sam homola’s new article at sciencebasedmedicine.org,chiropractic vertebral subluxations.
less serious but extremely unpleasant consequences are also possible for patients with aai.
two months before presentation, he had fallen from standing height  but did not report subsequent cervical pain, weakness, or paresthesia.
still others are afraid of it!
thursday, august 26, 2011 — added footnote to “minimizing the risks of smt”, explaining how much smt is too much.
in 2011, considering a bunch of new evidence, they still found smt to be “no better or worse” than other therapies … which damned it again with very faint praise, of course, becauseno therapy has ever been shown to be all that effective for low back pain.
in fact, it’s probably a large one, between those who vocally defend the original, untainted theory and those who avoid the term because of its baggage but still believe it quietly, or who reject the most extreme versions but are still deeply influenced by the theory.
i’m a crack addict, a junkie.
journal of the american academy of orthopaedic surgeons.
note that it has often been argued that smt is best  for acute low back pain, not chronic, so this is right in chiropractic’s  strike zone: if there is anything special, anything even remotely impressive  about smt, itshould have done rather well in this contest.
there is a decades-old argument between  doctors and chiropractors about the existence or nature of chiropractic-style  subluxations.
spin doctors: the chiropractic industry under examination, a book by paul
to  text chiropractic vertebral subluxations: science vs. pseudoscience.
many people feel uncomfortable with the idea of neck adjustment.
they add considerable weight to theme that smt is “damned with faint praise.”
this feeling needs explaining!
— low back pain myths  debunked and all your treatment options reviewed sy save yourself from neck pain! —
short-term effects of thrust versus nonthrust  mobilization/manipulation directed at the thoracic spine in patients with neck  pain: a randomized clinical trial.
patients may be  nervous because: they believe their spine is more fragile and vulnerable than it really is  (and talk of “subluxations” usually aggravates this anxiety),  and/or because the idea of spinal adjustment bothers them in any case (many people are  “freaked out” by the idea of spinal joint cracking40).
i have also observed many clients expressing relief and pleasure in response to incidental spinal “adjustments” — joint pops that occur in the course of doing massage therapy, little explosions as i glide up the spine.
we simply do not know.
thursday, march 17, 2011 — integrated two major new reviews of smt science,rubinstein and bronfort.
smt for the back probably has modest benefits and tolerable risks, while smt for necks involves less benefit … and the rare but real risks of paralysis and death!
the main common risk of smt, however, is psychological: smt can  badly frighten patients, which is a serious risk factor for chronic neck and  back pain.
does maintained spinal manipulation therapy for  chronic non-specific low back pain result in better long term outcome?.
chiropractors often propose “subluxation” as both the main cause of back and neck painand of disease and poor health in general.5
this is one of the most prominent anti-chiropractic articles available  on the internet.
check all that apply to you: the severity of your case is mild or moderate, not severe (yes, this  contradicts what i said above54)
the undeniable facts about alternative medicine, a  book by simon singh and edzard ernst.amazon.com
virtually all treatments  have risks!
obviously, if  there were any clear science on this, smt wouldn’t be controversial.
these are  also therefore the patients most likely to desperately try a wide variety of  treatment options,including more aggressive and frequent neck adjustments.
so it remains entirely possible that the phenomenon of severe neck injury from smt is real but rare, and simply didn’t occur in any of those 32 studies, or wasn’t observed and tracked.
thursday, march 17, 2011 — integrated two major new reviews  of smt science,rubinstein and bronfort.
”30 dr. nikolai bogduk weighs in with a paper stating his conclusion right in the title, “spinal manipulation for neck pain does not work.
check all that apply to you: the severity of your case is mild or moderate, not severe (yes, this contradicts what i said above54)
but they did not find “smoking gun” proof that neck adjustment can kill.
we can cram almost any  kind of theory into that label — almost anything that might go wrong with  spinal joints — without going too far out on a limb.
that’s what a poke in brain stem can do.
they did equally well  — or equally poorly, if you prefer.
magnetic resonance  imaging was performed.
i alsoblogged in more  detail about the cochrane review.
friday, october 1, 2010 —
back to text hurwitz et al. frequency and clinical predictors of adverse  reactions to chiropractic care in the ucla neck pain study.
the canadian stroke consortium recently published a  major prospective study.
for an emotionally compelling  example of such dangerous incompetence, see the articlewhat happened to my  barber?
but it’s not that small a faction.
scratching the itch you can’t reach: why joint popping feels good  and possibly relieves pain joint popping and cracking can feel great.
and yet plenty of that research evidence —  weak though it may be — does give some hope that certain kinds of smt  might have some benefits.2425262728
all the patients had the same  experience that pretty much everyone with chronic back pain has: they got  better slowly but surely over the course of a few weeks, roughly exactly as  they would have without any therapy at all.
joint popping and cracking can feel great.
chiropractic vertebral subluxations: science vs. pseudoscience, homola ( sciencebasedmedicine.org) the risks to an unhealthy spine are also quite rare, but somewhat more serious.
other patients seem to largely ignore it — it just doesn’t make much of an impression on them.
it’s a complex picture, and it’s made even more complex by the messy idea of “subluxation.”
avoid any  practitioner who tries to explain away significant side effects (i.e.,  “it’s just the toxins being cleared out”).
and, as mentioned above, there may be substantial risks to  neck adjustment.
traumatic subluxation associated with absent  cervical pedicle: case report and review of the literature.
avoid overprescription.
spinal nerve roots — the big bundles of nerves that pass between  vertebrae — only handle nerve messages formusculoskeletal structures , such as bones, muscles and skin.
unfortunately, i have not yet made the time.
what this mess of science (more examples!36) amounts to for patients is that smt is pretty unimpressive on average, and a bit of a crapshoot … but possibly worth a shot for the particularly desperate patient.
yes, this an old source!
strong neck adjustments may be  dangerous, subtle ones may be useless.
and that is only when the nerve roots are severely damaged or even severed.
this ominous definition of  subluxation is both the most popular and the least defensible.
he covers this  topic brilliantly in his 2006 article“can chiropractors and  evidence-based manual therapists work together?”
as with  tutorials, please feel free to share links to this articleprivately,  but do not publish links to it.
although conservative treatment is the primary treatment for  this clinical entity, surgery is an alternative option for those patients who  fail to achieve recovery after conservative treatment or exhibit instability.
what if smt works really well when done one way, with one kind of patient, but quite poorly otherwise?
there is a risk of life-threatening injury to the brain stem or vertebral  arteries.
methods: a 62-year-old man presented with severe neck and right shoulder pain  after falling.
these conclusions are all generally echoed by another major review in 2010.
so joint dysfunction almost certainly does not involve partial dislocation,  misalignment, and serious interference with nerve root function, as implied by  thetraditional definition of “subluxation.”
one chiropractor will say it is  the l3/4 joint that needs correcting, and the next will name another.
cut one completely, and you’ll paralyze something — but not an organ.
back to text doctors (especially osteopaths, physiatrists, and sports medicine  specialists), physiotherapists, and massage therapists also practice forms of  smt.
and their low cost was roughly appropriate for their took-the-edge-off effectiveness.
unimpressive benefits.
comments: a case report (and  disturbing x-ray) of a traumatic cervical spine dislocation, notable for being  mostlyasymptomatic: just torticollis and limited motion, but no pain,  weakness or altered sensation.
a typical case is described inwhat happened to  my barber?.
rosner, the role of subluxation in chiropractic, 1997 i’ve heard many chiropractors scoff dismissively that “most chiropractors don’t believe subluxation theory anymore anyway.”
it’s difficult to address them all at once, because there are so many  different ways of going about it.
an independent review of nccam-funded studies of  chiropractic.
soon the “itch” needs to be “scratched” again.51 it also probably explains another common problem with smt: why treatment results seem to be all over the map.
subluxation can mean many different things, depending on who is  talking about it.
most of our health and vitality is regulated by mechanismsother than nerve signals travelling through nerve roots — by other kinds of nerves, and by hormones (see sidebar for details).
although painful, the lack of neurological symptoms is  surprising — and more evidence that nerve roots are not easily pinched.
however, smt is primarily associated with chiropractic in the public  imagination, and chiropractic is certainly defined by it: “the  chiropractic profession, which began with a founding father in 1895, is  identified primarily by its use of manipulation” (homola).
that’s a fair point, but also a debatable  one.
to text zaproudina et al.
there is simply no  justification for smt for the neck unless you have a problem that isworth  the risk.
in the case of the neck, the risks are almost certainly much higher  — it’s potentially lethal, in fact.19 i’ll discuss this more  below.
there seems to be almost  no doubt that there issomething of therapeutic interest going on in  smt.
but consider listening to that little voice!
here’s a sampling: “there is  limited to moderate evidence that smt is better than physical therapy and home  back exercise in both the short and long term.
this just refers to typical side effects, such as ibuprofen’s  tendency to cause indigestion.
although conservative treatment is the primary treatment for this clinical entity, surgery is an alternative option for those patients who fail to achieve recovery after conservative treatment or exhibit instability.
…the chances of injury are multiplied when chiropractic neck  manipulation is routinely used many times on every patient in a misguided  attempt to improve health, as opposed to occasional use of neck manipulation by  physical therapists and other manual therapists who are concerned only about  restoring mobility in a stiff spine.
since all living systems seem to thrive on sensory input, and  generally suffer without it, i speculate that a joint crack or mobilization  feels something like getting “unstuck,” roughly the same feeling as  finally getting to stretch your legs after getting off a long flight —  and that analogy is not intended to trivialize it.
and how  serious are chiropractors about all this anyway?
however, only a dozen treatments is  actually on thelow end of what i’ve heard about chiropractic  treatment recommendations.
but they did not find “smoking gun” proof  that neck adjustment can kill.
these  chiropractors were way out of line, and the chiropractic profession must take  collective responsibility for such blatantly excessive treatment prescriptions.
but no matter how you slice it,  20-40% is a pretty unpleasant rate of harm — especially at  $60–120/hour!back to text carlesso et al.
they do not send or receive signals from your “guts” at all.
smt competes with standard care … barely
edzard ernst writes, “the concepts of chiropractic are not based on solid science and its therapeutic value has not been demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt.
if smt works at all, it certainly  doesn’t work well enough to be an impressive and reliable therapy.
stephen barrett is an indefatigueable  thorn in the side of that profession, and all the more credible because of  samuel homola’s collaboration as a chiropractic insider.
there was a bit of a mess in the aftermath of the upgrades a few days ago.
there is little doubt that spinal pain often involvessome kind of “joint dysfunction.”
and any such variation that is too subtle to be  easily agreed upon is also unlikely to be clinically significant — and  chiropractors, when tested, routinelycannot agree which joints in a  given patient are actually “out.
thursday, july 14, 2011 — added reference to article in the guardian aboutchiropractor disclosure of risk to patients.
if a painful or stuck-feeling neck or low back involves a  “subluxation” in any sense other than partial dislocation, then, it  must be somethingmore subtle — something nowhere near so obvious  as a traumatic injury — which puts it firmly in the category of the  classic chiropractic subluxation.
in the best case scenario, could such a simple sensory experience help to actually “cure” severe or chronic neck and back pain?
(in both the case of a joint pop and the stretching  example.)
it is available only to customers who have purchased tutorials on this website.
the sixth sense: proprioception, the vital but  mysterious sensation of position and movement.
i’ll address these  questions over the next few sections.
i rejected the vertebral subluxation theory as a basis for use of spinal manipulation.
new england  journal of medicine.
translation: some of the  studies were written by authors likely to ignore, deny and minimize evidence of  harm in the end, only 32 studies could be analyzed.
in the fall of 2009, the annals of the rheumatic diseases published a  reasonably good test of smt.32
(bmc medicine,  hernández-díaz, rodríguez, 2006).
…there is a “paucity of data related to beneficial effects of  chiropractic manipulation of the cervical spine” and a “real  potential for catastrophic adverse events.”
as far as most doctors and scientists are concerned, and even for many  chiropractors, the argument islong over.
this unfortunate situation may then be more deeply aggravated by the therapist’s response: using the bad reaction as evidence of profound structural instability in the spine, and as a justification for (much) more treatment.
this is unlikely but extremely serious, and i’ll cover that  separately in thenext section.
on  the other hand, the milder the problem, the less you should want to take the  risks of smt for the neck!
however, mistakes happen — it’s unlikely, but possible.
a benefit of spinal manipulation as adjunctive  therapy for acute low back pain: a stratified controlled trial.
above we discussed a study by  carlesso et al showing strong evidence that minor to moderate  neurological side effects are more than twice as likely with smt than with  other neck treatments.
many of these examples of dramatic joint injury and dysfunction actually causeless trouble than chiropractic subluxationsmany of these examples of dramatic joint injury and dysfunction actually causeless trouble than much less obvious chiropractic subluxations., never mind the more dire neurological problems that most people would assume to be the case, or the diseases and organ failures that much milder chiropractic subluxations can supposedly cause.
college of physicians and surgeons of the province of quebec in 1966 in  “the scientific brief against chiropractic”11 reality check: are spinal nerves the wellspring of all health and vitality?
is  this the best smt can do?
major reviews of that literature published in recent years came to  “underwhelming” and half-baked conclusions.
and  that is only when the nerve roots are severely damaged or even severed.
a crack is effectively just a kind of “massage” of the joint and the tissues around it, and thus smt may be about as relieving as anything else (i.e. heat, massage, stretching) that tends to reduce the discomfort of trigger points and stagnant, “grouchy” tissues.
an orthopedic subluxation, a true vertebral misalignment, or a mechanical joint dysfunction that affects mobility in the spine is not the same as a mysterious asymptomatic “chiropractic subluxation” that is alleged to cause disease by interfering with nerve supply to organs.
in 2004, a big review of the literature published inspine presented a lovely rats’ nest of conclusions, some of which were positive, some negative, all of which amounted to, “um, it’s kinda complicated, and we’re not really sure.
but there’s some hard math here, and it all depends on how you look at it.
there is obviously less potential harm in a gentler treatment (except to your pocket book, perhaps).
it also probably explains another common problem with smt: why treatment  results seem to be all over the map.
however, smt for the low back joints is notably much safer and thereforeless controversial than smt for the neck.
archives of family medicine.
smt provided by chiropractors is largely  based on the chiropractic idea of “subluxation,” which is itself a  highly controversial theory that comes with a lot of baggage.
that  doesn’t mean that the phenomenon doesn’t exist.44
that doesn’t mean that the phenomenon doesn’t exist.44
most important, you'll learn how to protect yourself  and your family from dangerous adjustments, practice-building tactics, bogus  treatments, and misleading information.
this ominous definition of subluxation is both the most popular and the least defensible.
the public must be made aware that the  neurological damage that can result subsequent to upper neck manipulation can  be debilitating and fatal.
spinal manipulation for low back pain.
2010.pubmed #20453181.
does it get any better if the goal of neck adjustment is to relieve headache  pain?
indeed, it might explain both why smt works, and why  it doesn’t work particularly well.
vertebrae are not lego bricks, each one  exactly like the other — they are biological and imperfect.
not exactly a glowing endorsement.
“undercover investigations of chiropractors,” a webpage on  quackwatch.org.
an effective therapy should have no problem passing fair tests with flying colours.
“good science-based chiropractors who do not subscribe to the vertebral subluxation theory and who use manipulation appropriately can offer a service of value,” sam homola writes.
can smt effectively treat neck and back pain?
they believe that subluxations cause not only back and neck pain, but practicallyany health problem, simply by impinging or irritating spinal nerve roots.
it’s problematic that smt is often based on such a slippery concept.
back to text cleland et al.
i particularly  discuss the pros and cons of smt as it relates to the treatment ofneck pain,  back pain, and muscle pain.
comments: dr. edzard ernst is a highly qualified critic of sloppy researchers  in alternative medicine.
in fact, they didn’t even try to calculate the relative risk — the data just wasn’t up to the task.
and yet people find the  benefits of aspirin to be worth the risks.
health care  professionals are ethically obliged to beconservative in their  treatment recommendations.
sam homola points out that “there are at least 97 named antithetical  adjustive techniques, all based on a nonsensical, nonfalsifiable chiropractic  vertebral subluxation theory”21 — almost a hundred variations of  smt that cannot peacefully co-exist, the truth of one invalidating the others,  like religions.
in  fact, it’s probably a large one, between those who vocally defend the  original, untainted theory and those who avoid the term because of its baggage  but still believe it quietly, or who reject the most extreme versions but are  still deeply influenced by the theory.
just because  there is a slight variation in the lumps and bumps of your spine —  something many of my patients worry about — does not mean that something  is “subluxed.”
we [chiropractors] have successfully distanced the concept of a  chiropractic subluxation from that of an orthopedic subluxation.
my own clients have often reported the same thing.
organs are controlled entirely by  nerve tissues that do not pass through the spinal column, and by hormone  signalling.
to text vernon et al.
what the nervous system does with novel sensory input certainly depends on a lot of factors.
one-stop information shopping for  skeptical information about chiropractic.
some evidence may support smt, but it doesn’t support itstrongly.
in 2010, carlesso et al analysed the scientific literature  looking for evidence of harm from smt for the neck.39 they found a  statistically insignificant trend towards the negative, an uncertain number  that leaned in the direction of bad news: increased neck pain might be25% more likely with smt than if you did nothing, or if you just stuck to  safe and neutral treatments.
comments: this 1996 paper found that  “there is no correlation between the measure of hypermobility and the  presence of clinical symptoms.
upper cervical instability: fact or fiction?.
comments: “there is moderate-to-high quality evidence that immediate clinically  important improvements are obtained from a single session of spinal  manipulation.
in a cock-a-hoop, caps lock-happy frenzy it bellowed “all manual medicine providers should be aware of this study.”
because there is little evidence of recovery after surgery, and the symptoms are usually not disabling, surgery is not recommended for most cases.
adjustment, manipulation, and popping of the spinal joints and the  subluxation theory of disease, back pain and neck pain by paul  ingraham, vancouver, canada bio credentials  & qualifications.
one chiropractor will say it is the l3/4 joint that needs correcting, and the next will name another.
“unfortunately, such chiropractors are not easy to find.”
here are the main concerns about smt: indeed, not as many people want their spines “adjusted” as you might think.
other patients seem to largely ignore it — it  just doesn’t make much of an impression on them.
but, just as clearly, smt is not working any miracles, and thus it fails the “impress me” test completely.
i alsoblogged in more detail about the cochrane review.
another surprising risk is that, even if all you have is back pain, chiropractors may recommend smt for the neck even when your only symptoms are in your low back.41
the value of a treatment must be weighed against the potential harm.
sometimes the  knuckle-like facet joints pop, and sometimes they don’t.
whatever you have been told before, and despite the availability of many explanations on the internet, the nature of joint popping isnot well understood.49
the public must be made aware that the neurological damage that can result subsequent to upper neck manipulation can be debilitating and fatal.
i am cautious about criticizing chiropractors directly on this website, because of their tendency to attack their critics legally, most notably in the case of the distinguished science writer simon singh in the uk.
asneil o’connell of body in mind described these results: “a tiny effect size for manipulation that doesn’t really tickle the undercarriage of clinical significance.”
as the saveyourself.ca  inventory of tutorials expands, special supplements like these will be a useful  new way of providing detailed information to customerswithout having  to repeat it in multiple tutorials.
i’m a  crack addict, a junkie.
nearly all medical science experts and many chiropractors reject the century-old chiropractic belief that smt can prevent or cure diseases.
they add considerable weight to theme  that smt is “damned with faint praise.”
a fair criticism of big reviews of the science is that they lump together  too many kinds of smt for too many different kinds of patients.
thus, smt failsthe  “impress me” test — it might work, but it can’t  possibly work particularly well.
but,  just as clearly, smt is not working any miracles, and thus it fails the  “impress me” test completely.
in a cock-a-hoop, caps lock-happy  frenzy it bellowed “all manual medicine providers should be aware of this  study.”
in a series of informal but devious and persuasive tests, physician  stephen barrett contrived to challenge the diagnostic skills of a number of  chiropractors.
it should  actually pretty much pull out a can of whupass on “advice and  meds.”
slightly subluxed spinal joints often return to a more or less normal position immediately, like a dislocated shoulder popping back in.
in any event, it’s also anatomically impossible for spinal joints to  physically “pinch” nerve roots with anything less than extreme  deformities of the spine.14 some chiropractors go further with subluxation theory than others, and the  further they go, the further out on a scientific limb they go.
back to text statement of concern to the canadian public from canadian neurologists  regarding the debilitating and fatal damage manipulation of the neck may cause  to the nervous system.
it’s reasonable and plausible.
avoid extremes of treatment intensity.
many people seem to feel that a successful spinal adjustment feels like “scratching an itch you can’t reach.”
the scientific bottom line is (obviously) ambiguous.