authors found that the specific profession of the manipulators (including chiropractors) did not affect these results.
the effectiveness of chiropractic  spinal manipulation for back pain is thus, at best, uncertain.
home - back pain home - health topics - emedtv health topics - back pain health topics - disease & conditions - tests & procedures - drugs & supplements - symptoms - articles - emedtv
chiropractic research on back pain back pain treatments chiropractic research on back pain in adults descriptions and  findings fromchiropractic research studies on back pain in adults are listed in  the following table.
go back to chiropractic research on back pain, page 1 <<
author noted there has  been only one systematic review of chiropractic spinal manipulation exclusively  (assendelft et al., 1996) and that, since that study, emerging trial data  "have not tended to be encouraging.
published from october 1996 through june 2003 citation description findings assendelft et al., 2003 meta-analysis of 39 randomized clinical trials of treatments foracute or chronic low back pain in adults.
authors summarized the available data by narrative, concluded they "did not provide convincing evidence for the effectiveness of chiropractic for acute or chronic low back pain," and noted that better-executed trials are needed.
authors stated that all studies analyzed had serious flaws in design, execution, and reporting.
authors  summarized the available data by narrative, concluded they "did not  provide convincing evidence for the effectiveness of chiropractic for acute or  chronic low back pain," and noted that better-executed trials are needed.
author noted there has been only one systematic review of chiropractic spinal manipulation exclusively (assendelft et al., 1996) and that, since that study, emerging trial data "have not tended to be encouraging.
studies could not be pooled to reach statistical  conclusions because of insufficient data and data quality problems.
the trials compared spinal manipulation (by chiropractors and other healthcare providers) with another treatment or control condition (including no treatment, conventional medical care, pain-relieving drugs, physical therapy, exercise, and back school).
previous12 advertisement written by/reviewed by: arthur schoenstadt, md last reviewed by: arthur schoenstadt, md advertisement other articles in this emedtv
authors stated that all studies analyzed had serious flaws in design,  execution, and reporting.
" assendelft et al., 1996 systematic review of eight rcts of chiropractic for acute or chronic low back pain.
studies could not be pooled to reach statistical conclusions because of insufficient data and data quality problems.
published from october 1996 through  june 2003 citation description findings assendelft et al., 2003  meta-analysis of 39  randomized clinical trials of treatments foracute or chronic low back  pain in adults.
the effectiveness of chiropractic spinal manipulation for back pain is thus, at best, uncertain.
presentation back pain treatment back pain medication back surgery lower back surgery artificial discs and back surgery back exercises chiropractic back pain healthy back maintenance lifting techniques for preventing back injuries preventing back injuries terms of use advertise with us contact us about emedtv
authors found that the specific profession of  the manipulators (including chiropractors) did not affect these results.
" assendelft et al., 1996  systematic review of eight rcts of chiropractic for acute or chronic low back pain.
in | chiropractic research on back pain back pain treatments chiropractic research on back pain in adults descriptions and findings fromchiropractic research studies on back pain in adults are listed in the following table.
the trials compared spinal manipulation (by  chiropractors and other healthcare providers) with another treatment  or control condition (including no treatment, conventional medical care,  pain-relieving drugs, physical therapy, exercise, and back school).
pain sciatica lower back pain spinal stenosis whiplash piriformis syndrome lower back pain relief back exercises back surgery back pain treatment flexeril sciatica symptoms ultracet skelaxin endocet ultram hydrocodone oxycodone site map healthsavvy sign
spinal  manipulation was more effective than sham therapy, but no more or no less  effective than other treatments.
clickterms of use for more information.
ernst, 2003  general review of the scientific evidence for the  effectiveness of chiropractic spinal manipulation forback pain (this review is not limited to low back pain studies).
go back to chiropractic research on back pain, page  1 << previous12 written by/reviewed by: arthur schoenstadt, md last reviewed by: arthur schoenstadt, md advertisement other articles in this emedtv
sitemap back pain sitemap please sign in to your healthsavvy account to continue: lost password don't have a healthsavvy account yet?click
articles - back pain articles - video back pain medications advertisement view all related emedtv health channels back
ernst, 2003 general review of the scientific evidence for the effectiveness of chiropractic spinal manipulation forback pain (this review is not limited to low back pain studies).
switch to mobile view - home - emedtv
presentation back pain treatment
spinal manipulation was more effective than sham therapy, but no more or no less effective than other treatments.
this site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
privacy policy copyright © 2006-2012 clinaero, inc. emedtv serves only as an informational resource.
site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with their own physician.