american massage therapy association http://www.amtamassage.org/home2.htm
[back to contents] professional & referral organizationsaston patterning the guild for structural integration http://www.rolfguild.org po box 1559, boulder co 80306 toll free: (800) 447-0150
this is a site linked to that of the aaompt (seeprofessional organizations section).
visit their web site for an international directory of practitioners.
call your state health department to learn how to verify a state license.
manual therapy http://www.churchillmed.com/journals/mantherapy/jhome.html this peer-reviewed journal of the manipulation association of chartered physiotherapists is written for the diverse needs of the various professions engaged in all aspects of manual therapy.
frome physical therapy:
the following are a small sample of titles that may be of interest.
the list includes member physicians whose practices include the integration of osteopathic manipulative treatment in the health care management of their patients.
robert c. ward, john a. jerome, and john m. jones, iii, eds.
national certification board for therapeutic massage and bodywork (ncbtmb) http://www.ncbtmb.com/ 8201 greensboro drive, suite 300 mclean, va 22102 phone: (800)-296-0664 (703) 610-9015
spine http://www.spinejournal.com international journal for the study of the spine phone: (516) 741-1772 fax: (516) 741-2247
north american institute of orthopaedic manual therapy (naiomt) http://naiomt.com pmb 129, 1574 coburg road.
swodeam consulting-manual therapy online http://swodeam.com/mto.html email: jmeadows@netcom.ca the manual  therapy online column is dedicated to ongoing events, both political and  clinical, in manual therapy.
call  your state health department to learn how to verify a state license.
the focus is to help restore balance between the structure and functioning of the musculoskeletal system, which is the largest and most energy-consuming system in the body.
eugene, or 97401-4802 phone: (800) 706-5550 fax: (541) 349-1172
massage’s  effect on lower back pain is also promising, at least as effective as  acupuncture or self-education approaches in reducing pain and increasing the  ability to accomplish basic physical activities.
this is a site linked to that of the aaompt (seeprofessional  organizations section).
american osteopathic association (aoa) http://www.am-osteo-assn.org/ 142 east ontario st. chicago, il 60611 toll free: (800) 621-1773 phone: (312) 280-5854 fax: (312) 202-8206
[back to contents] treatment centers please contact or visit the web sites of the rolf institute of structural integration or the guild for structural integration for an international directory of practitioners.
[back to contents] professional & referral organizationscranial academy
massages effect on lower back pain is also promising, at least as effective as acupuncture or self-education approaches in reducing pain and increasing the ability to accomplish basic physical activities.
fax: (703) 610-9005 email: mdownes@ncbtmb.com
although already noted in a previous section, this site is an exceptional and comprehensive resource for massage.
these credential guidelines for chiropractors are provided by the federation of chiropractic licensing boards at http://www.fclb.org/ncqa-tbl.asp.
the therapy promotes active self-treatment and provides a combination of innovative hands on techniques, state-of-the-art technology and exercise to aid in the rehabilitative process.
studies/observational data carol j. manheim john e. upledger, d.o., f.a.a.o.john e. upledger, d.o., f.a.a.o.
programs and services are provided to meet the needs of chiropractors, patients, students, and the public.
currently there are approximately 120,000 therapists in the u.s., yet only 29 states and the district of columbia require practitioners to be licensed.
the intended audience is multidisciplinary as well as multi-specialty.
topics covered are relevant to how elements of the neuromusculoskeletal system influence therapy outcomes and effectiveness.
[back to contents] professional organizations american academy of osteopathy (aao) http://www.academyofosteopathy.org 3500 depauw blvd, suite 1080 indianapolis, in 46268
voorhees, nj 08043 phone: (609) 782-1616 fax: (609) 782-1653 email:
offers locator services to persons seeking certified therapists.
bond john cottingham & jeffrey maitland integrating manual and movement therapy with philosophical counseling for treatment of a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a case study that explores the principles of holistic intervention alternative therapies in health and medicine (2000), vol. 6, no. 2, pp.1-8 patient exhibited remarkable improvement in head-neck alignment, balance/mobility, autonomic activity, and worldview for a 2-month span.
[back to contents] osteopathy osteopathy is a holistic and more preventive approach to medicine as compared to conventional medicine.
books authoritative research resources & textbooksjeffrey d. boyling & nigel palastanga sharon weiselfish-giammatteo integrative manual therapy for the upper and lower extremities: introducing muscle energy & beyond techniques north atlantic books, 1998 nick spencer & peter spencer case studies/observational data early american manual therapy (refer also to the web resources within the osteopathy section)
a great resource with several listings of organizations and journals.
the following listings are not intended to be comprehensive, nor to be used as a guide for treatment.
this webpage is devoted  to research and dissemination of the various forms of manual therapy of the  joints of the human body, which is applied by physiotherapists, chiropractors,  medical practitioners, and others.
the therapy promotes active self-treatment and  provides a combination of innovative hands on techniques, state-of-the-art  technology and exercise to aid in the rehabilitative process.
robert s. weinberg & valerie v. hunt effects of structural integration on state-trait anxiety journal of clinical psychology (1979), vol. 35, no. 2, pp.
sutoe 300 chevy chase, md 20815 phone: (301) 968-aoha (2642) fax: (301) 968-4195 email:aoha@osteohdq.org the aoha is the only national association dedicated to the interests of osteopathic hospitals and healthcare systems.
edward w. maupin, phd: papers on rolfing (structural integration) http://www.edmaupin.com/rolfing/rolfing.htm trained by dr. ida rolf, dr. maupin details the concepts and method of dr. rolfs discoveries, and includes links to papers on rolfing.
association for network chiropractic spinal analysis 444 main street longmont, colorado 80501 phone: (303) 678-8101 fax: (303) 678-8089 offers referrals and support through workshops, seminars, journals, and newsletters.
although rules vary from state to state, applicants must usually complete 500 or more hours of education and pass a certification exam.
world federation of chiropractic (wfc) http://www.wfc.org 3080 yonge street, suite 5065 toronto, ontario, canada m4n 3n1 phone: (416) 484-9978 fax: (416) 484-9665 e-mail: worldfed@sympatico.ca the wfc acts with national and international organizations to provide information and other assistance in the fields of chiropractic and world health to promote uniform high standards of chiropractic education, research and practice.
additionally, you may want to determine if your therapist is certified by the national certification board for therapeutic massage and bodywork.
manual physical therapy http://www.njhealthserve.com/manualpt.html 66 north van brunt st. englewood, nj 07631 phone: (201) 568-2044 and 2727 kennedy blvd.
rolfing®, or structural integration, balances and aligns the body along a natural vertical axis by gradually stretching, lengthening and repositioning the fascia, restoring its normal length and flexibility.
results were discussed in terms of the release of emotional tension stored up in the muscles due to structural integration.
this organization presents the best internationally developed diagnostic and treatment techniques specifically designed for clinical use.
they are provided for information only.
journal of the american osteopathic association (jaoa) http://www.am-osteo-assn.org/publications/jaoa/jaoa.htm
the rolfing technique of structural integration http://www.fromept.com/ a comprehensive informative site that is categorized for easy browsing.
al. stress, stimulus intensity control, and the structural integration technique confinia psychiatrica (1973), vol. 16, pp.201-219 effects of the structural integration technique on measures of psychological and physiological function were studied.
d.o.'s have the same scope of practice as allopathic doctors (m.d.'s), including the ability to prescribe drugs and perform surgery.
the aoha serves the osteopathic profession and its principles by increasing the recognition of osteopathy and promoting excellence in the delivery of health care and medical education.
aobta@prodigy.net the aobta is the national not-for-profit professional association of oriental bodywork therapists, which formed from the unification of several associations representing individual disciplines.
tension or mechanical restriction anywhere in this system can adversely affect other physiological systems and organs within the body.
d.c.s also are required to pass a state licensing board exam.
the board's mission is to foster high ethical and professional standards of practice and to assure competency in practitioners of therapeutic massage and bodywork through a recognized credentialing program.
massage on the web http://www.lucifer.com/~sasha/massage.html this site is a directory of some of the most interesting websites and books related to massage and muscular therapy, and some other health-related sites.
[back to contents] rolfing more than 50 years ago, dr. ida rolf began her inquiry into creating a holistic system of soft tissue manipulation and movement education that would organize the whole body with respect to gravity.
319-322 studied the effects of structural integration on state-trait anxiety.
refer to theprofessional organizations section for more on the amta and for contact and referral information.
boulder , co 80302 toll free: (800) 530-8875 phone(303) 449-5903 fax: (303) 449-5978
they are not meant to be endorsements for any individual, group, or type of therapy over others.
craniosacral therapy fact sheet http://www.craniosacral.com/ this site gives a brief overview of what craniosacral therapy is, some medical problems that have been alleviated by it, facts, and a few resources.
the manipulative therapies covered in this resource guide have been shown - both clinically and through research - to be beneficial for a wide range of problems that have previously failed to respond to conventional medicine.
717-729 results indicate the rolfing can lead to improved performance in mildly affected patients because they possess the neurological capacity to make use of increased tissue mobility.
international academy of orthopedic medicine (iaom)-united states http://www.iaomed.com
this webpage is devoted to research and dissemination of the various forms of manual therapy of the joints of the human body, which is applied by physiotherapists, chiropractors, medical practitioners, and others.
julian silverman, et.
andrew taylor stillandrew taylor
chiropractic practitioners earn a doctor of chiropractic (d.c.) degree from programs and solitary purpose institutions holding accredited status with the council on chiropractic education in the united states.
the jaoa is a scholarly and official scientific publication of the aoa.
while most chiropractors do not have hospital clinical privileges, this should not hinder practice or credentialing.
additionally, you may want to determine if your therapist is certified by the  national certification board for therapeutic massage and bodywork.
about rolfing http://www.rolfnet.com/about.html includes information on research done on rolfing.
[back to contents] treatment centers american academy of osteopathy http://www.academyofosteopathy.org 3500 depaw boulevard, suite 1080 indianapolis, indiana 46268-1136 voice mail: (317) 879-1881 fax: (317) 879-0563 the american academy of osteopathy will be pleased to send you a list of physician members in your state.
a cranial therapist is trained to palpate this motion and diagnose the movement of the system as a whole by locating critical points of restriction in the cranium.
she discovered that she could achieve remarkable changes in posture and structure by manipulating the body's myofascial system.
[back to contents] chiropractic therapy chiropractors influence the body's nervous and immune systems by adjusting the spine and joints, thereby alleviating pain and bettering general health.
[back to contents] professional & referral organizations american massage therapy association (amta) http://www.amtamassage.org 820 davis street, suite 100 evanston, il 60201-4444 phone: (847) 864-0123
the rolf institute was founded in 1971 by dr. rolf to train rolfing practitioners and rolf movement practitioners, support research, and promote rolfing to the public.
the aoa is the national organization representing all d.o.'s.
currently there are approximately 120,000 therapists in the  u.s., yet only 29 states and the district of columbia require practitioners to  be licensed.
[back to contents] professional organizations american academy of orthopaedic manual physical therapy (aaompt) http://www.aaompt.org p.o. box 4777
the international professional school of bodywork (ipsb) http://www.webcom.com/ipsb/ipsbgen.html 1366 hornblend st. san diego, ca 92109 toll free: (800) 748-6497 phone: (858) 272-4142
osteopathic health & wellness institute (ohwi) http://www.ohwi.org 453 baltimore
pain: a case study jospt (1997), vol. 26, no. 3, pp.155-167 patient exhibited sustained improvement after implementation of all three paradigms through a 4-week follow-up.
journal of manual and manipulative therapy http://home1.gte.net/jmmt
practitioners earn a doctor of osteopathy (d.o.) degree from one of the 19 accredited osteopathic medical schools in the united states.
american osteopathic healthcare association (aoha) http://www.aoha.org/ 5550 friendship blvd.,
jersey city, nj phone: (201) 369-2400 email: manualpt@earthlink.net manual physical therapy offers the "australian method", which is hands on treatment for neuromusculoskeletal and peripheral joint disorders.
[back to contents] treatment centers
original articles cross the entire spectrum of spinal pain, deformity and disability, and include coverage of both conventional and alternative treatment modalities being employed both in the u.s. and internationally.
john cottingham & jeffrey maitland a three-paradigm treatment model using soft tissue mobilization and guided movement-awareness techniques for a patient with chronic low back
research has shown that massage can alleviate pain, increase alertness and reduce levels of circulating stress hormones.
place san diego, california 92105 phone: (619) 583-7611 fax: (619) 583-0296 a non-profit center for children which uses osteopathy, neuro-developmental patterning, and integration, nutrition, natural medicines, and developmental optometry to treat children.
it is directed toward the osteopathic primary care physician with a broad range of interests and provides a clinical and scientific update for the osteopathic specialist.
books authoritative research resourcesida p. rolf, ph.d. ida rolf, ph.d. (rosemary feitis, editor)ida rolf, ph.d. (rosemary feitis, editor) ida rolf, ph.d.ida rolf, ph.d. case studies/observational datamary
also included in this resource are links to relevant journals, forthcoming conferences, and a categorized listing of other web sites.
the rolf institute of structural integration http://www.rolf.org 205 canyon blvd.
click oncurrent column for access to full  text articles from the current issue, and for access on items kept in the archive.
please contact or visit the web sites of theamta and ncbtmb (listed above) to locate treatment centers in your area with certified/licensed massage therapists .
perry, j., jones, m., thomas, l. functional evaluation of rolfing in cerebral palsy develop.
fred m. houston harish johari tokujiro namikoshitokujiro namikoshi jwing-ming yangjwing-ming yang
journal of orthopaedic research http://www.ors.org/jor/index.html this is the official publication of the orthopaedic research society, which reports new information on experimental, theoretical, and clinical aspects of orthopaedic research, including prospective clinical studies.
this organization is comprised of educators and practitioners of structural integration, dedicated to teaching, research, and service.
in finding a qualified and licensed massage therapist, there are some facts  to be aware of.
the chiropractic resource organization http://www.chiro.org/ this is a non-partisan internet site that is both "for" chiropractors and maintained "by" chiropractors, working towards providing the best information and communication.
fax: (847) 864-1178 the amta works to establish massage therapy as integral to the maintenance of good health and complementary to other therapeutic processes.
books authoritative research resourcesmichael
[back to contents] journals massage therapy journal the official journal of the american massage therapy association (amta).
coplan-griffiths daniel david palmer the chiropractor's adjuster palmer college press, 1992 written by one of the fathers of chiropractic medicine, this book discusses the science, art and philosophy of chiropractic.
the aaompt is a professional organization dedicated to physical therapists and any educational, research or clinical institution with an interest in orthopaedic manual physical therapy.
this field takes a holistic approach to health and illness, and encourages the body's innate tendency towards health.
hellerwork international, llc http://www.hellerwork.com 406 berry street mount shasta, ca 96067 toll free: (800) 392-3900 fax: (530) 926-6839 email: hellerwork@hellerwork.com with a foundation in rolfing, hellerwork is a series of one-hour sessions of deep tissue bodywork and movement education designed to realign the body and release chronic tension and stress.
[back to contents] professional & referral organizations american chiropractic association (aca) http://www.amerchiro.org/index.html 1701 clarendon blvd arlington, va 22209 toll free: (800) 986-4636 phone: (703) 276-8800 fax: (703) 243-2593 email:
orthopaedic manual/manipulative therapy http://www.omt.org/ provides concise information on omt in general, as a science, and related news.
manual therapy research http://www.cchs.usyd.edu.au/ess/smrg/man_ther.html
an international and peer-reviewed forum for the sharing of important diagnostic and therapeutic advances to help reduce the infirmities of human spine dysfunction.
memberinfo@amerchiro.org this organization has a monthly publication and newsletter, a referral for a doctor of chiropractic in your area, and clinical councils with specialization in sports injuries, and physical fitness, mental health, neurology, diagnosis, and internal disorders, nutrition, orthopedics, physiological therapeutics, diagnostic imaging, and occupational health.
phone: (303) 447-0122
[back to contents] web resources promotional and commercial sites are not included in this listing unless they provide significant impartial information resources.
its effectiveness in administering to back pain, headaches, and other injuries and traumas has contributed to chiropractics place as the second largest primary health care field in the world.
the amta also has information on how to find a massage therapist in your area.
orthopaedic manual/manipulative therapy http://www.omt.org/ provides concise information on omt in general, as a science, and related  news.
this journal of the american academy of orthopaedic manual physical therapists includes clinical studies pertinent to manual and manipulative medicine, original research from the basic sciences relevant to assessment, treatment, and prevetion of musculoskeletal disorder, case studies that describe innovative approaches to patient care, and more.
[back to contents] web resources promotional and commercial sites are not included in this listing unless  they provide significant impartial information resources.
[back to contents] note:  the following listings are not intended to be  comprehensive, nor to be used as a guide for treatment.
pike springfield, pennsylvania 19064 toll free: (877) 333-5935 phone: (610) 544-9551 fax: (610) 544-7545 email: care@ohwi.org the ohwi is an institute for osteopathic manipulative medicine, craniosacral therapy, and manipulative therapy education devoted to teaching gentle, yet potent, manipulative techniques that allow the body to heal itself.
official certification can be obtained from the upledger institute (ui), through a rigorous two-level program.
the practitioner combines deep, gentle pressure with the clients breathing and movement to free fascial restrictions.
according to thejournal of  the american medical association, the number of adults seeking  massages nearly doubled between 1990 and 1997, with nearly 114 million visits  in 1997 alone.
osteopathic center for children http://osteopathic-ctr-4child.org 4135 54th
raquel martin case studies/observational data chester wilkchester wilk
there are numerous massage therapy centers across the country.
sacral occipital resource society international (sorsi) http://www.sorsi.com po box 6067 leawood, ks 66206 phone: (888) 245-1011 fax: (913) 341-7685 email: fhl@ipa.net sorsi teaches postgraduate courses and certifies chiropractors in sacro-occipital technique (sot) and sot craniopathy.
world chiropractic alliance (wca) http://www.worldchiropracticalliance.org/ 2950 n. dobson rd, suite1 chandler, az 85224 toll free: (800) 347-1011 fax: (480) 732-9313
) manipulative: the skilled and specialized use of manual and/or mechanically applied movement techniques, as a part of comprehensive orthopedic physical therapy for disorders of the moving parts of body 3) therapy: relating to therapy by a physiotherapist, physical therapist manual therapy also includes modalities such as chiropractic therapy, craniosacral therapy, massage therapy, and osteopathic manipulative techniques/medicine (omt/omm).
american association of colleges of osteopathic medicine (aacom) http://www.aacom.org/ 5550 friendship blvd., suite 310 chevy chase, md 20815-7231 phone: (301) 968-4100
the aacom represents the administration, faculty and students at the 19 member osteopathic medical schools in the united states, and is actively involved in all areas of osteopathic medical education.
includes a 10-session series as a basic framework, with extensive development in movement and touch communication.
email: info@aoa-net.org all doctors of osteopathy (d.o.s) within this association are trained in osteopathic manipulative treatments (omt), with some specializing more in omt, and others more in conventional medical techniques.
international chiropractors association (ica) http://www.chiropractic.org 1110 north glebe rd., suite 1000 arlington, va 22201 toll free: (800) 423-4690 phone: (703) 528-5000 fax: (703) 528-5023 e-mail: chiro@chiropractic.org
the resources are selected and categorized to help you with your own research.
the chiropractic page http://www.mbnet.mb.ca/~jwiens/chiro2.shtml
the craniosacral movement created by the rhythmical increase and decrease in cerebrospinal fluid causes a predictable movement of the cranial bones.
net/~centre/cranio.htm a brief description of the history and mechanism of action of craniosacral therapy.
johari explains which oils work best for  particular body types and shows how to stimulate self-healing.
this certification enables graduates of the training program to become members of the rolf institute, and offer this work to the public, referring to themselves as "certified rolfers" and rolf movement practitioners.
still andrew taylor stillandrew taylor still robert c. ward, john a. jerome, and john m. jones, iii, eds.
contents: introduction general and orthopedic manual therapy massage therapy rolfing chiropractic therapy craniosacral therapy osteopathy introduction the resources contained in this information pack -books, journals, professional organizations, treatment centers, search services and web resources - relate to alternative and complementary therapy options available for manipulative therapies.
click oncurrent column for access to full text articles from the current issue, and for access on items kept in the archive.
[back to contents] treatment centers positive life center http://homepage.interaccess.com/~plctp/page3.html po box 3938 oak park, il 60303-3938 phone: (708) 848-0400 email: plctp@interaccess.com practitioners at this center provide complementary care techniques that mobilize the natural inner healing potential and promote physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual well-being in a safe, compassionate, and non-judgmental environment.
american oriental bodywork therapy association (aobta) http://www.healthy.net/aobta laurel oak corporate center, suite 408 1010 haddonfield-berlin rd.
[back to contents] journals due to the relatively recent entrance of this technique into the medical field, there are no journals specific to craniosacral therapy published as of yet.
although rules vary from state to state, applicants must usually  complete 500 or more hours of education and pass a certification exam.
the resources are selected and categorized to help you  with your own research.
the main approach is to use drug therapy to dampen symptoms while the causal factor is usually ignored, and therefore left untreated.
although there are several organizations that offer courses in variations of rolfing (see "professional organization" section), certification is earned through the rolf institute of structural integration.
click onnews room for up-to-date news and articles on massage, or about massage therapy to learn more about definitions, trends, research, and other sites of interest in the field.
the medicinal benefits of the various types of massage techniques are increasingly becoming recognized and accepted.
fax: (858) 272-4772 email: beingipsb@aol.com
conventional medicine does not have many effective treatments for chronic illnesses and pain, spinal and joint difficulties, digestive disorders, and many other non-acute health problems are generally less effectively treated by conventional medicine.
research has shown that massage can alleviate pain, increase  alertness and reduce levels of circulating stress hormones.
in this type of therapy, the bones of the skull are gently manipulated to alleviate a wide range of conditions, including headaches, ear infections, strokes, spinal cord injuries, and cerebral palsy.
some of the topics included in this site are testimonials, a list of practitioners nationwide, and an index of related articles.
offers training in the rolf method as part of a comprehensive program in somatic bodywork.
this book is a collection of historical documents (mostly on osteopathy) pertaining to manual therapy and is intended for use by health professionals.
[back to contents] craniosacral therapy
changes after structural integration were indicative of increased openness and better modulated sensitivity to environmental stimulation.
therapists certified at ui must maintain their certification through continuing education credits.
the national center for quality assurance (ncqa) defines specific standards about how credentials are to be determined in the chiropractic profession.
[back to contents] treatment centers manual medicine center http://manualmedicine.com/ 2203 dekle ave tampa, fl 33606 phone: (813) 259-1800 fax: (813) 259-9671 provides personalized preventive and acute health care and education in various techniques, including different forms of massage and craniosacral therapy.
[back to contents] journals
biloxi, ms 39535-4777 phone: (228) 392-0028 fax: (228) 392-0666
the medicinal benefits of the various types of massage techniques are  increasingly becoming recognized and accepted.
an international association of chiropractors that offers guidance and assistance to professionals and provides public education and information.
orthopedic manual therapy is a specialty of physiotherapy that is based upon three principles: 1) orthopedic: relating to disorders of structures forming joints, together with associated muscles, connective tissues, nerve roots and peripheral nerves (neuro-muscular-articular system) 2
the journal of back and musculoskeletal rehabilitation http://www.pmr.vcu.edu/jbmr/ this is a journal whose main focus is to present practical information about musculoskeletal rehabilitation to clinicians who treat patients with back and musculoskeletal pain complaints.
phone: (317) 879-1881 fax: (317) 879-0563 this organization is a practice affiliate of the aoa, and represents d.o.s who specialize in skilled omt in their clinical practice.
health: rolfing http://health.yahoo.com/health/alternative_medicine/alternative_therapies/rolfing/
[back to contents] general and orthopedic manual therapy manual therapy is a general term for modalities that use the hands to diagnose and treat illness and musculoskeletal disorders, as well as to maintain health.
click on information on ica's expanded referral service to find a doctor of chiropractic near you.
questions or comments can be directed to: dr. claire johnson, editor national university of health sciences, journals 200 east roosevelt road lombard, illinois 60148 phone: (630) 297-32906524 fax: (630) 889-6554 e-mail: cjohnson@nuhs.edu journal of manipulative and physiological therapeutics includes scientific papers of interest to the chiropractic profession, such as original research, reviews of the literature, important case reports, commentaries and editorials.
the naiomt is an organization dedicated to the advancement of orthopaedic manual and manipulative physical therapy, and the promotion of the highest quality physical therapy in the prevention and treatment of musculoskeletal problems.
it provides a forum for communicating and disseminating philosophical concepts, clinical practice observations, and scientific information, and for defining the current status of the profession.
rolfing® is said to improve alignment at any stage in life.
[back to contents] articles cottingham, j., porges, s., lyon, t. effects of soft tissue mobilization (rolfing pelvic lift) on parasympathetic tone in two age groups journal of american physical therapy association (1988), vol.
fax: (303) 447-0180 email: gsi@rolfguild.org the guild for structural integration is a private, non-profit vocational school offering training in the 10-session series originally taught by ida p. rolf.
phone: (201) 369-2400 email:  manualpt@earthlink.net manual physical therapy offers the "australian  method", which is hands on treatment for neuromusculoskeletal and  peripheral joint disorders.
she eventually named this system "structural integration," although some still refer to it as "rolfing," after its founder.
d.o.'s and m.d.'s complete four years of basic medical education, complete an internship and a residency program, must pass the same or equivalent state licensing examinations, and practice side by side in fully accredited and licensed hospitals and medical centers.
it should not be regarded as a guide to self-diagnosis or self-treatment.
books authoritative research resources & textbooks american osteopathic association osteopathic medicine aoa, 1996 contact the aoa (see below) for more information on this publication.
american whole health osteopathy page http://www.americanwholehealth.com/library/osteopathy/do.htm comprehensive overview of osteopathy, including its philosophy, history, references, osteopathic manipulation and much more.
fred m.  houston healing benefits of acupressure: acupuncture without needles ntc/contemporary publishing company, 1993 ayurvedic massage: traditional indian  techniques for balancing body and mind inner traditions inernational,  1996 ayurvedic massage works on both the physical and mental levels,  transmitting a life-giving energy that assists all systems of the body in  repairing and renewing themselves.
for additional resources on relevant alternative and complementary resources, see our resource guides on:
refer to the osteopathic medicine section for more information on osteopathy.
[back to contents] massage therapy
craniosacral therapy http://home.
swodeam consulting-manual therapy online http://swodeam.com/mto.html email: jmeadows@netcom.ca the manual therapy online column is dedicated to ongoing events, both political and clinical, in manual therapy.
case studies/observational dataleon chaitow, d.o. norman gevitz, d.o.norman gevitz, d.o. [back to contents] journals aao journal http://www.academyofosteopathy.org/journals.htm the aao journal is the official journal of the american academy of osteopathy.
a concise yet informative site on rolfing, including definitions, alternative names, related resources, and a discussion of various aspects of treatment.
the first three journals listed below are published by the national university of health sciences, formerly the college of chiropractic.
chiropractic technique designed to stimulate interest and research in applied chiropractic sciences and to disseminate information to practitioners, educators and others concerned about positive practices and policies.
there is a wealth of books available on the many disciplines of massage.
journal of chiropractic humanities fosters learned debate and interaction within the chiropractic profession regarding the uses of philosophical and sociological scholarship in advancing the chiropractic tenets.
[back to contents] note:
journal of subluxation research http://www.jvsr.com/ peer-reviewed journal focusing on the subluxation and its impact on health.
also included in this resource are  links to relevant journals, forthcoming conferences, and a categorized listing  of other web sites.
they are provided for  information only.
osteopathic medicine: international www resource website http://www.rscom.com/osteo/
it will provide readers with both a general fund of knowledge on the assessment and management of specific problems and new information considered to be state-of-the-art in the field.
research supports the fact that osteopathy can help or resolve many health problems that fail to respond to conventional medicine.
this is the original chiropractic association, founded by the son of the founder of chiropractic.
in finding a qualified and licensed massage therapist, there are some facts to be aware of.
each of these modalities is addressed in deeper detail in later sections of this resource guide (click onback to contents to access these modalities).
352-356 results contribute to the understanding of pelvic mobilization techniques and may help to exlain why these techniques have been clinically successful in treatment of dysfunctions due to reduced parasympathetic tone and excessive sympathetic activity.
books authoritative research resourcesalain gehin john e. upledger, d.o., f.a.a.o. & jon d. vredevoogd, m.f.a.john e. upledger, d.o., f.a.a.o. & jon d. vredevoogd, m.f.a. john e. upledger, d.o., f.a.a.o.john e. upledger, d.o., f.a.a.o. case
a few of the illnesses helped by osteopathic manipulation are spinal and joint conditions, arthritis, allergies, cardiac diseases, breathing dysfunctions, chronic fatigue syndrome, hiatal hernias, high blood pressure, headaches, digestive disorders, bladder and menstrual problems, prostate congestion, and numerous neuritis disorders.
this expanding site provides a forum for osteopaths around the world to unite, creating some interesting links.
according to thejournal of the american medical association, the number of adults seeking massages nearly doubled between 1990 and 1997, with nearly 114 million visits in 1997 alone.