another plus is all of the ladies in the office know you when you arrive and you are greeted as if you are family.
adults, children, athletes, women during pregnancy, professionals, elderly, and anyone who needs their body to work as well as possible.
in essence, chiropractors help your body to function as it did when you were younger.
chiropractic adjustments are safer than aspirin, muscle relaxers, and back surgery.
dozens of research studies have documented the safety and effectiveness of chiropractic adjustments.
i am a competitive runner and have been plagued with hip pains on long days.
chiropractic is a drug-free, non-surgical science and, as such, does not  include pharmaceuticals or incisive surgery.
studies and surveys indicate that  chiropractic patients are well satisfied with their treatment.
chiropractors guide you in a personalized approach to overall wellness  - through spinal care, exercise, good nutrition, and stress management.
chiropractors enjoy a higher satisfaction rating than md and physical  therapy patients.
plus, chiropractic physicians are concerned with your overall  health.
in fact, millions of  chiropractic adjustments are safely delivered to satisfied patients every day!
i came in with lower back pain  from an exercising injury.
identified early, most of these  disorders are reversible, and it is for this reason that spinal examinations  for children are imperative.
in essence, chiropractors help your body to function as  it did when you were younger.
chiropractic adjustments are safer than aspirin, muscle relaxers, and back  surgery.
i think he is the best chiropractor in the area.
included is the treatment of intersegmental aberrations for alleviation of related functional disorders.
i must say that in the 2 years that i have been  going here i have never felt better.
frequently, spinal problems start in childhood,  years before clinical symptoms appear.
studies and surveys indicate that chiropractic patients are well satisfied with their treatment.
i have been to md's, pt's, athletic trainers, and even tried acupuncture.
dozens of research studies have documented the safety and  effectiveness of chiropractic adjustments.
the attempt is made to restore normal neuromusculoskeletal function as much as possible.
included  is the treatment of intersegmental aberrations for alleviation of related  functional disorders.
i couldn't wait to bring in my family.
i had suffered with back pain most of my life.
another plus is all of the ladies in the  office know you when you arrive and you are greeted as if you are family.
clearly, the sooner intervention occurs, the greater the success of chiropractic treatment.
i recommended dr. swank to my family members and co-workers  you  will not be disappointed.- susan h. office hours
the practice and procedures which may be employed by chiropractic  physicians are based on postgraduate academic and clinical training received in  and through accredited chiropractic colleges and include, but are not limited  to, the use of current diagnostic and therapeutic procedures.
chiropractic is a drug-free, non-surgical science and, as such, does not include pharmaceuticals or incisive surgery.
i had suffered with back pain most  of my life.
such procedures  specially include the adjustment and manipulation of the articulations and  adjacent tissues of the human body, particularly of the spinal column.
- andy c. dr. swank has an excellent bedside manner.
i must say that in the 2 years that i have been going here i have never felt better.
frequently, spinal problems start in childhood, years before clinical symptoms appear.
my experience with dr. swank has been very good and can recommend him without reservation.- mc i was referred by a friend to dr. swank.
my experience with  dr. swank has been very good and can recommend him without reservation.- mc i was referred by a friend to dr. swank.
the attempt is made to restore normal neuromusculoskeletal function as much  as possible.
in fact, millions of chiropractic adjustments are safely delivered to satisfied patients every day!
closed friday: 7:30am - 2:00pm dr. timothy a. swank, a native of ohio, received his b.a. from the ohio state university.
more copyright 2011 | web design by: merkados™ | all rights reserved
i have increased my  pr at several distances and am virtually pain free.
i recommended dr. swank to my family members and co-workers you will not be disappointed.- susan h. monday: 7:30am - 6:00pm tuesday: 7:30am - 5:00pm wednesday: 7:30am - 5:00pm thursday:
he has got me exercising, eating better, and stretching.
919-460-6098 the practice and procedures which may be employed by chiropractic physicians are based on postgraduate academic and clinical training received in and through accredited chiropractic colleges and include, but are not limited to, the use of current diagnostic and therapeutic procedures.
clearly, the sooner intervention occurs, the greater the success  of chiropractic treatment.
they  are very accomodating with scheduling and do there best to see you on the day  you call.
chiropractic physicians may  utilize physiotherapy modalities to enhance the body's ability to repair and  heal.
i have been very pleased with his approach and most importantly the results.
in a nationwide gallop study, nine of ten chiropractic  patients felt their treatment was effective.
chiropractors guide you in a personalized approach to overall wellness - through spinal care, exercise, good nutrition, and stress management.
home what is chiropractic?
he has got me exercising,  eating better, and stretching.
i think  he is the best chiropractor in the area.
identified early, most of these disorders are reversible, and it is for this reason that spinal examinations for children are imperative.
i have increased my pr at several distances and am virtually pain free.
when compared with traditional  approaches, chiropractic care is remarkably safe.
in a nationwide gallop study, nine of ten chiropractic patients felt their treatment was effective.
plus, chiropractic physicians are concerned with your overall health.
he went on to obtain his second baccalaureate and his doctor of chiropractic frompalmer college, during which time he served our country as a national guard officer.
they are very accomodating with scheduling and do there best to see you on the day you call.
my friend recommended dr. swank.
more almost everyone can be successfully treated and benefit from chiropractic care.
chiropractic physicians may utilize physiotherapy modalities to enhance the body's ability to repair and heal.
swankchiro testimonials i am a competitive runner and have been plagued with hip pains on long  days.
such procedures specially include the adjustment and manipulation of the articulations and adjacent tissues of the human body, particularly of the spinal column.
i came in with lower back pain from an exercising injury.
when compared with traditional approaches, chiropractic care is remarkably safe.
i have been very  pleased with his approach and most importantly the results.
chiropractors enjoy a higher satisfaction rating than md and physical therapy patients.