updated on:  12/10/09 continue reading:  surgery for chronic pain about chronic pain
text size: a a a physical therapy for chronic pain written by kamiah a. walker;  reviewed bysteven richeimer, md tweet you hear that you're supposed to stay active through your chronic pain and  you think—'but how?
the physical therapist will do a detailed physical evaluation to  assess your chronic pain and its effect on your life.
use of the spineuniverse.com site is conditional upon your acceptance of ouruser agreement steven richeimer, md this article was reviewed by steven richeimer, md.
however, a smaller machine for "at home" use is also available.
this is all part of the "self-care" or "self-treatment" aspect of physical therapy: through physical therapy, you learn good habits and principles that enable you to take better care of your body.
a  tens machine stimulates your muscles through variable (but safe) intensities of  electrical current.
the tens equipment  your physical therapist uses is relatively large.
chronic pain fibromyalgia pain management physical therapy discuss your chronic pain with the patient community.
he  or she can give you a personalized strengthening and exercise plan, in addition  to helping you learn how to manage your "daily life" pain.
tens helps reduce muscle spasms, and it may increase your body's production of endorphins, your natural pain killers.
updated on: 12/10/09 - continue reading: surgery for chronic pain about chronic pain - what is chronic pain?
related resources - quiz chronic pain treatments quiz - resource center minimally invasive alternatives to traditional spine surgery sponsored by: - from our sponsor could your low back pain be si-joint related?
blood is also needed to remove waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
you may be interested in these related articles: - chronic pain research and treatment updates - chiropractic care for chronic pain - opioids for severe back pain and neck pain - therapy helps chronic back pain patients sleep easier physical therapy is passive and active physical therapy includes both passive and active treatments.
after cold therapy, your therapist may work with you to stretch the affected muscles.
they're called passive because you don't have to  actively participate.
sometimes, just  getting through the day at work is agony, and now the doctor expects me to do  extra activities after work?'
- hot and cold therapies: your physical therapist will alternate between hot and cold therapies.
by increasing blood circulation, an ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
other aspects of physical therapy
conditions › chronic pain › text size: a a a physical therapy for chronic pain written by kamiah a. walker; reviewed bysteven richeimer, md tweet you hear that you're supposed to stay active through your chronic pain and you think—'but how?
passive physical therapy treatments include: - deep tissue massage: this technique targets spasms and chronic muscle tension that perhaps builds up through daily life stress.
most activities make my pain worse!
you may be interested in these related articles: chronic pain research and treatment updates chiropractic care for chronic pain opioids for severe back pain and neck pain therapy helps chronic back pain patients sleep easier physical therapy is passive and active physical  therapy includes both passive and active treatments.
your exercises may not be suitable  for another person with chronic pain, especially since chronic pain is such a  subjective, personal experience.
physical therapy is personalized chronic pain comes  in many forms, so effectively treatingyour pain requires a plan just  for you.
physical therapy is personalized chronic pain comes in many forms, so effectively treatingyour pain requires a plan just for you.
these are therapeutic exercises that  strengthen your body and help you deal with the chronic pain.
if needed, you  will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate ergonomic principles  into your daily activities.
your exercises may not be suitable for another person with chronic pain, especially since chronic pain is such a subjective, personal experience.
the  therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to release the tension in  your soft tissues (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
are you eager to start exercising but feel your pain is limiting  that?
hot and cold therapies: your physical therapist will  alternate between hot and cold therapies.
you may have a cold pack placed upon the  target area, or even be given an ice massage.
after cold therapy, your  therapist may work with you to stretch the affected muscles.
you could also have spasms or muscle tension because of strains or sprains.
your physical therapy program may start with passive treatments, but the  goal is to get into active treatments.
this information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient.
for professionals - conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - juvenile rheumatoid arthritis - kyphosis - low back pain - neck pain - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sacroiliac joint dysfunction - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal cord injury - spinal fractures - spinal stenosis - spinal tumors - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - sprains and strains - upper back pain - whiplash - other back problems
learn more » - email page - print - rss - discuss stay informed with spineuniverse sign up to receive free updates on news, research, community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics.
passive treatments help to relax you and your body.
cold therapy, also called cryotherapy, slows circulation, helping to reduce  inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
tens helps reduce muscle spasms, and it may increase your  body's production of endorphins, your natural pain killers.
your physical therapist may also suggest a personalized exercise program for you.
if needed, you will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate ergonomic principles into your daily activities.
as you can read in theexercise and chronic pain article, staying active is an important part of chronic pain treatment.
whether large or small, a tens unit can be a helpful therapy.
the physical therapist will do a detailed physical evaluation to assess your chronic pain and its effect on your life.
- resource center surgical & non-surgical options for a pain-free life sponsored by: connect with others in the patient community!
another cryotherapy option is a spray called fluoromethane that cools the tissues.
they're called passive because you don't have to actively participate.
you  could also have spasms or muscle tension because of strains or sprains.
always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem.
whether large or small, a tens  unit can be a helpful therapy.
passive therapies, such as those listed above, are generally done in  conjunction with active therapies.
blood is also needed to remove  waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
are you eager to start exercising but feel your pain is limiting that?
by increasing blood circulation, an  ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
remember: your physical therapy program is individualized, taking  into consideration your health and history.
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
however, a smaller machine  for "at home" use is also available.
the tens equipment your physical therapist uses is relatively large.
these are therapeutic exercises that strengthen your body and help you deal with the chronic pain.
passive treatments help to  relax you and your body.
this is all part of the "self-care" or  "self-treatment" aspect of physical therapy: through physical  therapy, you learn good habits and principles that enable you to take better  care of your body.
using that information, the physical therapist will develop a therapy plan  for you.
by using heat, the physical therapist seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
your physical therapy program may start with passive treatments, but the goal is to get into active treatments.
- tens (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation): a tens machine stimulates your muscles through variable (but safe) intensities of electrical current.
cold therapy, also called cryotherapy, slows circulation, helping to reduce inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
the physical therapist  can help you figure out the best type of exercise for you.
remember: your physical therapy program is individualized, taking into consideration your health and history.
this is where a physical therapist can help.
another cryotherapy option is a  spray called fluoromethane that cools the tissues.
spineuniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
what would be most helpful to learn in physical therapy?
using that information, the physical therapist will develop a therapy plan for you.
the therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to release the tension in your soft tissues (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
tens (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation):
in the active part of physical  therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to improve your  flexibility, strength, core stability, and range of motion (how easily your  joints move).
sometimes, just getting through the day at work is agony, and now the doctor expects me to do extra activities after work?'
- types of chronic pain - anatomy - symptoms - causes - exams and tests chronic pain treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic treatment - medications - exercise - interventional pain management - mental and emotional therapy - physical therapy - surgery chronic pain resources - common chronic pain questions - chronic pain treatments quiz - pain management resources related conditions - degenerative disc disease - fibromyalgia - spondylosis (spinal osteoarthritis) sponsored resources treatment update could my low back pain be si-joint related?
he or she can give you a personalized strengthening and exercise plan, in addition to helping you learn how to manage your "daily life" pain.
passive therapies, such as those listed above, are generally done in conjunction with active therapies.
as you can read in theexercise and chronic pain article, staying  active is an important part of chronic pain treatment.
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a  gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
he or she will also ask about your treatment goals: do you want to learn how to better manage your pain at the office?
passive physical therapy treatments include: deep tissue massage: this technique targets spasms and  chronic muscle tension that perhaps builds up through daily life stress.
in the active part of physical therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to improve your flexibility, strength, core stability, and range of motion (how easily your joints move).
your physical therapist may also suggest a personalized exercise program  for you.
a specialist - expert blogs spine conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - kyphosis - neck pain back pain and neck pain resources - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal stenosis - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - other back problems a-z - spinal anatomy - community advice - clinical trials - exams and tests - expert blogs policy and contact - find a doctor for your back pain - spineuniverse en español - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - back pain resource centers - back pain video directory - about spineuniverse - press releases - our awards - advertising opportunities - editorial board - editorial guidelines - partners and sponsors - privacy policy - advertising policy - terms of use - contact us - for professionals © 1999-2012 vertical health, llc
a-z - treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic - drugs and medications - mental & emotional therapy - pain management - physical therapy - spinal bracing - surgery - wellness - ergonomics - exercise - weight loss - resources - back products - clinical trials - exams and tests - links of interest - partners in education - podcasts - recommended books - resource centers - spinal anatomy - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - spineuniverse en español - video directory - community advice - find
the physical therapist can help you figure out the best type of exercise for you.
by using heat, the physical therapist  seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow  brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
you may have a cold pack placed upon the target area, or even be given an ice massage.
he or she will also ask  about your treatment goals: do you want to learn how to better manage your pain  at the office?