read these  responses from the research and academic community.
a study in the may  issue of consumer reports shows that hands-on therapies were tops among  treatments for relief of back pain.
the study, which surveyed more than 14,000  consumers, was conducted by the consumer reports health ratings center.
this movement calls for greater participation of  private practice environments in clinical research [7].
one hundred sixteen patients were seen once and triaged  to specialty care; 7% of patients received magnetic resonance imagings.
this evidence can guide physicians, payers, and  policy makers in evaluating chiropractic as a treatment option for low back  pain.
chiropractic management of low back disorders: report from a consensus process j manipulative physiol ther 2008 (nov); 31 (9): 651658 a broad-based panel of experienced chiropractors was able to reach a high level (80%) of consensus regarding specific aspects of the chiropractic approach to care for patients with low back pain, based on both the scientific evidence and their clinical experience.
this evidence can guide physicians, payers, and policy makers in evaluating chiropractic as a treatment option for low back pain.
these results suggested that the curricular approach toward teaching  musculoskeletal medicine at this medical school was insufficient and that  competency increased when learning was reinforced during the clinical years.
spine care  clinicians should discuss the role of smt as a treatment option for patients  with acute lbp who do not find adequate symptomatic relief with self-care and  education alone.
pain: a joint clinical practice guideline from the american college of physicians and the american pain society annals of internal medicine 2007 (oct 2);
the inadequacy of musculoskeletal knowledge after foundation training in the united kingdom journal of bone and joint surgery br 2009 (nov); 91 (11): 14131418
results for the patients treated by doctors of chiropractic were mean of 5.2 visits, mean cost per case of $302, mean intake pain rating score of 6.2 of 10, and mean discharge score of 1.9 of 10;95% of patients rated their care as "excellent.
in 1995, meade did a follow-up to his 1990 bmj article, again  publishing in thebritish medical journal.
end medical mis-management of musculoskeletal complaints q. are medical doctors well trained to diagnose or treat musculoskeletal complaints?
compared with patients of family physicians,patients of chiropractors were three times more likely to have been satisfied with the amount of information they were given, to have perceived that their provider was concerned about them, and to have felt that their provider was comfortable and confident dealing with their problem.
chiropractic use (76% of respondents) was greater than all the other 5  therapies combined (see figure 1) money and spinal surgery: what happened to the  patient?
this study found  that chiropractic care is more effective than medical care at treating chronic  low-back pain in patients' first year of symptoms.
we recruited  112 doctors on completion of their foundation programme and assessed them using  the freedman and bernstein musculoskeletal examination tool.
total incremental direct health care costs attributable to low back pain in the u.s. were estimated at $26.3 billion in 1998
what would the headlines scream if, after 4  years, our profession had failed to improve it's skills in musculoskeletal  assessment and management?
if not having any  activity limitations due to pain is the goal, as ahcpr suggests, then only 38%  have achieved this goal by 7 weeks.
patients also self-rated improvement.
indeed, as we  trained practice teams in the best care of back pain, we may have  underestimated the benefit of physical therapy (spinal manipulation) when  compared with "usual care" in general practice.
for patients with psychological comorbidities, adjunctive analgesics, behavioral therapy, or multidisciplinary rehabilitation also may be appropriate.
this movement calls for greater participation of private practice environments in clinical research [7].
" in 1994 medicine was horrified when theagency for health care policy and research (ahcpr) confirmed the untested, questionable or harmful nature of many current medical therapies for lbp , and also stated that, of all forms of management they reviewed, only chiropractic care could both reduce pain and improve function.
immediately after  the 2-month treatment period, 67% in the manual therapy and 27% in the exercise  therapy group had returned to work (p < 0.01), a relative difference that  was maintained throughout the follow-up period.
multivariate logistic regression models were used to examine associations between hormonal and reproductive factors (independent variables) and, respectively, chronic lbp, chronic uep (upper extremity pain) and combined chronic lbp/uep.past pregnancy, young maternal age at first birth, duration of oral contraceptive use, and use of estrogens during menopause were associated with chronic lbp, while young age at menarche was associated with chronic uep.
while pediatric fractures are often difficult to detect,this example  highlights a problem that continues to plague medical education: inadequate  instruction in musculoskeletal medicine in both medical schooland residency  training.
it is therefore reasonable to conclude that medical school preparation in musculoskeletal medicine is inadequate.
if that's the case, how do these experts explain the results of a  study published in the jan. 1, 2004 issue of spine?
these medical authors concluded that residents in orthopedic surgery programs are not provided with sufficient training in nms analysis.
this prospective case series suggests the possibility that  menstrual pain associated with primary dysmenorrhea may be alleviated by  treating motion segment restrictions of the lumbosacral spine with a drop table  technique.
one hundred sixteen patients were seen once and triaged to specialty care; 7% of patients received magnetic resonance imagings.
nice work, if you can get  it!
a prospective observational cohort study was conducted at a multidisciplinary, integrated clinic that includes chiropractic and physical therapy health care services.
vladimir janda citation collection shortcuts are  provided to the pubmed abstracts of all the articles which are available online.
immediately after the 2-month treatment period, 67% in the manual therapy and 27% in the exercise therapy group had returned to work (p < 0.01), a relative difference that was maintained throughout the follow-up period.
a recent study in spine journal reveals that health care expenditures for back pain sufferers was a staggering$90.7 billion in 1998, and that prescription drugs accounted for more than 15% of that figure!
effects of a managed chiropractic benefit on the use of specific diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in the treatment of low back and neck pain j manipulative physiol ther 2005 (oct); 28 (8): 564569
these hormones that are essential to the pregnancy cause global  relaxation to the ligaments and muscles in the female pregnant patient.
an overemphasis on the simplistic biomedical approach of  identifying and treating the structural cause of pain has led to excesses in  diagnostic testing, bed rest, narcotic analgesics, and surgery (waddell).
the diagnoses you  choose represent your patient's condition to the insurance company and must be  extremely accurate.
return to chirozine return to the links table of contents return to the rehabilitation diplomate
this study contradicts clinical practice guidelines that suggest that recovery from an episode of recent onset low back pain is usually rapid and complete.
the morgen study spine (phila pa 1976) 2006 (jun 1); 31 (13): 1496-1502 although lbp is suggested to be linked to hormonal and reproductive factors in women, results from previous studies are inconclusive.
that person is a chiropractor.
clinical and cost utilization based on 70,274 member-months over a 7-year perioddemonstrated decreases of 60.2% in-hospital admissions, 59.0% less hospital days, 62.0% less outpatient surgeries and procedures, and 83% less pharmaceutical costs when compared with conventional medicine ipa performance.
evidently this is not the case.
neurophysiologic effects of spinal manipulation in patients with chronic low back pain musculoskelet disord.
a randomized clinical trial comparing  chiropractic adjustments to muscle relaxants for subacute low back
this is in contrast to an 80%  failure rate for the mds.
lower back trauma rehabilitation monograph series ~ chapter 24 by richard c. schafer, d.c., ficc and theacapress
according to the most recent national survey more than 18 million americans over the age of 18 years received manipulative therapies in 2007 at a total annual out of pocket cost of $3.9 billion with back pain being the most common clinical complaint of these individuals [5 ].
the chiropractic hospital-based interventions research outcomes (chiro) study: a randomized controlled trial on the effectiveness of clinical practice guidelines in the medical and chiropractic management of patients with acute mechanical low back pain spine j. 2010 (dec); 10 (12): 1055-1064
a review of studies of general patient populations eur spine j 2003 (apr); 12 (2): 149165
educational deficiencies in musculoskeletal medicine journal of bone and joint surgery 2002 (apr); 84a (4): 604608
doctors likely to encounter children  with musculoskeletal complaints have low confidence in their clinical skills
pathophysiological model for chronic low back
overall, seventy-nine percent of the participants failed the basic musculoskeletal cognitive examination.
you are told that nothing is broken, and a wrist splint is placed.
the american chiropractic association, the international chiropractic association, the congress of state associations, and the association of chiropractic colleges appreciate the opportunity to provide these materials for your review.
appropriate icd-9 diagnostic coding in the low back pain case the "pecking  order" in which you place your diagnoses in box 21 of the cms-1500 claim  plays a role in the way insurance companies interpret the severity of a  patient's condition and ultimately, how much they'll pay.
chiropractic care appeared relatively cost-effective for the treatment of chronic lbp.
first they become mds, then rotate through a variety of  specialties, and finally take residence in a highly competitive orthopedic  program.
management of chronic low back  pain in active individuals curr sports med  rep 2010 (jan);   9 (1):   60–66
improvement was described as "good" or  "excellent" in nearly 90% of patients.
this study  contradicts clinical practice guidelines that suggest that recovery from an  episode of recent onset low back pain is usually rapid and complete.
chiropractic management of low back pain and low back-related leg complaints: a literature synthesis j manipulative physiol ther 2008 (nov); 31 (9): 659674 as much or more evidence exists for the use of spinal manipulation to reduce symptoms and improve function in patients with chronic lbp as for use in acute and subacute lbp.
the detailed clinical outcomes reported in the accompanying paper reinforce these findings by showing that the improvements in health status reported here reflect statistically significant improvements in function, pain, disability, physical and mental aspects of quality of life, and beliefs about back pain.
introducing chiropractic into nhs practice should be considered.
there was a  positive, clinically important effect of the number of chiropractic treatments  for chronic low back pain on pain intensity and disability at 4 weeks.
editorial: end medical mis-management of lbp the medical "debate" has been going on for years...is spinal adjusting (a.k.a manipulation) effective for low back pain?the original meade study (british medical journal 1990) demonstrated that chiropractic was much more effective for lbp than conventional medical care.
this fact sheet summarizes the current scientific knowledge  about the effects of spinal manipulation on low-back pain.
musculoskeletal curricula in medical education physician and  sportsmedicine 2004 (nov);   32 (11) chiropractic spinal manipulation for low back pain  of pregnancy: a retrospective case series j midwifery womens  health 2006 (jan);   51 (1):   e7-10 sixteen of 17 (94.1%)  cases demonstrated clinically important improvement.
clearly,the number of visits to general  practitioners cannot be used as a measure of how quickly the pain and  disability goes away.
it quickly swells, requiring a visit to a nearby urgent care clinic.
if you want information about a specific disease, you can access themerck manual .
according to all the surveys, this is our bread and butter, and no one on the planet is better trained to diagnose (locate) and treat (correct) neck, low back, or peripheral joint (knee, elbow etc) complaints.
this situation was not corrected during the 4-year interim between the publication of the 1st and 2nd article, and still has not been corrected 11 years later.
this scenario, while fictitious, is not unusual.
however, more than one  quarter of patients were treated for indications that were judged  inappropriate.
since  that time there has been a storm brewing at medical schools, but in the 11  years since dr. freedman published his first paper, medical students still  continue to fail on basic musculoskeletal exams, as documented by the following  series of peer-reviewed studies.
a.    read the unsettling answer in this series of articles chiropractors pride themselves in their ability to diagnose and manage  neuro-musculo-skeletal (nms) complains.
appropriate icd-9 diagnostic coding in the low back pain case the "pecking order" in which you place your diagnoses in box 21 of the cms-1500 claim plays a role in the way insurance companies interpret the severity of a patient's condition and ultimately, how much they'll pay.
the following  articles are listed from the oldest to the newest, so that you can follow the  lack of progress in correcting this issue at medical schools.
al. points out the disparities between guidelines with respect to spinal  manipulation and the use of drugs for both chronic and acute low back pain.
new study reveals that back surgery fails 74% of the time editorial commentary: researchers reviewed records from 1,450 patients in the ohio bureau of workers compensation database who had diagnoses of disc degeneration, disc herniation or radiculopathy, a nerve condition that causes tingling and weakness of the limbs.
[epub ahead of print] this systematic review of the  cost-effectiveness of treatments endorsed in the aps-acp guidelines found that  spinal manipulation was cost-effective for subacute and chronic low back pain,  as were other methods usually within the chiropractor’s scope of practice  (interdisciplinary rehabilitation, exercise, and acupuncture).
this situation was  not corrected during the 4-year interim between the publication of the 1st and  2nd article, and still has not been corrected 11 years later.
the average time to initial clinically important pain relief was 4.5 (range 0-13) days after initial presentation, and the average number of visits undergone up to that point was 1.8 (range 1-5).
if not having any activity limitations due to pain is the goal, as ahcpr suggests, then only 38% have achieved this goal by 7 weeks.
for this reason, a cross-sectional study of 11,428 dutch women  aged 20-59 years was accomplished.
mds employ spinal  manipulation after a short training course: limited benefit for patients the back letter 1998;   13 (11):   123 ~ full text results: overall, the results do not support training primary care  physicians in manipulative techniques.
short-term pain relief may be obtained from spinal  manipulative therapy or acupuncture.
by richard c. schafer, d.c., ficc and theacapress the general stability of synovial joints is established by action of surrounding muscles.
the  follow-up interviews, however, showed that most patients simply stopped  consulting their doctors about low back pain, even though they still suffered  pain and disability 12 months later!
a prospective study of a young population bmc musculoskelet disord 2006 (mar 16); 7: 29~ full text
spinal manipulation in the treatment of low-back pain canadian family physician 1985 (mar); 31: 535540~ full text he truly spectacular results from chiropractic treatment (approximately 80 percent of patients 'totally disabled' for an average of 7 years back on the job and doing well after 3 weeks of daily adjustments) reflect, in my view, not only the positive value of low back adjustments but also the exceptional skill of the particular chiropractor.
the accurate localisation of metabolically active bone disease  is often difficult in 2d imaging but single photon emission computed  tomography/computed tomography (spect/ct) allows accurate diagnosis and  anatomic localisation of osteoblastic and osteolytic lesions in 3d imaging.
there is a lack of evidence-based support for the efficacy of complex fusion  surgeries over conservative surgical decompression for elderly stenosis  patients.
advice- think before you lift what is the natural history for lower back pain?
excessive joint stress results in strained muscles and tendons and sprained or ruptured ligaments and capsules.
musculoskeletal knowledge: how do you stack up? physician and sportsmedicine 2002 (aug); 30 (8) august one of every 4 or 5 primary care visits is for a musculoskeletal problem.
rosemont, il, american academy of orthopaedic  surgeons, 1999 2.
for chronic lbp, the addition of back exercises, behavioral therapy, and short-term opioid analgesics was suggested.
the results of this study demonstrate that postsurgical  patients with subsequent low back pain seem to respond positively to cox  flexion distraction manipulation treatments.
the findings for 518 consecutive patients were included.
according to the most recent national survey  more than 18 million americans over the age of 18 years received manipulative  therapies in 2007 at a total annual out of pocket cost of $3.9 billion with  back pain being the most common clinical complaint of these individuals [5 ].
a nonsurgical approach to the management of patients with lumbar  radiculopathy secondary to herniated disk: a prospective observational cohort  study with follow-up j manipulative physiol ther 2009 (nov);    32 (9):   723–733 a randomized trial by researchers at an  outpatient rehabilitation department in italy involving 210 patients with  chronic, nonspecific low back pain compared the effects of spinal manipulation,  physiotherapy and back school.
efficacy of  preventive spinal manipulation for chronic low-back pain and related  disabilities: a preliminary study j manipulative physiol ther 2004  (oct);   27 (8):   509–514 this study demonstrated two  important points: (1) chiropractic is effective for chronic low back pain  (lbp), and (2) that ongoing supportive care can reduce disability levels, as  measured by the oswestry low back pain disability questionnaire.
in  the largest prospective cohort study of back belt use, adjusted for multiple  individual risk factors, neither frequent back belt use nor a store policy that  required belt use was associated with reduced incidence of back injury claims  or low back pain.
the lining of synovial joints is slightly phagocytic, is regenerative if damaged, and secretes synovial fluid that is a nutritive lubricant having bacteriostatic and anticoagulant characteristics.
this full text article investigated the generally accepted statistic that 90% of low back pain (lbp) goes away by itself.
if a patient presents to your office with severe low back  pain, severe leg pain, constant leg numbness and foot drop, don't automatically  assume and report disc involvement without a diagnostic test to substantiate it.
the research team needs to conduct a well-designed feasibility trial to further evaluate the effectiveness of this specific spinal manipulative technique for primary dysmenorrhea.
only 8.9% passed  the assessment.
chiropractic management of postsurgical lumbar spine pain: a retrospective study of 32 cases j manipulative physiol ther 2011 (jul); 34 (6): 408412
the apparent safety of spinal manipulation, especially when compared with other "medically accepted" treatments for ldh, should stimulate its use in the conservative treatment plan of ldh.
the following articles are listed from the oldest to the newest, so that you can follow the lack of progress in correcting this issue at medical schools.
yet  undergraduate and graduate training for this burden of illness continues to  constitute typicallyless than 3% of the medical curriculum.
the results suggest that chiropractic treatment was safe in these cases and support the hypothesis that it may be effective for reducing pain intensity.
the accurate localisation of metabolically active bone disease is often difficult in 2d imaging but single photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (spect/ct) allows accurate diagnosis and anatomic localisation of osteoblastic and osteolytic lesions in 3d imaging.
disability was measured using  the bournemouth disability questionnaire (bdq) and pain using the numerical  rating scale for pain.
compared with back school and with individually delivered physiotherapy for the treatment of chronic low back
based on the  marking scale determined by the chief residents, the chiropractic group (n =  51) showed statistically significant higher average grade than the orthopedic  residents.
this is alarming, since muscle relaxants have been associated with slower recovery rates, and steroid injections offer minimal relief.
individual physiotherapy included exercise, passive mobilization and soft-tissue treatment.
for patients with low back pain in whom manipulation is not contraindicated chiropractic almost certainly confers worthwhile, long term benefit in comparison with hospital outpatient management.
reduction in mean pain intensity at week 8 was 1.8  points greater for the chiropractic group than for the pain-clinic group.
mean  duration of complaint was 60.5 weeks.
one might conclude that for acute low back pain not caused by fracture, tumor, infection, or the cauda equina syndrome, spinal manipulation is the treatment of choice.
doctors likely to  encounter children with musculoskeletal complaints have low confidence in their  clinical skills
there has been a recent movement toward comparative effectiveness research [5], i.e., research that determines which treatment approaches are most effective for a given patient population.
despite the much higher cost, there is  no evidence of superior outcomes and there is greater morbidity associated with  the complex fusion.
a practice-based study of patients with acute and chronic low back pain attending primary care and chiropractic physicians: two-week to 48-month follow-up j manipulative physiol ther 2004 (mar); 27 (3): 160169 this study found that chiropractic care is more effective than medical care at treating chronic low-back pain in patients' first year of symptoms.
research: new challenges for chiropractic response to the low back pain study in the new england journal of medicine listed above.
burden of major musculoskeletal conditions bull world health organ 2003; 81 (9): 646-656 3.
the post partum patient retains a higher risk for potential injury as compared to the patient who has not endured pregnancy or has not been pregnant for an extended period of time.
the low back pain bookshelf learn about  chiropractic management of disc disruption.
you will find other information like this in the guidelines section.
perceived benefit of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) for back pain: a national survey journal of the american board of family medicine 2010 (may); 23 (3): 35462~ full text
after 6 months of follow-up, chiropractic care and medical care for low back pain were comparable in their effectiveness.
the follow-up interviews, however, showed that most patients simply stopped consulting their doctors about low back pain, even though they still suffered pain and disability 12 months later!
in fact,croft's consultation rates  show a 90% drop-out rate after 3 months, not resolution of the complaint!
no adverse effects were reported in any of the 17 cases.
excessive joint stress results in strained muscles and tendons and sprained or  ruptured ligaments and capsules.
musculoskeletal curricula in medical  education physician and sportsmedicine 2004 (nov); 32 (11)
the mean family practitioners' score (69.7) was  significantly higher than the orthopaedists' score (44.3) (p < 0.0001).
the results  were astounding, because82% of the eighty-five medical school graduates  failed this basic competency exam!
isn't that frightening?
future research should include subgroup analyses and strive for a consensus regarding the precise definitions of lbp.
use  of exercise in conjunction with manipulation is likely to speed and improve  outcomes as well as minimize episodic recurrence.
efficacy of preventive spinal manipulation for chronic low-back pain and related disabilities: a preliminary study j manipulative physiol ther 2004 (oct); 27 (8): 509514
there has been a slight decrease in these surgeries between 2002 and 2007.
at three years the results confirm the  findings of an earlier report that when chiropractic or hospital therapists  treat patients with low back pain as they would in day to day practicethose  treated by chiropractic derive more benefit and long term satisfaction than  those treated by hospitals.
for the treatment of low back and neck pain, the inclusion of achiropractic benefit resulted in a reduction in the rates of surgery, advanced imaging, inpatient care, and plain-film radiographs .
other pages: patient satisfaction cost-effectiveness safety of chiropractic about chiropractic chiropractic rehab repetitive stress headache page whiplash section disc herniation chronic neck pain low back pain stroke &  chiropractic iatrogenic injury problems with placebos subluxation complex chirozine case reports pediatric section conditions that respond
this is a huge problem because  “conditions affecting the musculoskeletal system are the primary reason
his reporta study to examine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of chiropractic management of low-back pain cited research demonstrating that: (1) chiropractic manipulation is safer than medical management for lbp; (2) that spinal manipulation is less safe and effective when performed by non-chiropractic professionals; (3) that there is an overwhelming body of evidence indicating that chiropractic management of low-back pain is more cost-effective than medical management; (4) and thatthere would be highly significant cost savings if more management of lbp was transferred from medical physicians to chiropractors.
"the incremental effect of adding manual therapy to an approach involving enthusiastic physicians, special evaluation and patient educational skills, standard medication therapies, and exercise prescription appears to be minimal," said carey.
although it may be  easier to teach anatomy by dividing the body into arbitrary parts, a  misinterpretation can be created.
there was less evidence for  the use of manipulation for patients with lbp and radiating leg pain, sciatica,  or radiculopathy.
does maintained spinal manipulation therapy for chronic non-specific low back pain result in better long term outcome?
journal of bone and joint surgery 2001 (sept); 83-a (9): 13171320 musculoskeletal problems are a common reason why patients present for medical treatment.
croft et al point out that the original study to publish the "90% recovery" results was based on patient consultation records, not follow up interviews.
prognosis in patients with recent onset low back pain in australian primary care: inception cohort study british medical journal 2008 (jul 7); 337: a171~ full text
reduction in mean pain intensity at week 8 was 1.8 points greater for the chiropractic group than for the pain-clinic group.
there is a marked discrepancy between the musculoskeletal knowledge and skill requirements of a primary care physician and the time devoted to musculoskeletal education in canadian medical schools.
this is a follow-up article to the study cited below, whichdemonstrated that  medical students were inadequately trained to diagnose and treat  musculoskeletal complaints.
255 a previously published knowledge questionnaire  designed by chief orthopedic residents was given to a chiropractic student  group for comparison to the results of the medical resident group.
about 500 people from  throughout the quad-city region who suffer from back pain are being recruited  to participate in two separate clinical trials, expected to last
the curriculum analysis revealed that, on the average, medical schools in canada devoted 2.26% (range, 0.61% to 4.81%) of their curriculum time to musculoskeletal education.
only  21% of the residents registered a passing grade, and only 3% of the medical  students passed the exam.
first they become mds, then rotate through a variety of specialties, and finally take residence in a highly competitive orthopedic program.
it quickly  swells, requiring a visit to a nearby urgent care clinic.
welcome to the united states bone and joint decade the bone and joint decade initiative is a global campaign to improve quality of life for people with musculoskeletal conditions and to advance understanding and treatment of these conditions through research, prevention, and education.
in fact,croft's consultation rates show a 90% drop-out rate after 3 months, not resolution of the complaint!
who will provide it? annals of  internal medicine 1998 (jul );   129:   65–66~ full text the agency for health care policy and research (ahcpr) recently made history  when it concluded that spinal manipulative therapy is the most effective and  cost-effective treatment for acute low back pain
recurrence journal of occupational  and environmental medicine 2011 (apr);   53 (4):   396–404
pain: a joint clinical practice guideline from the  american college of physicians and the american pain society annals  of internal medicine 2007 (oct 2);   147 (7):   478–491~ full  text low back pain is the fifth most common reason for all physician  visits in the united states
prognosis in patients with recent onset low back pain in  australian primary care: inception cohort study british medical  journal 2008 (jul 7);   337:   a171~ full text
for the treatment of low back and neck  pain, the inclusion of achiropractic benefit resulted in a reduction in the  rates of surgery, advanced imaging, inpatient care, and plain-film radiographs .
this study also re-confirms the findings of a virtually identical study bydescarreaux (jmpt 2004) and rupert's ground-breaking jmpt article, titled:maintenance care: health promotion services administered to us chiropractic patients aged 65 and older, part ii.
the best available  evidence currently suggests that in the absence of serious spinal pathology,  nonspinal causes, or progressive or severe neurologic deficits, the management  of chronic lbp should focus on patient education, self-care, common analgesics,  and back exercises.
one needs to ask why drug costs continue to climb with a track record like that?
approximately one quarter of u.s.  adults reported having low back pain lasting at least 1 whole day in the past 3  months [2], and 7.6% reported at least 1 episode of severe acute low  back pain (see glossary) within a 1-year period [3].
[2] [3] what's the best solution?
american medical association 2000 (dec 6); 284 (21): 27272732~ full text
at three years the results confirm the findings of an earlier report that when chiropractic or hospital therapists treat patients with low back pain as they would in day to day practicethose treated by chiropractic derive more benefit and long term satisfaction than those treated by hospitals.
[1]   furthermore, musculoskeletal  conditions are the most common cause of long-term pain and physical disability.
the truth is, they  are incompetent in musculoskeletal assessment or treatment.
the surgeon is typically reimbursed only $600 to $800 for simple decompression and approximately ten times more, $6,000 to $8,000 for the complex fusion.
future trials should examine well-defined subgroups of patients, further address the value of smt and mob for acute patients, establish optimal number of treatment visits and consider the cost-effectiveness of care.
your chiropractic care may be working out  “kinks” in your lower back that have been around a lot longer than  you realize.
the introduction and marketing of new surgical devices and the influence of key opinion leaders may stimulate more invasive surgery, even in the absence of new indications financial incentives to hospitals and surgeons for more complex procedures may play a role there is a significant difference in mean hospital costs for simple decompression versus complex surgical fusion.
recommendations for management of acute  lbp emphasized patient education, with short-term use of acetaminophen,  nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, orspinal manipulation therapy.
they also found that those with persistent lbp were 4.5 times more likely than the average person to have future lbp episodes!
the chiropractic group were still just students in their last undergrad  year
the first is titled spinal manipulative therapy for low back pain: a meta-analysis of  effectiveness relative to other therapies.
this study also re-confirms  the findings of a virtually identical study bydescarreaux (jmpt 2004) and rupert's ground-breaking jmpt article, titled:maintenance care:  health promotion services administered to us chiropractic patients aged 65 and  older, part ii.
how to shift lbp  paradigms: the "hinges" of practice specialists in the  management of spinal disorders have seen tremendous changes in the last decade.
more intense manual therapy might hold promise, but for now the evidence for training physicians in manual therapy remains to be established, said carey.
it is performed by chiropractors and other health care professionals such as physical therapists, osteopaths, and some conventional medical doctors.
the other half had no surgery, even though they had  comparable diagnoses.
i still can't figure out how they  managed to charge $153.00 for each and every booklet...what idiot funded this  project?
even care byphysical therapists has been shown to prolong recovery from low back pain.
disability was measured using the bournemouth disability questionnaire (bdq) and pain using the numerical rating scale for pain.
these two papers revealed: • spinal  manipulation, with or without exercise, improved symptoms more than medical  care did at both 3 and 12 months. .
no  relation was found between the results and physician demographic factors,  including seniority.
fear beliefs were measured with the fear-avoidance  beliefs questionnaire (fabq).
they also found that those with persistent lbp  were 4.5 times more likely than the average person to have future lbp episodes!
researchers followed patients with lumbar radiculopathy secondary to disk herniation treated after a diagnosis-based clinical decision rule.
this study suggests that chiropractic management administered in an nhs setting may be effective for reducing levels of disability and perceived pain during the period of treatment for a sub-population of patients with chronic low-back pain (clbp).
the average score among medical doctors, students and residents who took the exam in 2005 was 2.7 pointslower than those who took the exam in 1998.
check out thischiropractic technique article, and the attached care plans, which have been released exclusively to  chiro.
there have been few high-quality trials distinguishing between acute and chronic patients, and most are limited to shorter-term follow-up.
a recent study in spine journal reveals that health care expenditures for back pain sufferers was a  staggering$90.7 billion in 1998, and that prescription drugs  accounted for more than 15% of that figure!
a. read the unsettling answer in this series of articles chiropractors pride themselves in their ability to diagnose and manage neuro-musculo-skeletal (nms) complains.
their  findings with 973 consecutive primary care patients was that recovery was slow  for most patients, and almost 1/3 of patients did not recover within one year.
pain spine (phila pa  1976).
this is in contrast to an 80% failure rate for the mds.
the results are quite fascinating: - the top 6 cam therapies for lbp, from the most-used are chiropractic, massage, herbal therapy, acupuncture, yoga/tai chi/qi gong, and relaxation techniques.
four  hundred thirty-two patients (83%) were classified and treated by doctors of  chiropractic and/or physical therapists.
pain j manipulative physiol ther 2004 (jul); 27 (6): 388-398 chiropractic was more beneficial than placebo in reducing pain and more beneficial than either placebo or muscle relaxants in reducing global impression of severity scale (gis).
a hospital-based standardized spine care pathway: report of  a multidisciplinary, evidence-based process j manipulative physiol  ther 2011 (feb);   34 (2):   98–106 a health care  facility (jordan hospital) implemented a multidimensional spine care pathway  (scp) using the national center for quality assurance (ncqa)
spine care clinicians should discuss the role of smt as a treatment option for patients with acute lbp who do not find adequate symptomatic relief with self-care and education alone.
in december 2004, the british medical research council published 2 papers in thebritish medical journal demonstrating both the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of chiropractic compared with medical management.
sessions were  scripted to balance for physical contact, attention, and intervention frequency  and duration.
section since 5-01-1997 home page visit our sponsors become a sponsor join us
you will enjoy these recommendations because their only  recommendation for active treatment of acute low back pain is spinal adjusting  (manipulation).
a comparison of chiropractic student knowledge versus medical  residents proceedings of the world federation of chiropractic  congress 2001 pgs.
half of the patients had surgery to fuse two or more  vertebrae in hopes of curing low back pain.
low back pain guidelines from around the world
use of exercise in conjunction with manipulation is likely to speed and improve outcomes as well as minimize episodic recurrence.
despite generally improved levels of competency with each year at medical school,less than 50% of fourth-year students showed competency.
patient evaluations of low back pain care from family physicians and chiropractors west j med 1989 (mar); 150 (3): 351355~ full text patients of chiropractors were three times as likely as patients of family physicians to report that they were very satisfied with the care they received for low back pain (66% versus 22%, respectively).
because the  number of professional papers concerning the cause and diagnosis of low-back  pain is voluminous, emphasis herein is placed on points that the author  believes are important but not often emphasized in popular literature.
if you  want information about a specific disease, you can access themerck manual .
pain: a randomized trial with one-year follow-up clin rehabil 2010 (jan); 24 (1): 2636
just as you're getting ready to put your 5-year-old son to bed, he falls from a chair, landing on his wrist.
there is, however, a significant financial incentive to both  hospitals and surgeons to perform the complex fusions.
- the chiropractic group were still just students in their last undergrad year -
pain j manipulative physiol ther 2005 (oct); 28 (8): 555563 acute and chronic chiropractic patients experienced better outcomes in pain, functional disability, and patient satisfaction.
if you  have spinal pain, seek care from someone who is properly trained to assess and  manage your care.
after two years, just 26 percent of those who had  surgery had actually returned to work.
al. points out the disparities between guidelines with respect to spinal manipulation and the use of drugs for both chronic and acute low back pain.
even though the passing grade was lowered from 74% to 70%,78% of them again failed the exam, with a mean test score average of 59.9 percent.
orthopedic surgeons are supposed to be the *gods* of medicine, the pinnacle of medical knowledge.
health maintenance care in work-related low back
aspects of quality of life, and beliefs about back pain.
this effect was greater on a per-episode basis than on a per-patient basis.
although all treatment groups showed improvement over time, the  patients receiving thrusting procedures demonstrated significantly greater and  more rapid rates of improvement from their symptoms and in their ability to  function.
total incremental direct health care costs attributable to  low back pain in the u.s. were estimated at $26.3 billion in 1998
what would the headlines scream if, after 4 years, our profession had failed to improve it's skills in musculoskeletal assessment and management?
any disorder of one part immediately affects the function of the other parts.
they would also preferentially prescribe cyclo-oxygenase-2-specific nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, despite the guidelines recommendations to use paracetamol or nonspecific nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
the  report states that, “eighty-eight percent of those who tried  chiropractic manipulation said it helped a lot, and 59 percent were  ‘completely’ or ‘very’ satisfied with their chiropractor .”
long-term outcomes of lumbar fusion among workers' compensation subjects: an historical cohort study spine (phila pa  1976) 2011 (feb 15);   36 (4):   320–331~ full text researchers reviewed records from 1,450 patients in the ohio bureau of  workers’ compensation database who had diagnoses of disc degeneration,  disc herniation or radiculopathy, a nerve condition that causes tingling and  weakness of the limbs.
is comorbidity  in adolescence a predictor for adult low back pain?
the mean family practitioners' score (69.7) was significantly higher than the orthopaedists' score (44.3) (p < 0.0001).
one would expect that, during their 5 years of medical training,  followed by endless hours of hospital rotations and residency programs, that  all these doctors *might have* picked up a little more musculoskeletal  knowledge along the way.
why is the bone and joint decade important?
fertilization propels the release of estrogen, progesterone and relaxin, hormones essential to the growth and development of the embryo and fetus.
it provides an overview of risk factors for longterm disability and work loss, and an outline of methods to assess these at risk.
chiropractic management of low back pain and low back-related leg
chiropractic care for common industrial low back conditions chiropractic technique 1993 (aug); 5 (3): 119125~ full text
low back pain guidelines from  around the world
mechanical low back pain is a common indication for nuclear medicine imaging.
the journal of pediatrics 2009 (feb);   154  (2):   267–271 questionnaires, filled out by a broad  spectrum of medical providers in england [primary care (n = 75), pediatrics (n  = 39), emergency (n = 39), orthopedics (n = 40), and experienced doctors in  primary care (n = 93), and pediatrics (n = 60).], revealed that 74% of them  scored their personal confidence in pediatric musculoskeletal clinical  assessment as "no" to "low".
half of the patients had surgery to fuse two or more vertebrae in hopes of curing low back pain.
you may want to review thisinteresting description of the requirements for the ucla orthopedic surgery's residency program.
it seems implausible that the  number of patients with the most complex spinal pathology increased 15-fold in  just 6 years.
after two years, just 26 percent of those who had surgery returned to work.
for clarity sake, you need appreciate the difference between the chiropractic and the medical participants in these studies.
outcome of low back pain in general practice: a prospective study british medical journal 1998 (may 2); 316 (7141): 13561359~
results for the patients treated  by doctors of chiropractic were mean of 5.2 visits, mean cost per case of $302,  mean intake pain rating score of 6.2 of 10, and mean discharge score of 1.9 of  10;95% of patients rated their care as "excellent.
synovial versus mechanical causes of joint  pain are shown in table 1.
" in 1994 medicine was  horrified when theagency for health care policy and research (ahcpr) confirmed the untested, questionable or harmful nature of many current medical  therapies for lbp , and also stated that, of all forms of management they  reviewed, only chiropractic care could both reduce pain and improve function.
since that time there has been a storm brewing at medical schools, but in the 11 years since dr. freedman published his first paper, medical students still continue to fail on basic musculoskeletal exams, as documented by the following series of peer-reviewed studies.
the low back pain bookshelf learn about chiropractic management of disc disruption.
the authors concluded: we believe that this is the first study of physical therapy for low back pain to show convincingly that both manipulation alone and manipulation followed by exercise provide cost effective additions to care in general practice.
irregular or prolonged menstruation  and hysterectomy were associated both with chronic lbp and chronic uep.
the average time to  initial clinically important pain relief was 4.5 (range 0-13) days after  initial presentation, and the average number of visits undergone up to that  point was 1.8 (range 1-5).
i have used these "care plans" for years, presenting them to third party's as a "working diagnosis" care plan, which need ongoing "fine tuning" during patient care.
this series of articles were all mostly published in the  prestigiousjournal of bone and joint surgery, the number one journal for  orthopedic surgeons.
orthopaedists' and family practitioners' knowledge of simple low back pain  management spine 2009 (jul 1);   34 (15):   1600–1603 one hundred forty family practitioners and 253 orthopaedists  responded to the questionnaire.
chiropractic care appeared  relatively cost-effective for the treatment of chronic lbp.
researchers studied twins born  between 1972 and 1982 by sending out questionnaires in 1994 and again in 2002.
fear beliefs were measured with the fear-avoidance beliefs questionnaire (fabq).
the most recent in a long line of articles showing the clear superiority of chiropractic management waspublished in may of 2007 .
no  positive associations were found for current pregnancy and number of children.
in addition to sharing his understanding of what constitutes research of clinical utility, dr. rosner has been able to apply his knowledge of the better research offering significant support for spinalmanipulation, helping the chiropractic profession and the public recognize potentially flawed conclusions.
according to the standard suggested by the program directors of internal medicine residency departments, a large majority of the examinees once again failed to demonstrate basic competency in musculoskeletal medicine on the examination.
we should also keep in mind that an axial kinematic chain of weight-supporting  segments extends from the occipital base to the soles of the feet.
pain and its association with disability
mean duration of complaint was 60.5 weeks.
practice-based clinical outcomes were consistent with systematic reviews of spinal manipulation efficacy: manipulation-based therapy is at least as good as and, in some cases, better than other therapeusis.
these two papers revealed: spinal manipulation, with or without exercise, improved symptoms more than medical care did at both 3 and 12 months. .
responses to the above aim article from our viewers complementary care: when is it appropriate?
at the same time, ahcpr concluded that various  traditional methods, such as bed rest, traction, and other physical and  pharmaceutical therapies were less effective than spinal manipulation and  cautioned against lumbar surgery except in the most severe cases.
physical therapy may be marginally more effective than medical care alone for reducing disability in some patients, but the possible benefit is small.
post partum and beyond: managing back pain in women dr. diane benizzi  dimarco~ full text the post partum  patient retains a higher risk for potential injury as compared to the patient  who has not endured pregnancy or has not been pregnant for an extended period  of time.
mean self-rated improvement at the end of treatment was 77.5%.
the findings for 518 consecutive  patients were included.
the introduction and marketing of new surgical devices and the  influence of key opinion leaders may stimulate more invasive surgery, even in  the absence of new indications…financial incentives to hospitals and  surgeons for more complex procedures may play a role…” there is a  significant difference in mean hospital costs for simple decompression versus  complex surgical fusion.
a  conglomerate of anatomical changes created by the global laxity in muscles and  ligaments compromises the stability of the spine.
this new reports on interviews with 31,044 individuals who used cam for low back pain.
these results are similar to  previous case reports in terms of their positive outcomes; however, the data  included in this article stratify treatment results based on surgical type and  include a much larger sample size than previously documented.
after careful review of these articles, anthony l. rosner, ph.d., director of research for the foundation for chiropractic education and research (fcer), authored critical responses on behalf of the chiropractic profession.
a practice-based study of patients with  acute and chronic low back pain attending primary care and chiropractic  physicians: two-week to 48-month follow-up j manipulative physiol  ther 2004 (mar);   27 (3):   160–169
there has been a slight  decrease in these surgeries between 2002 and 2007.
section since 5-01-1997 updated 10-22-2011 join us please read our disclaimer
he also stated that "a very good case can be made for making  chiropractors the gatekeepers for management of low-back pain in the workers'  compensation system in ontario.
spine (phila pa 1976) 2011 (aug 15);   36 (18):   1427–1437 this new, single blinded placebo controlled study, conducted by mansoura  faculty of medicine at mansoura university,conclusively demonstrates that  maintenance care (aka preventive care) provides significant benefits for those  with chronic low back pain.
data on 49 consecutive patients were  collected at baseline, at the end of conservative, nonsurgical treatment and a  mean of 14.5 months after cessation of treatment.
a chronic pain study at the university of washington school of medicine
synthesis of recommendations for the assessment and management of low back pain from recent clinical practice guidelines spine j. 2010 (jun);   10 (6):   514–529 recommendations for assessment of lbp emphasized the importance of ruling out  potentially serious spinal pathology, specific causes of lbp, and neurologic  involvement, as well as identifying risk factors for chronicity and measuring  the severity of symptoms and functional limitations, through the history,  physical, and neurologic examination.
the  purpose of the present study was to review the curricula of canadian medical  schools to determine whether they prepare their students for the demands of  practice with respect to musculoskeletal problems.
perhaps most  significantly, the guidelines state that unlike nonsurgical interventions,  spinal manipulation offers both pain relief and functional improvement.
responses to the above  aim article from our viewers complementary  care: when is it appropriate?
more intense  manual therapy might hold promise, but for now the evidence for training  physicians in manual therapy remains to be established, said carey.
the truth is, they are incompetent in musculoskeletal assessment or treatment.
researchers followed patients with lumbar  radiculopathy secondary to disk herniation treated after a diagnosis-based  clinical decision rule.
the proportion of chiropractic spinal manipulation judged to be congruent with appropriateness criteria is similar to proportions previously described for medical procedures; thus, the findings provide some reassurance about the appropriate application of chiropractic care.
short-term pain relief may be obtained from spinal manipulative therapy or acupuncture.
this is the first reported randomized controlled trial comparing evidence-based clinical practice guideline treatment (cpgs) (which includes reassurance and avoidance of passive treatments, acetaminophen, 4 weeks of lumbar chiropractic spinal manipulative care, and return to work within 8 weeks), to family physician-directed uc in the treatment of patients with am-lbp.
the usefulness of integrated spect/ct for  anatomical and functional assessment of back pain opens promising opportunities  both for multi-disciplinary clinical assessment and treatment for manual  therapists and for research into the effectiveness of manual therapies.
results from most studies suggest that 5 to 10 sessions of smt administered over 2 to 4 weeks achieve equivalent or superior improvement in pain and function when compared with other commonly used interventions, such as physical modalities, medication, education, or exercise, for short, intermediate, and long-term follow-up.
a nonsurgical approach to the management of patients with lumbar radiculopathy secondary to herniated disk: a prospective observational cohort study with follow-up j manipulative physiol ther 2009 (nov); 32 (9): 723733 a randomized trial by researchers at an outpatient rehabilitation department in italy involving 210 patients with chronic, nonspecific low back pain compared the effects of spinal manipulation, physiotherapy and back school.
the results of the review show that, despite the methodological variations and the lack of comparable definitions, the overall picture is that lbp does not resolve itself when ignored.
chiropractic cost-effectiveness supplement provided by a joint task force of the aca, ica, cas and the acc
the number of inappropriate decisions to use chiropractic spinal manipulation should be decreased.
well alternative medicine approaches to disease chiro.
according to all the surveys, this is  our bread and butter, and no one on the planet is better trained to diagnose  (locate) and treat (correct) neck, low back, or peripheral joint (knee, elbow  etc) complaints.
in  1993 the province of ontario, canada hired the esteemed health care economist  pran manga, phd to examine the benefits of chiropractic care for low back pain ( lbp) and to make a set of recommendations on how to contain and reduce  health care costs.
after two years, just 26 percent of  those who had surgery returned to work.
an overemphasis on the simplistic biomedical approach of identifying and treating the structural cause of pain has led to excesses in diagnostic testing, bed rest, narcotic analgesics, and surgery (waddell).
is this  universally advertised short term outcome true?
the second study is titled a  review of the evidence for the effectiveness, safety, and cost of acupuncture,  massage therapy, and spinal manipulation for back pain.
by comparison, this study takes into account consultation  rates as well as follow-up interviews.
how to shift lbp paradigms: the "hinges" of practice specialists in the management of spinal disorders have seen tremendous changes in the last decade.
if there are terms in these articles you don't understand, you can get a  definition from themerriam webster medical dictionary.
recommendations for management of acute lbp emphasized patient education, with short-term use of acetaminophen, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, orspinal manipulation therapy.
the participants were 210 patients (140 women  and 70 men) with chronic, non-specific low back pain, average age 59.
nass  contemporary concepts in spine care: spinal manipulation therapy for acute  low back
manual  therapy and exercise therapy in patients with chronic low back pain: a  randomized, controlled trial with 1-year follow-up spine (phila pa  1976) 2003 (mar 15);   28 (6):   525–531
it is performed by chiropractors and other health care  professionals such as physical therapists, osteopaths, and some conventional  medical doctors.
lower back trauma rehabilitation  monograph series ~ chapter 24 by richard c.  schafer, d.c., ficc and theacapress
relief  was substantial for patients receiving care 3 to 4 times per week for 3 weeks.
spinal manipulationthe  application of controlled force to a joint, moving it beyond the normal range  of motion in an effort to aid in restoring health.
after  careful review of these articles, anthony l. rosner, ph.d., director of  research for the foundation for chiropractic education and research (fcer),  authored critical responses on behalf of the chiropractic profession.
we have all heard  the statistics that say 83% of patients are better in 6 weeks.
research:   new challenges for chiropractic response to the low back pain  study in the new england journal of medicine listed above.
nonpharmacologic therapies for acute and chronic low back
the agency for health care policy and research (ahcpr) recently made history when it concluded that spinal manipulative therapy is the most effective and cost-effective treatment for acute low back pain
data on 49 consecutive patients were collected at baseline, at the end of conservative, nonsurgical treatment and a mean of 14.5 months after cessation of treatment.
download the “care plans” –   in word 97  format or in adobe acrobat format they are formatted, so you can add your own letterhead and mail them out to  claim adjusters tomorrow!
an updated overview of clinical guidelines for the management of non-specific low back pain in primary care eur spine j. 2010 (dec); 19 (12): 20752094 this review of national and international guidelines conducted by koes et.
while the low back pain (lbp) problem has been acknowledged as an epidemic, a consensus has gradually emerged as to why this has happened and what can be done about it .
this series of articles were all mostly published in the prestigiousjournal of bone and joint surgery, the number one journal for orthopedic surgeons.
cost-effectiveness of guideline-endorsed treatments for low back pain: a systematic review eur spine j. 2011 (jan 13)
clearly,the number of visits to general practitioners cannot be used as a measure of how quickly the pain and disability goes away.
cost of care for common back pain conditions initiated  with chiropractic doctor vs medical doctor/doctor of osteopathy as first  physician: experience of one tennessee-based general health insurer
pain: a review of the evidence for an american  pain society/american college of physicians clinical practice guideline annals of internal medicine 2007 (oct 2);   147 (7):    492–504~ full text therapies with good evidence of moderate  efficacy for chronic or subacute low back pain are cognitive-behavioral  therapy, exercise,spinal manipulation, and interdisciplinary  rehabilitation.
the second study is titled a review of the evidence for the effectiveness, safety, and cost of acupuncture, massage therapy, and spinal manipulation for back pain.
the discrepancy lies in the method of the data collection.
croft et al point out that the original study to publish the  "90% recovery" results was based on patient consultation records, not  follow up interviews.
post partum and beyond: managing back pain in women dr. diane benizzi dimarco~ full text
please offer them your financial support.
compared with patients of family physicians,patients of chiropractors were  three times more likely to have been satisfied with the amount of information  they were given, to have perceived that their provider was concerned about  them, and to have felt that their provider was comfortable and confident
chiropractic management of  low back disorders: report from a consensus process j  manipulative physiol ther 2008 (nov);   31 (9):   651–658 a broad-based panel of experienced chiropractors was able to reach a high  level (80%) of consensus regarding specific aspects of the chiropractic  approach to care for patients with low back pain, based on both the scientific  evidence and their clinical experience.
after 6 months of follow-up, chiropractic care and medical  care for low back pain were comparable in their effectiveness.
spinal stenosis is the  most frequent cause for spinal surgery in the elderly.
the british medical research council (mrc)  trial finds adding spinal manipulation and exercise to gp care provides relief  for back pain
a randomized clinical trial comparing chiropractic adjustments to muscle relaxants for subacute low back
pain j manipulative physiol ther 2004 (jul);   27 (6):   388-398 chiropractic was more beneficial than placebo in reducing pain and more  beneficial than either placebo or muscle relaxants in reducing global  impression of severity scale (gis).
doctors likely to encounter children with musculoskeletal complaints have low confidence in their clinical skills
according to some studies, up to 10% of wrist fractures are missed at the initial evaluation.[1 ]
outcome of low back pain in general  practice: a prospective study british medical  journal 1998 (may 2);   316 (7141):   1356–1359~ full text
in this study, 334 medical students, residents and staff  physicians, specializing in various fields of medicine, were asked to take a  basic cognitive examination consisting of 25 short-answer questions - the same  type of test administered in the original jbjs 1998 study.
in 1995, meade did a follow-up to his 1990 bmj article, again publishing in thebritish medical journal.
future trials  should examine well-defined subgroups of patients, further address the value of  smt and mob for acute patients, establish optimal number of treatment visits  and consider the cost-effectiveness of care.
but, if asymptomatic is the goal then only 46% reached this goal after 7 weeks.
the chiropractic hospital-based interventions research outcomes  (chiro) study: a randomized controlled trial on the effectiveness of clinical  practice guidelines in the medical and chiropractic management of patients with  acute mechanical low back pain spine j. 2010 (dec);   10 (12):    1055-1064 this is the first reported randomized controlled  trial comparing evidence-based clinical practice guideline treatment (cpgs)  (which includes reassurance and avoidance of passive treatments, acetaminophen,  4 weeks of lumbar chiropractic spinal manipulative care, and return to work  within 8 weeks), to family physician-directed uc in the treatment of patients  with am-lbp.
the benefit is  seen mainly in those with chronic or severe pain.
hormonal and reproductive factors are  associated with chronic low back pain and chronic upper extremity pain in women  --
their findings with 973 consecutive primary care patients was that recovery was slow for most patients, and almost 1/3 of patients did not recover within one year.
in 1998, two medical doctors at the university  of pennsylvania school of medicine in philadelphia, contacted all 157  chairpersons of orthopedic residency programs in the united states.
although  significant improvements were observed in both groups, the manual therapy group  showed significantly larger improvements than the exercise therapy group on all  outcome variables throughout the entire experimental period.
subjects were randomly assigned to a back education program, high-velocity low-amplitude (hvla) manipulation and sham/mimic treatment procedure groups for a series of 10 treatment sessions.
this  amusing paper found that an "educational booklet" was as effective as  either chiropractic or mckenzie protocol!
this prospective case series suggests the possibility that menstrual pain associated with primary dysmenorrhea may be alleviated by treating motion segment restrictions of the lumbosacral spine with a drop table technique.
the not-so-hidden costs of back pain some  "experts" - ironically, those outside the chiropractic profession -  have attempted to describe back pain as a harmless, self-limiting condition  that requires only rest and time for resolution, despite evidence to the  contrary.
(jul 22); 12: 170~ full text low back pain (lbp) is one of the most common reasons for seeking medical care and accounts for over 3.7 million physician visits per year in the united states alone.
you will find  other information like this in the guidelines section.
fcer critiques 2 lbp articles in annals of internal medicine thejune 3, 2003 issue of annals of internal medicine featured two studies which questioned the clinical and cost-effectiveness of spinal manipulation.
identification should lead to appropriate early management targeted towards the prevention of chronic pain and disability.
pain integrating connective tissue and nervous system mechanisms medical hypotheses 2007 (jan); 68 (1): 74-80~ full text
palmer research center conducting several clinical trials on back pain the palmer center  for chiropractic research is currently studying back pain through several  groundbreaking clinical trials at its research clinic.
org is proud to support logan college and the icpa for their continuous research into the health benefits of chiropractic care.
this guide is to be used in conjunction with the new  zealand acute low back pain guide.
despite billions being spent on various diagnostic and treatment approaches, the prevalence and disability related to lbp has continued to increase [4].
we have all heard the statistics that say 83% of patients are better in 6 weeks.
you may want to review thisinteresting description of the  requirements for the ucla orthopedic surgery's residency program.
perhaps most significantly, the guidelines state that unlike nonsurgical interventions, spinal manipulation offers both pain relief and functional improvement.
editorial: end medical  mis-management of lbp the medical "debate" has been going on for years...is spinal  adjusting (a.k.a manipulation) effective for low back pain?the original  meade study (british medical journal 1990) demonstrated that chiropractic was  much more effective for lbp than conventional medical care.
pain spine j 2004 (sep); 4 (5): 574583 there was a positive, clinically important effect of the number of chiropractic treatments for chronic low back pain on pain intensity and disability at 4 weeks.
the cost of decompression is $23,724 compared to an average of $80,888 for complex fusion.
patients seek medical care from physicians, accounting for nearly 100 million  office visits per year.
journal of bone and joint surgery 2001  (sept);   83-a (9):   1317–1320 musculoskeletal  problems are a common reason why patients present for medical treatment.
prospective case series on the  effects of lumbosacral manipulation on dysmenorrhea j  manipulative physiol ther 2008 (mar);   31 (3):   237–246~ full  text
spine (phila pa 1976) 2011 (aug 15); 36 (18): 14271437 this new, single blinded placebo controlled study, conducted by mansoura faculty of medicine at mansoura university,conclusively demonstrates that maintenance care (aka preventive care) provides significant benefits for those with chronic low back pain.
this anticoagulant effect may  result in poor callus formation in intra-articular fractures where the fracture  line is exposed to synovial fluid.
half of the patients had surgery to fuse two or more vertebrae in hopes  of curing low back pain.
recurrence journal of occupational and environmental medicine 2011 (apr); 53 (4): 396404 in work-related nonspecific lbp, the use of health maintenance care provided by physical therapist or physician services was associated with a higher disability recurrence than with chiropractic services or no treatment.
even care byphysical  therapists has been shown to prolong recovery from low back pain.
musculoskeletal curricula in medical education physician and sportsmedicine 2004 (nov); 32 (11) chiropractic spinal manipulation for low back pain of pregnancy: a retrospective case series j midwifery womens health 2006 (jan); 51 (1): e7-10 sixteen of 17 (94.1%) cases demonstrated clinically important improvement.
this section was compiled by  frank m. painter, d.c. send all comments or additions to: frankp@chiro.org
more evidence of educational inadequacies in musculoskeletal medicine clin orthop relat res 2005 (aug); (437): 251259
they concluded that "we therefore believe that medical school preparation in musculoskeletal medicine is inadequate" and that medical students were inadequately trained to diagnose and treat musculoskeletal complaints.
a modified version of an exam used to assess the competency of incoming interns at the university of pennsylvania was used to assess the competency of medical students during various stages of their training at the university of washington.
"the incremental effect of adding  manual therapy to an approach involving enthusiastic physicians, special  evaluation and patient educational skills, standard medication therapies, and  exercise prescription appears to be minimal," said carey.
the following day, however, you receive a phone call  from the clinic informing you that upon further review of the radiographs, a  fracture was detected, and your son will need a cast for definitive treatment.
this new  reports on interviews with 31,044 individuals who used cam for low back pain.
ask your self why medicine is shown more slack than?
in what might be the most  troubling study finding, researchers determined that there was a 41 percent  increase in the use of painkillers, specifically opiates, in those who had  surgery.
in addition, indirect costs related to days lost from work are substantial,  with approximately 2% of the u.s. work force compensated for back injuries each  year [5].
these medical authors concluded that residents in orthopedic surgery programs  are not provided with sufficient training in nms analysis.
planar  whole-body scan showed heterogeneous tracer uptake in the lumbar spine with  intense localization to the right lateral aspect of l3.
manipulative therapy versus education programs in chronic low back
identification should lead to appropriate early  management targeted towards the prevention of chronic pain and disability.
cost effectiveness of physical treatments for back  pain in primary care british medical  journal 2004 (dec 11);   329 (7479):   1381~ full text
pain: what is the long-term course?
low back pain is also very costly:
joint trauma rehabilitation monograph series ~ chapter 8
cost-effectiveness of medical and chiropractic care for acute and chronic low back
a prospective observational cohort study was conducted  at a multidisciplinary, integrated clinic that includes chiropractic and  physical therapy health care services.
indeed, as we trained practice teams in the best care of back pain, we may have underestimated the benefit of physical therapy (spinal manipulation) when compared with "usual care" in general practice.
advice-   think before you lift what is the natural history for lower back pain?
to add insult to injury, this exact same test was given to a group of  51 chiropractic students during their last semester of schooling.
we should also keep in mind that an axial kinematic chain of weight-supporting segments extends from the occipital base to the soles of the feet.
both studies are funded through federal grants totaling $2.4 million.
spinal manipulation provided better short and long-term functional improvement,  and more pain relief in the follow-up than either back school or individual  physiotherapy.
this new study of 10,000 danish residents shows a link between  adolescent and adult low back pain (lbp).
a prospective study of  a young population bmc musculoskelet disord 2006 (mar 16);    7:   29~ full text
orthopaedists' and family practitioners' knowledge of simple low back pain management spine 2009 (jul 1); 34 (15): 16001603 one hundred forty family practitioners and 253 orthopaedists responded to the questionnaire.
a comparison of physical therapy, chiropractic manipulation, and provision of an educational booklet for the treatment of patients with low back pain new england journal of medicine 1998 (oct 8); 339 (15): 10131029 this amusing paper found that an "educational booklet" was as effective as either chiropractic or mckenzie protocol!
the report states that, eighty-eight percent of those who tried chiropractic manipulation said it helped a lot, and 59 percent were completely or very satisfied with their chiropractor .
the participants were 210 patients (140 women and 70 men) with chronic, non-specific low back pain, average age 59.
we recruited 112 doctors on completion of their foundation programme and assessed them using the freedman and bernstein musculoskeletal examination tool.
in addition, there is increased recognition of the importance of practice-based research which generates data in a real world environment as a tool for conducting comparative effectiveness research [6, 7].
that is rather significant savings, is it not?
editorial:editorial: cost effectiveness of physical treatments for back pain in primary care british medical journal 2004 (dec 11); 329 (7479): 1381~ full text
the following is a long and sad tale about the weakness of modern medical  education.
that’s compared to 67 percent of  patients who didn’t have surgery.
in addition, indirect costs related to days lost from work are substantial, with approximately 2% of the u.s. work force compensated for back injuries each year [5].
if our goal is to improve the quality of care for back pain patients then we first need to establish benchmark outcomes of recovery.
the discrepancy lies in the method of the  data collection.
perceived  benefit of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) for back pain: a  national survey journal of the american board of family medicine  2010 (may);   23 (3):  354–62~ full text
the first is titled spinal manipulative therapy for low back pain: a meta-analysis of effectiveness relative to other therapies.
ninety percent of adults will experience lbp in their lifetime, 50% will experience recurrent back pain, and 10% will develop chronic pain and related disability
the results of the review showed that the reported proportion of patients who still experienced pain after 12 months was 62% on average (range 42-73%)...the percentage who experienced relapses of pain was 60% (range 44-78%), and the percentage who had relapses of work absence was 33% (range 26-37%)...
sessions involved a consistent time commitment and direct one-on-one attention from the physician, either in the form of teaching about spine anatomy and function, or in assessment and delivery of the sham/hvla procedures.
relief was substantial for patients receiving care 3 to 4 times per week for 3 weeks.
although chronic low back pain (clbp) is increasingly recognized as a complex syndrome with multifactorial etiology, the pathogenic mechanisms leading to the development of chronic pain in this condition remain poorly understood.
future research should include subgroup analyses and strive for a consensus  regarding the precise definitions of lbp.
hormonal and reproductive factors are associated with chronic low back pain and chronic upper extremity pain in women --
the apparent safety of spinal  manipulation, especially when compared with other "medically  accepted" treatments for ldh, should stimulate its use in the conservative  treatment plan of ldh.
a comparison between chiropractic management and pain clinic management for chronic low-back pain in a national health service outpatient clinic j alternative and complementary medicine 2008 (jun); 14 (5): 465473 at 8 weeks, the mean improvement in rmdq was 5.5 points greater for the chiropractic group than for the pain-clinic group.
however, there has also been  an overall 15 fold increase in the more complex spinal fusions (360 degree  spine fusions).
just as you're getting ready to put your  5-year-old son to bed, he falls from a chair, landing on his wrist.
they would also preferentially  prescribe cyclo-oxygenase-2-specific nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,  despite the guidelines recommendations to use paracetamol or nonspecific  nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
[epub ahead of print] this systematic review of the cost-effectiveness of treatments endorsed in the aps-acp guidelines found that spinal manipulation was cost-effective for subacute and chronic low back pain, as were other methods usually within the chiropractors scope of practice (interdisciplinary rehabilitation, exercise, and acupuncture).
mean self-rated improvement at the end of  treatment was 77.5%.
patient evaluations of low back pain care from family physicians and chiropractors west j med 1989 (mar);   150 (3):    351–355~ full text patients of chiropractors were three times as  likely as patients of family physicians to report that they were very satisfied  with the care they received for low back pain (66% versus 22%, respectively).
you are told that nothing is broken, and a  wrist splint is placed.
low back pain & chiropractic page low back pain and chiropractic
dealing with their problem.
the morgen study spine (phila pa 1976) 2006 (jun 1);   31  (13):   1496-1502 although lbp is suggested to be linked to  hormonal and reproductive factors in women, results from previous studies are  inconclusive.
educational deficiencies in musculoskeletal medicine journal of bone and joint surgery 2002 (apr);   84–a (4):    604–608 according to the standard suggested by the program  directors of internal medicine residency departments, a large majority of the  examinees once again failed to demonstrate basic competency in musculoskeletal  medicine on the examination.
other pages: patient satisfaction cost-effectiveness safety of chiropractic about chiropractic chiropractic rehab repetitive stress headache page whiplash section disc herniation chronic neck pain low back pain stroke & chiropractic iatrogenic injury problems with placebos subluxation complex chirozine case reports pediatric section conditions that respond
in 1998, two medical doctors at the university of pennsylvania school of medicine in philadelphia, contacted all 157 chairpersons of orthopedic residency programs in the united states.
for instance, we find clinically that the  lumbar spine, sacrum, ilia, pubic bones, and hips work as a functional unit.
this is an  area of clear concern, but also one in which sports medicine practitioners  can assume leadership.
a chronic pain study at the university of washington school of medicine recently compared whichtreatments were most effective at reducing pain for neuromuscular diseases and found that chiropractic scored the highest pain relief rating (7.33 out of 10), scoring higher than the relief provided by either nerve blocks (6.75) or opioid analgesics (6.37).
the content of the guidelines appeared to be quite similar regarding the diagnostic classification (diagnostic triage) and the use of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions.
download the care plans in word 97 format or in adobe acrobat format they are formatted, so you can add your own letterhead and mail them out to claim adjusters tomorrow!
spinal  manipulation in the treatment of low-back pain canadian family physician  1985 (mar);   31:   535–540~ full text he truly spectacular  results from chiropractic treatment (approximately 80 percent of patients  'totally disabled' for an average of 7 years back on the job and doing well  after 3 weeks of daily adjustments) reflect, in my view, not only the  positive value of low back adjustments but also the exceptional skill of the  particular chiropractor.
although chronic low back pain (clbp) is increasingly  recognized as a complex syndrome with multifactorial etiology, the pathogenic  mechanisms leading to the development of chronic pain in this condition remain  poorly understood.
there is, however, a significant financial incentive to both hospitals and surgeons to perform the complex fusions.
in 1993 the province of ontario, canada hired the esteemed health care economist pran manga, phd to examine the benefits of chiropractic care for low back pain ( lbp) and to make a set of recommendations on how to contain and reduce health care costs.
in this study, 334 medical students, residents and staff physicians, specializing in various fields of medicine, were asked to take a basic cognitive examination consisting of 25 short-answer questions - the same type of test administered in the original jbjs 1998 study.
spect/ct imaging of the lumbar spine in chronic low back
together  they developed and validated abasic-competency examination in  musculoskeletal medicine to give to the first year residents.
nonpharmacologic therapies  for acute and chronic low back
integrated spect/ct of  the lumbar spine detected active bone metabolism in the right l3/l4 facet joint  in the presence of minimal signs of degenerative osteoarthrosis on ct images,  while a segment demonstrating more gross degenerative changes was quiescent  with only mild tracer uptake.
efficacy of spinal manipulation and mobilization for low back pain and neck pain: a systematic review and best evidence synthesis spine journal (of the north american spine society) 2004 (may); 4 (3): 335356 our data synthesis suggests that recommendations can be made with some confidence regarding the use of smt and/or mob as a viable option for the treatment of both low back pain and neck pain.
dose-response for chiropractic care of chronic low back
even after risk adjusting each patients costs, we found that episodes of care initiated with a dc were 20% less expensive than episodes initiated with an md.this clearly demonstrates the savings that are possible when a patient is permitted to choose a chiropractor, rather than an md for their care.
sessions involved a consistent time commitment and direct  one-on-one attention from the physician, either in the form of teaching about  spine anatomy and function, or in assessment and delivery of the sham/hvla  procedures.
spinal manipulation for  low-back pain national center  for complementary and alternative medicine (nccam) low-back pain is a  common condition that can be difficult to treat.
after two years, just 26 percent of those who had surgery had actually returned to work.
for patients with psychological  comorbidities, adjunctive analgesics, behavioral therapy, or multidisciplinary  rehabilitation also may be appropriate.
the 1994 guidelines for acute low back pain developed by ahcpr concluded that spinal manipulation hastens recovery from acute low back pain and recommended that this therapy be used in combination with or as an alternative to nonsteroidial anti-inflammatory drugs [1].
although all treatment groups showed improvement over time, the patients receiving thrusting procedures demonstrated significantly greater and more rapid rates of improvement from their symptoms and in their ability to function.
the content of the guidelines appeared to be quite  similar regarding the diagnostic classification (diagnostic triage) and the use  of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions.
chiropractic management of postsurgical  lumbar spine pain: a retrospective study of 32 cases j  manipulative physiol ther 2011 (jul);   34 (6):   408–412 little has been published on the effects of cox flexion distraction  manipulation (fig 1) on pain experienced in patients who previously underwent  lumbar spinal surgery.
new study  reveals that back surgery fails 74% of the time editorial  commentary: researchers  reviewed records from 1,450 patients in the ohio bureau of workers’  compensation database who had diagnoses of disc degeneration, disc herniation  or radiculopathy, a nerve condition that causes tingling and weakness of the  limbs.
nass contemporary concepts in spine care: spinal manipulation therapy for acute low back
one  might conclude that for acute low back pain not caused by fracture, tumor,  infection, or the cauda equina syndrome, spinal manipulation is the treatment  of choice.
this study demonstrated two important points: (1) chiropractic is effective for chronic low back pain (lbp), and (2) that ongoing supportive care can reduce disability levels, as measured by the oswestry low back pain disability questionnaire.
cost-effectiveness of medical and  chiropractic care for acute and chronic low back pain j  manipulative physiol ther 2005 (oct);   28 (8):   555–563 acute and chronic chiropractic patients experienced better outcomes in pain,  functional disability, and patient satisfaction.
is this universally advertised short term outcome true?
255 a previously published knowledge questionnaire designed by chief orthopedic residents was given to a chiropractic student group for comparison to the results of the medical resident group.
randomised comparison of chiropractic and hospital  outpatient management for low back pain: results from extended follow up british medical journal 1995 (aug 5);   311 (7001):    349–351~
congruence between decisions to initiate chiropractic spinal manipulation for low back pain and appropriateness criteria in north america annals of internal medicine 1998 (jul 1); 129: 917~ full text
physical therapy  may be marginally more effective than medical care alone for reducing  disability in some patients, but the possible benefit is small.
sessions were scripted to balance for physical contact, attention, and intervention frequency and duration.
in december 2004, the british medical research council published 2 papers in thebritish medical journal demonstrating both the  efficacy and cost-effectiveness of chiropractic compared with medical  management.
welcome  to the united states bone and joint decade the bone and joint decade  initiative is a global campaign to improve quality of life for people with  musculoskeletal conditions and to advance understanding and treatment of these  conditions through research, prevention, and education.
the detailed clinical  outcomes reported in the accompanying paper reinforce these findings by showing  that the improvements in health status reported here reflect statistically  significant improvements in function, pain, disability, physical and mental
a recent 4-year retrospective study of 700,000 health plan members revealed that offering chiropractic services within a managed-care environment could save insurers 27% in back pain episode-related costs!
there have been few high-quality trials distinguishing between acute and  chronic patients, and most are limited to shorter-term follow-up.
educating medical students about musculoskeletal problems: are community needs reflected in the curricula of canadian medical schools?
a comparison of chiropractic student knowledge versus medical residents proceedings of the world federation of chiropractic congress 2001 pgs.
at the same time, ahcpr concluded that various traditional methods, such as bed rest, traction, and other physical and pharmaceutical therapies were less effective than spinal manipulation and cautioned against lumbar surgery except in the most severe cases.
70% of the students passed the test.
is among the treatment options used by people with low-back pain in attempts to relieve pain and improve functioning.
if improvement is the goal  then 90% of patients are improving after only 3 weeks.
there has been  a recent movement toward comparative effectiveness research [5], i.e.,  research that determines which treatment approaches are most effective for a  given patient population.
researchers studied twins born between 1972 and 1982 by sending out questionnaires in 1994 and again in 2002.
we present a clinical case of a patient referred for evaluation of chronic lower back pain with no history of trauma, spinal surgery, or cancer.
in what might be the most troubling  study finding, researchers determined that there was a 41 percent increase in  the use of painkillers, specifically opiates, in those who had surgery.
we hypothesize that pain-related fear leads to a cycle of decreased movement, connective tissue remodeling, inflammation, nervous system sensitization and further decreased mobility.
joint trauma rehabilitation  monograph series ~ chapter 8
a randomized trial of medical care with and without physical therapy and  chiropractic care with and without physical modalities for patients with low  back pain: 6-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain study spine (phila pa 1976) 2002 (oct 15);   27 (20):   2193–2204  ~ full text
back school and individual physiotherapy were scheduled as 15 1-hour-sessions for 3 weeks.
a study in the may issue of consumer reports shows that hands-on therapies were tops among treatments for relief of back pain.
this effect was greater on a per-episode basis than on a per-patient  basis.
by comparison, this study takes into account consultation rates as well as follow-up interviews.
download the adobe acrobat reader for free guide to assessing psychosocial yellow flags in acute low back pain: risk factors for longterm disability and work loss new zealand guidelines group ~ full text
integrated spect/ct of the lumbar spine detected active bone metabolism in the right l3/l4 facet joint in the presence of minimal signs of degenerative osteoarthrosis on ct images, while a segment demonstrating more gross degenerative changes was quiescent with only mild tracer uptake.
who will provide it? annals of internal medicine 1998 (jul ); 129: 6566~ full text
for  chronic lbp, the addition of back exercises, behavioral therapy, and short-term  opioid analgesics was suggested.
compared to family physician-directed uc,full cpg-based  treatment including csmt is associated with significantly greater improvement  in condition-specific functioning.
only 21% of the residents registered a passing grade, and only 3% of the medical students passed the exam.
practice-based clinical  outcomes were consistent with systematic reviews of spinal manipulation  efficacy: manipulation-based therapy is at least as good as and, in some cases,  better than other therapeusis.
the results suggest that chiropractic treatment was safe in these cases  and support the hypothesis that it may be effective for reducing pain intensity.
our literature review and survey of local family physicians revealed that between 13.7% and 27.8% of north american patients presenting to a primary care physician have a chief symptom that is directly related to the musculoskeletal system.
fcer critiques 2 lbp  articles in annals of internal medicine thejune 3, 2003 issue of annals of internal medicine featured two studies which questioned  the clinical and cost-effectiveness of spinal manipulation.
for acute low  back pain, this review found insufficient evidence for reaching a conclusion  about the cost-effectiveness of spinal manipulation.
manual therapy and exercise therapy in patients with chronic low back pain: a randomized, controlled trial with 1-year follow-up spine (phila pa 1976) 2003 (mar 15); 28 (6): 525531 although significant improvements were observed in both groups, the manual therapy group showed significantly larger improvements than the exercise therapy group on all outcome variables throughout the entire experimental period.
it demonstrated that those treated by chiropractic derive more benefit and long term satisfaction than those treated by hospitals,especially for those who suffered from chronic (or long-term) low back pain!
palmer research center conducting several clinical trials on back pain the palmer center for chiropractic research is currently studying back pain through several groundbreaking clinical trials at its research clinic.
the following is a  collection of studies relating to the cost effectiveness and efficacy  associated with chiropractic care and the procedures that doctors of  chiropractic provide.
pain spine (phila pa 1976).
because the number of professional papers concerning the cause and diagnosis of low-back pain is voluminous, emphasis herein is placed on points that the author believes are important but not often emphasized in popular literature.
a new addition is thedanish institute's low back pain guidelines, available in html or adobe acrobat.
we  present a clinical case of a patient referred for evaluation of chronic lower  back pain with no history of trauma, spinal surgery, or cancer.
in addition to providing a new, testable framework for future mechanistic studies of clbp, the integration of connective tissue and nervous system plasticity into the model will potentially illuminate the mechanisms of a variety of treatments that may reverse these abnormalities by applying mechanical forces to soft tissues (e.g. physical therapy, massage, chiropractic manipulation, acupuncture), by changing specific movement patterns (e.g. movement therapies, yoga) or more generally by increasing activity levels (e.g. recreational exercise).you will also enjoy dr. dan murphy's key points.
safety of spinal manipulation in the treatment of lumbar disk herniations: a systematic review and risk assessment j manipulative physiol ther 2004 (mar); 27 (3): 197210 an estimate of the risk of spinal manipulation causing a clinically worsened disk herniation or ces in a patient presenting with ldh is calculated from published data to be less than 1 in 3.7 million.
in work-related nonspecific lbp, the use of health maintenance care  provided by physical therapist or physician services was associated with a  higher disability recurrence than with chiropractic services or no treatment.
the not-so-hidden costs of back pain some "experts" - ironically, those outside the chiropractic profession - have attempted to describe back pain as a harmless, self-limiting condition that requires only rest and time for resolution, despite evidence to the contrary.
musculoskeletal  conditions in the united states.
congruence between decisions to initiate chiropractic spinal manipulation  for low back pain and appropriateness criteria in north america annals of internal medicine 1998 (jul 1);   129:   9–17~ full  text
chiropractic care for common  industrial low back conditions chiropractic  technique 1993 (aug);   5 (3):   119–125~ full text
the results of the trial are published online today, friday  19 november, in the british medical journal.
if  our goal is to improve the quality of care for back pain patients then we first  need to establish benchmark outcomes of recovery.
just use "save-as" and they are all yours!
for this reason, a cross-sectional study of 11,428 dutch women aged 20-59 years was accomplished.
most orthopaedists incorrectly responded that they would  send their patients for radiologic evaluations.
the study, which surveyed more than 14,000 consumers, was conducted by the consumer reports health ratings center.
manipulative  therapy versus education programs in chronic low back
the cost of decompression is $23,724 compared to an  average of $80,888 for complex fusion.
even though the  passing grade was lowered from 74% to 70%,78% of them again failed the exam,  with a mean test score average of 59.9 percent.
adequacy of education in musculoskeletal  medicine j bone joint surg am 2005 (feb);   87 (2):    310–314
little has been published on the effects of cox flexion distraction manipulation (fig 1) on pain experienced in patients who previously underwent lumbar spinal surgery.
so...what's the holdup?
is comorbidity in adolescence a predictor for adult low back
if a patient presents to your office with severe low back pain, severe leg pain, constant leg numbness and foot drop, don't automatically assume and report disc involvement without a diagnostic test to substantiate it.
manipulation may be performed as a part of other therapies or whole medical systems, including chiropractic medicine, massage, and naturopathy.
american  medical association 2000 (dec 6);   284 (21):  2727–2732~ full  text
the medical group had already graduated medical school, been awarded their  md degrees, completed all their hospital rotations, and finally been accepted  into highly competitive orthopedic residencies.
pain spine j. 2010 (oct); 10 (10): 91840 several rcts have been conducted to assess the efficacy of smt for acute lbp using various methods.
it seems implausible that the number of patients with the most complex spinal pathology increased 15-fold in just 6 years.
recently compared whichtreatments were most effective at reducing pain for  neuromuscular diseases and found that chiropractic scored the highest  pain relief rating (7.33 out of 10), scoring higher than the relief  provided by either nerve blocks (6.75) or opioid analgesics (6.37).
given the importance of active  participation in recovery, patient preference should be sought to help select  from among the recommended treatment options.
pain: a review of the evidence for an american pain society/american college of physicians clinical practice guideline annals of internal medicine 2007 (oct 2); 147 (7): 492504~ full text therapies with good evidence of moderate efficacy for chronic or subacute low back pain are cognitive-behavioral therapy, exercise,spinal manipulation, and interdisciplinary rehabilitation.
low back pain and chiropracticthis section was compiled by frank m. painter, d.c. send all comments or additions to: frankp@chiro.org
read these responses from the research and academic community.
compared to family physician-directed uc,full cpg-based treatment including csmt is associated with significantly greater improvement in condition-specific functioning.
adequacy of education in musculoskeletal medicine j bone joint surg am 2005 (feb); 87 (2): 310314
irregular or prolonged menstruation and hysterectomy were associated both with chronic lbp and chronic uep.
clinical and cost utilization based on 70,274 member-months over  a 7-year perioddemonstrated decreases of 60.2% in-hospital admissions, 59.0%  less hospital days, 62.0% less outpatient surgeries and procedures, and 83%  less pharmaceutical costs when compared with conventional medicine ipa  performance.
the following day, however, you receive a phone call from the clinic informing you that upon further review of the radiographs, a fracture was detected, and your son will need a cast for definitive treatment.
safety of spinal manipulation in the treatment of lumbar disk  herniations: a systematic review and risk assessment j manipulative  physiol ther 2004 (mar);   27 (3):   197–210 an  estimate of the risk of spinal manipulation causing a clinically worsened disk  herniation or ces in a patient presenting with ldh is calculated from published  data to be less than 1 in 3.7 million.
the british medical research council (mrc) a  medical research council (mrc) trial to assess the effectiveness of adding  different treatments to “best care” in general practice for patients  with lower back pain has found that spinal manipulation, in the form of  chiropractic, osteopathy, or manipulative physiotherapy, followed by a  programme of exercise, provides significant relief of symptoms and improvements  in general health.
the american chiropractic association, the international  chiropractic association, the congress of state associations, and the  association of chiropractic colleges appreciate the opportunity to provide  these materials for your review.
at the clinic, a pleasant young resident takes a history, performs a physical exam, and orders an x-ray to evaluate the injury.
the research team needs to conduct a well-designed feasibility trial  to further evaluate the effectiveness of this specific spinal manipulative  technique for primary dysmenorrhea.
a comparison between chiropractic management and  pain clinic management for chronic low-back pain in a national health service  outpatient clinic j alternative and complementary medicine 2008  (jun);   14 (5):   465–473 at 8 weeks, the mean  improvement in rmdq was 5.5 points greater for the chiropractic group than for  the pain-clinic group.
one needs to ask why drug  costs continue to climb with a track record like that?
overall, seventy-nine percent of the participants  failed the basic musculoskeletal cognitive examination.
back  school and individual physiotherapy were scheduled as 15 1-hour-sessions for 3  weeks.
[1 ] the decade aims to raise the awareness of the increasing societal impact of musculoskeletal injuries and disorders; empower patients to participate in decisions about their care; increase funding for prevention activities and research; and promote cost-effective prevention and treatment of musculoskeletal injuries and disorders.
download the adobe acrobat reader for free low back pain of mechanical origin: randomised comparison of chiropractic and hospital outpatient treatment british medical journal 1990 (jun 2); 300 (6737): 14311437
yet undergraduate and graduate training for this burden of illness continues to constitute typicallyless than 3% of the medical curriculum.
it demonstrated that those  treated by chiropractic derive more benefit and long term satisfaction than  those treated by hospitals,especially for those who suffered from chronic  (or long-term) low back pain!
for clarity sake, you need appreciate the  difference between the chiropractic and the medical participants in these  studies.
mds employ spinal manipulation after a short training course: limited benefit for patients the back letter 1998; 13 (11): 123 ~ full text results: overall, the results do not support training primary care physicians in manipulative techniques.
the journal of pediatrics 2009 (feb);   154 (2):    267–271 questionnaires, filled out by a broad spectrum of medical  providers in england [primary care (n = 75), pediatrics (n = 39), emergency (n  = 39), orthopedics (n = 40), and experienced doctors in primary care (n = 93),  and pediatrics (n = 60).], revealed that 74% of them scored their personal  confidence in pediatric musculoskeletal clinical assessment as "no"  to "low".
if you have spinal pain, seek care from someone who is properly trained to assess and manage your care.
four hundred thirty-two patients (83%) were classified and treated by doctors of chiropractic and/or physical therapists.
it provides an overview of risk factors  for long–term disability and work loss, and an outline of methods to  assess these at risk.
it is therefore reasonable to conclude that  medical school preparation in musculoskeletal medicine is inadequate.
thats compared to 67 percent of patients who didnt have surgery.
[1] read bothbritish medical journal articles about the uk beam trial now.
cost of care for common back pain conditions initiated with chiropractic doctor vs medical doctor/doctor of osteopathy as first physician: experience of one tennessee-based general health insurer j manipulative physiol ther 2010 (nov); 33 (9): 640643 paid costs for episodes of care initiated with a dc were almost 40% less than episodes initiated with an md.
meanwhile, an underemphasis on illness behavior has led to an under-utilization of functional (re-activation advice, manipulation and exercise) and cognitive-behavorial approaches (feuerstein).
this full  text article investigated the generally accepted statistic that 90% of low  back pain (lbp) goes away by itself.
a  prospective study of back belts for prevention of back pain and injury jou.
this guide is to be used in conjunction with the new zealand acute low back pain guide.
although it may be easier to teach anatomy by dividing the body into arbitrary parts, a misinterpretation can be created.
only 8.9% passed the assessment.
in the largest prospective cohort study of back belt use, adjusted for multiple individual risk factors, neither frequent back belt use nor a store policy that required belt use was associated with reduced incidence of back injury claims or low back pain.
according to some studies, up  to 10% of wrist fractures are missed at the initial evaluation.[1 ]
in what might be the most troubling study finding, researchers determined that there was a 41 percent increase in the use of painkillers, specifically opiates, in those who had surgery.
you will enjoy this free online icd-9 coding tool to help you create the most specific coding possible at flashcode.
a conglomerate of anatomical changes created by the global laxity in muscles and ligaments compromises the stability of the spine.
our  literature review and survey of local family physicians revealed that between  13.7% and 27.8% of north american patients presenting to a primary care  physician have a chief symptom that is directly related to the musculoskeletal  system.
1995 (apr 15); 20 (8): 948955 triano and colleagues studied treatment effects for patients with low back pain persisting longer than seven weeks.
together they developed and validated abasic-competency examination in musculoskeletal medicine to give to the first year residents.
one would expect that, during their 5 years of medical training, followed by endless hours of hospital rotations and residency programs, that all these doctors *might have* picked up a little more musculoskeletal knowledge along the way.
vladimir janda citation collection shortcuts are provided to the pubmed abstracts of all the articles which are available online.
burden of major musculoskeletal conditions bull world health organ 2003;   81 (9):   646-656 3.
subjects were randomly assigned to a back education  program, high-velocity low-amplitude (hvla) manipulation and sham/mimic  treatment procedure groups for a series of 10 treatment sessions.
improvement was described as "good" or "excellent" in nearly 90% of patients.
when stress is chronic, degenerative changes  occur.
if there are terms in these articles you don't understand, you can get a definition from themerriam webster medical dictionary.
when stress is chronic, degenerative changes occur.
spinal manipulation provided better short and long-term functional improvement, and more pain relief in the follow-up than either back school or individual physiotherapy.
it also found no evidence at all on the cost-effectiveness of medication for low back pain.
compared with back school and with individually delivered  physiotherapy for the treatment of chronic low back
the outcomes showed that a high percentage of those who had lbp in 1994  still suffered from lbp in 2002.
spinal manipulation for low-back pain national center for complementary and alternative medicine (nccam) low-back pain is a common condition that can be difficult to treat.
the other half had no surgery, even  though they had comparable diagnoses.
given the importance of active participation in recovery, patient preference should be sought to help select from among the recommended treatment options.
this anticoagulant effect may result in poor callus formation in intra-articular fractures where the fracture line is exposed to synovial fluid.
the adequacy of medical school education in musculoskeletal medicine journal of bone and joint surgery 1998 (oct);   80-a (10):    1421–1427 this is the original article, which found that 82  per cent of medical school graduates failed a valid musculoskeletal competency  examination.
we believe that this is the first study of physical therapy for low back pain to show convincingly that both manipulation alone and manipulation followed by exercise provide cost effective additions to care in general practice.
a new addition is  thedanish institute's low back pain guidelines, available in html or  adobe acrobat.
introducing  chiropractic into nhs practice should be considered.
a recent 4-year retrospective study of 700,000 health plan members revealed that offering chiropractic services within a managed-care  environment could save insurers 27% in back pain episode-related costs!
if improvement is the goal then 90% of patients are improving after only 3 weeks.
spect/ct imaging of the lumbar spine in chronic low back  pain: a case report chiropractic & manual therapies 2011  (jan 11);   19:   2~ full text formerly known as:    “chiropractic & osteopathy” mechanical low back pain is  a common indication for nuclear medicine imaging.
they concluded that "we therefore believe that medical  school preparation in musculoskeletal medicine is inadequate" and that medical students were inadequately trained to diagnose and treat  musculoskeletal complaints.
the journal of pediatrics 2009 (feb); 154 (2): 267271 questionnaires, filled out by a broad spectrum of medical providers in england [primary care (n = 75), pediatrics (n = 39), emergency (n = 39), orthopedics (n = 40), and experienced doctors in primary care (n = 93), and pediatrics (n = 60).], revealed that 74% of them scored their personal confidence in pediatric musculoskeletal clinical assessment as "no" to "low".
musculoskeletal curricula in medical education physician and sportsmedicine 2004 (nov); 32 (11)
these hormones that are essential to the pregnancy cause global relaxation to the ligaments and muscles in the female pregnant patient.
the most recent in a long line of articles  showing the clear superiority of chiropractic management waspublished in may  of 2007 .
the inadequacy of  musculoskeletal knowledge after foundation training in the united kingdom journal of bone and joint surgery br 2009 (nov);   91 (11):    1413–1418
i have  used these "care plans" for years, presenting them to third party's  as a "working diagnosis" care plan, which need ongoing "fine  tuning" during patient care.
no relation was found between the results and physician demographic factors, including seniority.
chiropractic and  medical care performed comparably for acute patients.
147 (7): 478491~ full text low back pain is the fifth most common reason for all physician visits in the united states
a table with specific codes is supplied.
at the clinic, a  pleasant young resident takes a history, performs a physical exam, and orders  an x-ray to evaluate the injury.
american medical association 2010 (apr 7); 303 (13): 12591265~ full text
this section also includes recommendations from the california industrial medical council, the royal college of general practitioners, the 1994 ahcpr guides, the "mercy conference document", and the new zealand "psychosocial yellow flags" page consumer reports: chiropractic top rated treatment for back pain consumer reports ~ may 2009
even after risk adjusting each  patient’s costs, we found that episodes of care initiated with a dc were  20% less expensive than episodes initiated with an md.this clearly  demonstrates the savings that are possible when a patient is permitted to  choose a chiropractor, rather than an md for their care.
spinal manipulationthe application of controlled force to a joint, moving it beyond the normal range of motion in an effort to aid in restoring health.
the results of the review show that,  despite the methodological variations and the lack of comparable definitions, the overall picture is that lbp does not resolve itself when ignored.
j manipulative physiol ther 2010 (nov);   33 (9):   640–643 paid costs for episodes of care initiated with a dc were almost 40% less  than episodes initiated with an md.
clinical guidelines for the management of low back  pain in primary care: an international comparison spine (phila  pa 1976) 2001 (nov 15);   26 (22):   2504–2513 clinical  guidelines from 11 different countries published from 1994 until 2000 were  included in this review.
the authors  concluded: “we believe that this is the first study of physical therapy  for low back pain to show convincingly that both manipulation alone and  manipulation followed by exercise provide cost effective additions to care in  general practice.”
[3] what's the best solution?
no positive associations were found for current pregnancy and number of children.
locating and treating low back pain of myofascial origin by ischemic compression journal of the canadian chiropractic assoc 2002 (dec); 46 (4) this is an adobe acrobat article.
the purpose of the present study was to review the curricula of canadian medical schools to determine whether they prepare their students for the demands of practice with respect to musculoskeletal problems.
[1] furthermore, musculoskeletal conditions are the most common cause of long-term pain and physical disability.
but, don't just take my word for it.
the results of this study demonstrate that postsurgical patients with subsequent low back pain seem to respond positively to cox flexion distraction manipulation treatments.
these results are similar to previous case reports in terms of their positive outcomes; however, the data included in this article stratify treatment results based on surgical type and include a much larger sample size than previously documented.
the medical group had already graduated medical school, been awarded their md degrees, completed all their hospital rotations, and finally been accepted into highly competitive orthopedic residencies.
chiropractic  cost-effectiveness supplement provided by a  joint task force of the aca, ica, cas and the acc
the lining of synovial joints is slightly phagocytic, is regenerative if  damaged, and secretes synovial fluid that is a nutritive lubricant having  bacteriostatic and anticoagulant characteristics.
his reporta study to examine the effectiveness and  cost-effectiveness of chiropractic management of low-back pain cited  research demonstrating that: (1) chiropractic manipulation is safer than  medical management for lbp;   (2) that spinal manipulation is less safe  and effective when performed by non-chiropractic professionals;   (3) that  there is an overwhelming body of evidence indicating that chiropractic  management of low-back pain is more cost-effective than medical management;    (4) and thatthere would be highly significant cost savings if more  management of lbp was transferred from medical physicians to chiropractors.
there is a marked discrepancy between the  musculoskeletal knowledge and skill requirements of a primary care physician  and the time devoted to musculoskeletal education in canadian medical schools.
there was less evidence for the use of manipulation for patients with lbp and radiating leg pain, sciatica, or radiculopathy.
does maintained spinal manipulation therapy for chronic  non-specific low back pain result in better long term outcome?
american  medical association 2010 (apr 7);   303 (13):   1259–1265~
individual  physiotherapy included exercise, passive mobilization and soft-tissue  treatment.
efficacy of spinal manipulation and mobilization  for low back pain and neck pain: a systematic review and best evidence synthesis spine journal (of the north american spine society) 2004 (may);    4 (3):   335–356 our data synthesis suggests that  recommendations can be made with some confidence regarding the use of smt  and/or mob as a viable option for the treatment of both low back pain and neck  pain.
by richard c.  schafer, d.c., ficc and theacapress the general  stability of synovial joints is established by action of surrounding muscles.
this new study of 10,000 danish residents shows a link between adolescent and adult low back pain (lbp).
just over half of the  staff physicians (52%) scored a passing grade or higher on the 2005 exam.
ninety percent of adults will experience lbp in their lifetime,  50% will experience recurrent back pain, and 10% will develop chronic pain and  related disability
most orthopaedists incorrectly responded that they would send their patients for radiologic evaluations.
the benefit is seen mainly in those with chronic or severe pain.
orthopedic surgeons are supposed to be the *gods* of medicine, the pinnacle of  medical knowledge.
an updated overview of clinical  guidelines for the management of non-specific low back pain in primary care eur spine j. 2010 (dec);   19 (12):   2075–2094 this review of national and international guidelines conducted by koes et.
effects of a managed chiropractic benefit on the  use of specific diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in the treatment of low  back and neck pain j manipulative physiol ther 2005 (oct);    28 (8):   564–569
the surgeon is typically reimbursed only $600 to $800 for  simple decompression and approximately ten times more, $6,000 to $8,000 for the  complex fusion.
editorial: end medical mis-management of  musculoskeletal complaints q.   are medical doctors well  trained to diagnose or treat musculoskeletal complaints?
just over half of the staff physicians (52%) scored a passing grade or higher on the 2005 exam.
low back pain is  also very costly:
in yesterdays issue (april 7, 2010) of the journal of the american medical association concludes that it is unclear why more complex operations are increasing.
you will enjoy these recommendations because their only recommendation for active treatment of acute low back pain is spinal adjusting (manipulation).
whole-body bone scan is a  very sensitive but poorly specific study for the detection of metabolic bone  abnormalities.
long-term outcomes of lumbar fusion among workers' compensation subjects: an historical cohort study spine (phila pa 1976) 2011 (feb 15); 36 (4): 320331~ full text researchers reviewed records from 1,450 patients in the ohio bureau of workers compensation database who had diagnoses of disc degeneration, disc herniation or radiculopathy, a nerve condition that causes tingling and weakness of the limbs.
pain: a case report chiropractic & manual therapies 2011 (jan 11); 19: 2~ full text formerly known as: chiropractic & osteopathy
the adequacy of medical school education in musculoskeletal medicine journal of bone and joint surgery 1998 (oct); 80-a (10): 14211427 this is the original article, which found that 82 per cent of medical school graduates failed a valid musculoskeletal competency examination.
locating and treating low back  pain of myofascial origin by ischemic compression journal of  the canadian chiropractic assoc 2002 (dec);   46 (4) this is an adobe acrobat article.
the british medical research council (mrc) trial finds adding spinal manipulation and exercise to gp care provides relief for back pain the british medical research council (mrc) a medical research council (mrc) trial to assess the effectiveness of adding different treatments to best care in general practice for patients with lower back pain has found that spinal manipulation, in the form of chiropractic, osteopathy, or manipulative physiotherapy, followed by a programme of exercise, provides significant relief of symptoms and improvements in general health.
application of a diagnosis-based clinical decision guide in patients with low back pain chiropractic & manual therapies 2011 (oct 22); 19: 26~ full text low back pain (lbp) affects approximately 80% of adults at some time in life [1] and occurs in all ages [2, 3].
planar whole-body scan showed heterogeneous tracer uptake in the lumbar spine with intense localization to the right lateral aspect of l3.
this section also includes recommendations from the california  industrial medical council, the royal college of general practitioners, the  1994 ahcpr guides, the "mercy conference document", and the new  zealand "psychosocial yellow flags" page consumer reports: chiropractic top rated treatment for back pain consumer reports  ~ may 2009
pain spine j. 2010 (oct);   10 (10):    918–40 several rcts have been conducted to assess the efficacy of  smt for acute lbp using various methods.
the following is a long and sad tale about the weakness of modern medical education.
download the adobe acrobat  reader for free guide to assessing  psychosocial yellow flags in acute low back pain: risk factors for  long–term disability and work loss new zealand guidelines group ~ full text
this is the first  guideline i have seen which actually states thenumber of visits which  may be appropriate for a variety of common low back conditions.
check out thischiropractic technique article, and the attached care plans, which have been released exclusively to chiro.
you may review more articles like  this in the lowback guidelines section.
pain spine j  2004 (sep);   4 (5):   574–583
however, more than one quarter of patients were treated for indications that were judged inappropriate.
a prospective study of back belts for prevention of back pain and injury jou.
- chiropractic use (76% of respondents) was greater than all the other 5 therapies combined (see figure 1) money and spinal surgery: what happened to the patient?
this is a follow-up article to the study cited below, whichdemonstrated that medical students were inadequately trained to diagnose and treat musculoskeletal complaints.
a review of  studies of general patient populations eur spine j 2003 (apr);    12 (2):   149–165 the results of the review showed  that the reported proportion of patients who still experienced pain after 12  months was 62% on average (range 42-73%)...the percentage who experienced  relapses of pain was 60% (range 44-78%), and the percentage who had relapses of  work absence was 33% (range 26-37%)...
application of a diagnosis-based  clinical decision guide in patients with low back pain chiropractic & manual therapies 2011 (oct 22);   19:   26~ full  text low back pain (lbp) affects approximately 80% of adults at some  time in life [1] and occurs in all ages [2, 3].
these results suggested that the curricular approach toward teaching musculoskeletal medicine at this medical school was insufficient and that competency increased when learning was reinforced during the clinical years.
despite generally improved levels of competency with each year at  medical school,less than 50% of fourth-year students showed competency.
in yesterday’s issue (april 7, 2010) of the  journal of the american medical association concludes that “it is unclear  why more complex operations are increasing.
spinal manipulation included 4-6 20-minute sessions once-a-week.
the following is a collection of studies relating to the cost effectiveness and efficacy associated with chiropractic care and the procedures that doctors of chiropractic provide.
this is the first guideline i have seen which actually states thenumber of visits which may be appropriate for a variety of common low back conditions.
expressed in other terms,70% of chiropractic students passed the knowledge questionnaire, compared to an80% failure rate for the residents.
synovial versus mechanical causes of joint pain are shown in table 1.
the cost-effectiveness page documents many other studies with similar findings.
chiropractic and medical care performed comparably for acute patients.
nice work, if you can get it!
the usefulness of integrated spect/ct for anatomical and functional assessment of back pain opens promising opportunities both for multi-disciplinary clinical assessment and treatment for manual therapists and for research into the effectiveness of manual therapies.
the aim of this study was to determine whether the foundation programme for junior doctors, implemented across the united kingdom in 2005, provides adequate training in musculoskeletal medicine.
the 1994  guidelines for acute low back pain developed by ahcpr concluded that spinal  manipulation hastens recovery from acute low back pain and recommended that  this therapy be used in combination with or as an alternative to nonsteroidial  anti-inflammatory drugs
meanwhile, an underemphasis on illness behavior has led to an under-utilization  of functional (re-activation advice, manipulation and exercise) and  cognitive-behavorial approaches (feuerstein).
the curriculum analysis  revealed that, on the average, medical schools in canada devoted 2.26% (range,  0.61% to 4.81%) of their curriculum time to musculoskeletal education.
but, if asymptomatic is  the goal then only 46% reached this goal after 7 weeks.
for instance, we find clinically that the lumbar spine, sacrum, ilia, pubic bones, and hips work as a functional unit.
cost-effectiveness of guideline-endorsed  treatments for low back pain: a systematic review eur spine j.  2011 (jan 13)
a hospital-based standardized spine care pathway: report of a multidisciplinary, evidence-based process j manipulative physiol ther 2011 (feb); 34 (2): 98106 a health care facility (jordan hospital) implemented a multidimensional spine care pathway (scp) using the national center for quality assurance (ncqa) back pain recognition program (bprp) as its foundation.
health maintenance care in work-related low back pain and  its association with disability
pathophysiological model for  chronic low back pain integrating connective tissue and nervous system  mechanisms medical hypotheses 2007 (jan);   68 (1):    74-80~ full text
manipulation may be  performed as a part of other therapies or whole medical systems, including  chiropractic medicine, massage, and naturopathy.
spinal stenosis is the most frequent cause for spinal surgery in the elderly.
complaints: a literature synthesis j manipulative physiol ther 2008  (nov);   31 (9):   659–674 as much or more evidence  exists for the use of spinal manipulation to reduce symptoms and improve  function in patients with chronic lbp as for use in acute and subacute lbp.
for acute low back pain, this review found insufficient evidence for reaching a conclusion about the cost-effectiveness of spinal manipulation.
multivariate logistic regression models were  used to examine associations between hormonal and reproductive factors  (independent variables) and, respectively, chronic lbp, chronic uep (upper  extremity pain) and combined chronic lbp/uep.past pregnancy, young maternal  age at first birth, duration of oral contraceptive use, and use of estrogens  during menopause were associated with chronic lbp, while young age at  menarche was associated with chronic uep.
[1 ] the decade  aims to raise the awareness of the increasing societal impact of  musculoskeletal injuries and disorders; empower patients to participate in  decisions about their care; increase funding for prevention activities and  research; and promote cost-effective prevention and treatment of  musculoskeletal injuries and disorders.
whole-body bone scan is a very sensitive but poorly specific study for the detection of metabolic bone abnormalities.
the results of the trial are published online today, friday 19 november, in the british medical journal.
about 500 people from throughout the quad-city region who suffer from back pain are being recruited to participate in two separate clinical trials, expected to last up to 18 months.
fertilization propels the release of estrogen, progesterone and  relaxin, hormones essential to the growth and development of the embryo and  fetus.
the average score  among medical doctors, students and residents who took the exam in 2005 was 2.7  pointslower than those who took the exam in 1998.
books will be medicine's next big  "breakthrough" in managing low back pain.
randomised comparison of chiropractic and hospital outpatient management for low back pain: results from extended follow up british medical journal 1995 (aug 5); 311 (7001): 349351~ full text
however, there has also been an overall 15 fold increase in the more complex spinal fusions (360 degree spine fusions).
1995 (apr 15);   20 (8):   948–955 triano and  colleagues studied treatment effects for patients with low back pain persisting  longer than seven weeks.
in addition to providing a new,  testable framework for future mechanistic studies of clbp, the integration of  connective tissue and nervous system plasticity into the model will potentially  illuminate the mechanisms of a variety of treatments that may reverse these  abnormalities by applying mechanical forces to soft tissues (e.g. physical  therapy, massage, chiropractic manipulation, acupuncture), by changing specific  movement patterns (e.g. movement therapies, yoga) or more generally by  increasing activity levels (e.g. recreational exercise).you will also enjoy  dr. dan murphy's key points.
he also stated that "a very good case can be made for making chiropractors the gatekeepers for management of low-back pain in the workers' compensation system in ontario.
while the low back pain (lbp) problem has been acknowledged as an epidemic, a  consensus has gradually emerged as to why this has happened and what can be  done about it .
four years later they redesigned the exam and again gave it to all the residents.
to add insult to injury, this exact same test was given to a group of 51 chiropractic students during their last semester of schooling.
i still can't figure out how they managed to charge $153.00 for each and every booklet...what idiot funded this project?
pain: a randomized trial  with one-year follow-up clin rehabil 2010 (jan);   24 (1):    26–36
diagnosis and treatment of low back
we hypothesize that pain-related fear leads to a cycle of  decreased movement, connective tissue remodeling, inflammation, nervous system  sensitization and further decreased mobility.
there is a lack of evidence-based support for the efficacy of complex fusion surgeries over conservative surgical decompression for elderly stenosis patients.
despite the much higher cost, there is no evidence of superior outcomes and there is greater morbidity associated with the complex fusion.
the diagnoses you choose represent your patient's condition to the insurance company and must be extremely accurate.
you may review more articles like this in the lowback guidelines section.
the number of inappropriate decisions to use chiropractic spinal  manipulation should be decreased.
searchpubmed for more abstracts on this topic.
this study suggests that chiropractic management administered in an nhs setting  may be effective for reducing levels of disability and perceived pain during  the period of treatment for a sub-population of patients with chronic low-back  pain (clbp).
a comparison of physical therapy,  chiropractic manipulation, and provision of an educational booklet for the  treatment of patients with low back pain new england journal of  medicine 1998 (oct 8);   339 (15):   1013–1029
org by the national college of chiropractic.
this is an area of clear concern, but also one in which sports medicine practitioners can assume leadership.
approximately one quarter of u.s. adults reported having low back pain lasting at least 1 whole day in the past 3 months [2], and 7.6% reported at least 1 episode of severe acute low back pain (see glossary) within a 1-year period [3].
while pediatric fractures are often difficult to detect,this example highlights a problem that continues to plague medical education: inadequate instruction in musculoskeletal medicine in both medical schooland residency training.
musculoskeletal conditions in the united states.
170~ full text low back pain (lbp) is one of the most common reasons for seeking medical care  and accounts for over 3.7 million physician visits per year in the united  states alone.
results from most studies suggest that  5 to 10 sessions of smt administered over 2 to 4 weeks achieve equivalent or  superior improvement in pain and function when compared with other commonly  used interventions, such as physical modalities, medication, education, or  exercise, for short, intermediate, and long-term follow-up.
it also found no evidence  at all on the cost-effectiveness of medication for low back pain.
the aim of this study was to determine whether the  foundation programme for junior doctors, implemented across the united kingdom  in 2005, provides adequate training in musculoskeletal medicine.
the other half had no surgery, even though they had comparable diagnoses.
back pain  recognition program (bprp) as its foundation.
management of chronic low back pain in active individuals curr sports med rep 2010 (jan); 9 (1): 6066 the best available evidence currently suggests that in the absence of serious spinal pathology, nonspinal causes, or progressive or severe neurologic deficits, the management of chronic lbp should focus on patient education, self-care, common analgesics, and back exercises.
prospective case series on the effects of lumbosacral manipulation on dysmenorrhea j manipulative physiol ther 2008 (mar); 31 (3): 237246~ full text
this fact sheet summarizes the current scientific knowledge about the effects of spinal manipulation on low-back pain.
a randomized trial of medical care with and without physical therapy and chiropractic care with and without physical modalities for patients with low back pain: 6-month follow-up outcomes from the ucla low back pain study spine (phila pa 1976) 2002 (oct 15); 27 (20): 21932204 ~ full text
expressed in other terms,70% of chiropractic students passed the  knowledge questionnaire, compared to an80% failure rate for the residents.
your chiropractic care may be working out kinks in your lower back that have been around a lot longer than you realize.
what do we mean by better?
is among the treatment options  used by people with low-back pain in attempts to relieve pain and improve  functioning.
there are more articles like this in the cost-effectiveness page.
neurophysiologic effects of  spinal manipulation in patients with chronic low back pain musculoskelet disord.
back school included group exercise and education/ergonomics.
download the adobe acrobat reader for free low back pain of mechanical origin: randomised  comparison of chiropractic and hospital outpatient treatment british medical journal 1990 (jun 2);   300 (6737):   1431–1437 for patients with low back pain in whom manipulation is not  contraindicated chiropractic almost certainly confers worthwhile, long term  benefit in comparison with hospital outpatient management.
the outcomes showed that a high percentage of those who had lbp in 1994 still suffered from lbp in 2002.
musculoskeletal knowledge: how do you stack up? physician and sportsmedicine 2002 (aug); 30 (8) august one of  every 4 or 5 primary care visits is for a musculoskeletal problem.
synthesis of recommendations for the assessment and management of low back pain from recent clinical practice guidelines spine j. 2010 (jun); 10 (6): 514529 recommendations for assessment of lbp emphasized the importance of ruling out potentially serious spinal pathology, specific causes of lbp, and neurologic involvement, as well as identifying risk factors for chronicity and measuring the severity of symptoms and functional limitations, through the history, physical, and neurologic examination.
the results are quite fascinating: the top 6 cam therapies for lbp, from the most-used are chiropractic,  massage, herbal therapy, acupuncture, yoga/tai chi/qi gong, and relaxation  techniques.
no adverse effects were reported in any of the 17  cases.
this is a huge problem because conditions affecting the musculoskeletal system are the primary reason patients seek medical care from physicians, accounting for nearly 100 million office visits per year.
the results were astounding, because82% of the eighty-five medical school graduates failed this basic competency exam!
based on the marking scale determined by the chief residents, the chiropractic group (n = 51) showed statistically significant higher average grade than the orthopedic residents.
educating medical students about  musculoskeletal problems: are community needs reflected in the curricula of  canadian medical schools?
books will be medicine's next big "breakthrough" in managing low back pain.
more evidence of educational inadequacies in musculoskeletal medicine clin orthop relat res 2005 (aug);   (437):   251–259 a  modified version of an exam used to assess the competency of incoming interns  at the university of pennsylvania was used to assess the competency of medical  students during various stages of their training at the university of  washington.
diagnosis  and treatment of low back
we believe that  this is the first study of physical therapy for low back pain to show  convincingly that both manipulation alone and manipulation followed by exercise  provide cost effective additions to care in general practice.
in  addition to sharing his understanding of what constitutes research of clinical  utility, dr. rosner has been able to apply his knowledge of the better research  offering significant support for spinalmanipulation, helping the chiropractic  profession and the public recognize potentially flawed conclusions.
if that's the case, how do these experts explain the results of a study published in the jan. 1, 2004 issue of spine?
you will enjoy this free online  icd-9 coding tool to help you create the most specific coding possible at flashcode.
the proportion of chiropractic spinal manipulation judged to be  congruent with appropriateness criteria is similar to proportions previously  described for medical procedures; thus, the findings provide some reassurance  about the appropriate application of chiropractic care.
rosemont, il, american academy of orthopaedic surgeons, 1999 2.
clinical guidelines for the management of low back pain in primary care: an international comparison spine (phila pa 1976) 2001 (nov 15); 26 (22): 25042513 clinical guidelines from 11 different countries published from 1994 until 2000 were included in this review.
despite billions  being spent on various diagnostic and treatment approaches, the prevalence and  disability related to lbp has continued to increase [4].
in addition, there is increased recognition of the  importance of practice-based research which generates data in a “real  world” environment as a tool for conducting comparative effectiveness  research [6, 7].
it's 8:00 pm on a monday night.