different schools of manual treatment have evolved.
this study used only massage techniques that were limited to manipulation of the soft tissues (the muscles and fascia that surround the muscles) (cherkin, 2001).
it found that therapeutic massage was effective for persistent low back pain in terms of improvement of symptoms and function and that it provided long-lasting benefits.
in a randomized controlled clinical trial of patients with chronic and subchronic low back pain (back pain for at least three weeks but less than six months), osteopathic manual care was compared to standard medical care.
osteopathic care includes standard methods of treatment and manual care involving the neuro-musculo-skeletal system.
it sees the musculoskeletal system as a unified structure that needs all parts functioning well for there to be proper physiology and a chance for an absence of pain.
the focus of chiropractic care is on the nervous system with adjustments of the spinal vertebra to improve joint, nerve and muscle function.
home | contact us | privacy policy | disclaimer | site map this  website is generously supported bymedtronic, inc. ©2011 continuum  health partners, inc.
however the osteopathic treatment group receiving manual care required significantly less medication (analgesics, anti-inflammatory agents and muscle relaxants) and used less physical therapy (andersson, 1999).
in another review of chiropractic spinal manipulation for chronic low back pain, nine out of fourteen studies reported positive benefits for manipulation over other interventions, three showed improvement comparable to other interventions and two were negative (vernon, 1999).
however, studies for chronic low back  pain are not yet clear and there are insufficient high quality studies to  support or refute its use for this condition.
in a 1997 systematic review, strong evidence was found that spinal manipulation for chronic low back pain was better than placebo treatment and moderate evidence that it was better than treatment by a general practitioner, massage, bed rest and analgesics (van tulder, 1997)
most studies have used massage for comparison purposes  (as a control) while evaluating the effectiveness of spinal manipulation, tens,  or a lumbar corset.
osteopathic care uses  spinal manipulation in combination with conventional treatment methods.
to date, the data from scientific  trials on the effectiveness of manipulation for acute back pain show it to be  an effective therapy (shekelle, 1992).
this study used only massage techniques  that were limited to manipulation of the soft tissues (the muscles and fascia  that surround the muscles) (cherkin, 2001).
in a 1997 systematic review, strong evidence was found  that spinal manipulation for chronic low back pain was better than placebo  treatment and moderate evidence that it was better than treatment by a general  practitioner, massage, bed rest and analgesics (van tulder, 1997)
in the united states, most spinal manipulation is provided by chiropractors.
studies also suggest that when  improvement occurs it is usually early in the course of treatment (after 6  treatments) so that if there is no improvement in symptoms by that point,  manipulative intervention may be ineffective in that case (berman, 1998).
many studies and reviews have evaluated the use of  manual therapy, including manipulation, for the treatment of chronic low back  pain.
however the osteopathic treatment group  receiving manual care required significantly less medication (analgesics,  anti-inflammatory agents and muscle relaxants) and used less physical therapy  (andersson, 1999).
osteopathic care uses spinal manipulation in combination with conventional treatment methods.
the focus  of chiropractic care is on the nervous system with adjustments of the spinal  vertebra to improve joint, nerve and muscle function.
there is moderate evidence for the effectiveness of manipulation for  chronic low back pain.
massage therapy is widely used by patients for the  treatment of chronic low back pain.
further research is needed to clarify the characteristics of patients who have a high probability of benefiting from spinal manipulation, the optimal dose response of this type of therapy, the potential long-term effect, and its possible role in the prevention of new episodes of low back pain.
in a systematic review of 81 trials of manipulation for chronic low back pain, however, 25% were
however, studies for chronic low back pain are not yet clear and there are insufficient high quality studies to support or refute its use for this condition.
it sees the musculoskeletal  system as a unified structure that needs all parts functioning well for there  to be proper physiology and a chance for an absence of pain.
introduction frequency predisposing factors symptoms causes diagnosis integrative pain therapy conventional complementary references low back pain acupuncture herbal medicine magnetic therapy manual therapies movement therapies nutritional approaches complementary approaches manual therapies: chiropractic, osteopathy and massage spinal manipulation as a treatment for back pain has been practiced for over 100 years.
home | contact us | privacy policy | disclaimer | site map this website is generously supported bymedtronic, inc. ©2011 continuum health partners, inc.
both types of treatment had  similar clinical results in terms of pain relief, function and satisfaction in  patients with subacute low back pain.
a recent randomized study compared the  effectiveness of acupuncture, therapeutic massage and self-care education for  chronic low back pain.
in a systematic review of 81  trials of manipulation for chronic low back pain, however, 25% were high  quality studies showing strong evidence that manipulation was effective,  especially for specific structural conditions.
in  another review of chiropractic spinal manipulation for chronic low back pain,  nine out of fourteen studies reported positive benefits for manipulation over  other interventions, three showed improvement comparable to other interventions  and two were negative (vernon, 1999).
massage therapy is widely used by patients for the treatment of chronic low back pain.
further research is needed to clarify the characteristics of patients who  have a high probability of benefiting from spinal manipulation, the optimal  dose response of this type of therapy, the potential long-term effect, and its  possible role in the prevention of new episodes of low back pain.
these therapeutic  approaches therefore emphasize treatment of low back pain not just of the low  back, but of the spine as a whole.
massage therapy was found to be effective in reducing pain, stress hormones, and symptoms associated with chronic low back pain (hernandez-reif, 2001).
high quality studies showing strong evidence that manipulation was effective, especially for specific structural conditions.
in the  united states, most spinal manipulation is provided by chiropractors.
in a randomized study  comparing massage therapy and progressive muscle relaxation for chronic low  back pain, the massage therapy group reported experiencing less pain,  depression, anxiety, improved sleep, improved trunk and pain flexion  performance and higher levels of serotonin and dopamine.
thus, despite the need for more high quality research studies to evaluate massage as a main treatment option, it would seem reasonable to include massage in a multi-modal treatment approach for certain types of chronic low back pain conditions.
despite this widespread use there has been  little randomized, controlled research evaluating massage as the main treatment  option for back pain.
studies that confine manipulative therapies only to the low back and restrict use in other areas as part of the treatment regimen (as is common practice) may be less likely to show benefit.
complementary approaches manual therapies: chiropractic, osteopathy and massage spinal manipulation as a treatment for back pain has been practiced for  over 100 years.
despite this widespread use there has been little randomized, controlled research evaluating massage as the main treatment option for back pain.
a recent randomized study compared the effectiveness of acupuncture, therapeutic massage and self-care education for chronic low back pain.
in a randomized  controlled clinical trial of patients with chronic and subchronic low back pain  (back pain for at least three weeks but less than six months), osteopathic  manual care was compared to standard medical care.
studies also suggest that when improvement occurs it is usually early in the course of treatment (after 6 treatments) so that if there is no improvement in symptoms by that point, manipulative intervention may be ineffective in that case (berman, 1998).
these modalities all recognize that low back pain is not an isolated pathology (as is the case with many conventional approaches).
there is moderate evidence for the effectiveness of manipulation for chronic low back pain.
massage therapy was  found to be effective in reducing pain, stress hormones, and symptoms  associated with chronic low back pain (hernandez-reif, 2001).
both types of treatment had similar clinical results in terms of pain relief, function and satisfaction in patients with subacute low back pain.
most studies have used massage for comparison purposes (as a control) while evaluating the effectiveness of spinal manipulation, tens, or a lumbar corset.
in a randomized study comparing massage therapy and progressive muscle relaxation for chronic low back pain, the massage therapy group reported experiencing less pain, depression, anxiety, improved sleep, improved trunk and pain flexion performance and higher levels of serotonin and dopamine.
thus,  despite the need for more high quality research studies to evaluate massage as  a main treatment option, it would seem reasonable to include massage in a  multi-modal treatment approach for certain types of chronic low back pain  conditions.
these modalities all recognize that low back pain is not an isolated pathology  (as is the case with many conventional approaches).
these therapeutic approaches therefore emphasize treatment of low back pain not just of the low back, but of the spine as a whole.
osteopathic care includes standard methods of treatment  and manual care involving the neuro-musculo-skeletal system.
it found that therapeutic massage was effective for  persistent low back pain in terms of improvement of symptoms and function and  that it provided long-lasting benefits.
studies that  confine manipulative therapies only to the low back and restrict use in other  areas as part of the treatment regimen (as is common practice) may be less  likely to show benefit.
to date, the data from scientific trials on the effectiveness of manipulation for acute back pain show it to be an effective therapy (shekelle, 1992).
many studies and reviews have evaluated the use of manual therapy, including manipulation, for the treatment of chronic low back pain.