joint ventures 27-feb-2012 corrective movement program at joint ventures joint ventures 24-feb-2012 fun-ctional group training joint ventures 20-feb-2012 a little information/prevention now may prevent bigger problems down the  road… joint ventures 14-feb-2012 strength training for runners joint ventures 13-feb-2012 copyright © 2011
physical therapy - kenmore square - overview individuals generally consult a physical therapist for the management of medical problems or other health-related conditions that cause pain, limit the ability to move, or limit the performance of functional activities.
they wanted all patients to be guaranteed to be seen  one-on-one by a licensed physical therapist, not an assistant, aide or student.
we will be happy to answer all of your questions.
- aquatic therapy - aquatic therapy utilizes buoyancy and hydrostatic pressure, as well as variable resistance to create a workout for those who need a non-impact, yet challenging rehabilitation program.
about physical therapy - kenmore square dan and dave recognized that the therapist-patient relationship needed to  be the top priority.
about physical therapy - kenmore square dan and dave recognized that the therapist-patient relationship needed to be the top priority.
the massage therapist would say something different than the personal trainer and the patient was stuck trying to decide who to trust.
contact us today using the form on the right side of  the page.
physical therapy - kenmore square - overview individuals generally consult a physical therapist for the management of  medical problems or other health-related conditions that cause pain, limit the  ability to move, or limit the performance of functional activities.
they wanted all patients to be guaranteed to be seen one-on-one by a licensed physical therapist, not an assistant, aide or student.
physical therapy - kenmore square - services physical therapy - kenmore square - whether your  condition is neurological or orthopedic, new or old, our aim is to work to heal  your injury and improve your fitness level to avoid future injuries.
they knew that this would result in the best possible skilled care and faster  functional outcomes.
chiropractic - sports chiropractors specialize in the  functional assessment and manual treatment of disorders and injuries to the  musculoskeletal (muscles/joints) system.
the result is the truly integrated healthcare experience that is joint ventures physical therapy and fitness.
we use only the best, safest and most clinically effective  products available on the market today.
joint ventures physical therapy and fitness home
physical  therapists evaluate individuals, diagnose conditions, and develop plans using  treatment techniques that promote the ability to move, reduce pain, restore  function, and prevent disability.
whether your condition is neurological or orthopedic, new or old, our aim is to work to heal your injury and improve your fitness level to avoid future injuries.
our massage therapists are chosen based on their ability to work with people who have stress and relocations needs.
this kenmore square physical therapy office was started after dan brownridge and dave larson spent years working as physical therapists in the boston area.
once you've completed physical  therapy, we provide a program that you can follow at home, or we can create a  program for you that can be followed at our fitness center.
this  kenmore square physical therapy office was started after dan brownridge and  dave larson spent years working as physical therapists in the boston area.
dan and dave decided to bring all the practitioners under one roof to work together to achieve each individual’s goals.
aquatic therapy - aquatic therapy utilizes buoyancy and  hydrostatic pressure, as well as variable resistance to create a workout for  those who need a non-impact, yet challenging rehabilitation program.
joint ventures physical therapy and fitness - home - gift certificates - retail products - the joint ventures' blog - contact us - staff contact information - employee portal - about us - our staff - our partners - job listings - testimonials - insurance accepted - payment options - self-pay rates - patient forms - what we do - physical therapy - aquatic therapy - personal training - massage therapy - nutritional counseling - acupuncture - chiropractic care - programs - locations - kenmore square - brookline/allston/brighton - post office square - government center - kendall square - local links - physical therapy boston - kendall square physical therapy - physical therapy
dan and dave decided to bring all the practitioners under one  roof to work together to achieve each individual’s goals.
dan and dave also understood that patients were receiving different advice from different professionals.
they knew that this would result in the best possible skilled care and faster functional outcomes.
contact us today using the form on the right side of the page.
- store - gift certificates - retail store what we do - physical therapy - aquatic therapy - personal training - massage therapy - nutritional counseling - acupuncture - chiropractic care contact us now 617.536.1161 info@jointventurespt.com stay connected physical therapy kenmore square joint ventures physical therapy and fitness opened in may of 2005.
all of our kenmore square physical therapy sessions are conducted in a comfortable private room where you can ask as many questions as you need to about your condition or treatment.
physical therapy - kenmore square - services - physical therapy - kenmore square - whether your condition is neurological or orthopedic, new or old, our aim is to work to heal your injury and improve your fitness level to avoid future injuries.
- nutritional counseling - eating well and analyzing your relationship to food is just as important as working on your body.
we use only the best, safest and most clinically effective products available on the market today.
nutritional counseling - eating well and analyzing your  relationship to food is just as important as working on your body.
the result is  the truly integrated healthcare experience that is joint ventures physical  therapy and fitness.
acupuncture - acupuncture originated in china and has  been used successfully to heal numerous illnesses and injuries for more than  2,000 years.
- spa - our highly trained aestheticians provide treatments that are chosen to be pampering, and relaxing while also result oriented and effective.
personal training - our experienced, professional  personal trainers can customize a program that is specifically designed to meet  your fitness and health goals.
once you've completed physical therapy, we provide a program that you can follow at home, or we can create a program for you that can be followed at our fitness center.
the latest from our physical therapy blog jv's running clinic is back!
brookline - physical therapy cambridge - cambridge physical therapy - kenmore square physical therapy - physical therapy kenmore square - physical therapy downtown boston - massage boston - boston physical therapy
whether your condition is neurological or orthopedic, new or old, our aim  is to work to heal your injury and improve your fitness level to avoid future  injuries.
- acupuncture - acupuncture originated in china and has been used successfully to heal numerous illnesses and injuries for more than 2,000 years.
stay connected physical therapy kenmore square joint ventures physical therapy and fitness opened in may of 2005.
the latest from our physical therapy blog - jv's running clinic is back!
we accomplish this by using our state-of-the-art rehabilitation and  fitness equipment, as well as a combination of manual, traditional and sports  medicine techniques.
learn more & contact us ready to learn more?
dan and dave also understood that patients were receiving different advice  from different professionals.
we accomplish this by using our state-of-the-art rehabilitation and fitness equipment, as well as a combination of manual, traditional and sports medicine techniques.
- home - about - our partners - job listings - testimonials - insurance accepted - payment options - self-pay rates - patient forms - services - physical therapy - aquatic therapy - personal training - massage therapy - nutritional counseling - acupuncture - chiropractic care - programs - locations - kenmore square - brookline/allston/brighton - post office square - government center - kendall square - staff - blog - contact
spa - our highly trained aestheticians provide treatments  that are chosen to be pampering, and relaxing while also result oriented and  effective.
the massage therapist would say something  different than the personal trainer and the patient was stuck trying to decide  who to trust.
all of our kenmore square physical therapy sessions are  conducted in a comfortable private room where you can ask as many questions as  you need to about your condition or treatment.
our massage therapists are chosen based  on their ability to work with people who have stress and relocations needs.
joint ventures 27-feb-2012 - corrective movement program at joint ventures joint ventures 24-feb-2012 - fun-ctional group training joint ventures 20-feb-2012 - a little information/prevention now may prevent bigger problems down the road… joint ventures 14-feb-2012 - strength training for runners joint ventures 13-feb-2012 copyright © 2011
physical therapists evaluate individuals, diagnose conditions, and develop plans using treatment techniques that promote the ability to move, reduce pain, restore function, and prevent disability.
- chiropractic - sports chiropractors specialize in the functional assessment and manual treatment of disorders and injuries to the musculoskeletal (muscles/joints) system.
- personal training - our experienced, professional personal trainers can customize a program that is specifically designed to meet your fitness and health goals.