dr. gentry's goal with each patient is to determine what aggravates the pain (the source) and to develop a treatment plan focused on providing fast and effective treatments and to prevent future occurrences.
with hands-on therapy, an understanding patient-doctor relationship and a thorough patient-education process, i am often able to achieve effective and lasting results."
welcome to gentry chiropractic and physical therapy clinic from its tucson location, gentry chiropractic and physical therapy clinic  provides physical therapy and chiropratic services for tucson, east tucson and  central tucson mission our objective is to provide relief for patients suffering from neck, back,  and other musculoskeletel disorders, using the most up to date, non-surgical  treatments in a safe, comfortable and nurturing enviroment.
what we offer dr. gentry uniquely offers his combined educations as a physical therapist  (1973) and chiropractor (1985) as well as clinical experiences in multiple  hospital settings, outpatient and sports medicine clinics.
"living with pain can be one of the most difficult things any person  may have to endure.
my goal is to help end this pain and help my patients learn how to avoid it in the future.
[printable  version] copyright 2012 gentry chiropractic and physical  therapy clinic.
our objective is to provide relief for patients suffering from neck, back, and other musculoskeletel disorders, using the most up to date, non-surgical treatments in a safe, comfortable and nurturing enviroment.
my goal is to help end this pain and help my patients learn  how to avoid it in the future.
sitemap   • physical therapy tucson az  •  physical  therapy central tucson az  •  physical therapy east tucson az chiropractic tucson az  •  chiropractic central tucson az   • chiropractic east tucson az
goals dr. gentry's goal with each patient is to determine what aggravates the  pain (the source) and to develop a treatment plan focused on providing fast and  effective treatments and to prevent future occurrences.
dr. gentry uniquely offers his combined educations as a physical therapist (1973) and chiropractor (1985) as well as clinical experiences in multiple hospital settings, outpatient and sports medicine clinics.
with hands-on therapy, an understanding  patient-doctor relationship and a thorough patient-education process, i am  often able to achieve effective and lasting results."
"living with pain can be one of the most difficult things any person may have to endure.