blood is also needed to remove waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
in the active part of physical therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to improve your flexibility, strength, core stability, and range of motion (how easily your joints move).
this is all part of the  "self-care" or "self-treatment" aspect of physical therapy:  through physical therapy, you learn good habits and principles that enable you  to take better care of your body.
whether large or small, a tens unit can be a helpful therapy.
these are therapeutic exercises that strengthen your body and help prevent a recurrence of your back pain.
this is all part of the "self-care" or "self-treatment" aspect of physical therapy: through physical therapy, you learn good habits and principles that enable you to take better care of your body.
back pain physical therapy discuss your back pain with the patient community.
this can help reduce the likelihood of your back pain recurring and can also improve your overall health.
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a  gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
you could also have spasms or muscle tension because of strains or sprains.
cold therapy, also called cryotherapy, slows circulation, helping to reduce inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
if needed, you will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate ergonomic principles into your daily activities.
these are therapeutic exercises that strengthen your body and help  prevent a recurrence of your back pain.
your physical therapy program may start with passive treatments as your body heals, but the goal is to get into active treatments.
a-z - treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic - drugs and medications - mental & emotional therapy - pain management - physical therapy - spinal bracing - surgery - wellness - ergonomics - exercise - weight loss - resources - back products - clinical trials - exams and tests - links of interest - partners in education - podcasts - recommended books - resource centers - spinal anatomy - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - spineuniverse en español - video directory - community advice - find
however, a smaller machine for at "at home" use is also available.
another cryotherapy option is a  spray called fluoromethane that cools the tissues.
tens (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation):
another cryotherapy option is a spray called fluoromethane that cools the tissues.
- tens (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation): a tens machine stimulates your muscles through variable (but safe) intensities of electrical current.
learn more » - email page - print - rss - discuss stay informed with spineuniverse sign up to receive free updates on news, research, community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics.
always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem.
they're called passive because you don't have to actively participate.
your physical therapist may also suggest a personalized exercise program  for you.
back pain related conditions - chronic back pain - upper back pain sponsored resources - patients' guide to sacroiliac joint problems - laser spine surgery treatment update could my low back pain be si-joint related?
this information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient.
whether large or small, a  tens unit can be a helpful therapy.
cold therapy, also called cryotherapy, slows circulation, helping to reduce  inflammation, muscle spasms, and pain.
by using heat, the physical therapist  seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow  brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
the therapist may also teach you about ways to minimize pain in the future.
by using heat, the physical therapist seeks to get more blood to the target area because an increased blood flow brings more oxygen and nutrients to that area.
your physical therapy program is individualized, taking into consideration your health and history.
you may have a cold pack placed upon the target area, or even be given an ice massage.
this can help reduce the likelihood of your back pain recurring and  can also improve your overall health.
if needed, you will learn how to correct your posture and incorporate  ergonomic principles into your daily activities.
by increasing blood circulation, an  ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
you may have a cold pack placed upon the  target area, or even be given an ice massage.
however, a smaller machine  for at "at home" use is also available.
to help relieve your back pain, you may have to go to physical therapy.
your physical therapy program is individualized, taking into  consideration your health and history.
updated on: 12/10/09 - continue reading: spinal bracing about back pain - what is back pain?
they're called passive because you  don't have to actively participate.
your exercises may not be suitable for another person with back pain, especially since your pain might not even be caused by the same condition.
- resource center surgical & non-surgical options for a pain-free life sponsored by: - slideshow pilates for a healthy spine - video series video series: exercises for spondylolisthesis - video low back pain animation - video balloon kyphoplasty video connect with others in the patient community!
there, a physical therapist will work with you to restore movement and help  your body heal.
physical therapy includes both passive and active treatments.
you may be interested in these related articles: your physical therapist may give you passive treatments such as: - opioids for severe back pain and neck pain - low back pain center - back pain research and treatment updates - anti-depressants for back pain and neck pain - deep tissue massage: this technique targets spasms and chronic muscle tension that perhaps builds up through daily life stress.
tens helps reduce muscle spasms, and it may increase your  body's production of endorphins, your natural pain killers.
related resources - video series video series: exercises for herniated disc - slideshow 5 simple yoga poses for back pain - slideshow golf and back pain slideshow - slideshow dealing with stress to deal with back pain - resource center minimally invasive alternatives to traditional spine surgery sponsored by: - slideshow herniated disc slideshow - slideshow pinched nerve slideshow - from our sponsor could your low back pain be si-joint related?
passive treatments your physical therapist may give  you passive treatments such as: you may be interested in these related  articles: opioids for severe back pain and neck pain low back pain center back pain research and treatment updates anti-depressants for back pain and neck pain deep tissue massage: this technique targets spasms and  chronic muscle tension that perhaps builds up through daily life stress.
use of the spineuniverse.com site is conditional upon your acceptance of ouruser agreement nicola v. hawkinson, dnp, rn this article was reviewed by nicola v. hawkinson, rn, rnfa, np.
text size: a a a physical therapy to relieve back pain written by kamiah a. walker;  reviewed bynicola v. hawkinson, dnp, rn tweet to help relieve your back pain, you may have to go to physical therapy.
blood is also needed to remove  waste byproducts created by muscle spasms, and it also helps healing.
a specialist - expert blogs spine conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - kyphosis - neck pain back pain and neck pain resources - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal stenosis - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - other back problems a-z - spinal anatomy - community advice - clinical trials - exams and tests - expert blogs policy and contact - find a doctor for your back pain - spineuniverse en español - spineadvisor enewsletter archive - back pain resource centers - back pain video directory - about spineuniverse - press releases - our awards - advertising opportunities - editorial board - editorial guidelines - partners and sponsors - privacy policy - advertising policy - terms of use - contact us - for professionals © 1999-2012 vertical health, llc
there, a physical therapist will work with you to restore movement and help your body heal.
it does this by sending sound waves deep into your muscle tissues, creating a gentle heat that enhances circulation and healing.
tens helps reduce muscle spasms, and it may increase your body's production of endorphins, your natural pain killers.
spineuniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
in the active part of physical  therapy, your therapist will teach you various exercises to improve your  flexibility, strength, core stability, and range of motion (how easily your  joints move).
passive  treatments help to relax you and your body.
conditions › back pain › text size: a a a physical therapy to relieve back pain written by kamiah a. walker; reviewed bynicola v. hawkinson, dnp, rn tweet
your exercises may not be suitable for  another person with back pain, especially since your pain might not even be  caused by the same condition.
by increasing blood circulation, an ultrasound helps reduce muscle spasms, cramping, swelling, stiffness, and pain.
your physical therapy program may start  with passive treatments as your body heals, but the goal is to get into active  treatments.
for professionals - conditions - ankylosing spondylitis - back pain - chronic pain - degenerative disc disease - herniated discs - fibromyalgia - juvenile rheumatoid arthritis - kyphosis - low back pain - neck pain - osteoporosis - rheumatoid arthritis - sacroiliac joint dysfunction - sciatica - scoliosis - spinal cord injury - spinal fractures - spinal stenosis - spinal tumors - spondylolisthesis - spondylosis (osteoarthritis) - sprains and strains - upper back pain - whiplash - other back problems
- anatomy - symptoms - causes - exams and tests back pain treatments - alternative treatments - chiropractic treatment - medications - exercise - physical therapy - spinal bracing - surgery back pain resources - back pain videos and animations - common back pain questions - pregnancy and
the  therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to release the tension in  your soft tissues (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
the therapist uses direct pressure and friction to try to release the tension in your soft tissues (ligaments, tendons, muscles).
after cold therapy, your  therapist may work with you to stretch the affected muscles.
- hot and cold therapies: your physical therapist will alternate between hot and cold therapies.
the tens equipment your physical therapist uses is relatively large.
the therapist may also teach you about ways to minimize pain in  the future.
you  could also have spasms or muscle tension because of strains or sprains.
a  tens machine stimulates your muscles through variable (but safe) intensities of  electrical current.
passive treatments help to relax you and your body.
hot and cold therapies: your physical therapist will  alternate between hot and cold therapies.
updated on: 12/10/09
after cold therapy, your therapist may work with you to stretch the affected muscles.
the tens equipment  your physical therapist uses is relatively large.
your physical therapist may also suggest a personalized exercise program for you.