we comply with the honcode standard
in some cases, magnets are applied to illness-affected areas with the help of wraps, shoe inserts, self-adhesive strips, belts, or "magnetic jewelry" like bracelets, necklaces, and earrings.
journal of back and  musculoskeletal rehabilitation 1999;13:19-31.
chandi dd, groenendijk pm, venema pl.
"magnetic mattress pad use in patients with fibromyalgia: a randomized double-blind pilot study."
archives of physical medicine and rehabilitation 2001 82(10):1453-60.
tim harlow, colin greaves, adrian white, liz brown, anna hart, edzard ernst.
fibromyalgia after six weeks of sleeping on magnetized mattress pads, 13 women with fibromyalgia reported significantly less pain, sleep disturbance, fatigue, and next-day tiredness.
more science on magnetic therapy
2) chronic pelvic pain for a 2002 study of 32 women with chronic pelvic pain, one group of  patients had active or placebo magnets applied to their abdomens for 24 hours a  day.
after four weeks of continuous use, those who received the active magnets  reported significantly lower pain levels than at the start of the study.
bju international 2004;93(4):539-42.
magnetic therapy may show promise in the treatment of female urinary  continence, however: in a 2004 study of 24 patients, 58% of participants showed  improvement after eight weeks of receiving twice-weekly magnetic stimulation of  the pelvic floor.
a control group of 12 women (who slept on non-magnetized mattresses) had smaller improvements in pain, sleep, fatigue, and tiredness.
cathy wong alternative medicine guide ©2012 about.com.
after four weeks of continuous use, those who received the active magnets reported significantly lower pain levels than at the start of the study.
learn about other natural solutions for osteoarthritis and rheumatoid  arthritis.
a part of the new york times company.
magnetic therapy is based on the theory that when delivered directly to the  body magnetic fields can stimulate healing from a range of health problems.
in a 2004 study of 194 adults with osteoarthritis of the hip or knee, researchers found that those who wore magnetic bracelets for 12 weeks had a decrease in arthritis-associated pain.
segal na, toda y, huston j, saeki y, shimizu m, fuchs h, shimaoka y,  holcomb r, mclean mj.
although its health claims include the treatment of multiple sclerosis, fibromyalgia, arthritis, insomnia, inflammation, and even cancer and heart disease, there is little scientific evidence for magnetic therapy's effectiveness.
magnetic therapy research even though claims that magnetic therapy can treat diseases like cancer and  multiple sclerosis are unfounded, there is some evidence that it may help  relieve pain related to these chronic conditions: 1) arthritis
in addition, it's important to consult a healthcare professional about the condition you're seeking to alleviate through magnetic therapy, rather than letting a potential serious health problem go untreated.
magnet therapy takes many different forms.
since scientific support for its use is so limited, it's difficult to  determine how magnetic therapy might promote healing.
other products include magnetic mattress pads and blankets, as well as magnetic-field-generating machines and even magnet-conditioned water.
but in studies on the use of magnetic  therapy for relief of chronic lowback pain and wrist pain related to carpal  tunnel syndrome, researchers found magnets no more effective than placebo  treatments.
in a 2004 study of 194 adults with osteoarthritis of the hip or knee,  researchers found that those who wore magnetic bracelets for 12 weeks had a  decrease in arthritis-associated pain.
since scientific support for its use is so limited, it's difficult to determine how magnetic therapy might promote healing.
in some cases, magnets are  applied to illness-affected areas with the help of wraps, shoe inserts,  self-adhesive strips, belts, or "magnetic jewelry" like bracelets,  necklaces, and earrings.
although its health claims include the treatment of multiple sclerosis, fibromyalgia, arthritis, insomnia, inflammation, and even cancer and heart  disease, there is little scientific evidence for magnetic therapy's  effectiveness.
"functional extracorporeal  magnetic stimulation as a treatment for female urinary incontinence: 'the  chair'."
meanwhile, a 2001 study of 64 people with rheumatoid arthritis of the knee showed that 68% of those who used magnetic therapy reported feeling better or much better after one week.
magnetic therapy may show promise in the treatment of female urinary continence, however: in a 2004 study of 24 patients, 58% of participants showed improvement after eight weeks of receiving twice-weekly magnetic stimulation of the pelvic floor.
british medical journal  2004;329:1450-1454.
but in studies on the use of magnetic therapy for relief of chronic lowback pain and wrist pain related to carpal tunnel syndrome, researchers found magnets no more effective than placebo treatments.
american journal of obstetrics and gynecology 2002 187(6):1581-7.
the study's authors note that improvements in both groups might have been due to use of a better mattress pad.
"efficacy of static magnetic  field therapy in chronic pelvic pain: a double-blind pilot study."
however, proponents  maintain that magnets can stimulate circulation, relax the blood vessels,  increase endorphin levels, reduce muscle tension, and normalize metabolic  functioning.
there is also evidence that magnetic therapy may help reduce neck pain, post-polio pain, and diabetic foot pain.
other products include magnetic mattress pads and  blankets, as well as magnetic-field-generating machines and even  magnet-conditioned water.
segal na, toda y, huston j, saeki y, shimizu m, fuchs h, shimaoka y, holcomb r, mclean mj.
british medical journal 2004;329:1450-1454.
"two configurations of static magnetic fields for  treating rheumatoid arthritis of the knee: a double-blind clinical trial."
if you're undergoing radiology, it's important to avoid the use of magnetic devices.
"randomised controlled trial of magnetic bracelets for relieving  pain in osteoarthritis of the hip and knee."
"magnetic mattress pad use in patients with  fibromyalgia: a randomized double-blind pilot study."
pregnant women and people with cardiac pacemakers should also forego magnetic therapy.
tim harlow, colin greaves, adrian white, liz brown, anna hart, edzard  ernst.
how does magnetic therapy work?
pregnant women and people with cardiac pacemakers should also forego  magnetic therapy.
related articles back pain - natural remedies and alternative treatment options herbs for pain management - 6 herbs for pain management magnets - magnetic therapy - magnetic bracelets - magnetic fields related articles magnet therapy for pain relief magnet therapy - controlling chronic pain with magnet therapy fibromyalgia – managing fibromyalgia pain with massage fibromyalgia treatment - chiropractic, massage and physical therapy as cfs  ... laser therapy for osteoarthritis - laser therapy cathy wong sign up for my newsletter headlines forum related searches magnetic mattress pads chronic  pelvic pain magnetic therapy research arthritis of the knee magnet therapy  magnetic jewelry explore alternative medicine  must reads are my supplements safe?
discuss in my forum by cathy wong, about.com guide updated june 17, 2010 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical review boardsee more about: magnetic therapy is based on the theory that when delivered directly to the body magnetic fields can stimulate healing from a range of health problems.
there is also evidence that magnetic therapy may help reduce neck pain,  post-polio pain, and diabetic foot pain.
if you're undergoing radiology, it's important to avoid the use of magnetic  devices.
"efficacy of static magnetic field therapy in chronic pelvic pain: a double-blind pilot study."
a control group of 12 women (who slept on non-magnetized  mattresses) had smaller improvements in pain, sleep, fatigue, and tiredness.
even though claims that magnetic therapy can treat diseases like cancer and multiple sclerosis are unfounded, there is some evidence that it may help relieve pain related to these chronic conditions: 1) arthritis
journal of back and musculoskeletal rehabilitation 1999;13:19-31.
alternative therapies what is magnetic therapy?
"randomised controlled trial of magnetic bracelets for relieving pain in osteoarthritis of the hip and knee."
sources: brown cs, ling fw, wan jy, pilla aa.
however, proponents maintain that magnets can stimulate circulation, relax the blood vessels, increase endorphin levels, reduce muscle tension, and normalize metabolic functioning.
fibromyalgia after six weeks of sleeping on magnetized mattress pads, 13 women with  fibromyalgia reported significantly less pain, sleep disturbance, fatigue, and  next-day tiredness.
2) chronic pelvic pain for a 2002 study of 32 women with chronic pelvic pain, one group of patients had active or placebo magnets applied to their abdomens for 24 hours a day.
the study's authors note that improvements in both groups might have been due  to use of a better mattress pad.
meanwhile, a 2001 study of 64 people  with rheumatoid arthritis of the knee showed that 68% of those who used  magnetic therapy reported feeling better or much better after one week.
in addition, it's important to consult a healthcare professional about the  condition you're seeking to alleviate through magnetic therapy, rather than  letting a potential serious health problem go untreated.
learn about other natural solutions for osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
"functional extracorporeal magnetic stimulation as a treatment for female urinary incontinence: 'the chair'."
"two configurations of static magnetic fields for treating rheumatoid arthritis of the knee: a double-blind clinical trial."