repeat: online courses permit inspectors to take the  course over again.
in some cases, the harm may result in the  actual death of either the inspector or the consumer.
compared to online courses,  classroom courses harm consumers by exhausting the continuing education budgets  of inspectors faster than online courses.
these quizzes are graded instantly, and often alert the  inspector to incorrect answers immediately.
compared to online  courses, classroom courses harm consumers by diluting the training time with  things that don't increase inspector competence.
number of instructors: online courses often utilize more than one instructor, with more than one area of expertise.
accessibility: online courses are available all the time, anytime, from anywhere.
lower-cost education also gives inspectors the opportunity to pass on savings to consumers.
by nick gromicko founder, international association of certified home inspectors online written and video courses are perfect for educating and improving  the competence of home inspectors and providing options for their primary and  continuing education.
review: online courses permit inspectors to go back and review areas of weakness.
instant grading permits the  inspector to be alerted to areas of weakness while still engaged in the  course.
compared to online courses,  classroom courses harm consumers by limiting access to education for inspectors.
specialty courses: it is financially feasible to offer specialty courses online.
in  contrast, classroom courses are often offered only during the day and  require the inspector to suffer lost business income.
for example, it is not unusual for internachi’s online courses to be the product of dozens of  contributors.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by exhausting the continuing education budgets of inspectors faster than online courses.
choice: online courses offer inspectors a wide variety of choices in both level and subject matter.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being unable to financially sustain advanced course offerings.
home inspection licensing board members or government bureaucrats who steer inspectors away from online course offerings by rejecting their continuing education approval based solely on their method of internet delivery create a disincentive to inspector skill-set improvement, which ultimately harms consumers.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by often lacking in international collaborative development.
and because much of an inspection report includes safety issues, the harm may also be physical, instead of merely financial.
communication: online courses often provide an internet forum  for all current students, graduates, instructors, experts, developers and  interested parties from around the world to interact with each other and  discuss the course.
the more education an inspector has, the better he/she can serve his/her clients.
an online course need be developed only  once, yet can run for years.
these quizzes are graded instantly, and often alert the inspector to incorrect answers immediately.
the author of this article personally knows of  a physics professor who had been teaching the use of an incorrect formula for  over 30 years before the error was caught.
online video can be paused.
instant grading: online courses contain quizzes and final exams that are graded instantly.
online courses can be taken at night, on the weekends, or  whenever an inspector doesn’t have any inspections scheduled.
in contrast, classroom material is typically covered only once.
in contrast, classroom courses have inflexible schedules that require inspectors to attend when it is inconvenient, when the inspector is ill, when the inspector is tired, etc.
number of instructors: online courses often utilize  more than one instructor, with more than one area of expertise.
online courses can be taken at night, on the weekends, or whenever an inspector doesnt have any inspections scheduled.
in contrast, classroom instructors, though perhaps competent to teach a particular subject, are rarely international experts.
for example,  internachi’s online  video courses permit the inspector to rewind and replay them over and  over.
the author of this article personally knows of a physics professor who had been teaching the use of an incorrect formula for over 30 years before the error was caught.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by failing to correct misinformation given to inspectors in a timely fashion.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being less diligent about assuring that each inspector has learned and understands every concept being taught.
increasing the level of inspector competence is a direct benefit to consumers.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by delaying the inspector's professional progress.
online courses are edited to cut out  set-up time, off-topic discussions, bathroom breaks, lunchtime, etc.
some even have built-in  intelligence, which recognizes each inspector’s unique areas of weakness,  and reviews those areas until the inspector grasps them.
compared to online  courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being less able to provide  inspectors with current course material.
pace: online courses move at each inspectors desired pace.
u.s. department of education study showing online courses are better than classroom courses.
classroom courses harm consumers by rarely providing such widespread, post-course interaction.
in contrast, relevant classroom courses, which are few  and far between, cause the inspector to incur out-of-pocket travel  and accommodation costs.
in contrast, classroom courses usually must  be of an introductory nature to attract enough students to pay for an  instructor each time it is offered.
communication: online courses often provide an internet forum for all current students, graduates, instructors, experts, developers and interested parties from around the world to interact with each other and discuss the course.
compared to online courses,  classroom courses harm consumers by denying renowned expertise instruction to  inspectors and limiting them to a local pool of talent.
accuracy: online courses are reviewed for accuracy  before being released.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by limiting the  number of expert instructors per course.
cost of travel: there are no travel or hotel costs associated with online courses.
in contrast, classroom courses cant take inspectors into crawlspaces or on roofs.
advantages over classroom courses include: cost of course: online courses are inexpensive or free.
in summary, online courses allow inspectors to study and learn at little or no cost, without having to travel or lose business, when and where they want, with well-developed, accurate courses taught by experts, using updated course material, pictures and video, at their own pace and schedule, with the ability to review and repeat, and with the assurance they'll end up with a thorough understanding of the chosen topic.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers  by being unable to instantly grade each quiz and exam.
again, the more  education an inspector has, the better he/she can serve his/her clients.
home inspection licensing board members  or government bureaucrats who steer inspectors away from online course  offerings by rejecting their continuing education approval based solely on  their method of internet delivery create a disincentive to inspector skill-set  improvement, which ultimately harms consumers.
compared  to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being less diligent  about assuring that each inspector has learned and understands every concept  being taught.
cost of lost work: an inspector need not take off work to complete online  courses.
cost advantage to consumers: online inspection courses are simply more affordable to inspectors.
the more education an  inspector has, the better he/she can serve his/her clients.
: online inspection courses are  simply more affordable to inspectors.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being all but impossible for inspectors to re-take over and over.
in  contrast, classroom courses can’t take inspectors into crawlspaces or on  roofs.
online courses can be stopped and re-started.
below are the names, pictures, addresses and phone numbers of home inspection licensing board members and government bureaucrats who summarily withhold continuing education approval of online courses and, thus, are responsible for the financial and physical harm, and perhaps even death, of their fellow citizens:as of today, no internachi online course approvals have ever been rejected by anyone.
accessibility: online courses are available all the  time, anytime, from anywhere.
classroom  courses typically have fewer quizzes, without instant grading.
and because much of an  inspection report includes safety issues, the harm may also be physical,  instead of merely financial.
in contrast, classroom courses have  inflexible schedules that require inspectors to attend when it is inconvenient,  when the inspector is ill, when the inspector is tired, etc.  compared to  online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by forcing inspectors to study  and learn at a preset schedule.
in  contrast, classroom instructors, though perhaps competent to teach a particular  subject, are rarely international experts.
visit internachi university internachi  commends the following fine organizations for their consumer protection  policies toward online education of home inspectors:  www.nachi.org/education.htm below are the names, pictures, addresses and phone numbers of home  inspection licensing board members and government bureaucrats who summarily  withhold continuing education approval of online courses and, thus, are  responsible for the financial and physical harm, and perhaps even death, of  their fellow citizens: as of today, no internachi online course approvals  have ever been rejected by anyone.
in contrast, classroom courses for the inspection industry are few and far between.
in contrast, classroom courses for the  inspection industry are few and far between.
in contrast, classroom courses are fewer and farther between.
some even have built-in intelligence, which recognizes each inspectors unique areas of weakness, and reviews those areas until the inspector grasps them.
dollar for dollar, an inspector can complete many online courses for the same cost as a single classroom course.
in contrast,  classroom courses are fewer and farther between.
compared to  online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by exhausting the continuing  education budgets of inspectors faster than online courses.
in contrast, classroom instruction is rarely reviewed by anyone.
u.s.  department of education study showing online courses are better than classroom  courses.
in contrast, classroom courses usually must have a common enough appeal of subject matter in order to attract enough students to pay for an instructor each time it is offered.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being unable to  financially sustain specialty course offerings.
online written and video courses are perfect for educating and improving the competence of home inspectors and providing options for their primary and continuing education.
an online course need be developed only once, yet can run for years.
compared to online courses, classroom courses  harm consumers by being unable to teach at each inspector’s own pace.
in contrast, classroom courses are typically  taken only once.
advanced courses: it is financially feasible to offer advanced courses online.
quizzes and exams: online courses contain numerous short quizzes that assure the inspector has learned each section before moving on to the next.
in contrast, classroom courses move at only the instructors speed.
collaboration in development: online course development often includes collaboration among many experts and inspectors from around the world.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm  consumers by being all but impossible for inspectors to re-take over and over.
in contrast, classroom courses are often offered only during the day and require the inspector to suffer lost business income.
dollar for dollar, an inspector can complete many online courses  for the same cost as a single classroom course.
accuracy: online courses are reviewed for accuracy before being released.
compared to online courses, classroom  courses harm consumers by delaying the inspector's professional progress.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by  failing to provide inspectors with virtual, real-situation training.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being less likely to offer the training inspectors need, when and where they need it.
for example, internachis online video courses permit the inspector to rewind and replay them over and over.
review: online courses permit inspectors to go back  and review areas of weakness.
online courses are also subjected to industry-wide peer review forever.
instant grading: online courses contain quizzes and  final exams that are graded instantly.
instant grading permits the inspector to be alerted to areas of weakness while still engaged in the course.
choice: online courses offer inspectors a wide  variety of choices in both level and subject matter.
pace: online courses move at each inspector’s  desired pace.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by denying renowned expertise instruction to inspectors and limiting them to a local pool of talent.
in contrast, classroom courses usually must be of an introductory nature to attract enough students to pay for an instructor each time it is offered.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by limiting the number of expert instructors per course.
quizzes and exams: online courses contain numerous  short quizzes that assure the inspector has learned each section before moving  on to the next.
lower-cost education also gives inspectors the opportunity to  pass on savings to consumers.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being unable to teach at each inspectors own pace.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by forcing inspectors to study and learn at a preset schedule.
collaboration in development: online course  development often includes collaboration among many experts and inspectors  from around the world.
in contrast, classroom courses move at only the  instructor’s speed.
in contrast, classroom courses typically dont grade instantly.
see also: inspectornow.comsee also: inspectornow.com all content copyright © 2006-2012 the international association of certified home inspectors, inc.
inspectopedia back to top of page message board
for example, it is not unusual for internachis online courses to be the product of dozens of contributors.
expert instruction: online course developers can  hire many experts to contribute to each course.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being less able to provide inspectors with current course material.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being unable to instantly grade each quiz and exam.
in contrast, classroom courses usually  must have a common enough appeal of subject matter in order to  attract enough students to pay for an instructor each time it is offered.
these course-specific forums provide continuing  education to inspectors long after completing the course.
with reduced course costs come an increase in the number of courses an inspector can afford to complete each year, with a corresponding rise in the level of inspector competence.
in contrast, classroom courses are typically taken only once.
pictures and video: online courses contain pictures and on-location video that permit the inspector to virtually accompany the instructors on inspections of many actual structures and components.
in contrast, relevant classroom courses, which are few and far between, cause the inspector to incur out-of-pocket travel and accommodation costs.
cost of lost work: an inspector need not take off work to complete online courses.
cost of  travel: there are no travel or hotel costs associated with  online courses.
compared to online  courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being less likely to offer the  training inspectors need, when and where they need it.
with reduced course costs come an  increase in the number of courses an inspector can afford to complete each  year, with a corresponding rise in the level of inspector competence.
in contrast, classroom courses contain much wasted time.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by limiting access to education for inspectors.
international association of certified home inspectors jump to menu do classroom home inspection courses harm consumers?
again, the more education an inspector has, the  better he/she can serve his/her clients.
in  contrast, classroom courses contain much wasted time.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by exhausting the  continuing education budgets of inspectors faster than online courses.
in  contrast, classroom texts are less frequently updated.
repeat: online courses permit inspectors to take the course over again.
in contrast, classroom material is typically covered  only once.
compared to online courses, classroom  courses harm consumers by being unable to grade inspectors consistently.
current course material: downloadable, printable  online course material is reviewed, edited and improved over time.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being unable to financially sustain specialty course offerings.
advantages over classroom courses include: cost of course: online courses are inexpensive  or free.
classroom courses typically have fewer quizzes, without instant grading.
pictures and video: online courses contain pictures  and on-location video that permit the inspector to virtually accompany the  instructors on inspections of many actual structures and components.
in summary, online courses allow inspectors to study and learn at little or  no cost, without having to travel or lose business, when and where they want,  with well-developed, accurate courses taught by experts, using updated course  material, pictures and video, at their own pace and schedule, with the ability  to review and repeat, and with the assurance they'll end up with a thorough  understanding of the chosen topic.
in contrast, classroom instruction is rarely  reviewed by anyone.
advanced courses:  it is financially feasible to  offer advanced courses online.
online courses are also subjected to industry-wide  peer review forever.
often, in online video  courses, the instruction is presented by one or more renowned experts.
cost advantage to consumers
schedule: online courses are available when each inspector wants to take them.
in contrast, classroom courses typically don’t grade  instantly.
these course-specific forums provide continuing education to inspectors long after completing the course.
often, in online video courses, the instruction is presented by one or more renowned experts.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by being unable to allow inspectors go back and repeat material to strengthen his/her particular areas of weakness.
compared to online courses, classroom  courses harm consumers by being unable to financially sustain advanced course  offerings.
compared to online courses,  classroom courses harm consumers by failing to correct  misinformation given to inspectors in a timely fashion.
schedule: online courses are available when each  inspector wants to take them.
current course material: downloadable, printable online course material is reviewed, edited and improved over time.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by failing to provide inspectors with virtual, real-situation training.
in some cases, the harm may result in the actual death of either the inspector or the consumer.
again, the more education an inspector has, the better he/she can serve his/her clients.
online  video can be paused.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm  consumers by being unable to allow inspectors go back and repeat material  to strengthen his/her particular areas of weakness.
consistent grading: online courses and quizzes are  graded consistently over time and around the world.
increasing the level of inspector competence is a direct benefit to  consumers.
expert instruction: online course developers can hire many experts to contribute to each course.
in contrast, most classroom courses are taught by only one instructor.
specialty courses: it is financially feasible to  offer specialty courses online.
in  contrast, most classroom courses are taught by only one instructor.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm  consumers by often lacking in international collaborative development.
online courses are edited to cut out set-up time, off-topic discussions, bathroom breaks, lunchtime, etc.
classroom  courses harm consumers by rarely providing such widespread, post-course  interaction.
in contrast, classroom texts are less frequently updated.
in contrast,  classroom courses grade easier or harder, depending on where and when the  inspector takes each course.
compared to online courses, classroom courses harm consumers by diluting the training time with things that don't increase inspector competence.