well, like advantages there are certain disadvantages which one should consider before enrolling for any online courses.
- course materials can be downloaded and read as per your convenience.
worldwide opportunities remember it is an online classroom and technological advancements will give  you access to the whole world of online resources and communities which you can  never imagine in an offline class room.
- the factor called social stigma is still attached to online educational distance learning programs with reference to their quality of education and evaluation.
unlike regular college study, online programs are more of self oriented  programs that require a lot of self motivation to study and sustain.
group learning technological advancements and tools greatly help in collaborative group  learning process and helps group interaction without students facing each other  in person.
the online course which you are planning to undertake may not be  recognized by your employer or other educational institutions.
- no prescribed learning speed compulsion.
you have come to the  right place.
if you are someone who is into a full time job and juggling between the responsibilities of work, family and other social commitments then online educational programs like the degree course offers you the flexibility to work and study at the time of your convenience and complete your degree without any hassles and any compromises.
- the online course which you are planning to undertake may not be recognized by your employer or other educational institutions.
the advantages are  many.
- interesting and wide variety of learning techniques are used to keep up student’s interest in the courses offered.
face to face interaction and communication with professors and students is not possible.
computer programming faq’s are you looking forward to join online degree program?
courses are available at varying fee structures enabling you to make a  choice that fits your budget.
- earn well – most sought after jobs for fresh interns - top 5 reasons to consider a career in agriculture - online certified public accountant course popular posts - online college courses: advantages and disadvantages ( 33 - comments ) - choosing top online accredited colleges - be wise!!
- you can access the study materials from anywhere in the world.
while learning online has been improved offering the best quality, still  not all courses can be studied online, especially those which requires hands on  practical experience and exposure.
how do i benefit from applying for these online educational programs?
gone are the days when individuals were simply unfortunate on their  educational front as they could not spare time for a regular campus study  routine.
search - home - online education resource - about us - faq's - contact us - site home quick school search find affordable schools near you - select all subjects - art & design (all) animation cosmetology digital media arts fashion design game art & design graphic design interior design photography web design liberal arts & humanities (all) business (all) accounting ebusiness & ecommerce finance human resources international business management & admin marketing communications (all) culinary (all) education (all) curriculum and instruction education (general) educational administration special education teaching engineering (all) health care (all) alternative & holistic health dental assisting massage therapy medical administrative services medical assisting medical billing pharmacy public health radiology law & justice (all) crime scene investigation (csi) criminal justice forensic science legal & paralegal nursing (all) psychology (all) technology (all) computer engineering computer networking computer programming computer science engineering technologies game software development information technology web design technicians & vocational trades (all) auto mechanic technicians vocational trades - select all degrees - associate's bachelor's master's doctoral certificates diplomas mba online campus both recent posts - cost comparison: online college versus campus college - online criminal justice programs for busy professionals - max out job potential with an online master degree - top 6 online master degrees to look out for in 2012 - how to balance new job with my online degree?
- specialization courses and continuing education programs are available.
access classes and lectures as per your convenience.
with number of institutions offering online educational programs you have a whole lot to choose from.
it depends upon the  number of hours of study completed by the student.
what are the disadvantages of online educational programs?
even the rarest of courses are now available online.
course credit is the recognition by colleges and universities that a  particular course of study has been completed by a student.
online educational environment has certainly no resemblance with regular campus colleges.
from where you can study is completely immaterial.
you can access the classes at any time during the day.
course credit is the recognition by colleges and universities that a particular course of study has been completed by a student.
the credit points based on  experience can be acquired through the following activities share  and enjoy:
it is the benefits offered by online educational program which attracts students from across the world to enroll for such courses.
it depends upon the number of hours of study completed by the student.
you will find answers to almost all of your questions and queries,  helping you to be better informed about your decision to enroll for an online  educational program.
flexibility and ease: - no physical mobility required.
specialization courses and continuing education programs are available.
the advantages are many.
- physical interaction and experience is just not possible in an online atmosphere.
it is the benefits offered by online educational program which attracts  students from across the world to enroll for such courses.
course materials can be downloaded and read as per your convenience.
cost and choice of online education: wide range of courses to choose from.
you get the best and the latest of  everything.
graduation, certification and vocational programs are available.
- courses are available at varying fee structures enabling you to make a choice that fits your budget.
all rights reserved worldwide.
interesting and wide variety of learning techniques are used to keep up student’s interest in the courses offered.
instead what you will have is a virtual environment, where you will meet your friends and professors through chat rooms and instant messaging services.
- graduation, certification and vocational programs are available.
with number of institutions  offering online educational programs you have a whole lot to choose from.
- online schools and universities are no way less costly than regular colleges, hence your salary hike is not substantial you may end up in trouble.
you can access the study materials from anywhere in the world.
positive retention rate: - online courses mainly depend upon the choice and preference of students hence the best is offered to retain them.
listing of them for your reference.
neither, where they in a position to give up their jobs nor where they able to go higher up on their career ladder.
online educational environment has certainly no resemblance with regular  campus colleges.
entries (rss) and comments (rss).
you will find answers to almost all of your questions and queries, helping you to be better informed about your decision to enroll for an online educational program.
well, the suitability of the choice of study depends upon your lifestyle  and choice of subject you are willing to study.
neither, where they in a position to give up their jobs nor where they  able to go higher up on their career ladder.
you can access the classes at any  time during the day.
online schools and universities are no way less costly than regular  colleges, hence your salary hike is not substantial you may end up in trouble.
flexibility and ease: no physical mobility required.
no time restrictions on taking lessons.
( 13 - comments ) - types of learning with online degree ( 9 - comments ) - how to identify college application phone scam ( 16 - comments )
recognizing the growth of online educational programs, regular reputed colleges have also started offering online courses in order to capture the students market given their shift in focus towards online educational programs.
the factor called social stigma is still attached to online educational  distance learning programs with reference to their quality of education and  evaluation.
let’s start attacking your queries right away.
cost and choice of online education: - wide range of courses to choose from.
if you are person suffering from mobility problems may be due to health or  other reasons this course is most suitable.
even the rarest of courses are now  available online.
from where  you can study is completely immaterial.
- creating school brochure online ( 7 - comments ) - why enroll
positive retention rate: online courses mainly depend upon the choice and preference of students  hence the best is offered to retain them.
well, like advantages there are certain disadvantages which one should  consider before enrolling for any online courses.
worldwide opportunities remember it is an online classroom and technological advancements will give you access to the whole world of online resources and communities which you can never imagine in an offline class room.
group learning technological advancements and tools greatly help in collaborative group learning process and helps group interaction without students facing each other in person.
- while learning online has been improved offering the best quality, still not all courses can be studied online, especially those which requires hands on practical experience and exposure.
- unlike regular college study, online programs are more of self oriented programs that require a lot of self motivation to study and sustain.
if you are someone who is into  a full time job and juggling between the responsibilities of work, family and  other social commitments then online educational programs like the degree  course offers you the flexibility to work and study at the time of your  convenience and complete your degree without any hassles and any compromises.
you have come to the right place.
physical interaction and experience is just not possible in an online  atmosphere.
recognizing the growth of online educational programs, regular reputed colleges  have also started offering online courses in order to capture the students  market given their shift in focus towards online educational programs.
instead what you will have is a virtual environment,  where you will meet your friends and professors through chat rooms and instant  messaging services.
you get the best and the latest of everything.
- no time restrictions on taking lessons.
gone are the days when individuals were simply unfortunate on their educational front as they could not spare time for a regular campus study routine.
what do you mean by course credits points earned based on experience?
in an online school? ( 7 - comments ) recent comments - christine s. baker:evan, here's the link to accre - pest control:i am actually pleased to read - online degrees:so much enjoyable to watch the - evan coffield:i am looking for a list of onl - interior design:hey,i appreciate you taking th - gray:today's new way of looking for categories - online degree - online nursing degree - online nursing schools - online college application - online college brochures - enroll - online learning - online school brochures - online medical assistants archives select month march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 - march 2012 - february 2012 - january 2012 - art & design - business management - criminal & legal - education & teaching - engineering & technology - health care & nursing - psychology & counseling - vocational & trade - computer programming faq’s are you looking forward to join online degree program?
how will an online educational environment feel like?
- access classes and lectures as per your convenience.
it is possible for you to work as a group through this  virtual environment.
is online degree program a right choice of study?
no prescribed learning speed compulsion.
well, the suitability of the choice of study depends upon your lifestyle and choice of subject you are willing to study.
face to face interaction and communication with professors and  students is not possible.
it is possible for you to work as a group through this virtual environment.
if you are person suffering from mobility problems may be due to health or other reasons this course is most suitable.
the credit points based on experience can be acquired through the following activities share and enjoy: - home - online degree by levels - online degree by programs - online colleges by states - top online colleges and universities © copyright 2009 - 2012 about online degree.