project topics may vary widely.
prerequisite:  rem 202.
1 cr mus 103 applied music: private lessons individual or group instruction in vocal or instrumental performance (drums, guitar, piano, violin, voice, winds, etc.).
institutions studied will include community recreation and the playground movement, state and municipal parks, federal lands and the conservation movement, organized camping, youth organizations, outdoor education and selected sports.
3 cr rem 414 grant and proposal writing an introduction to the art and science of preparing grant proposals for nonprofit organizations.
instructional goals and objectives to develop a variety of appropriate assessment tools for both formative and summative assessment are critical to effective teaching.
3 cr hty 324 world war one and the 20th century this course uses the study of world war one to explore larger issues in 20th-century life.
prerequisite: demonstrated competency of 30 net words per minute on one-minute timed writings.
3 cr mat 118 history of mathematics the goal of this course is to provide students interested in teaching middle- or high-school level mathematics, or others simply interested in the topic, the necessary understanding of the historical foundation of mathematics.
special emphasis is given to the basic principles of law that apply to business transactions of a contractual nature.
also available is the fitness  center with a competition-sized pool and large fitness room with free weights  and aerobic equipment.
this computer-intensive course includes a detailed discussion of what a gis is, why gis is being increasingly used today, sample applications, basic map concepts, how geographic and descriptive data are stored in the computer, and the steps in a typical gis project.
3 cr ant 101 cultural anthropology a comparative study of contemporary cultures and institutions with particular attention to primitive and peasant societies.
the course emphasis is on biomechanics and the effects of internal and external forces on functions of the human locomotor system.
i the first semester of a two-semester sequence intended as mathematics  background for students in elementary education and humanities programs.
in addition to lectures, media presentations and other in-class activities, students will participate in an applied community-based project.
3 cr (non-degree) eng 101 composition
coe 201 cooperative education
while the course is intended principally for students who are themselves interested in writing fiction, any student of literature may find such an approach useful and interesting.
students should enroll at a level consistent with their ornithological experience.
1-2 cr gis 230 geographic information systems (gis) applications i understanding the fundamentals of a gis through lecture, readings and computer activities.
speakers and the career development office help students explore individual  interests, values, and job characteristics so they can choose an appropriate  career direction more readily.
on-line  computer use required.
course  includes exploration of career opportunities, examination of existing public  agencies and practical development of a sample public service agency.
3 cr psy 223 sport psychology sport psychology is the study of the mental and behavioral factors that  influence or are influenced by participation in sport, exercise, and physical  activity.
3 cr gis 431 introduction to geostatistics
prerequisite: rem 110 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite:  eng 101 and junior  standing or permission of instructor.
readings will draw from both primary and secondary sources.
some of the questions explored include: what is an online community?
this course examines historical, philosophical and current educational issues.
a course to provide a broader theoretical outlook, examining harmony,  counterpoint, improvisation, analysis, composition, arranging, transcription  and performance practice.
laboratories have a field trip format and are focused on studies of natural resource management, harvesting, and processing in washington county.
the physical education program at umm offers a variety of experiences for students of all ages and levels of physical activity.
students contemplate the underlying causes of environmental problems and consider how people respond to incentives and constraints framed by economic and social institutions.
please see the office of academic affairs for further information.
unless otherwise noted, this course is a prerequisite to all  other psychology courses.
the course emphasizes such topics as the  constitution and its development; the federal system; civil liberties and civil  rights; public opinion, interest groups, political parties and elections; the  congress; the supreme court; the presidency and the presidential establishment;  domestic and foreign policy formation; government services and regulation; and  the federal budget and federal taxation.
emphasis is placed on outdoor leadership philosophies and techniques.
3 cr eng 304 studies in film a generic course covering various topics related to the genre of film.
emphasis is placed on writing and research skills.
this course emphasizes the practical application of the knowledge and skills gained through the course.
a thorough understanding of all skills necessary to lead a successful trip will be developed.
prerequisite: bio 111, mat 113, psy  110, and junior standing; or permission of instructor.
among other factors considered by the committee: (a) successful completion of praxis i and ii prior to student teaching application in october or march; (b) gpa of 2.5 overall and in sed courses; (c) completion of 27 credits of sed coursework prior to student teaching.
prerequisite:  eng 101 and junior standing, or  permission of instructor.
the course will increase awareness of the framework and rationale for collaboration, the facilitating factors involved, and strategies for implementation.
a personal portfolio of songs and demonstration recordings is compiled, then  shared with, and critiqued by, the class.
3 cr eng 236 copyediting & proofreading this course will teach students the basics of proofreading and copyediting for print and electronic publications such as newspapers, magazines, books, journals, and web sites.
students will complete and present a practical business spreadsheet as a final project.
prerequisite: demonstrated  proficiency in mat 12.
3 cr art 212 hand-built ceramics an introductory course in ceramics.
the course aims to assist students in developing their own philosophy that will guide them through their professional careers.
the course addresses the interrelated issues of race, class, culture, and identity.
from wilderness areas to tourism developments, the course will  look at the settings where people recreate, the psychological and social  experiences they seek related to the environment, and their social and  ecological impact on the landscape.
there is also discussion of power relationships, role development, socialization of children, family reorganization, and malfunction and adaptation within the family structure.
students will enroll in the section that corresponds to their academic standing.
prerequisites:  psy 110 and psy  230.
statistical methods such as analysis of variance, linear and non-linear regression, analysis of covariance, analysis of frequencies, and an introduction to multivariate analysis will be presented.
through intensive studio practice, students develop their facility with selected opaque and/or transparent media.
prerequisite: edu 334 or permission of instructor.
this course may be taken multiple times for credit.
this may be a volunteer or a paid position and may be combined with additional readings and literature research related to either the position itself or the student's specific career objective.
4 cr bio 305 research seminar this course is designed to allow students to assimilate the multiple aspects of independent research in a group setting.
the student explores traditional themes of right conduct.
3 cr psy 316 industrial/organizational psychology industrial/organizational (i/o) psychology concerns the application of  psychological theories, research methods, and intervention strategies to  workplace issues.
the course will also involve a critical analysis of works of art and books using handmade paper and a comparative study of paper made from assorted fibers, historical and modern.
in addition, the course examines  the history and impact of laws and regulatory standards that dictate these  policies -- and ultimately service provision in behavioral care for children,  adults and the elderly.
studies will apply theories of child development, speech and hearing science and language development and disorders in order to devise language interventions for students with communication disorders.
it will also include information on alcohol, energy balance and metabolism, disorders of metabolism or energy balance, and nutritional deficiencies.
they will also use the senior seminar as a place to propose and justify their senior projects as an outgrowth and culmination of their learning.
the course will be made more forceful and the impact greater by the self-evaluation questionnaires and practical exercises that are used for personal development and class involvement.
we will examine the course of the revolution and its cultural representation as well as its causes and impact.
in the third semester of the sequence, the student enrolls in bio 406.
students will examine central ideas in science, gain computer skills in processing scientific data, and examine the process for representing physical and living systems as mathematical models.
a field experience over an extended period of time is also a component of the course.
3 cr ssc 320 research methods & design a course designed to nurture an appreciation and understanding for the manner in which any question of interest can be methodically approached and possibly answered by applying a set of sequential methods.
3 cr rem 222 rescue diver this padi rescue diver course is designed to develop the necessary  knowledge and skills for individuals to effectively perform diver rescues and  assists, manage diving accident situations, render proper first aid, and  qualify for the padi divemaster training.
it assumes no prior knowledge of music and prepares students for  lifelong enjoyment as a vital link in the musical experience.
3 cr bio 460 seminar in marine ecology
community psychology focuses on understanding  humans in communities.
students will do several outdoor, hands-on activities with handheld garmin and trimble receivers, as well as mapping activities in the laboratory.
in addition, laboratory  facilities are provided for all students.
practical and web applications will be stressed.
3 cr mtr 101 meteorology an introduction to the study of weather and weather-related phenomena including solar radiation, temperature, moisture, winds, air pressure, air masses, weather patterns, weather analysis, weather forecasting, climate, weather instruments, and computers.
the student may enroll in only one such course per semester and may accumulate a total of 12 cr toward a degree through independent study.
3 cr edu 321 secondary methods of teaching i
a practicum is an integral part of the course.
students will actively engage in the documentation and interpretation of local material traditions.
lecture and field work place approximately equal emphasis on knowledge of the local flora and recognition of important plant families.
prerequisite: wri 207, art 216, senior standing, or permission of english faculty.
1 cr rem 112 recreation and leisure exploration an overview of career opportunities in the leisure service industry  including discussions of professionalism, exploration of career objectives,  examination of professional journals, and personal interaction with working  professionals from several different segments of the leisure service industry.
the student must submit a final draft of the paper to the division of environmental and biological science faculty.
3 cr eng 330 a sense of place a course offering students the opportunity to participate in a program emphasizing study and travel.
teaching methods for the following secondary content areas are included: english, social studies, math, science and art.
3 cr asl 102 intermediate sign language
students will investigate the ways works speak for and against the times that created them.
the second half of the course will focus on current research in biochemistry, mostly at the cellular level, but also in the whole animal.
topics vary by semester and instructor.
3 cr mar 406 marketing research a study of the marketing research process that gives the student a tool to enhance his or her ability to make marketing management decisions.
students should have successfully completed a minimum of 48 credits.
the course, which may be taken more than once, allows students to pursue the study of topics not covered in-depth in other courses.
the course involves  the various areas of life including relationships to family members, to friends  and associates, and to professional colleagues.
the purpose of the cooperative education/internship program is to provide practical experiences for students that complement their academic studies and introduce them to the world of work with its corresponding professional activities.
this much shorter period saw enormous increases in trade, cultural, political and military interaction among all regions of the world.
prerequisites depend  upon the specific course.
students will also learn to identify the barriers to effective  communication and positive relationships including how culture may be a  barrier.
modern law enforcement is examined in terms of american government and historical context followed by in-depth analysis of police organization, operations and mission.
it is not a traditional survey course, nor does it aim to be comprehensive; rather the course offers a broad examination of the subject with specificity derived from case studies, research projects and scholarsly articles.
the universal functions of marketing management of buying, selling, transporting, storing, standardization and grading, financing, risk taking, and market information are linked to the student's entepreneurial undertaking.
prerequisite: sophomore standing, gpa of 3.0 or better, c or better in hon 220, or permission of instructor.
recent offerings have included crime and society, police and society, and rural poverty.
3 cr sed 330 math in special education this course is designed to help prospective special education teachers understand the maine learning results, national mathematics standards, instructional strategies and assessment techniques, and to develop organizational structures related to teaching mathematics to diverse learners in elemntary schools.
ways  to work to ameliorate prejudice will be explored.
3 cr rem 214 recreational underwater archeology
3 cr mathematics prerequisites prerequisites are established for mathematics courses so students will have the quantitative skills necessary for success.
3 cr bio 109 special topics in biology a course whose subject matter may come from any of a variety of topics in biology.
classroom exercises and field work contacts concentrate on the administrative  processes of policy development, decision making, personnel management,  budgeting and financing, programming, public relations and office management.
among the issues discussed are labeling, social control and collective deviance.
students will learn about shot composition, sound, lighting, and editing, all from a digital video format.
prerequisite: vid 101 or cmy 110, sophomore standing, or permission of instructor.
3 cr rem 209 water safety instructor course will enhance student’s swimming and water safety skills and will prepare student for red cross water safety instructor (wsi) certification.
this is an intermediate course for students who have had some introduction to gis.
3 cr psy 312 theories of personality a study of the concepts included in psychology's most widely accepted theories of personality such as those proposed by freud, horney, allport, rogers, and skinner.
the course will survey broadly a variety of periodicals both in terms of subject and of time, with the emphasis being on the small-scale periodical, especially the literary magazine.
5 cr bio 332 intro to mariculture
prerequisite: acc 311 or permission of instructor.
the preparation of mock grant proposals takes students through the entire grant application cycle of need definition, grant research, program and budget planning, proposal writing, submission/review/funding, and post-award administration.
3 cr pos 216 state and local government an introduction to government and politics in the u.s. below the national  level.
papers, oral reports, and/or exams are required at the discretion of the instructor.
these strategies will create readiness for learning, and will use reading and writing to promote content understanding.
the course includes theoretical understandings and practical experiences directed toward prevention of hazardous conditions and emergency situations.
3 cr psy 221 health psychology this course surveys theory and research on the interrelationships of mental processes and behavior with physical health and well-being.
prerequisite: rem 121 and rem 122, or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: ses 202.
3 cr psy 419 special topics in applied psychology courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within psychology.
field trips to local marine environments are used to develop identification skills, ecological techniques, experimental design, and statistical analysis of data.
in this course, poverty is viewed as a socially structured phenomenon, influenced by social, economic and political forces in historical context.
the course allows systematic study of topics that are identified as being of need and/or interest to particular groups.
prerequisite: bio 112.
the goal is to obtain an educated groundwork for understanding the body processes of nutrients and their application to everyday disease states.
data  analysis concerns the methods for exploring, organizing, and describing data.
emphasis is placed on transition into academic, independent living and vocational settings through the design of instructional programs that address individual needs and maximize quality of life.
3 cr psy 230 abnormal psychology a course designed to provide an overview of the area of abnormal psychology  and to introduce the student to different theoretical models, classifications,  origins, and treatments of abnormal behavior.
3 cr phi 212 topics in philosophy topics focusing on a different aspect of study, i.e., science and religion,  perception of reality, existentialism, eastern philosophy, and world religions.
a student who  successfully completes this course may receive national certification.
using industry standard software and imagery, students learn basic image analysis for oceanographic modeling, land cover change detection, climate analysis and similar applications.
the ending level competency (based on the 'c' level) is 30 net words per minute on one-minute timed writings.
this course addresses the standards of the maine learning results, maine comprehensive assessment system (mecas), maine education assessment and the national council of mathematics (nctm) standards.
offered fall semesters of even-numbered years.
mat 9 fundamentals of mathematics to prepare students for algebra and college-level mathematics, an  understanding of arithmetic and pre-algebra topics and their mastery is  emphasized.
1 cr rem 112 recreation and leisure exploration an overview of career opportunities in the leisure service industry including discussions of professionalism, exploration of career objectives, examination of professional journals, and personal interaction with working professionals from several different segments of the leisure service industry.
historical perspectives, professional responsibilities, human and natural resource elements, and future trends are explored.
3 cr eng 117 intro to literary & cultural studies an introduction to the goals, methods, and implications of literary analysis in the 21st century.
3 cr mus 407 applied music:
this course is designed to provide students with the opportunity to examine  their life-space; to envision alternative possibilities in their personal and  professional growth; and to foster the development of creative changes toward  their future life-career.
3 cr ant 215 special topics in applied anthropology course designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within applied anthropology.
3 cr env 102 atlantic salmon conservation projects students in this course work with local watershed councils, state and federal agencies in the recovery of the endangered atlantic salmon.
3 cr mus 324 music theory ii
prerequisite: ant 101, psy  110 or soc 114, or permission of instructor.
students will continue to refine their field production skills, including shot composition, sound, and lighting.
prerequisite: art 101, art 102, or permission of instructor.
prerequisite:  eng 101,  or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: students must have cpr certification or be concurrently enrolled in a course that will be completed by the time the wfr course is finished.
students are introduced to the issues, perspectives, and findings of this relatively new field of scholarship, which examines the role of gender in the construction of knowledge.
it will also assist students in developing a modern philosophy of science teaching at the secondary level.
this professional association of diving instructors (padi) course is a performance-based education course which leads to certification upon completion of all requirements.
the  notion of vocational rehabilitation and the range of employment service  programs will be addressed in a holistic fashion, noting their relationship to  the conceptual practice of psychosocial rehabilitation and human  services.
1-3 cr fia 213 sophomore seminar this course will build both on the first-year seminar and students' ongoing work in the interdisciplinary fine arts program.
3 cr rem 202 recreational sports methods intended to give the student a general understanding of sports in a recreational setting.
prerequisites: bio 111, chy 102.
prerequisite: edu 220 and successful completion of praxis i. 3
the student learns the basics of camera use, darkroom technique, photographic history, and application of knowledge to the subject.
the differences and overlap between  analysis and advocacy will be considered.
open to business administration majors who have completed 84 cr.
the differences and overlap between analysis and advocacy will be considered.
3 cr rem 225 leadership and group dynamics the study of leadership theory and group dynamics is the primary focus of this course.
prerequisites: soc 114 or soc 214, or permission of instructor.
the integrated laboratory reinforces concepts from the lecture.
face-to-face leadership techniques are put into practice as students lead activities as part of a class-sponsored special event and as they simulate management-level interaction and problem solving.
students typically begin the sequence during the second semester of the junior year of study.
the components and mission of the criminal justice system are analyzed in light of existing constitutional protections and the multi-cultural diversity of 21st-century america.
3 cr hty 219 topics in history
students registering for this course must receive written approval from current instructor.
prerequisite: art 101 or art 102, art 210, and two upper-level art courses; or permission of instructor.
topics might include the nation's rise to global power, immigration, war and society, social movements, the role of government, or changes in the family.
topics include polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic and trigonometric functions.
gis 330 or gis 312 is recommended.
3 cr dan 101 intro to dance through floor work, barre, and combinations, students will learn the basics of giordano jazz dance technique.
prospective secondary school teachers explore the nature and relevance of their content area for students in grades 7-12.
3 cr bus 324 labor relations management this course provides an examination of the legal, managerial and economic factors relevant to labor management relations and an in-depth investigation into the character and procedures of arbitration, mediation, conciliation, and fact-finding.
the course is based on the fundamental  premise that cultural competence is an ongoing and multi-layered process  working at personal, interpersonal, and organization-wide levels.
independent inquiry and formal presentations to the class are important components of this course.
this is the only group with a prerequisite.
the course emphasis is on biomechanics and the  effects of internal and external forces on functions of the human locomotor  system.
3 cr pos 314 environmental law/environmental crime this is a third-year elective online course within sociology that addresses  existing environmental laws and the environmental crimes that are committed in  violation of these laws.
prerequisites:  psy 110 and sophomore standing, or  permission of instructor.
examples of existing  efforts in interpretation are explored.
offered fall semesters of odd-numbered years.
4 cr chy 326 undergraduate research in chemistry the objective of this course is for the student to conduct an original research project under the supervision of a faculty member.
in addition, forensic psychology will be briefly discussed.
prerequisite: rem 121 or permission of instructor.
these outside institutions, offices, and schools that provide the environmental opportunities to students sometimes impose additional requirements as conditions of participation in their programs.
cooperative education and internships assist students in the career development process by enabling them to examine their abilities, values, and interests while applying them to an actual career experience.
through selected course projects students will step-by-step build a writing portfolio that will leave them job ready.
3 cr soc 219 special topics in sociology course designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within sociology.
as this course includes an examination of sexuality, it includes materials that may be deemed explicit or provocative for many.
in particular, we will examine how physical processes shape biological patterns and interactions in the oceans.
topics  include problem-solving skills, algebraic equations, inequalities, functions,  polynomials, and systems of equations and inequalities.
3 cr the 116 play production: technical meets weekly for students who wish to fulfill technical roles in umm theatrical productions.
1 cr phe 210 advanced open water scuba this course expands the knowledge and experience of students beyond the basic open water scuba course and prepares students for advance scuba certifications in rescue diver and others.
students further this emphasis through the preparation of museum-quality specimens or a research paper.
3 cr art 326 book arts ii this studio course will continue the study of book arts i using the book as a medium for the expression of the written word.
minority populations, which may be related more to influence than to size, may include african americans, native americans, roma, middle eastern americans, asian americans, those individuals that may identify as lgbt, the impoverished, the elderly, the obese, those with physical or mental disabilities, and women.
legal and procedural requirements of program planning are reviewed, and an emphasis is placed upon applying evaluation results to the development of a professional iep.
this course in practical music making is the first course in the music theory sequence and is a prerequisite to all other theory courses.
guest speakers from local businesses and economic development initiatives plus field trips will be incorporated as concrete examples of how concepts and theories apply to real people and businesses in our immediate community.
prerequisite: wri 207, art 216, eng 441, senior standing, or permission of english faculty.
a copyrighted book project will be editioned beyond the prototype stage and marketed.
in the second semester of the sequence, students enroll in bio 402.
3 cr psy 102 personal growth this course is designed to provide students with the opportunity to examine their life-space; to envision alternative possibilities in their personal and professional growth; and to foster the development of creative changes toward their future life-career.
class members select additional topics.
an elective course, it may be taken by qualified students and area educators depending on the specific topics being addressed.
prerequisite: approval by a research advisor.
students will be introduced to standard publication processes and the major styles, reference works, and tools of editorial work.
students not only develop kayak skills, but more importantly  develop techniques for programming safe, educational and fun kayak trips for  beginners through advanced paddlers.
prerequisites: env 212.
prerequisite: eng 101 and mus 119, or permission of instructor.
areas to be covered include personal skills, modes of intervention, appropriate referral tactics, and issues of social and legal relevance.
students study the tax treatment of proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations and learn to prepare tax returns for each.
readings, assignments, activities and discussions will cover: the raster data model, generating and working with grid data, georeferencing images and grids, basic remote sensing technologies, visualizing raster data sets, interpolation methods for generating continuous surface data, mathematical operations with grid data for spatial analysis, map algebra and grid-based modeling, basic modeling, evaluating and documenting error and uncertainty, ethics and accountability in spatial analysis, modeling and visualization.
prerequisite: wst 110 or permission of instructor 3 cr wst 412 special topics in women's studies courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within women’s studies.
students receive firsthand experience of site protection techniques, visitor management, and other problems involved in managing recreational facilities.
the anatomy, systematics, and biology of invertebrates are studied through lectures, collections, dissections, microscopy, and videotape.
the course covers  concepts, practical applications, problem solving, safety, and hands-on  experiences.
offered pass/fail or for a letter grade at the option of the instructor.
3 cr cmy 212 local economies in a global market
3 cr psy 219 special topics in applied psychology courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within  psychology.
3 cr psy 110 intro to psychology an introduction to the scientific study of behavior including a survey of all the major areas of inquiry pursued by psychologists-history, methods, physiological aspects, perception, learning, memory, cognition, emotion, motivation, consciousness, personality, abnormal behavior and therapies, and social processes.
interim project reports, oral discussions/presentation and an overall final presentation are requirements of the course.
we will consider pre-war european society, diplomacy and the outbreak of the war, the combat experience, experience at the home fronts, the transformation of the state, global impact, the peace settlement, and the struggle over the war's meaning and how to commemorate it.
though the major emphasis falls on literature, half of the class focuses on the other disciplines.
the development of these  areas, all of which are contained in the maine state learning results for  middle and secondary grades, will be explored from various cultural  perspectives including a selection from prehistoric, native american, egyptian,  mesopotamian, ancient greek, roman, hindu, islamic, chinese, korean, japanese,  and european cultures.
students learn how and why many businesses are adopting sustainability as a strategic framework and examine potential benefits, costs and risks.
class discussion and investigations focus on the form and function of individual body systems and their integration into the living organism.
prerequisite: bio 111 4 cr bio 211 field and laboratory techniques in biology this course may be used to learn a variety of field and laboratory techniques.
functional attributes of plants considered include seed production and germination, plant growth and development, cell division, genetics and reproduction, photosynthesis, cellular respiration, mineral nutrition, and internal transport.
some possible courses could include: anthropology of women; women and globalization; feminist psychology, and many more.
case  studies and realistic application of theories are major aspects of the course.
prerequisite: successful completion of or concurrent enrollment in eng 101.
this course utilizes the framework of community psychology to analyze human  relationships with the physical environment, as well as social, cultural and  economic environments.
the course format will be a combination of lecture exams, laboratory practical exams, written and verbal presentations and the submission of properly identified and labelled insect collections.
3 cr psy 302 intro to counseling techniques this course orients students to the field of applied psychology.
prerequisite: 24 cr and eng 101.
course content focuses on the theories, approaches and related materials and effective practices in developmental listening, speaking, reading and writing in grades k-4.
the course examines some of the more successful marketing programs and how they relate to state tourism programs.
prerequisite: eng 101 and sophomore standing or permission of instructor.
3 cr psy 303 understanding testing
3 cr art 214 special topics in art special lecture, studio, travel and workshop experiences in the visual arts.
prospective middle and secondary school teachers explore the nature of historical knowledge and its relevance for students in grades 7-12.
in the baifa program, these courses may be used as visual art electives and repeated for credit.
literacy music notation, basic performance and composition techniques (vocal and instrumental), beginning harmony and sight singing are covered.
topics considered include the history of taxonomy, plant life cycles, taxonomically important anatomical and morphological features of plants, classification systems, and characteristics of selected plant families.
prerequisite: rem 226 or permission of instructor.
books will be editioned in small numbers as prototypes of learning the techniques of production.
the course focuses on small business and entrepreneurial process.
prerequisites: bio 112, env 103, bio 206, chy 101, chy 102 (may be concurrent), mat 215, or permission of instructor.
specific offerings will permit the students to participate in studies of a variety of regional sites or areas of interest, such as the roosevelt international park on campobello island, coastal trail systems of downeast maine, etc.
(chy 221 recommended.)
prerequisite: spa 101 or basic knowledge of spanish with permission of instructor.
3 cr rem 224 athletic & recreational injury management the acquisition of basic skills and knowledge of the prevention,  recognition and care of injuries normally occurrirng in athletic and  recreational sports.
this survey will typically be organized around a topic or theme - such as revolutionary struggle, iconoclasm, or the construction of the self.
this course is required for all elementary school education majors and is suggested as an elective for english majors and others who are interested in literature or who work with children.
the motivation for participation and the role of the outdoor leader are explored in detail.
proper selection and use of equipment and current safety  programs are addressed.
study of reproduction, pregnancy and the immune systems will complete the understanding of the workings of the human body.
a silent classroom where signed asl will be the only form of communication will be maintained for the duration of the course.
3 cr psy 419 special topics in applied psychology courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within  psychology.
prerequisite: bio 112, or env 105, or equivalent experience in id of woody plants.
unless otherwise noted, this course is a prerequisite to all other psychology courses.
participating students will only be working on one of the following projects at a time.
they will be assessed on their laboratory worksheets, quizzes and a simple service project.
it goes beyond the understanding level of the introductory management courses to the level of application.
this course will also serve as a "first-year experience."
each day, students will visit rocky shores, soft-bottom intertidal flats, sandy beaches, estuaries, marshes, or islands that will highlight the richness and diversity of marine life in eastern maine.
3 cr wst 110 intro to women's studies this course examines women's positions in and contributions to society, exploring the genesis, development, and impact of our culture's assumptions about women's nature and women's roles.
cr rem 305 computer applications in parks and recreation a review of concepts combined with the practical application of software  helps students gain an understanding of the internet, spreadsheets and methods  of electronic presentations.
1 cr phe 210 advanced open water scuba this course expands the knowledge and experience of students beyond the  basic open water scuba course and prepares students for advance scuba  certifications in rescue diver and others.
prerequisites vary with topics.
students will have the guaranteed use of a computer during class to learn and apply advanced software features to various projects and problems.
students plan, organize and lead outdoor recreation activity courses, outings for the outing club, and other outdoor experiences.
historical patterns of natural resource development and utilization are examined within the context of social demand and economic forces.
3 cr acc 311 individual income tax covers federal income tax legislation that applies to individual income taxpayers.
emphasis is on gaining facility in rendering and visualizing from life.
the course may be taken multiple times for credit.
a summative report addressing how the student met the learning outcomes is expected at the end of the experience.
while the course emphasizes individual work, collaborative approaches are also put into practice.
students will study, understand and be able to demonstrate the skills associated with the following topical areas: naturalist, deep water dives, navigation, search and recovery, night diving, shipwreck concepts and practices, and recreational dive planner.
speakers and the career development office help students explore individual interests, values, and job characteristics so they can choose an appropriate career direction more readily.
1-3 cr hty 331 history of women in early modern europe this course seeks to uncover the lives of women from all classes in europe between 1400 and 1800.
3 cr bus 332 leadership leadership is an applied course that combines behavior theory with business practice.
prerequisite: chy 101 or equivalent.
learning activities may include community service as well as close readings, discussion, and formal and informal writing.
as this course includes an examination of sexuality, it  includes materials that may be deemed explicit or provocative for many.
this course is designed for students interested in pursuing a career in one of the allied health fields such as nursing or physical therapy.
this course may be repeated for credit with different topics or at different levels.
3 cr psy 226 human sexuality an interdisciplinary inquiry into the historical, cultural and developmental issues in human sexuality.
3 cr pos 313 introduction to policy analysis this course will introduce students to the art and science of policy  analysis.
the remarkable adaptations of birds to flight traced through the study of their biology, behavior, and ecology.
course assignments may include reading and writing tasks and a hands-on project that will focus on the construction of a local community profile.
each student will identify, read and present the major ideas from at least two papers published in the primary literature.
prerequisite: psy 110, or permission of instructor.
3 cr wri 414 grant and proposal writing an introduction to the art and science of preparing grant proposals for nonprofit organizations.
prerequisite: bio 111 or bio 112.
prerequisite: gis 230 gis applications i or permission of instructor.
chamber ensemble explores classical  music, and has mus 119 or permission of instructor as a prerequisite.
students will learn the characteristics of various disabilities, and how they affect individuals and their families.
3 cr man 332 human resource management a study of basic principles and procedures relating to the personnel department: job analysis and evaluation, incentives, employment, placement and training, employee services, labor relations and government regulations.
the policy process will be introduced and used as an analytical tool to connect policy outcomes to political, social and economic and institutional inputs and constraints.
the primary objective is to gain an understanding of how the healthy human body works.
lecture 3 hours, laboratory 3 hours.
traumatic events can have on-going impacts on people's  thinking, feeling and behavior.
it is expected to be a culminating, integrative experience.
this course covers the history and systems in the study of motivation, physiological and psychological needs, cognition, individual differences in personality and motivation, and emotion.
prerequisite: mat 102 or equivalent.
3 cr rem 324 commercial recreation (tourism and resort management)
may be offered pass/fail at option of instructor.
focused on the enjoyment of reading for young adults, the course emphasizes familiarity with a wide body of adolescent literature, approaches to and bibliographic resources for its study, and methods for individualizing reading.
using local and regional examples, concepts in tectonics, paleontology, mineralogy, and other geological topics are addressed.
3 cr pos 216 state and local government an introduction to government and politics in the u.s. below the national level.
4 cr bio 224 general entomology students will be given a broad introduction to insect external and internal anatomy, physiology, evolution, taxonomy and ecology.
demonstration software packages may be available.
3 cr the 102 fundamentals of acting an introduction to the talents and skills used on stage by the actor.
this hands-on course provides the basic skills needed to use geographic information systems software, data and analysis to manage municipal land records, support decision-making in local government and create zoning maps.
may be repeated for credit with different topics and used to fulfill umm core curriculum requirements in any appropriate area.
3 cr psy 313 counseling diverse populations this counseling course is designed to help the student acquire the skills necessary to become a culturally competent mental health or social service practitioner, that is, someone who is sensitive to cultural differences and to their impact on human interactions.
selective media are discussed  and used in the development of interpretive services.
2 cr env 103 oceanography this interdisciplinary course is an introduction to a variety of physical, chemical, geological and biological aspects of marine and oceanic environments.
3 cr psy 320 learning and memory a study of experimental analyses of animal and human learning from various perspectives within psychology.
narrowing in focus, students then learn about the impact of  tourism on communities and strategies for sustainability.
students also have an opportunity to develop an awareness and appreciation of the maine waterways.
students will be expected to work in teams and help design, implement and report on their project.
types of technology incorporated into the class are audio/visual, presentation software, spreadsheets, databases and a variety of web examples.
3 cr mar 324 consumer behavior a course to provide the student with an understanding of why people decide upon the products they purchase.
this course allows students to feel part of a living tradition of writing, to understand the artistic and technical concerns of contemporary writing, and the ideas and attitudes conveyed in that writing.
meets the requirement for mental health & aging for full maine state mental health & rehabilitation technician certification.
auditions held at the beginning of each term are open to all, whether enrolled in the course or not.
it is designed to help the beginning mental health professional develop basic therapeutic skills, understand the role of the counselor and the unique dynamics which exist in the therapeutic relationship, understand the ethical nature of the relationship, and to begin to define a working definition of psychological growth and mental health from a multicultural perspective.
prerequisite: edu 210 or permission of instructor.
3 cr mat 105 contemporary mathematics
this course introduces students to the global business environment and the challenges and opportunities managers face in an international context.
the course involves classroom activities, pool simulations, and open water dives.
the course includes evaluation, treatment and rehabilitation of athletic injuries, advanced taping and wrapping, and a study of therapeutic modalities.
3 cr hty 353 topics in modern american history topics in modern american history examines themes emerging over the course of the american 20th century.
courses are identical and may be repeated for credit.
characteristics of various genres are discussed.
they will be able to participate again in another project if chosen.
prerequisite: phy 111 or equivalent.
3 cr bio 221 general microbiology a survey of the biology of microorganisms, in particular the prokaryotes.
application situations and cases applying knowledge from text to actual life situations, and learning how to make a smooth transition from worker to supervisor considered.
prerequisite: psy 110 and sophomore standing, or permission of instructor.
3 cr edu 420 topics in education this course allows systematic study of topics that are identified as being of need and/or interest to particular groups.
4 crmat 200 topics in mathematicsa post-calculus course in multi-variable calculus, linear algebra, dynamical systems, differential equations, discrete math, numerical analysis or modeling.
1 cr dan 119 special topics in dance a learning experience designed to allow students to pursue study in any of a variety of styles in dance and movement as creative expression and may include: format and technique; interpretation, improvisation and choreography; and costuming, performance and production.
working with a special educator, their students and other school personnel, student teachers expand and refine their knowledge and skills related to the council for exceptional children standards for teachers of students with mild to moderate disabilities.
with primary interest in the western tradition, non-western cultures will also be examined.
the integrated laboratory provides 'hands-on' experience with these techniques as well as field trips to areas of concern.
3 cr edu 213 teaching, learning, and technology
at the end of the semester, the class will present a finished production piece.
the literature of other cultures and places fascinates and educates the reader, not only because that literature often has enduring excellence but also because it gives us a new world of thought.
this multicultural survey includes diverse global and economic perspectives.
4 cr bio 209 special topics in biology a course whose subject matter may come from any of a variety of topics in biology.
prerequisite: senior standing and ssc 320.
the course also surveys techniques in  problem solving, set theory, number theory, elementary topics in geometry,  probability and statistics.
in an attempt to develop authentic assessments aligned to science education standards, students will also examine a comprehensive assessment system and critically evaluate assessment portfolios based on standards.
prerequisite: eng 101 and a 100-level literature course, or permission of instructor.
during the semester, students are expected to make periodic progress reports on their projects, culminating in formal (convention-style) presentations to the class and community partners.
3 cr hty 351 topics in american colonial history topics in colonial american history provides an in-depth exploration of an issue or development pertinent to colonial americans between the encounters of the 16th century and the time of the american revolution.
in addition, this course will provide students with methods of integrating technology into the classroom.
4 cr the 101 intro to theatre an introduction to the literary and practical aspects of the theatrical idiom by participating in classroom discussions on a survey of plays integral to the development of the theatre and the theatrical context.
alcoholics anonymos and other self-help groups, programs and treatment modalities are addressed.
3 cr psy 324 lifespan ii this course covers the context and process of human development  transitioning out of adolescence and into adulthood and on through older  adulthood and death.
topics include manufacturing costs, cost systems, analyzing cost variances, direct and absorption costing, operating budgets, and capital expenditure analysis.
students will examine central concepts in mathematics, gain computer skills in processing scientific/mathematical data, and examine the process for representing physical systems as mathematical models.
3 cr mus 301 umm chorale a choral group performing a cappella and accompanied songs and larger works of all periods and styles.
under  this topics heading, other mental health & rehabilitation technician  certification courses could be offered, including sexual abuse, trauma &  recovery; case management, mental health & aging, substance abuse with a  dual diagnosis component; group process; or vocational aspects of disability.
3 cr pos 215 american national government an introductory study of the major principles, structures and practices of  the united states government.
co-requisites: participation in a research project, such as senior thesis in biological research (bio 404, bio 405, bio 406), an independent study research project, or permission of instructor.
it incorporates both lecture and laboratory experience.
professional practice, theories of leadership and judgment and decision making will be explored through readings, discussions and self-reflective projects.
3 cr mar 218 advertising a course designed to help students develop creative and analytical skills by evaluating ads created by others.
prerequisite:  psy 110 or permission of instructor.
the course requires good qualitative and quantitative skills in order to effectively examine the performance of movement and to be able to apply these concepts to professional responsibilities in areas such as physical therapy, athletic training, physical education, coaching, health club management or personal training.
prerequisite: eng 101 with a grade of b- or better, or permission of instructor.
3 cr sed 370 reading/writing for the exceptional student this course will facilitate the development of competencies related to the identification of diverse reading and writing skills and the development of approrpriate individualized instructional goals and methods for individuals with exceptionalities in reading and writing.
the course will be concerned primarily with communities of place with emphasis on the northeastern united stated, although the concepts and methods discussed could be applied to other forms of community (communities of interest, virtual communities and others).
among other factors considered by the committee:(a) attainment of senior status; (b) acceptable academic standing; (c) successful completion of all required professional education courses; (d) successful completion of the writing sample; (e) completion of interview with education faculty; (f) continuing evidence of personal growth and responsibility; and (g) successful completion of praxis i. 15 cr ela 101 recreation & wellness seminar this course is designed to help new students learn about the recreation opportunities in downeast maine and to further develop their appreciation for the connection between personal wellness and outdoor exploration.
1-3 cr fia 319 special topics in interdisciplinary fine arts these courses will allow for further study in special fields within the fine arts.
intercollegiate athletic participation is also available for credit as a physical education activity.
prerequisites: psy 110 or permission of instructor.
a course for the senior accounting student preparing to assume professional accounting responsibilities.
prerequisite: rem 201 plus 2 semesters  of physical education activities.
prerequisite: edu 210.
the roots and consequences of conflicts between liberty and community are carefully considered.
3 cr rem 223 ecotourism this course provides an introduction to the concept and practice of  ecotourism, a term used to describe nature-based tourism that promotes  environmental conservation, respects local culture, and improves the economic  well-being of host communities.
both classroom and standardized assessment and their reliability and validity will be considered.
3 cr art 201 art history i a survey of the visual arts from prehistory until 1600 a.d.
3 cr course descriptions - psy to rem psy psychology rem recreation management psy 102 personal growth
prerequisite: permission of instructor.
students will submit work on a regular basis for class critiquing and will read and critique the work of others in the class.
the course includes evaluation, treatment and  rehabilitation of athletic injuries, advanced taping and wrapping, and a study  of therapeutic modalities.
students gain exposure to major writers of cultures and time periods other than their own, and analyze a variety of world literature masterpieces to determine how and why such works transcend their particular time and place.
over the course of a week, the class will visit a variety  of forested areas (coastal, mixed forest, hardwood stands, cedar bogs and  mature stands) in order to examine the differences in terms of soil and forest  composition and to search for a variety of other clues about how the landscape  was used in the past.
topics may include free will vs. determinism, the problem of evil, the mind-body split, the nature of time, the limits of methodology, including scientific and mystic.
4 cr bio 333 plant ecology this course provides a general introduction to plant population and community ecology.
prerequisite: rem 124, bio 110, or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: junior level or permission of instructor.
the course includes active participation in outdoor activities such as lake canoeing, ocean kayaking, backpacking, camping, and map and compass skills.
1-3 cr fia 400 senior seminar senior seminar offers students the opportunity to reflect on their learning and to share what they have learned with others in the program.
examples of topics include travel motivation, hotel management, restaurant operations, partnering and product development and others.
the competencies acquired provide students with a sound foundation for the primary care of athletes and recreational participants.
diffused throughout the course is an appreciation for cultural diversity and the value of looking at situations from multiple perspectives.
the concept of the open novel, minimalism, and the journalistic novel may be explored.
prerequisites: gis 230 and gis 330, or permission of instructor.
emphasis is placed on problem-solving procedures using case studies.
2 cr env 111 natural resource ecology a general introduction to the natural resources of the united states and a specific introduction to the natural resources of maine.
students will engage in a self-reflective process, identifying their own class status and the ways in which class has enhanced or constrained personal development.
a course designed for continued emphasis on the legal principles governing business transactions.
4 cr chy 323 biochemistry ii
chamber ensemble explores classical music, and has mus 119 or permission of instructor as a prerequisite.
swim 20  yd., surface dive to 9 feet, retrieve a 10-lb. brick and swim back holding onto  brick with both hands.
this course may be repeated for credit as topics change.
economic, technological, political and environmental impacts of outdoor recreation are examined.
practical elements can include stage management; costume, set, lighting or sound design; or makeup, movement, and voice for the actor.
facilities include the  frederic a. reynolds athletic & education center with its main gymnasium, a  small multi-purpose room, and racquetball courts.
prerequisite: psy 110 and  sophomore standing, or permission of instructor.
offered fall semester only.
students are also encouraged to have other certifications and licenses.
these and other topics are elucidated through dissection and examination of specimens.
native-american encounters with europeans, southern slavery, religious revivals, reform efforts, and the course of democracy are all featured in this course.
open to students who have completed a minimum of 24 cr.
topics  include learning, sensation, motivation, emotion, and psychopathology as  revealed by a physiological perspective.
beginning with a broad perspective of the tourism industry, tourism organizations, tourism history, tourism sociology and tourism economics are explored.
a survey of commercial recreation ventures (i.e., ski resorts, marinas, outfitting services, golf courses, etc.) and the various delivery systems used in the field.
this course provides excellent preparation for taking the maine guide exam.
prerequisite: soc 114.
examples of existing efforts in interpretation are explored.
areas to be covered include personal skills, modes of  intervention, appropriate referral tactics, and issues of social and legal  relevance.
the purpose of the senior seminar is threefold: (1) to provide an opportunity for students to assess their learning; (2) to provide an opportunity for the program to assess its effectiveness; (3) to provide an opportunity through their reflections for students to share their experiences with others.
students will gain introductory research skills as they learn to write in relationship to other texts.
students will become familiar with maintaining accounting records and preparing summary financial reports using quickbooks.
may be taken more than once for credit.
other musical experiences for academic credit are possible, and have been offered.
dual diagnosis in this context refers to having both a mental health diagnosis (i.e. depression, anxiety, adhd, bipolar disorder) and a substance abuse or dependence disorder.
prerequisite: edu 313 and 24 cr in english, or permission of instructor.
though the content of the course will vary from course to course, a balance of reading and writing assignments will enhance students' appreciation and understanding of literature.
prerequisite: psy 110, soc 114, and junior standing; or permission of instructor.
the course focuses on grid-based data models for visualization, modeling and analysis.
laboratories may include computer simulations and fieldwork.
a student will be required to complete 40 hours of supervised work for each credit earned.
nomenclature and basic analytical methods are also considered.
3 cr eng 212 topics in literature a course designed generally but not exclusively for non-english majors, focusing on a topic of the instructor's choosing and using literature and non-fiction as the documents for class discussion.
students will select and research an issue pertinent to downeast maine such as salmon aquaculture, wild salmon population restoration, blueberry farming, or the siting of liquid natural facilities; analyze it, and develop a remediation plan that takes into account a range of environmental and social dimensions.
pos political science mathematics prerequisites prerequisites are established for mathematics courses so students will have  the quantitative skills necessary for success.
3 cr psy 226 human sexuality an interdisciplinary inquiry into the historical, cultural and  developmental issues in human sexuality.
3 cr psy 222 psychology professions & ethics this course provides an overview of the professions and ethics associated  with psychology.
3 cr ant 313 political ecology the field of political ecology examines and attempts to explain the political dimensions of human-environment relations.
3 cr sed 340 communication & collaboration in special education this course provides the special educator with techniques and skills for effective communication, consultation and collaboration with families, general educators, and other professionals.
rather than interpreting stories or analyzing them with regard to a cultural milieu, the class will treat them as case studies for technique.
a survey of historical and present-day perspectives on  alcohol and drug abuse and addiction in society and the workplace will be  covered.
3 cr psy 212 lifespan i this course covers the context and process of human development from  prenatal stages through adolescence.
students learn about valuation techniques and decision criteria, and learn to evaluate policies based on efficiency, equity and sustainability.
3 cr env 212 atlantic salmon conservation projects students in this course work with local watershed councils, state and federal agencies in the recovery of the endangered atlantic salmon.
prerequisite: phi 201, psy 110 and psy 230 or permission of  instructor.
prerequisite: sophomore standing, gpa of 3.0 or better, c or better in cmy/hon 220, or permission of instructor.
the focus is on an integrated approach to communication skills acquisition.
3 cr edu 112 school and community a pre-professional course required of all education majors.
while students work on individual writing projects under the direction of the instructor, the class at the same time functions as a group to discuss readings and to critique student work to develop editing and revision skills.
the course will function as a workshop or writer's group, in which both assigned exercises and works-in-progress by each student are read and critiqued by the other writers in the class and by the instructor.
prerequisite: psy 110 plus 3 additional cr of psychology or sociology; third-year status recommended.
the student also studies legal, medical and other specialized terminology and performs transcription applications on computers.
prerequisite: acc 201.
prerequisite: basic open water certification or higher from an  approved association; medical clearance.
4 cr bio 375 population & community ecology an advanced course for students with previous experience in ecology.
independent research on local history is a major component of the course.
works may be a collection of original poetry, short fiction, or creative non-fiction written by students taking the course and/or other authors.
students will  learn to identify behaviors that indicate psychological crises.
course format is primarily that of a writing workshop, but it may include supplementary self-paced computer-assisted instruction.
prerequisite: bio 110 or bio 210 or permission of  instructor.
prerequisite: man 301. 3
students will also learn to use and care for kilns and other pottery equipment as well as how to work safely and effectively in a pottery studio.
the class is taught in a computer classroom using statistical software extensively for classroom demonstration, homework assignments, and student tutorials.
1 cr phe 103 open water i scuba
students will learn to read and write papers using statistical analyses and the scientific format.
cr bio 402 senior thesis in biology
4 cr bio 112 general botany an introductory course presenting the basic plant structures and their associated functions.
students will produce and edit several projects from a variety of media formats, depending on the interests of the student.
students will develop skills in choreographing for group dances and continue to work on improvisational belly dance, as well as work on developing choreography skills for group dances performed at the end of the semester.
the study might be organized in one of the following patterns: maine poets: longfellow, coffin, snow, millay and robinson; maine novelists: chase, jewett, carroll; maine men of letters: longfellow, snow, coffin, day, roberts, white.
3 cr psy 303 understanding testing this course will describe the nature of tests as employed in psychological, educational, career development, and health settings.
cr edu 344 mathematics in the elementary school a course designed to acquaint prospective elementary and middle-level teachers with the content, strategies, techniques, materials, and organizational structures related to teaching mathematics.
prerequisite: rem 202, rem 225, or permission of instructor.
i the purpose of the cooperative education/internship program is to provide practical experiences for students that complement their academic studies and introduce them to the world of work with its corresponding professional activities.
3 cr edu 347 middle & secondary social studies methods a course focusing on history as the traditional core of the social studies curriculum.
3 cr acc 302 intermediate accounting ii techniques accountants use to measure and communicate general purpose financial information to all interested parties in a manner that complies with generally accepted accounting principles.
course may be repeated up to three times.
models for performance for the basic functions of supervision, as well as how to solve common supervisory dilemmas, are studied.
3 cr edu 332 elementary science education methods a course designed to explore issues and strategies relevant to science teaching in an elementary classroom.
topics to be considered include knowledge of adolescent development; the guidance/advisory role of teachers; school climate and community; knowledge of and respect for cultural diversity; respect for and accommodation to various talents, interests, and attitudes; and implementation of interdisciplinary, activity-based curricula.
prerequisite: pos 215 or  instructor's permission.
prerequisite: edu 210, or permission of instructor.
cr rem 305 computer applications in parks and recreation a review of concepts combined with the practical application of software helps students gain an understanding of the internet, spreadsheets and methods of electronic presentations.
4 cr rem 218 recreational underwater archaeology field study involving actual diving on a shipwreck in the ocean off the coast of maine,  this course teaches and provides practical applications of proper procedures in  the study of underwater archaeology.
3 cr ssc 310 demography and human ecology
class activities include regular reading and writing assignments, online discussion of business cases and independent student research.
the course is designed for students interested in environmental  interpretation, as well as people who are simply curious and interested in the  past use of their land.
the course encourages students to open their minds to the variety of opinions on leadership and entrepreneurial issues.
students learn about the role of an auditor, learn how public accountants gather the evidence they need to substantiate their audit reports, and learn about the contents of typical audit reports.
3 cr rem 101 outdoor recreation activities a course in the field of outdoor recreation providing a choice of activity and credit.
env 414 is the capstone course for the environmental studies program.
the course teaches central concepts and skills in an important area of leadership development.
students learn the theory and practices of technical writing as well as the techniques and formats routinely required in industry, business, government, and social services.
these markets include journals and magazines, book publishers, as well as contests.
testing and evaluation, exercise techniques, and program design are covered.
philosophy, goals, and practices are considered as well as cultural, economic, political, and social influences on the curriculum.
1 to 3 cr ins 102 international student exchange: bath spa university this semester-length study at the university of bath spa in england is individually designed, in collaboration with the student’s advisor, to further the student’s program of study while providing the unique opportunities of a study abroad experience.
students must have  current certifications and/or licenses to teach/lead the activity and must be  approved by a supervising umm faculty member before registering for the course.
the student may obtain red cross emergency response certification.
4 cr gis 201 special topics in geographic information systems (gis) this special topics course gives students hands-on experience using the procedures, hardware, and software of gis including the following: designing a field study; gathering and storing various forms of gis data; data management, manipulation, summarization and analysis; presentation of results.
3 cr mar 215 marketing channels a course to provide the student with an appreciation for the complexity of product distribution from the producer to the ultimate consumer.
during field trips students develop identification skills, censusing techniques and study of behavior of local species.
prerequisite: mat 126 or  127, depending on the topic.
a web site is created  from the collected date.
the basic concepts and techniques of drawing are reintroduced through studio sessions.
3 cr eng 301 studies in short story a study of various types of short stories from american, british, and world literature.
a grade of pass or fail is awarded.
this course is about recreational landscapes and how they are used by people.
6-12 cr coe 305 internship in science a professional experience for the student who has identified a specific career objective and is interested in gaining significant and extensive experience in that science-related field.
examples of topics include environmental toxicology, conservation ecology, patterns in world population growth, the limits to growth, world hunger and food production, global issues in ecology, solid waste disposal, and methods of environmental education.
this course utilizes the framework of community psychology to analyze human relationships with the physical environment, as well as social, cultural and economic environments.
a survey of commercial recreation ventures (i.e., ski resorts, marinas,  outfitting services, golf courses, etc.) and the various delivery systems used  in the field.
studies will learn to identify and understand culture as it  operates on different social levels (class, ethnicity, gender, sexual  orientation).
prerequisite: eng 101 and junior standing or permission of instructor.
4 cr chy 222 organic chemistry ii a continuation of organic chemistry i, including a survey of the major functional groups of carbon compounds.
3 cr psy 327 chemical dependency this course introduces the student to basic information concerning chemical dependency.
2-4 cr bio 313 ichthyology the biology, ecology, and systematics of fresh and saltwater fish are studied through lectures, laboratories, and discussion of primary literature.
topics include sectoral history (finance, transport, maritime, etc.), the economics of war and slavery, the depression, post-war policies and prospects for the future.
this will require the introduction of some basic genetic information and cell biology.
3 cr chy 221 organic chemistry i an introduction to the properties and reactivity of carbon compounds.
1 cr mus 103 applied music: private lessons individual or group instruction in vocal or instrumental performance  (drums, guitar, piano, violin, voice, winds, etc.).
3 cr mus 313 music history ii a continuation of european-american art-music history, from beethoven to  the present.
genres treated include poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction.
topics  may include free will vs. determinism, the problem of evil, the mind-body  split, the nature of time, the limits of methodology, including scientific and  mystic.
4 cr bio 265 genetics an in-depth investigation into the mechanisms of heredity.
3 cr edu 320 topics in education topics for pre-service and practicing teachers interested in education, pre-kindergarten through the secondary level.
both current practices and historical precedent are woven into a model represented in both its completeness and contradictions.
examples of topics are sampling and identification of plankton, conducting amphibian and avian surveys, laboratory techniques in genetics and immunology, horticultural methods, vegetation sampling and analysis.
may be repeated for credit with permission of instructor.
students will be reviewing the history and  development of dual diagnosis treatment and learning about screening,  assessment and basic treatment models, as well as understanding the current  array of services for chemical dependency.
lecture 3 hours, laboratory 4 hours.
(soc 114 recommended but not required.)
topics include encounters with vikings, muslims, and the byzantine empire as well as the emergence of key institutions such as the roman catholic church, feudalism, monarchy and the state, peasant society, towns, trade, and universities.
statistical inference moves beyond the data to draw conclusions about a wider universe, taking into account that conclusions are uncertain.
prerequisite: mar 101 or permission of instructor.
the course examines some of the more successful marketing  programs and how they relate to state tourism programs.
the course will cover the basics of observational astronomy, astronomical tools, and will introduce a basic discussion on planets and the solar system.
these enterprises, in turn, are shaped by their social, economic, cultural, and technological environment.
internships usually are non-paid, volunteer assignments and are often combined with additional readings and research.
3 cr phi 201 ethics an examination of the task of ethics to elucidate the concept of the good life; to investigate ideas of obligation, duty, and responsibility; and to decide what ought to be done.
two weekly class discussions with alternating lab sessions and saturday field trips to nearby geological attractions provide opportunities for students to develop both observation and interpretation skills.
3 cr mat 122 precalculus an introduction to elementary functions, designed to prepare the student for calculus.
they will also be able to associate certain trees, shrubs and soil types with likely past histories.
prerequisite:  psy 110 and  cmy 101 or permission of instructor.
3 cr hty 342 african american history this course provides a broad survey of the lives of africans in america from the time of their first arrival in the colonies, through the experiences of slavery and freedom, to the civil rights movement and current times.
since first-line supervisors are responsible for implementing middle managers' operational plans, they supervise employees who do not hold management positions, but who make the products, wait on the customers, perform repairs, etc.
the course is taught in the computer classroom with each student having individual access to statistical software.
recent topics offerings include book arts, landscape watercolor, digital design, and life as art: umm student trip to italy.
topics include the planning process, organizing activities, presentation methods and techniques and evaluation procedures.
prerequisite: rem 121, rem 122, and rem 124; or permission of instructor.
in addition to general discussions of form, design, use, diffusion and modification over time and space, the course covers such themes as the 'built environment,' patterns of land use, the role of objects as cultural symbols and the role of the individual maker within tradition.
4 cr gis 301 special topics in geographic information systems (gis) this special topics course gives students hands-on experience using the procedures, hardware, and software of gis including the following: designing a field study; gathering and storing various forms of gis data; data management, manipulation, summarization and analysis; presentation of results.
3 cr edu 312 social studies education & practicum this course is designed to give prospective teachers a range of practical strategies for promoting active learning in social studies, strategies particularly appropriate for students in grades 5-8.
social class and group influence, the family, the role of learning, attitudes, information search, the purchasing procedure and post-purchase processes are examined.
it is important that these skills are current.
these work-based learning experiences promote the application of theoretical knowledge and research skills acquired in the classroom to a productive and supervised experiential work site outside the formal classroom environment.
3 cr psy 330 perception and cognition a human information processing approach to human perception and cognition.
3 cr rem 411 recreation and wilderness resources a study of managing natural resources for the purpose of outdoor  recreation.
prerequisite: eng 101 with grade of b- or better, or permission of instructor.
integrated science curriculum materials are designed, implemented and assessed in a field practicum.
topics such as alternative assessment, self-assessment, portfolio development, rubrics, statewide assessment, and grading are examined.
3 cr psy 214 psychology of prejudice the psychology of stereotypes, prejudice, discrimination and stigma, and methods to undermine these concepts, will be presented so that understanding and applications can be extended to various minority populations.
pop band  performs songs of any and all styles.
topics include conditioning; different types of learning; encoding, storage, and retrieval of memory; and neural mechanisms of learning and memory.
students gain in-depth understanding of the capabilities and functions  of the latest desktop publishing software packages used in business and  industry.
i this studio course will concentrate on the study of the book as a medium for the expression of the written word.
this approval process precedes registration.
1 cr mus 312 music history i historical study tracing the main lines of development in the art-music of western europe from the middle ages through the baroque and classical periods, from hildegarde to beethoven.
4 cr rem 218 recreational underwater archaeology field study involving actual diving on a shipwreck in the ocean off the coast of maine, this course teaches and provides practical applications of proper procedures in the study of underwater archaeology.
1-2 cr env 220 special topics in field ornithology
3 cr rem 411 recreation and wilderness resources a study of managing natural resources for the purpose of outdoor recreation.
prerequisite:  psy 110, psy 211 and psy  213, or permission of instructor.
the role for and effectiveness of government economic (fiscal and monetary) policy is considered.
students should be willing to participate in the activities as this course contains extensive field experiences.
students learn about the role of variability in hypothesis testing using both parametric and non-parametric tests.
participants will be required to demonstrate knowledge and application of sound reading and writing strategies to be used in the classroom.
the physical education program at umm offers a variety of experiences for  students of all ages and levels of physical activity.
prerequisite: man 221, senior standing, or permission of instructor.
3 cr rem 412 park interpretation a specialized course in preparing interpretive programs for recreational/park facilities and historic places.
4 cr mus 101 umm chorale a choral group performing a cappella and accompanied songs and larger works of all periods and styles.
public speaking students will investigate and put into practice the various styles and methods of communicating publicly, from notes, ex tempore, memorized, and reading aloud.
by examining the nature and interests of granting agencies and applicant organizations, students learn the importance of relationship-building and how to match funding needs with appropriate grant opportunities.
3 cr bio 482 senior seminar in marine biology a course that will offer senior-level marine biology students interesting and challenging material of a topical nature.
3-6 cr rem 217 kinesiology this course examines human joint movements and their respective  neuromuscular activities.
examples of topics include travel motivation, hotel  management, restaurant operations, partnering and product development and  others.
3 cr rem 122 outdoor recreation ii develops philosophical, organizational, participation and leadership skills  in an effort to promote safe, enjoyable participation in outdoor activities  while considering the impact on and the protection of the natural resource.
prerequisites:  psy 110 or  permission of instructor.
prerequisite: rem 201 plus 2 semesters of physical education activities.
topics covered include probability, pedigree analysis, the molecular biology of the gene, gene expression, mechanisms of mutation, and population's genetics.
3 cr wst 312 special topics in women's studies courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within women’s studies.
3 cr eco 223 environmental economics this course introduces students to economic concepts and methods applied to environmental and natural resource issues.
current theories and practices of employment services will be examined.
prerequisite: knowledge of windows recommended.
while introducing the history of history and theoretical issues surrounding its practice, the course is also a practical introduction to reading, writing, and research within the discipline.
prerequisite: psy 110 or permission of  instructor.
practice introduction to the subject and methods of american studies.
3 cr psy 328 case management this course introduces students to case management as it is utilized in the health and human services fields.
1-4 cr bio 110 human anatomy & physiology
this training and certification are valuable credentials for any water related  employment including water theme parks, waterfront director, swim instructor,  pools and beaches, as well as guiding (canoes, kayaks, white water rafting).
prerequisite: env 102. 2
a course to provide familiarity with topics of mathematics that are noted for their contemporary practicality in non-technical areas, are important concepts in current public discourse, or have a rich aesthetic value.
by  examining the nature and interests of granting agencies and applicant  organizations, students learn the importance of relationship-building and how  to match funding needs with appropriate grant opportunities.
prerequisites: for elementary majors: edu 210 and edu 220; for secondary majors: edu 210 and edu 352.
the course may be repeated for credit with different topics.
prerequisite: mus 119 and mus 214, or  equivalent.
3 cr hty 301 maine and local history a chronological survey of maine's economic, cultural, and political life from prehistory to the present.
while the major focus of the course is on alcohol and drug abuse, substance  abuse in special populations is addressed.
studies of current  issues, status, trends, and future directions in leisure and recreation are  included.
3 cr psy 326 vocational implications of disability this course will address the vocational implications of the most frequently encountered physical and psychiatric disabilities.
chemical dependency for the  purposes of this course will include diagnoses of substance abuse and  dependence for alcohol, street drugs and abused prescription medication.
4 cr bio 222 cell biology a study of the properties of eukaryotic cells.
the course will review the current state of environmental law and then examine those acts that have been made unlawful, the criminal violations that most commonly occur, the nature of environmental crime investigation and prosecution and the type of sanctions available under federal and state criminal laws that protect the environment.
prerequisite:  psy 110  and psy 211, or permission of instructor.
a formal approval process is followed in which students meet with the faculty advisor with expertise in the area of interest and specify individual learning outcomes for the experience.
related topics such as novelty seeking, gossip and sensation seeking will also be addressed.
prerequisite: bio 245, env 112, or permission of instructor.
2-3 cr env 326 undergraduate research in environmental studies the objective of this course is for the student to conduct an original research project under the supervision of a faculty member.
mat 102 intermediate algebra a course in the language and skills used for quantitative problem solving in all fields of inquiry and for subsequent work in mathematics.
this course addresses the standards of the maine learning results, maine comprehensive assessment system (mecas), and the national science education standards (nses).
characteristics, teaching strategies, adaptations, and related disorders secondary to autism spectrum disorders will be explored.
topics include revenue recognition criteria, current and long term liabilities, corporate owner's equity, income taxes, pensions, leases, and the statement of cash flow.
entrance into course requires passing 50 yard swim test as well as a basic  knowledge of swimming strokes.
3 cr soc 208 sociology of the family an introduction to the sociological study of the family to include the major theories found in the current literature.
students will concentrate on the role that programming plays in  enabling leisure and in facilitating the recreational experience.
case management includes education, advocacy and networking with providers and services across many disciplines.
intercollegiate athletic participation is also available for credit as a  physical education activity.
prerequisites: psy 110 and psy 230.
the course aims to assist students in developing their own  philosophy that will guide them through their professional careers.
basic, entry-level work-learning experience in an institution and/or business that relates to the student's career interests or academic field.
3 cr acc 434 cpa review
prerequisite: the 116 play production: technical.
discussion and investigations center around the form and function of individual body systems and their integration into the living organism we know as the human.
3 cr cmy 220 soliya: cross-cultural communication soliya's connect program is a unique cross-cultural education program that enables college students in the us and predominantly muslim countries in the middle east to collaboratively explore the relationship between the us and muslim world with the aim of improving intercultural awareness and understanding.
3 cr rem 209 water safety instructor course will enhance student’s swimming and water safety skills and  will prepare student for red cross water safety instructor (wsi) certification.
emphasis is given to developing the technical procedures of journalizing, posting, adjusting entries, closing the books and preparing the financial statements.
in addition, some attention is given to oral storytelling, history, and other aspects that vary according to the interests and abilities of the particular class.
students enrolled in this course will actually teach a .5-1.0 college credit  course under the direct supervision of a umm faculty member.
3 cr psy 318 psychology of curiosity this course is designed to survey theory and empirical research on curiosity -- the innate motive to seek out and acquire new information to stimulate interest or reduce uncertainty.
subject matter varies by semester, and may be either interdisciplinary or grounded in a single discipline.
as time permits, the course will cover special stages of life (pregnancy, infancy, childhood or aging), and herbal and nutritional supplements.
3 cr bus 221 business law
computers and software are available for classroom use.
swim 20 yd., surface dive to 9 feet, retrieve a 10-lb. brick and swim back holding onto brick with both hands.
topics focused on include personnel psychology, employee motivation and leadership, employee training and development, organization development and guided change, organizational behavior, and work and family.
prerequiste: eng 101 and psy 110, or permission of instructor.
3 cr cse 118 database applications this course provides an introduction to database design, functions and applications in business, education and the home.
3 cr phe 105 personal wellness a physical education lecture and activity course that provides students with an opportunity to explore and experience various components of fitness and wellness that will enhance their lives.
what are the ontological impacts from the proliferation of online communities?
3 cr hty 115 world history to 1500
3 cr rem 221 fundamentals of search and rescue designed to prepare people to participate effectively in official search and/or rescue activities administered by local, state, or federal agencies either as a volunteer working on a search and rescue team or as an employee of a governmental agency with search and rescue responsibilities.
before enrolling in this  course students must have padi advanced open water diver certification or
prerequisite: chy 102 or equivalent.
the course is designed for students interested in environmental interpretation, as well as people who are simply curious and interested in the past use of their land.
prerequisite: sophomore  standing or permission of instructor.
3 cr eng 114 topics in world literature provides glimpses of diverse worlds and helps students acquire the tools to understand and appreciate good literature.
students complete a service project for a real-world client, applying course skills and content.
3 cr ses 215 medical terminology a course designed to study medical terminology.
a course to provide a broader theoretical outlook, examining harmony, counterpoint, improvisation, analysis, composition, arranging, transcription and performance practice.
students will continue with their active exploration of the interdisciplinary fine arts, as they collaborate in improvisational and formal arts productions, and continue to develop an understanding of the technologies and methodologies through which these arts are created and appreciated.
prerequisite: psy 110, psy 211 and psy 213, or permission of instructor.
such topics may include non-western art, aesthetics, and historical and modern art.
students will critically examine and then experiment for themselves with various forms of poetry, writing and revising both critical essays and poetry, reading and sharing their work in small writing workshop groups.
a formal approval process is followed in which students meet with the faculty advisor with expertise in the area of interest and specify individual learning objectives for the community experience.
in addition, juniors will begin preparations for their senior seminar and senior project.
4 cr bio 223 marine mammals & pelagic birds the biology, ecology, and systematics of marine mammals and pelagic birds are studied through lectures and discussion of primary literature.
students will work closely with faculty on a research project, learning concepts and protocols in biology and at the same time developing academic skills that will contribute to their continued success at umm.
through field and laboratory work students learn to design and conduct experiments, analyze data, and write research papers.
prerequisite: sophomore standing.
prerequisite: prior experience with computers, or interview with instructor.
focus is on variation in woody plant species and ecological characteristics; structure and development of tree stands and associated plant communities.
applicable to expedition work, camping, backpacking, guiding, rangers and recreational travelers.
this course focuses on literary works primarily as products of the writing process.
the topic or topics are chosen in advance by the instructor.
the course is important both for those pursuing historical studies and criticism, and for those engaged in creative writing.
2 cr env 314 environmental studies: issues and actions the course is a project-based course designed to enable students to participate in an environmental hands-on learning experience.
facilities include the frederic a. reynolds athletic & education center with its main gymnasium, a small multi-purpose room, and racquetball courts.
students will participate in an  extended field experience where they will gain practice in leadership positions  in various situations.
prerequisite: eng 101; art 101 or art 102, 100-level literature course; or permission of instructor.
the second semester of a two-semester sequence intended as mathematics background for students in elementary education and humanities programs.
prerequisites rem 121, rem 122, rem  123 and rem 124 (or wfr) plus rem 226.
individually assigned university supervisors and carefully selected cooperating teachers in local schools provide a 15-week extended apprenticeship into the profession.
3 cr psy 312 theories of personality a study of the concepts included in psychology's most widely accepted  theories of personality such as those proposed by freud, horney, allport,  rogers, and skinner.
3 cr the 319 topics in theatre studies in practical aspects and styles of theatre production.
the course is online with five required all-day laboratory sessions throughout the semester.
3 cr rem 302 park and recreation facilities design a practical experience in the planning and design of parks and recreational  facilities.
the effects on different sectors of american society and on public policy are identified and analyzed.
special attention is paid to problems of rural maine.
3 cr rem 201 leisure activities explores leisure theory, concepts of play and impacts of organizational  structure on the outcome of any activity.
3 cr rem 414 grant and proposal writing an introduction to the art and science of preparing grant proposals for  nonprofit organizations.
beginning with a broad perspective of the tourism industry,  tourism organizations, tourism history, tourism sociology and tourism economics  are explored.
students will then explore other opposing and overlapping critical approaches, including but not limited to, feminist, marxist, historicist, and psychological.
topics include current applicable  legislation, disabling conditions, community recreation resources for special  groups, architectural barriers, program planning and implementation.
students have an opportunity to investigate areas within the topic(s) of particular interest to them.
a student who successfully completes this course may receive national certification.
the course will include a discussion of the various scientific, economic, ethical and political debates related to ecological issues on public lands through an examination of historical and current texts.
interns apply for positions (paid or unpaid) in a work site outside the traditional classroom environment to conduct projects using geospatial technology required for the internship.
the role of the professional educator is a focus, and the student evaluates personal skills and aptitudes in light of expectations for the profession.
3 cr rem 206 sea kayaking & camping designed to prepare students as leaders of an extended wilderness sea kayaking trip.
the course will explore the changing role of leisure and the leisure services profession.
applicants must have at least junior standing in a degree program with a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 or above in their major.
in addition, laboratory facilities are provided for all students.
the student first enrolls in bio 404.
competency and/or concurrent enrollment in basic reading, writing, and mathematics courses are a prerequisite for all business studies offerings with a prefix of acc, bus, man, and mar.
a survey of the modern families of amphibians and reptiles will include the relationships among them and their connections to the ancient tetrapod groups.
the first semester in a two-semester sequence will cover the general structure of the human body, cells, tissues, the integument, skeletal, muscular, nervous and endocrine systems.
3 cr acc 432 auditing covers the fundamentals of internal accounting control.
3 cr art 320 life drawing an introduction to rendering the human figure.
courses and special workshop experiences in dance vary in content in response to student interest and faculty availability and expertise and may be repeated for credit with different topics or at different levels.
2-3 cr fia 103 first-year seminar this course is an introduction to the interdisciplinary fine arts, and, as such, it services to introduce the first-year ifa students to the various arts in the program and the interrelationships between and among them.
3 cr ind 301 independent study and/or research this course allows students the opportunity to pursue in depth or in alternative ways areas of study not otherwise readily available.
3 cr psy 327 chemical dependency this course introduces the student to basic information concerning chemical  dependency.
1 to 3 cr ind 401 independent study and/or research this course allows students the opportunity to pursue in depth or in alternative ways areas of study not otherwise readily available.
3 cr psy 223 sport psychology sport psychology is the study of the mental and behavioral factors that influence or are influenced by participation in sport, exercise, and physical activity.
prerequisite: psy 110 plus 3 additional cr of  psychology or sociology; third-year status recommended.
not to be taken after completion of eco 201 or 202.
4 cr bio 216 mammalogy provides an introduction to the ecological and evolutionary contexts that led to the radiation of mammals, and a strong grounding in the physiological/reproductive strategies that differentiate mammals from other tetrapods.
whereas the first semester will focus on the conception, design, editing, proofing, and marketing, the second semester will focus on the production, printing, binding, copyrighting, and distributing of the works.
prerequisite: mat 102 or demonstrated proficiency  in pre-college mathematics.
students will gather their work from their courses into a portfolio and write a narrative that will suggest the objectives they have reached and how they have reached them through a combination of courses and experiences.
topics for each ecosystem include identifications, life histories, biology and ecology of dominant species.
3 cr psy 214 psychology of prejudice the psychology of stereotypes, prejudice, discrimination and stigma, and  methods to undermine these concepts, will be presented so that understanding  and applications can be extended to various minority populations.
the artists whose works have been selected for this course are generally innovators-that is, writers exploring the boundaries of traditional narrative, in both form and style.
the mechanism of drug action and the nature of addiction  including the psychological, physiological, behavioral and social effects of  alcohol and other drugs will be covered in depth.
every student will demonstrate  knowledge and practical skills in all areas to complete the course and to  obtain padi certification.
current theories and practices of employment services will be  examined.
3 cr eng 442 writing & publishing seminar ii
students will concentrate on the role that programming plays in enabling leisure and in facilitating the recreational experience.
the course involves the historical,  cultural and archaeological study of a coastal schooner ship wrecked on the  maine coast.
a key component of the course will be discussions  related to how these interpretive assessments can be useful in planning  interpretive programs, as well as managing the landscape for recreational or  other types of use.
in addition to classwork, special projects may be  undertaken in any of these areas.
in most cases, students will present their findings to the clients or their constituents.
prerequisite: depends on topic and level, or permission of instructor.
the class also includes participation in the making of theatre, through either involvement in a departmental production or a pre-approved independent project.
3 cr rem 245 personal fitness training a study of the scientific foundations of exercise, techniques of exercise, client consultation and assessment, program planning, and safety/emergency procedures.
by exploring the social, cultural and economic environments of downeast maine or their own local communities, students will learn about the history, geography, ethnography, economics or sociology of their region.
remote sensing, gis, and other mapping technologies are introduced and applied.
sport psychologists are interested in how athletics enhance and support the personal growth and well-being of individuals.
the course will cover events such as being a danger to self or other; being so mentally ill that the person is not able to function; substance abuse related problems; trauma-related problems and behavior associated with the abuse of children, spouses and the elderly.
this  multicultural survey includes diverse global and economic perspectives.
topics include early indian cultures; hinduism, buddhism and other religions; the impact of islam on india; british imperial rule of india; the growth of indian nationalism and the impact of gandhi, nehru and other key individuals in the nationalistic movement; post-independence development and the problems of india in a complex regional and global context.
3  cr psy 320 learning and memory a study of experimental analyses of animal and human learning from various  perspectives within psychology.
topics include product development and management, distribution, promotion, pricing, marketing research, consumer behavior, and external environments.
the granting of academic credit for an approved work experience is determined by the student's faculty sponsor and the university coordinator after an examination of the following criteria: nature of the work to be performed, the proposed learning objectives, the number of weeks involved, and the anticipated hours per week.
3 cr psy 329 trauma and recovery this course will introduce students to concepts of trauma, as well as  resiliency and recovery.
comparisons of systematic groups demonstrate the interrelationships of anatomy with ecological roles and behavior.
the course is designed to meet  individual needs by assessing and prescribing personalized programs to improve  the different components of fitness and wellness.
it is relevant to a broad spectrum of management students, not only human resource management or industrial relations candidates.
through this work, students learn to plan, manage, execute and document a multi-faceted gis project, and acquire skills with direct applications to their future careers.
students will be exected to work closely with a community or faculty client to assess and respond to their needs, answer questions and provide them with maps, data and documentation.
the course will cover more advanced dance movements and choreographies will offer the opportunity for more duet and/or solo performances at the end of the semester.
prerequisite: prior experience with  computers, or interview with instructor.
prerequisite: ant 101, psy 110 or soc 114, or permission of instructor.
the course takes place in the classroom and the pool in  preparation for actual ocean exploration.
frequent field trips to practice identification of birds by visual patterns, behavior and song, culminate in a predawn bird census.
some applications of this ecological information for forest values and management for various objectives will be discussed.
3 cr pos 305 environmental policy a systematic analysis of u.s. environmental policy focusing on air and  water quality, land use, hazardous wastes and energy.
participants will come to understand that learning is an active, constructive process and will recognize that using a variety of learning strategies and development of critical thinking skills will enhance understanding.
honors seminars are highly interactive courses, intensive in both writing and discussion, in which students engage in intellectual inquiry from multiple perspectives.
the course will explore the origins of mathematics from anthropological and sociological viewpoints.
the capstone course in the interdisciplinary fine arts program.
data production looks at methods for producing data to answer specific questions.
prerequisite: mat 215, a 3.0 gpa within the major and overall, and approval by a thesis advisor. 2
prerequisite:  junior standing or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: mar 101.
laboratory work includes methods of specimen preparation, identification and mounting, and organization and maintenance of an herbarium.
3 cr edu 334 integrated reading & language arts methods k-4 a course designed to assist prospective teachers in acquiring the competencies necessary to organize, instruct, evaluate, and manage the communication skills in the elementary/middle school programs.
the course exposes students to a variety of disciplines outside their own specialties.
the six principles of the individuals with disabilities education act will be covered, as well as providing for a free appropriate public education; identifying and assessing students; educating in the least restrictive environment; providing related services; addressing discipline issues; and finding solutions to challenging situations facing students with disabilities.
a grade of “pass” or “fail” is awarded.
3 cr psy 351 chemical dependency and dual diagnosis counseling this course is an overview of different treatment models for chemical dependency and dual diagnosis treatment.
prerequisite: mat 012 or permission of instructor.
anatomical and physiological systems are studied on a comparative basis with an emphasis on the adaptive strategies employed by different vertebrates to cope with their unique environments.
reactions are analyzed with an emphasis on the structural and mechanistic bases for reactivity.
3 cr env 214 environmental studies: issues and actions the course is a project-based course designed to enable students to participate in an environmental hands-on learning experience.
specific authors to be studied are announced each semester this course is offered.
projects might include a town's comprehensive plan, environmental conservation planning, economic development, recreation planning, emergency response management or similar applications where gis can assist communities in setting priorities, making choices or planning for the future.
emphasis is on analysis of characters and scripts as well as performance skills.
the discipline is also heavily influenced by  public health and focused community-level prevention and intervention  strategies.
methods of adapting lessons for diverse learning needs and increasing the mathematics skills of children with special needs in inclusive classrooms are the central issues to be addressed.
students explore and discuss their own values related to the natural environment and ecological issues, and examine their values as they relate to other viewpoints.
prerequisite: junior or senior standing in the program.
therefore, prior to taking mathematics courses that satisfy  the university core, all students must demonstrate competency in pre-college  math in one of the following ways.
3 cr soc 301 rural sociology a course focusing on the social institutions of rural society.
students will continue their active exploration of the interdisciplinary fine arts, as they collaborate in improvisational and formal arts productions, and continue to develop an understanding of the technologies and methodologies through which these arts are created and appreciated.
topics include income statements, balance sheets, cash, receivables, inventories, and non-current assets.
the consumer decision process is stressed, as well as other aspects that influence consumers' behavior including cultural and subcultural influences.
3 cr lat 101 latin i
statistical methods such as  analysis of variance, linear and non-linear regression, analysis of covariance,  analysis of frequencies, and an introduction to multivariate analysis will be  presented.
3 cr ssc 203 contemporary social and political issues a different social or political issue is explored each week or two; team taught with half the course dealing with social issues and half the course dealing with political issues.
prerequisite: rem  124, bio 110, or permission of instructor.
3 cr directing an investigation into the work of the theatrical director, the process of guiding the cast through the process that brings the script and the director’s concept to the stage.
prerequisite: psy 110.
like advanced creative writing, any given class may include novelists, short story writers, poets, screenwriters and writers of creative non-fiction.
the course offers an overview of the ecotourism industry, including ecotourism markets, destinations and activities, businesses and supporting organizations.
2 cr dan 106 beginning belly dance this course offers an introduction to the ancient art of belly dance, still popular in the modern world.
areas covered include archival research, reconnaissance, planning, fundamentals of vessel construction from sail to steam, mapping, wreck survey and mapping, recording data, photo-mosaics, excavation and conservation of artifacts, analysis and interpretation of site and artifacts, publication of findings, and underwater photography.
prerequisite: eng 101 or permission of instructor.
3 cr man 325 finance a course designed to acquaint students with financial operations, management and investment planning, and technique analysis.
the course focuses on applications of ecology, population biology, and genetics to the conservation of species and ecosystems.
the study of curiosity requires  consideration of a number of major areas of psychology, including emotion and  motivation, learning and memory, neuroscience, individual differences in  personality and development.
this course is designed for the general student of all ages, and for men as well as women.
1-2 cr chy 234 environmental chemistry
3 cr soc 320 sociology of poverty this course will provide an overview of international and national trends in wealth distribution, with a focus on poverty in rural maine.
3 cr rem 301 park and recreation facilities operations current practices in the operation and maintenance of parks and  recreational facilities including both indoor and outdoor facilities.
prerequisite: eng 117 and 6 cr of 200-level english courses, or permission of instructor.
students should be willing to participate in the activities as this  course contains extensive field experiences.
institutions studied will include community recreation and the playground  movement, state and municipal parks, federal lands and the conservation  movement, organized camping, youth organizations, outdoor education and  selected sports.
dealing with national  sports organizations, officiating organizations and league regulations all are  covered.
academic credit for an approved work experience is determined by the student's faculty sponsor and the university coordinator after an examination of the following criteria: nature of the work to be performed, the proposed learning objectives, the number of weeks involved and the anticipated hours per week.
3 cr edu 349 integrated reading & language arts methods 5-8 a course designed to assist prospective teachers in acquiring the competencies necessary to organize, instruct, evaluate, and manage the communication skills in the elementary/middle school programs.
students are assigned readings from primary literature and learn how to interpret those readings critically with respect to methodological design, results, and ultimate theses. prerequisite: bio 360.
3 cr eng 118 contemporary literature introduction to award-winning works of contemporary writers from around the world.
the major orders of mammals is reviewed and important recent shifts in the classification are discussed.
prerequisite: rem 214 and certification, or permission of instructor; medical screening; good physical condition.
they  will also be able to associate certain trees, shrubs and soil types with likely  past histories.
content includes instructional strategies used to develop comprehension, increase vocabulary, and promote study skills and writing specific to the various content areas in the curriculum.
effects of forest soil and climate factors and processes ranging from individual plant environments to landscape scales; and evidence and effects of natural and cultural disturbances will be used to infer forest history.
the impact of changes in the industrialized urban areas upon rural life is examined.
the connections between geology and ecology are recurrent themes in the course giving students the tools to appreciate the significance of geological processes in shaping the environment.
this course  also focuses on wildlife and the role that hunting and fishing play in wildlife  management programs.
contemporary literature will help students acquire an appreciation for good literature and the tools to help them understand and enjoy that literature more fully.
1 crmus 307 applied music:
prerequisite: 3.0 gpa within the major and overall, and approval by a thesis advisor. 1
the course also surveys techniques in problem solving, set theory, number theory, elementary topics in geometry, probability and statistics.
each sport is  approached from building the complete program.
there will be increasing responsibility and expectations as the course number increases.
prerequisite: edu 313, 24 cr in mathematics, or permission of instructor.
3 cr hty 116 world history since 1500
1 cr eng 231 techniques of poetry this course provides an opportunity to study poetry through the dual processes of observation and imitation, to understand how specific writing techniques produce effective poetry.
related topics such as novelty seeking, gossip and  sensation seeking will also be addressed.
prerequisite: ant 101 or soc 114, or permission of instructor.
students make an oral presentation of the topic and make any corrections to the paper required by the division faculty.
students develop an awareness of many variables important to advanced work in photography.
3 cr ela 112 community & place in this course students will engage in field-based activities to enhance their understanding of communities.
3 cr cmy 110 downeast documentary this course provides the basics of video production, incorporating both lecture and laboratory experience.
3 cr art 311 painting ii designed for students who are experienced painters.
prerequisites rem 121, rem 122, rem 123 and rem 124 (or wfr) plus rem 226.
3 cr eng 352 fiction writing: intermediate follows eng 231 techniques of fiction in the creative writing sequence.
professional tips on subject matter of interest to children, preparation of manuscripts for publication, and possible markets will also be studied.
students willl also learn to read chaucer's language and appreciate his importance in the development of english literature.
the emphasis will be on how to: 1) design  resource-appropriate sampling programs; 2) avoid mistakes that make analyzing  data difficult; and, 3) properly analyze data.
prerequisite: ant 101 introduction to anthropology and two of the following three courses: psy 110 introduction to psychology, soc 114 introduction to sociology, mat 113 intro to statistics.
students are exposed to the common techniques used in studying mammals, including an introduction into dna technology.
major areas covered include the interface between mind and body; the role of belief systems in engaging in health protective behavior; the influence of stress on the immune system; and the biological, psychological, social and behavioral factors that moderate maintaining health or developing illness, such as individual differences in personality, life-style choice, coping styles, and the availability of social support.
3 cr rem 226 recreation program planning this course will provide students with the basic knowledge or programming principles and theories, assessing participant needs, the planning process, developing goals and objectives, program implementation and evaluation strategies.
4 cr pos 212 topics in political science courses designed to allow students to pursue study in specific area of political science.
3-6 cr rem 217 kinesiology this course examines human joint movements and their respective neuromuscular activities.
narrowing in focus, students then learn about the impact of tourism on communities and strategies for sustainability.
3 cr hty 252 history of south asia this course provides an introduction to the cultures of south asia, which includes the modern countries of india, pakistan, bangladesh, sri lanka, afghanistan and nepal.
this course covers the history and systems in the study of  motivation, physiological and psychological needs, cognition, individual  differences in personality and motivation, and emotion.
natural resources considered include marine and freshwater fisheries, groundwater resources, wetlands, forest products, wildlife, natural resources used for energy production, and wild blueberry cultivation.
prerequisite: sophomore standing and gpa of 3.0 or better or permission of instructor.
(chy 221 and phy 112 recommended.)
pop band performs songs of any and all styles.
3 cr rem 353 river trip guiding course provides an opportunity for upper class students to practice and perfect their outdoor leadership techniques by guiding other students on an extended river canoeing trip.
3 cr wst 212 special topics in women's studies courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within women’s studies.
3 cr soc 312 police & society this course examines law enforcement in the context of american society, institutions and values.
visitor expectations  and satisfaction related to the environment will be covered.
placement in mat 9 is by  the umm mathematics placement test.
cr man 406 entrepreneurship a course designed to build upon the small business management skills acquired through the small business management course.
3 cr cmy 310 online communities & culture this course provides an investigation into the development of online communities.
prerequisite: sophomore standing, or permission of the instructor.
special emphasis rests on the multicultural nature of the american experience, and course readings reflect this diversity.
structure/function relationships are applied in a survey of metabolism, photosynthesis, biosynthesis, immunochemistry, clinical chemistry, nutrition, and molecular biology.
an in-house performance at semester's end (closed to the public) is the final for this course.
prerequisite: 6 cr of 300-level english courses or permission of instructor.
successful completion of this 72-hour course carries a three-year certification through the wilderness medical associates and exceeds the maine guide’s requirements for medical training.
students will investigate areas of particular interest to them through written and oral presentations.
prerequisite: sophomore standing or permission of instructor.
prerequisite:  psy  110 and psy 230, or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: psy 110, psy 211, or psy 213 or permission of  instructor.
3 cr rem 222 rescue diver this padi rescue diver course is designed to develop the necessary knowledge and skills for individuals to effectively perform diver rescues and assists, manage diving accident situations, render proper first aid, and qualify for the padi divemaster training.
prerequisite: mat 012 or equivalent.
topics include spatial relationships, competition, prey-predator relationships, symbiosis, behavioral patterns, seasonal cycles, succession, larval strategies, and productivity.
students gain in-depth understanding of the capabilities and functions of the latest desktop publishing software packages used in business and industry.
restructuring, curriculum integration, assessment processes, student health and social issues, and extra-curricular activities are among the topics which may be addressed.
the development of these areas, all of which are contained in the maine state learning results for middle and secondary grades, will be explored from various cultural perspectives including a selection from prehistoric, native american, egyptian, mesopotamian, ancient greek, roman, hindu, islamic, chinese, korean, japanese, and european cultures.
each student, whether a beginner or a more experienced musician, is expected to progress at his or her own optimum rate.
an in-depth look at the game including fitness, techniques, tactics and systems is taken.
the roots and consequences of conflicts between liberty and community are  carefully considered.
3 cr sed 320 special education law students will study the american legal system and procedural due process in order to develop a framework for addressing legal issues relating to students with disabilities.
3 cr rem 221 fundamentals of search and rescue designed to prepare people to participate effectively in official search  and/or rescue activities administered by local, state, or federal agencies  either as a volunteer working on a search and rescue team or as an employee of  a governmental agency with search and rescue responsibilities.
students learn how to draw the human figure in action and repose through intensive studio practice.
prerequisites: ant 101, or permission of instructor.
instruction on some instruments may be  contingent upon faculty availability.
3 cr rem 323 principles of strength and conditioning an advanced course designed to explore principles and techniques of  conditioning and strength training.
case studies, problem-solving and delivery systems are explored in  depth.
the role of the counselor in substance abuse prevention, substance abuse addiction identification and treatment will be addressed.
consideration is given to the needs of exceptional children in the regular classroom.
1-2 cr env 301 special topics in environmental studies a seminar providing in-depth study of a selected topic of environmental concern.
students will build on their previous knowledge of these major figures, literary theory, and the culture of their era, especially in their completion of an in-depth research project.
4 cr phy 112 physics ii a continuation of phy 111 introducing the concepts of sound, electricity,  optics, and modern physics.
in this culminating service learning/community engagement course, students will work with a community partner to design and implement an independent research project or develop and run a program that serves the community partner's neeeds.
each program will involve a small number of us and middle eastern students communicating regularly through the videoconferencing application used for the connect program.
a course that introduces students to topics in marine aquaculture, primarily mariculture in maine.
courses vary in response to student interest and demand.
3 cr art 219 photography a studio course designed to acquaint the student with the process of visual exploration using a camera.
the student is required to edit (correctly use grammar, punctuation, spelling, and sentence structure), proofread, compose, and use own judgment and knowledge in making formatting decisions on various documents such as: letters, memos, news releases, tables, reports, and other business documents.
3 cr rem 245 personal fitness training a study of the scientific foundations of exercise, techniques of exercise,  client consultation and assessment, program planning, and safety/emergency  procedures.
beginning creative writing, eng 207 studies in composition & grammar, eng 208 technical writing, or permission of instructor.
possible topics include stagecraft and design and directing. 3 cr vid 101 digital video production this course provides the basics of video production, incorporating both lecture and laboratory experience.
3 cr sed 380 teaching students with autism spectrum disorders students in this course will gain knowledge of the idea and dsm-iv definitions of autism spectrum disorders, prevalence and possible causes.
3 cr rem 211 recreational hunting & fishing a course designed to familiarize the student with all the various forms of recreational hunting and fishing and to examine the impact of these activities on maine people economically, recreationally and environmentally.
4 cr gis 401 special topics in geographic information systems (gis) this special topics course gives students hands-on experience using the procedures, hardware, and software of gis including the following: designing a field study; gathering and storing various forms of gis data; data management, manipulation, summarization and analysis; presentation of results.
developmental research methods will be covered, as well as important areas of  application for developmental psychology of adulthood and older adulthood,  including policy and programs for healthcare and prevention, education,  employment and community supports, etc.  meets the requirement for mental  health & aging for full maine state mental health & rehabilitation  technician certification.
one of the central themes is the question of daily life, or the lived experience of different groups within chinese society.
students design and produce a significant work or presentation that meets the professional standards demanded of one working independently as an artist in the community.
factors that put students at risk, cultural and linguistic diversity, and giftedness are also explored.
4 cr bio 355 conservation biology a capstone course examining the principles and practices of measuring, maintaining, and enhancing biological diversity.
all groups  may include both singers and players except town/pep band, which is an  instrumental ensemble dedicated to traditional band literature.
emphasis is placed  on the study of vectors, velocity, acceleration, and force.
prerequisite:  junior  standing or permission of instructor.
this course explores the major concepts and theories of the psychology of bargaining and negotiation, and the dynamics of interpersonal and intergroup conflict and its resolution.
selective media are discussed and used in the development of interpretive services.
3 cr psy 211 introduction to behavioral & community health systems this course will review systems of care provided by the state, as well as  those provided by for-profit and not-for-profit entities, to serve the needs of  behavioral health consumers.
3 cr rem 326 athletic administration and sports management an exploration of a complete program of sports management including  scheduling, staffing, facility and event management.
3 cr phy 111 physics i an introduction to the nature of energy and mechanics.
the extended field practicum in a local elementary classroom is an integral part of the course.
topics could include civil war and reconstruction, popular culture, reform efforts, class and labor issues, race and ethnicity, or religious and intellectual developments.
major areas covered include: sex roles, theories and methods of studying gender, physiological systems and development, relationships, sexuality, social performance, education and work, physical and mental health and mass media and society.
prerequisite: dependent upon the course offered, or permission of instructor.
in addition, students are introduced to notes, inventory, depreciation, controls and payroll.
prerequisite: dependent upon course offered, or permission of instructor.
this course includes a service learning aspect for majors in the behavioral science & community studies program.
this course develops current and continuing issues in business for study.
3 cr rem 201 leisure activities explores leisure theory, concepts of play and impacts of organizational structure on the outcome of any activity.
students will apply these elements both in exercises and in drafts of their own stories.
1 cr dan 319 special topics in dance a learning experience designed to allow students to pursue study in any of a variety of styles in dance and movement as creative expression and may include: format and technique; interpretation, improvisation and choreography; and costuming, performance and production.
it will also assist students in developing a modern philosophy of mathematics education.
2 cr rem 115 history and philosophy of recreation a philosophical foundation in the theories of leisure, recreation and play  that also traces the historical framework of the leisure service industry.
a variety of world views is examined, focusing on such themes as creation, death, love, heroes, and humor.
3 cr rem 301 park and recreation facilities operations current practices in the operation and maintenance of parks and recreational facilities including both indoor and outdoor facilities.
4 cr hon 220 soliya: cross-cultural communication soliya's connect program is a unique cross-cultural education program that enables college students in the us and predominantly muslim countries in the middle east to collaboratively explore the relationship between the us and muslim world with the aim of improving intercultural awareness and understanding.
cr bio 406 senior thesis in biological research
3 cr wri 208 technical writing in the information age focuses on the traditional components of professional communication as well as its current trends and areas of future development.
this course offers an  extensive and in-depth introduction to the concepts and methods of statistics  in the three parts: data analysis, data production, and statistical inference.
trade offs and incentives people face under different circumstances are considered; policy options for environmental protection and sustainable development are evaluated.
3 cr eng 224 masterpieces of world literature this course involves an examination of cultural differences and transformations as seen through the lens of world literature's traditional canon.
prerequisite: bio 111.
students must have current certifications and/or licenses to teach/lead the activity and must be approved by a supervising umm faculty member before registering for the course.
prerequisites are established for mathematics courses so students will have the quantitative skills necessary for success.
a grade of "pass" or "fail" is awarded.
students will improve their own  outdoor leadership capacities through practice, feedback and reflection.
also surveyed are topical or systematic fields including geomorphology, climatology, geography of development, and urban, historical, economic, cultural, medical, population, resource and political geography.
prerequisite: sophomore standing and 2.5 minimum cumulative grade point average.
3 cr edu 348 middle & secondary mathematics methods this course provides students with experience and skills in planning, implementing and assessing learning and inquiry activities for the middle and secondary level mathematics classrooms.
3 cr eng 210 beginning creative writing an introductory writing course that focuses on the knowledge, attitudes, and techniques essential to successful creative writing.
a computer algebra system is used extensively.
class sessions consist of studio work, demonstration, lecture, and group and individual critiques.
topics  include voting systems, population growth, fractals, chaos, and game theory.
1-2 cr cmy 101 introduction to community studies community is both a fundamental concept and a unit of study in the social sciences.
prerequisite: ability to work independently.
students will gain outdoor skills while reading, discussing and reflecting on the role of outdooor recreation experiences on personal health, as well as in fostering environmental stewardship.
3 cr rem 121 outdoor recreation i a survey of outdoor recreation activities that addresses personal motivation for participation as well as direct and indirect psychological, social and physical benefits derived from participation.
performing groups instrumentalists and singers (pop band, chamber ensemble, town/pep band, etc.)
3 cr gey 111 physical geology an introduction to the geological sciences with particular reference to downeast maine.
prerequisite: fia 213 or junior standing.
1-4 cr mat 215 applied statistics designed for students who intend to use statistics and statistical software later in their education and professional lives.
the course involves classroom  activities, pool simulations, and open water dives.
the integrated laboratory provides concrete experience of concepts discussed.
problem-solving exercises direct student attention to subjects that deserve individual study.
cr bio 405 senior thesis in biological research
3 cr mar 101 marketing & entrepreneurship an overview of marketing as an organizational and societal function stressing the application of marketing concepts and principles in entrepreneurship and realistic business situations.
the intent of the  course is to help students in their adjustment to the new experience of college  life.
prerequisite: bio 111, bio 112, and env 103; or equivalent.
all groups may include both singers and players except town/pep band, which is an instrumental ensemble dedicated to traditional band literature.
3 cr eng 242 electronic & periodical publishing this course will be an overview of electronic and periodical publishing and a practicum for students who would like to work in these fields.
prerequisite: bio 111, bio 112, mat 102 (may be taken concurrently), or equivalents.
3  cr psy 221 health psychology this course surveys theory and research on the interrelationships of mental  processes and behavior with physical health and well-being.
students who are not cast may switch to play production: technical.
wellness topics discussed include nutrition, weight management, cardiovascular disease, cancer, stress management, addictive behaviors, and healthy lifestyle issues.
this course is designed to teach divers proper procedures in the study of underwater archaeology.
.5-1 cr rem 110 intro to environmental recreation & tourism management this course will philosophically examine the historical events that created  the recreational institutions of today, as well as contemporary thinking in the  field.
prerequisite: students must have cpr certification or be concurrently enrolled  in a course that will be completed by the time the wfr course is finished.
uses microsoft excel and/or open source software.
3 cr asl 101 intro to sign language provides the student with an overview of american sign language (asl), signed english, and communication through gesture.
we discuss how and why people have thought about, investigated, and used the past, as we explore changing ideas of the purpose, value, meaning, and method of historical inquiry.
the class will work together at developing their own skills, helping others understand their strengths and characteristics and gaining experience in working with groups.
emphasis is placed on the study of vectors, velocity, acceleration, and force.
the psychological term trauma describes  significant events that are usually devastating, life-threatening and  shocking.
3 cr rem 311 recreation services for special populations a course to provide the student with a general understanding of leisure  services for 'special' populations.
it differs from other forms of nonfiction by possessing both an apparent subject and a deeper meaning, by its freedom from the usual journalistic requirements of timeliness and urgency, by taking advantage of such narrative devices as character, plot and dialogue, by its sense of reflection and finished thought, and by its serious attention to the craft of writing and aesthetic sensibility that goes well beyond the journalistic "inverted pyramid" style.
students must participate in a portfolio defense at the conclusion of the student teaching experience, at which time the student teacher will provide evidence of achievement of the special education standards outlined in the syllabus.
prerequisite: bio 111 or bio 112 or permission of instructor.
3 cr rem 230 outdoor leadership this course combines the practice of outdoor leadership with the study of leadership theory and group management.
prerequisite: rem 226 and acc 201.
3 cr art 421 advanced art projects designed to allow students to explore intensively their own areas of specialization in both subject and technique.
prerequisites: cmy 101 or ant 101 or soc 114, or permission of instructor.
the mechanism of drug action and the nature of addiction including the psychological, physiological, behavioral and social effects of alcohol and other drugs will be covered in depth.
as an introduction to the latin language and the ancient roman world, this course will enable students to read and translate basic passages in latin, to become familiar with the culture and history of rome, and to enhance their grammar and vocabulary in other languages, especially english.
3 cr soc 419 special topics in sociology course designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within sociology.
3 cr bio 206 intro to marine biology this is a survey of major marine ecosystems, including plankton, rocky intertidal, mudflat, marsh, coral reef and deep sea communities.
students will be expected to work closely with clients and/or community residents to assess and respond to their needs, answer questions and provide them with maps, data and documentation.
emphasis will be placed on the development of skills in proofreading, copyediting, and editorial judgment, as students learn the different functions of proofreaders and copyeditors, the vocabulary of print and document design, and acquire a good understanding of the editorial tasks involved in taking manuscripts into print.
3 cr acc 431 advanced accounting covers how accountants measure changes in partnership equity and how they record business combinations, mergers, and acquisitions.
1-3 cr fia 219 special topics in interdisciplinary fine arts these courses will allow for further study in special fields within the fine arts.
3 cr psy 335 forensic psychology forensic psychology is the application of psychological principles and  techniques within a legal setting.
a final draft of the paper is submitted to the division of environmental and biological science faculty.
mat 12 beginning algebra an introduction to the language and skills used for quantitative problem solving in all fields of inquiry and for subsequent work in mathematics.
students draw with a variety of media from life and from conceptual/creative models.
an extended field experience is a major component of the course.
prerequisite: cse 101, cse 201, ses 202, ses 215.
the emphasis is on developing skills in reading and writing, on comprehension and on practicing spoken spanish.
1 cr ses 103 intro to formatting a course designed to learn the formatting techniques required to produce letters, memoranda, tabulations, and manuscripts on computers.
3 cr lat 102 latin ii building on the introductory study of the language and culture of the ancient roman wold, this course will further students' ability to translate more challenging passages in latin, allow them to explore more deeply the culture and history of rome, and further enhance their grammar and vocabulary in other languages, especially english.
essential components of this course include addressing contemporary public and social policy -- and social services provision within those policies -- including fundamentals of behavioral health care, child protection, and welfare systems.
planning theory and all types of plans are reviewed.
development is a holistic process, yet can be broken down  into physical, cognitive, social and emotional aspects, as well as development  of communication and language, self, gender and prosocial behavior.
the emphasis will be on how to: 1) design resource-appropriate sampling programs; 2) avoid mistakes that make analyzing data difficult; and, 3) properly analyze data.
prerequisite: chy 102 or permission of instructor.
this course is designed to give students an in-depth practical experience in pedagogical methods and classroom management based in theory and application.
additional options for students include hands-on activities involving culturing organisms in umm's aquaculture research laboratory or attending outside seminars or conferences that involve the culture of marine organisms.
case management  includes education, advocacy and networking with providers and services across  many disciplines.
this course partially satisfies the university core requirement in fine arts and is a prerequisite to all other studio art offerings.
3 cr psy 230 abnormal psychology a course designed to provide an overview of the area of abnormal psychology and to introduce the student to different theoretical models, classifications, origins, and treatments of abnormal behavior.
human nature and the motivation of the individual are examined in order to better understand individuals as members of groups.
3 cr rem 302 park and recreation facilities design a practical experience in the planning and design of parks and recreational facilities.
the class is taught in a computer classroom using  statistical software extensively for classroom demonstration, homework  assignments, and student tutorials.
3 cr rem 202 recreational sports methods intended to give the student a general understanding of sports in a  recreational setting.
3 cr pos 215 american national government an introductory study of the major principles, structures and practices of the united states government.
the course also may be geared to particular students such as an aesthetics course for art, music and literature students, or a philosophy of education course.
many fields of study require as a condition of graduation the completion of one or more training programs or courses in an outside clinical or professional setting, such as a hospital, clinic, professional office, or public classroom.
they will share their portfolios with each other and make a formal presentation of their proposed culminating project.
formal presentations to the class and/or the public are important components of the course.
the primary activity of the senior seminar is a portfolio review and assessment.
students will build on their previous knowledge of chaucer, medieval culture, and literary theory, especially in their completion of an in-depth research project.
3 cr ame 330 topics in american studies this course applies the subject and methods of american studies (introduced in ame 220) to the exploration of a single-semester topic or theme - such as conspiracy theories, urban legends, the fifties, or cyberspace.
students will understand and be able to show basic dance technique and steps, and perform simple choreography.
.5-1 cr rem 110 intro to environmental recreation & tourism management this course will philosophically examine the historical events that created the recreational institutions of today, as well as contemporary thinking in the field.
dealing with national sports organizations, officiating organizations and league regulations all are covered.
the student explores traditional themes of right  conduct.
a practicum experience is a requirement of the course.
this course offers an extensive and in-depth introduction to the concepts and methods of statistics in the three parts: data analysis, data production, and statistical inference.
quizzes and tests are part of the evaluation process.
may be repeated for credit as topics vary.
the course emphasizes such topics as the constitution and its development; the federal system; civil liberties and civil rights; public opinion, interest groups, political parties and elections; the congress; the supreme court; the presidency and the presidential establishment; domestic and foreign policy formation; government services and regulation; and the federal budget and federal taxation.
prerequisite: vary by topic.
3  cr pos 311 political correctness in american society this course defines, examines, and analyzes political correctness as a  long-standing feature of american society, dating back to the salem witch  trials and including the alien and sedition acts, prohibition, mccarthyism, and  more.
prerequiste: eng 101 and psy 110, or permission of  instructor.
depending on the season and the scheduling requirements, this selection may include canoeing, backpacking, sailing, riflery, and ocean kayaking.
3 cr cooperative education/internships
this course introduces the basic principles of geostatistics, including descriptive statistics such as variance and covariance, spatial autocorrelation, distribution and dispersion and spatial trends.
additional topics are selected from probability, markov chains, game theory, difference equations, decision theory, and graph theory.
rehearse weekly, culminating in public performance(s) near the end of the semester.
3 cr fys 101 first-year seminar this course is intended to be an orientation to the academic community at umm.
this course is required  for full mhrt certification.
participants refine basic dance movements and learn additional dance movements and choreographies.
3 cr psy 326 vocational implications of disability this course will address the vocational implications of the most frequently  encountered physical and psychiatric disabilities.
variations in structural features are examined for representative species in the different divisions of the plant kingdom.
course prepares students to take a certification exam for personal  trainers.
3 cr rem 321 recreation administration and supervision an overview of administration including all functions of management.
the course will pay particular attention to the links between food and health and disease.
pop  band performs songs of any and all styles.
prerequisite: bus 111 and eco 201, or permission of instructor.
students may take the course more than once for additional credit with permission of the instructor.
emphasis will be placed on understanding limitations in function and how those limitations affect work as conceptualized within existing models of disability.
the course typically covers some of the following topics: sustainable development, population growth, energy, water resources, fisheries, forest management, agriculture, air and water pollution, climate change, solid waste and recycling and toxic substances.
the course is likely to include attendance at the maine governor’s conference on tourism.
prerequisite:  psy 110, psy 211, ssc 302,  psy 230 and psy 327, or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: edu 333 or permission of instructor.
performing groups instrumentalists and singers (pop band, chamber ensemble, town/pep band,  etc.) rehearse weekly, culminating in public performance(s) near the end of the  semester.
prerequisite: psy 110 or permission of instructor.
data analysis concerns the methods for exploring, organizing, and describing data.
breast stroke, 200-yd.
3 cr eng 225 writing for children & young adults writing books for children -- from lap-sitter to young adult -- covers fiction and creative non-fiction, with emphasis on characterization, theme, plot, setting, dialogue, and conflict.
course includes exploration of career opportunities, examination of existing public agencies and practical development of a sample public service agency.
prerequisite: rem 321.
3 cr bus 326 sustainable business this course introduces students to principles of sustainability within a business context.
the aesthetic integration of typography, text, page, paper and image through letterpress printing and other advanced printing and binding techniques will be explored.
3 cr mat 105 contemporary mathematics
3 cr psy 313 counseling diverse populations this counseling course is designed to help the student acquire the skills  necessary to become a culturally competent mental health or social service  practitioner, that is, someone who is sensitive to cultural differences and to  their impact on human interactions.
prepares students to be eligible for the certified strength and conditioning specialist exam.
relationships between psychological and physical realities are formalized as  students consider the physiological and psychological processes in the  behaviors discussed.
case management is a process of assessing a client's needs, and planning and facilitating their connections with health and human services and other resources.
prerequisite: dependent upon the course offered, or permission of  instructor.
students in env 414 will be expected to take a leadership role in the class project and to write a significant paper that incorporates primary literature pertinent to the project.
emphasis is upon the application of these skills in the process of discovery, evaluation and entry into entrepreneurial opportunities.
it is also about studying different ways to communicate this information to a range of audiences.
prerequisite: junior status or permission of instructor.
these topics will all be touched upon in regard to curiosity.
topics include the planning process, organizing  activities, presentation methods and techniques and evaluation procedures.
emphasis will be placed on basic terminology; legal and ethical principles related to the assessment of students with special needs; technical adequacy of assessment instruments; identification of assesment instruments; administration of individualized norm-referenced assessments; and effective communication of evaluation results.
3 cr mus 214 music theory i scales, intervals, chords, and their interrelationships.
the student  may obtain red cross emergency response certification.
methods of monitoring chemical aspects of environmental change including analysis of air and water samples are presented, as are means of ameliorating environmental damage.
it is strongly recommended that planning and application for all cooperative education and internship experiences begin during the semester prior to participation.
topics covered include reproductive system anatomy, physiology of the menstrual cycle, breast cancer, gynecological cancers, hiv/aids and other stds, menopause, etc.
students will be able to identify the major insect orders and representative families on sight.
prerequisite: edu 220 or permission of instructor.
woodcut, linocut, etching, engraving and lithography are some of the processes explored.
topics include attention, vision, audition, knowledge  representation, memory, language, problem solving, and decision making.
participants work in a variety of genres.
the role of informed consent and  internal review boards will be addressed.
3 cr bus 325 business ethics & social responsbilty this upper-level course gives the student a thorough introduction to important ethical issues that arise in the world of business, including the analysis of interests of all the individuals who hold a stake in the outcome of any business dilemma or decision.
prerequisite: psy 110 or psy 324 lifespan ii for secondary education majors, or permission of instructor.
the concepts, tools and models that have worked effectively to manage products and services in the profit sector that are becoming increasingly relevant to the management of products and services in the nonprofit sector are covered.
prerequisite: bio 222, bio 265.
during classes students participate in production meetings (during which communication and planning for productions occurs), workshops in the backstage arts (lighting, sound, costume and set design), and general theatre support activities (set construction, electrics, publicity, box office and house management).
1-3 cr cse 110 word processing applications this course provides hands-on instruction while giving students the opportunity to learn the most current word processing software used in business, industry and home applications.
students develop topics in consultation with the faculty member who will direct the course.
3 cr eng 325 masterpieces of british literature survey of english literature from the anglo-saxon period through modernism.
1 cr geo 101 intro to geography a course designed to introduce the student to world regional geography by studying developed and developing realms.
4 cr bio 201 marine fauna & macroalgae of downeast maine this field-oriented course will introduce students to many of the marine organisms inhabiting various marine environments along the downeast coast (bar harbor to eastport).
the course also may be geared to particular students such as an aesthetics  course for art, music and literature students, or a philosophy of education  course.
emphasis in this more advanced class is on the development of facility, style and self-expression.
offered spring semester only.
students study the effects of protected area management, business practices, public policies, and other factors on the ecotourism sector.
prerequisite: eng 101 and one of the following: eng 210
practice in sight singing, rhythmic, melodic and harmonic dictation is given; transcription and original composition are stressed.
3 cr wst 410 feminist theory this course is intended to increase students' awareness of the multiplicity of feminist theories, develop students' ability to critically examine theoretical assumptions and to synthesize and assess theoretical arguments, and increase students' awareness of how such gender theories relate to their lives.
additional topics are selected from probability, markov  chains, game theory, difference equations, decision theory, and graph theory.
prerequisite: eng 101, a 100-level literature course, hty 201, hty 202, or permission of instructor.
traumatic events can have on-going impacts on people's thinking, feeling and behavior.
bio 222 and bio 265 recommended.
3 cr mat 118 history of mathematics the goal of this course is to provide students interested in teaching  middle- or high-school level mathematics, or others simply interested in the  topic, the necessary understanding of the historical foundation of mathematics.
prerequisite: senior standing or permission of instructor.
students apply their knowledge by submitting one or more original pieces of writing to an appropriate market.
prerequisite: mat 126.
the learning experiences in this course are designed to help  students develop an awareness and appreciation of the maine woods, and to enjoy  it safely, while leaving it environmentally sound.
the study of curiosity requires consideration of a number of major areas of psychology, including emotion and motivation, learning and memory, neuroscience, individual differences in personality and development.
students will be introduced to psychology professions in  healthcare, public policy, the legal system, education, research and  industry.
students will learn to identify clues within a  forest which indicate how the land might have been used in the past.
3 cr bio 401 senior thesis in biology the bio 401, 402, and 403 sequence is designed for students wishing to prepare an in-depth literature review of an aspect of biology of particular interest.
prerequisite: chy 102 and approval by a research advisor.
1-2 cr env 320 special topics in field ornithology a course, or series of courses, on a variety of topics for birdwatchers, amateur and professional ornithologists, and others interested in the lives of birds in their natural habitats.
3 cr mat 122 precalculus an introduction to elementary functions, designed to prepare the student  for calculus.
this course may be repeated for a total of no more than 9 cr.
4 cr pos 212 topics in political science courses designed to allow students to pursue study in specific area of  political science.
3 cr psy 222 psychology professions & ethics this course provides an overview of the professions and ethics associated with psychology.
the underlying assumption is that there is no such thing as a generic or standard reading of a literary work; all readings take place in and depend on a critical framework, whether that be explicit or implicit.
3 cr eng 302 studies in novel a study of the growth and structure of the novel.
through the process of scientific inquiry, students will learn to recognize patterns, formulate and test hypotheses and collect data in the field and laboratory using a variety of hands-on oceanographic techniques.
students learn how to copyright their writing, to generate effective letters of inquiry and to explore possibilities of finding a literary agent.
3 cr bus 420 topics in business a course designed to provide in-depth study of special topics related to business.
i this course studies the workings of the human body.
prerequisite: bio 206, 227, 245, mat 215 and mat 315.
prerequisite: edu 313 and 24 cr in social sciences, or permission of instructor.
it stresses the importance of proofreading and editing skills, which involves the integration of the principles of spelling, grammar and punctuation into the production of mailable transcripts.
speakers and the career development office  will help students explore individual interests, values and job characteristics  so they can more readily choose an appropriate career direction.
it will consider the ways in which institutions have sought to control books.
subjects covered will include script analysis, conceptualization, and the practical aspects of bringing these ideas to realization.
as part of these projects, students will learn about the life history of the atlantic salmon, its freshwater environment, the threats to its survival, and the processes underway to facilitate its recovery.
students participate in a comprehensive review of accounting theory, financial reporting issues, cost accounting, tax accounting, business law, and auditing.
the discipline is also heavily influenced by public health and focused community-level prevention and intervention strategies.
prerequisite: art 101 or art 102 or permission of the instructor.
1-2 cr env 420 special topics in field ornithology a course, or series of courses, on a variety of topics for birdwatchers, amateur and professional ornithologists, and others interested in the lives of birds in their natural habitats.
topics include learning, sensation, motivation, emotion, and psychopathology as revealed by a physiological perspective.
developmental research methods will be covered, as well as  important areas of application for developmental psychology of childhood and  adolescence, including policy and programs directed at families, healthcare and  prevention, education, childcare, etc.  prerequisite: psy 110 or  permission of instructor.
this course will include information of  types of traumatic experience (i.e. assault, sexual abuse, motor vehicle  accidents, combat experience or natural disaster), basic knowledge and skills  used in assessment and screening of trauma, and an overview of services and  supports for people who have experienced trauma.
lecture 3 hours, laboratory 2 hours.. 4 cr bio 111 general zoology an introductory study of the diversity of animal organisms.
program faculty will direct students to submit a portfolio of creative work and a written reflective narrative for assessment.
in addition to classwork, special projects may be undertaken in any of these areas.
much effort, both academic and practical, has been focused on the fate of local community economies and the ways in which local livelihoods can be sustained and improved.
prerequisite: psy 110 and psy 211 or permission of instructor.
topics include the role of  expert witnesses, determination of competency to stand trial, issues informing  legal decisions on child custody, assessment of malingering, determination of  civil competencies, assessing offenders, use of interrogation techniques and  ethical issues that arise in this field.
emphasis on the adaptations that shape animals to their environments.
a web site is created from the collected date.
3 cr rem 226 recreation program planning this course will provide students with the basic knowledge or programming  principles and theories, assessing participant needs, the planning process,  developing goals and objectives, program implementation and evaluation  strategies.
current literature and research  are reviewed.
2 cr phe 201 physical education activity a choice of activities is available each semester, depending on the season  and scheduling requirements.
front crawl or breast stroke.
the  course includes theoretical understandings and practical experiences directed  toward prevention of hazardous conditions and emergency situations.
4 cr mat 127 calculus ii methods and applications of integration, some differential equations, exponential and logarithmic growth, and infinite series.
spatial concepts and site design theory are combined in a laboratory setting where students draft plans and prepare scaled models of actual facilities.
3 cr eng 113 introduction to humanities introduction to representative works across the humanities: literature, visual art, music, theater, and philosophy.
prerequisite: eng 101; env 112 is also recommended.
3 cr rem 417 outdoor recreation leadership practicum a supervised situation in which students are given the opportunity to gain  personal experience and knowledge in teaching and leading outdoor recreation  activities.
3 cr psy 311 social psychology a study of the social and cultural factors affecting human behavior,  including effects on observable behavior, emotions, attitudes and other  cognitions.
prerequisite: junior standing or  permission of instructor.
the course will also focus on relationships between people's well-being, social justice and environmental issues, such as the relationship between health, poverty, and pollution.
3 cr rem 219 introduction to tourism
prerequisite: ability to work  independently.
prerequisite: rem 124, bio 110, or permission of  instructor.
skills for evaluating and assessing the vocational impact of a disability and effective strategies for promoting client understanding and access to community resources will be addressed.
students will learn to use a specific gis software system and to define and complete a simple gis project using existing data.
under this topics heading, other mental health & rehabilitation technician certification courses could be offered, including sexual abuse, trauma & recovery; case management, mental health & aging, substance abuse with a dual diagnosis component; group process; or vocational aspects of disability.
prerequisite: art 101 or art 102 or permission of instructor.
3 cr man 318 human behavior in organizations
prerequisite: ant 212 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: edu 210 and 16 credits of science or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: medical clearance.
studies will learn to identify and understand culture as it operates on different social levels (class, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation).
prepares students to be eligible  for the certified strength and conditioning specialist exam.
mat 102 intermediate algebra a course in the language and skills used for quantitative problem solving  in all fields of inquiry and for subsequent work in mathematics.
15 cr int 200 interdisciplinary studies interdisciplinary studies offer models of how informed people educate themselves by examining ideas, issues, and values through gathering, analyzing, and integrating new information; and through recognizing their own and others' assumptions with discernment and sympathy.
each sport is approached from building the complete program.
styles can include readers' theatre, non-western theatre, improvisation, or musical theatre.
3 cr phe 105 personal wellness a physical education lecture and activity course that provides students  with an opportunity to explore and experience various components of fitness and  wellness that will enhance their lives.
it also prepares  the student for courses in music history.
major areas covered  include the interface between mind and body; the role of belief systems in  engaging in health protective behavior; the influence of stress on the immune  system; and the biological, psychological, social and behavioral factors that  moderate maintaining health or developing illness, such as individual  differences in personality, life-style choice, coping styles, and the  availability of social support.
the ending speed level competency (based on the 'c' level) is 30 net words per minute on three-minute timed writing.
recent topics have included views of the sea; paradigms of conflict, health and disease; conspiracy theories; and interdisciplinary perspectives on time.
students will look carefully at the structure, style, and point of view in selected stories as they work on their own short story writing and/or the critical assessment of a body of works they have chosen.
recognizing the profound role of media in shaping young adults’ perceptions of other cultures, soliya trains participating students to create and exchange video segments illustrating their perspectives on world events.
prerequisite: mat 102 or demonstrated proficiency in pre-college mathematics.
visitor expectations and satisfaction related to the environment will be covered.
prerequisites: gis 230, gis 330 and mat 215, or permission of instructor.
3 cr sed 355 transitional issues for students with disabilities this course provides instruction in techniques and resources used to assist individuals with special needs experience success in school settings and transition into a wide range of environments.
the influences of popular and ethnic musics are discussed, and  technological developments are considered, both as delivery media and intrinsic  art forms.
this course enables the student to gain an understanding of what supervisors do through application questions, skill-building exercises to simulate situations commonly faced in business.
3 cr sed 325 assessment in special education students in this course will examine the principles and procedures of non-discriminatory evaluation under idea as it relates to k-12 students with mild to moderate disabilities.
the course is roughly divided into two parts.
the first half of the course will focus on metabolic processes, integration and regulation of metabolism, biosynthesis of carbohydrates, biosynthesis and biodegradation of lipids and nitrogenous compounds such as amino acids, nucleotides.
3 cr acc 312 business income tax covers federal tax legislation that applies to business entities and to the owners of those entities.
through readings and discussions, these themes are applied to relevant contemporary issues such as war and terrorism, the connections between business and environmental ethics, sexuality, suicide and euthanasia and drug use.
courses vary vary in content in response to student interest and demand.
this course exposes students to the deeper philosophical questions related to many of the more important environmental and ecological issues, including an examination of the historical and spiritual aspects of these questions.
this course provides an introduction and overview of the tourism  industry.
3 cr psy 212 lifespan i this course covers the context and process of human development from prenatal stages through adolescence.
inquiry-based models for science instruction such as project-based learning are explored, as are more traditional instructional techniques.
surrounding outdoor areas and nearby facilities for  tennis and golf are available.
topics of conformity, persuasion, aggression, prejudice, prosocial  behavior, relationships, and group influence are considered.
a course designed to study medical transcription.
topics include polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic and  trigonometric functions.
students will study, understand and be able to demonstrate the  skills associated with the following topical areas: naturalist, deep water  dives, navigation, search and recovery, night diving, shipwreck concepts and  practices, and recreational dive planner.
prerequisite: chy 222 or equivalent.
3 cr psy 211 introduction to behavioral & community health systems this course will review systems of care provided by the state, as well as those provided by for-profit and not-for-profit entities, to serve the needs of behavioral health consumers.
3 cr art 218 printmaking an introduction to the materials and techniques of fine art print production.
prerequisite: phi 201, psy 110 and psy 230 or permission of instructor.
cr env 213 ecological ethics and values
3 cr eng 233 techniques of creative non-fiction creative nonfiction is a genre defined by what it is not.
4 cr bio 340 evolution a study of the scientific theories and evidence related to the process of evolution.
course content focuses on the theories, approaches and related materials and effective practices in developmental listening, speaking, reading, and writing in grades 5-8.
may be taken pass/fail or for a letter grade.
this course explores the structure, physiology, and biochemistry of cells, with the primary goal of developing an appreciation for the connections between the workings of individual cells and the activity of the whole organism.
content is discussed in group settings.
quizzes and tests are part of the evaluation  process.
these are followed by investigations into the physiological systems of animals on a comparative basis, including mechanisms of reproduction and development.
the course emphasizes the application of traditional ethical theories to modern decision-making.
phe 101 physical education activity a choice of activities is available each semester, depending on the season  and scheduling requirements.
3 cr rem 323 principles of strength and conditioning an advanced course designed to explore principles and techniques of conditioning and strength training.
the prevalence, effects, prevention and/or treatment of each disease will be discussed.
no previous experience in foreign languages required.
prerequisite: asl 101 or permission of the instructor.
other topics include: educational research, assessment and evaluation, individual and group differences, motivation, classroom management, and effective teaching.
through a series of creative activities, reading, writing, presentations, and arts events, students will come to an understanding of the technologies and methodologies through which these arts are created and appreciated.
3 cr env 114 environmental studies: issues and actions the course is a project-based course designed to enable students to participate in an environmental hands-on learning experience.
3 cr rem 326 athletic administration and sports management an exploration of a complete program of sports management including scheduling, staffing, facility and event management.
selected works come from the colonial to the contemporary period of the united states by major writers from different backgrounds and points of view.
4 cr mus 101 umm chorale a choral group performing a cappella and accompanied songs and larger works  of all periods and styles.
the concepts enable the student to analyze, understand, predict and influence human behavior in that organization, thus creating a personal tool that will help increase personal effectiveness and achievement.
when appropriate, maine mammals are used to illustrate concepts.
3 cr vid 221 intermediate digital video production this course builds on the skills mastered in vid 101.
the class will work together at developing their own skills,  helping others understand their strengths and characteristics and gaining  experience in working with groups.
performing groupsinstrumentalists and  singers (pop band, chamber ensemble, town/pep band, etc.)
3 cr eng 315 studies in drama a study of dramatic theory, history, and literature.
the course will also focus on relationships between people's  well-being, social justice and environmental issues, such as the relationship  between health, poverty, and pollution.
prerequisite: knowledge of nonprofit/public organizations, writing ability, and  internet skills.
specific applied policy analysis will include topical current issues, such as climate change, health care, education and same-sex marriage.
3 cr psy 319 special topics in applied psychology courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within psychology.
prerequisite or concurrent registration: edu 313 and 24 credit hours of social science, or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: dan 106, or permission of instructor.
4  cr mat 126 calculus i basic concepts of differential and integral calculus: limits, continuity,  differentiation and integration of elementary functions, graphing, maxima and  minima, and the fundamental theorem.
class meetings include drawing, painting, and mixed media, as well as lectures and discussions on related topics.
connections between the environment and the economy; methods of modeling natural resource and environmental problems; and techniques for measuring the value of environmental services are examined.
this  course is required for full mhrt certification.
equitable student outcomes will be emphasized as students reflect upon their placement experiences in order to develop an individual approach to building an inclusive, productive and well-structured learning environment conducive to high levels of student support and achievement.
this course meets the kinesiology requirement for the state of maine endorsement: teacher of physical education.
development is a holistic process, yet  can be broken down into physical, cognitive, social and emotional aspects, as  well as development of communication and language, self, gender and prosocial  behavior.
this course will include information of types of traumatic experience (i.e. assault, sexual abuse, motor vehicle accidents, combat experience or natural disaster), basic knowledge and skills used in assessment and screening of trauma, and an overview of services and supports for people who have experienced trauma.
by completing this course, students gain an understanding of steps business managers and sustainability coordinators can take to guide their organizations' sustainability efforts, track progress, report results and market products.
students in this survey course will learn about a range of topics including the history of special education; the provisions of idea; relevant legal issues in special education; program planning and placement with an emphasis on inclusive practices; transitioning students to adulthood; classroom accommodations and modifications; and instruction of students with exceptionalities.
face-to-face  leadership techniques are put into practice as students lead activities as part  of a class-sponsored special event and as they simulate management-level  interaction and problem solving.
the course will also discuss wellness concepts in the field as important components of a canoeing expedition and then review the concepts in greater detail in the classroom and through lab activities.
1 cr mus 115 intro to music: listening the basic course in musical awareness, informed listening, and the elements  of music.
after approval, students will attend a mandatory orientation workshop/meeting prior to the community experience and upon completion will attend a mandatory summative workshop/meeting.
the second semester of a two-semester sequence intended as mathematics  background for students in elementary education and humanities programs.
3 cr ses 211 transcription studies a course allowing the student to develop competency in machine/oral transcription.
corequisites: for elementary majors: edu 344 and/or edu 349; for secondary majors: edu 321. 2
3 cr art 310 drawing ii
topics include demand and supply, competition, monopoly, labor markets, international trade, and environmental policy.
students are assessed on problem sets and a simple final project.
students are also encouraged to have  other certifications and licenses.
this course provides an introduction and overview of the tourism industry.
may not be taken by students who have previously received credit for bio 229.
3-9 cr coe 313 community experience this course is meant to provide a professional experience for the student who has identified a specific career objective or graduate school objective and is interested in gaining significant experience in that field.
students are introduced to central markets, wholesaling, retailing, warehousing, transporting, and managing the channels of distribution.
prerequisite: rem 214 and certification, or permission  of instructor; medical screening; good physical condition.
in conjunction with an internship in local schools, including observation and presentation of a series of lessons, this course provides students an opportunity to apply principles and insights acquired through the course.
2 cr phe 201 physical education activity a choice of activities is available each semester, depending on the season and scheduling requirements.
the course will also provide students with an overview of career opportunities in the leisure service industry, and include discussions of professionalism, exploration of career objectives, and personal interaction with working professionals from several different segments of the leisure services industry.
all groups may include both singers and players except town/pep band,  which is an instrumental ensemble dedicated to traditional band literature.
topics include, but are not limited to, such areas as: entrepreneurship opportunities, starting from scratch or joining an existing business, developing a business plan, the customer, growth strategies and managing growth.
current literature and research are reviewed.
the course involves classroom activities, pool exercises and/or supervised open water dives.
second, the course examines childhood and pre-adolescence in the united states at the start of the 21st century.
3 cr cmy 312 soliya: advanced projects activities are designed to enable students to further expand upon skills they began to develop through their participation in the initial soliya connect program.
students work together under the instructor's guidance for a single community client to perform a professional-quality service project using geographic information systems (gis) as a decision-support and planning tool.
specific disciplinary perspectives and value conflicts are emphasized.
a major theme of this era is colonialism, the rise of european state, economic, and cultural power, and the reactions of the non-western world to that power.
prerequisites: completion of all other requirements within marine biology or permission of instructor.
3 cr edu 313 curriculum design and program evaluation a course for prospective and in-service educators who seek training and experience in design, implementation, and evaluation of curricula.
what effects to online communities have on face-to-face community development?
the course covers concepts, practical applications, problem solving, safety, and hands-on experiences.
3 cr soc 220 deviant behavior an examination of the concept of deviance in behavior and exploration of the various sociological theories and perspectives for viewing deviance.
3 cr rem 211 recreational hunting & fishing a course designed to familiarize the student with all the various forms of  recreational hunting and fishing and to examine the impact of these activities  on maine people economically, recreationally and environmentally.
natural areas that range from manicured parks to pristine wilderness areas are examined in light of the different management philosophies, policies, and techniques needed to maintain them.
students must log 120 hours to earn the required three credits and must demonstrate satisfactory performance and application of geospatial technology via a student report on the internship experience and supervisor evaluation and documentation.
3 cr edu 352 curriculum design evaluation & assessment the purpose of this course is to gain understanding and offer experience in design, implementation and evaluation of curriculum aligned with assessment practices.
the picaresque and the psychological, the comedy of manners, the historical, the gothic, the stream-of-consciousness, and other forms may be studied.
second,  the experiential aspect in which the students are encouraged to participate in  growthful exercises individually and in group situations.
students begin to acquire a basic proficiency in spanish, and are introduced to the common phrases and vocabulary, the verb forms of the present tense, and the grammar and structure of the language.
prerequisite: sophomore standing or  permission of instructor.
the specific emphasis of each offering is indicated by its subtitle and described in its syllabus.
3 cr eng 227 young adult literature designed to explore the needs and interests of adolescent readers, this course addresses the characteristics of young adult readers and the methodology of book selection for them.
a grade of pass/fail is awarded.
3 cr sed 362 typical & atypical expressive & receptive language the purpose of this course is to inform students about the stages of expressive and receptive language.
students examine the theories and practice of international trade, foreign investment and foreign currency exchange, and learn about strategies and procedures for conducting business internationally.
students learn the fundamental processes of opaque and/or transparent painting media through intensive studio practice, lecture and demonstration.
prerequisite: rem 124 or permission of instructor.
accessibility, life skills, community-based instruction, and assistive technology are explored at length.
this course has two essential aspects.
a faculty mentor will work closely with the student.
professional practice, theories of leadership and judgment and decision making  will be explored through readings, discussions and self-reflective  projects.
written assignments give students an opportunity to apply critical concepts learned in class.
activities include development of a philosophy, certification of coaches, and a study of the athletic educator.
a course introducing students to the study of human populations (demography) and their relationships to and with the environment (human ecology).
the study of  four-part harmony is begun.
the course will review the current state of  environmental law and then examine those acts that have been made unlawful, the  criminal violations that most commonly occur, the nature of environmental crime  investigation and prosecution and the type of sanctions available under federal  and state criminal laws that protect the environment.
3 cr rem 327 recreation behavior & the environment
4 cr env 105 intro to trees and wildflowers of maine a non-technical approach to the identification of commonly encountered trees and wildflowers of maine.
such topics may include non-western art, architecture, and historical and modern art.
4 cr gis 426 community applications in geographic information systems (gis)
students examine various sectors of the tourism industry and have the opportunity to explore their own special areas of interest.
students must have a computer that meets or exceeds the system requirements for arcgis software and has a broadband internet connection, or they must do required exercises and assignments in the laboratory.
1-3 cr the 116 play production: performance students who wish to receive credit for playing roles in umm theatrical productions should enroll in this course.
a computer algebra system is used  extensively.
3  cr mat 113 introduction to statistics designed for students who need a reading knowledge of introductory  statistical concepts, this course focuses on basic concepts and methods of  statistics: data analysis, data production, and statistical inference.
economic,  technological, political and environmental impacts of outdoor recreation are  examined.
directors will work with actors through casting, rehearsal, and performance on two projects.
3 cr eco 204 capitalism and entrepreneurship the course identifies and analyzes the features and characteristics of capitalism, including the relationships between economic and political freedom, the role of government, efficiency, fairness, growth, globalization and sustainability.
students will learn the skills relevant to good speech communication: conception, organization, techniques of generating interest, the use of audio-visual aids, audience inclusion and involvement, and overcoming performance apprehension.
3 cr edu 351 middle & secondary science education methods this course provides students with experience and skills in planning, implementing, and assessing inquiry activities for the middle and secondary level science classrooms.
the course will explore the origins of mathematics from anthropological and  sociological viewpoints.
prerequisite:  psy 110 and psy 211 or  permission of instructor.
3 cr psy 322 physiological psychology introduction to the anatomical and physiological bases of behavior.
students learn to analyze, plan, implement and control marketing strategies.
topics will include an introduction to forensic science, criminology, trace evidence examination, serology, dna analysis, toxicology, arson investigation, questioned document analysis, medical examination, and the analysis of paint and gunshot residue samples.
3 cr pos 305 environmental policy a systematic analysis of u.s. environmental policy focusing on air and water quality, land use, hazardous wastes and energy.
students learn to prepare individual income tax returns.
3 cr sed 335 program planning for students with disabilities students will develop an understanding of the process by which students are found eligible for special education services, and how to plan appropriate individualized education programs (ieps) for students who are eligible for special education services.
immigrant experiences, industrialism, reform efforts, wars, economic turmoil, civil rights, and current issues are explored in this half of the survey.
prerequisite: eng 101, or permission of instructor.
this course is designed to teach divers proper procedures in the study of  underwater archaeology.
the software, used  for all applications discussed in class, is an important part of the course for  demonstration, student tutorials, and discussing homework.
3 cr rem 412 park interpretation a specialized course in preparing interpretive programs for  recreational/park facilities and historic places.
the interaction of formal organization structure with the human intellect and personality, which includes studying cultural diversity as it pertains to human behavior in organizations.
3 cr rem 319 topics in tourism & hospitality management this course will provide an in-depth exploration of a variety of topics (one for each offering) within the management of the tourism and hospitality industry.
prerequisite: 100-level theatre course or permission of instructor.
3 cr hty 223 introduction to historical studiesthe simplest and most complex of the humanities or social sciences, history is grounded in the human urge to make sense of the present by telling stories about the past.
3 cr bus 222 business law ii
students first enroll in bio 401, and in consultation with a thesis advisor, select a topic and prepare a bibliography and an outline of the paper.
the course involves  classroom activities, pool exercises and/or supervised open water dives.
3 cr eng 441 writing & publishing seminar i the first of a two-semester sequence involving senior students in the english program in the production and publication of printed works, including broadsides, chapbooks, and a finished book.
first, the theoretical and academic aspect in which the focus of the class and text is on major psychological theories and their applications for everyday life.
1 to 6 cr ind 402 independent study and/or research this course allows students the opportunity to pursue in depth or in alternative ways areas of study not otherwise readily available.
the course is taught on the web,  and ideological diversity is encouraged and valued.
the software, used for all applications discussed in class, is an important part of the course for demonstration, student tutorials, and discussing homework.
prerequisite: eng 101 and a one 100-level literature course, or permission of instructor.
although the course deals primarily with traditional grammar, introduction to generative, structural and transformational systems may also be considered.
this course balances theory and practice and provides students with the opportunity to integrate theoretical and practical learning through regular role-play, to examine their own therapeutic interventions, and to begin to define their own therapeutic style.
2-3 cr gis 420 remote sensing & image analysis this course introduces remote sensing technologies used in mapping, with an emphasis on satellite imagery.
students are introduced to a range of developmentally appropriate teaching strategies especially pertinent to historical and cross-cultural topics, but also to procedures and habits of mind that are transferable to teaching other areas of the curriculum.
skills for evaluating and assessing the vocational impact of a  disability and effective strategies for promoting client understanding and  access to community resources will be addressed.
eng 101 or permission of the instructor.
they will have the skills to identify the majority of north american insects to the family level using appropriate dichotomous keys.
3 cr eng 12 developmental writing lab review of and practice in basic writing skills.
prerequisite: mat 122 or equivalent.
laboratory investigations of each topic will emphasize safe lab practice, problem solving, analysis of data, and communication of results.
various approaches to the course will include interviewing successful  entrepreneurs, examining internet promotions, site visits, developing plans of  operation and others.
prerequisite: ant 101 or soc 114 or permission of instructor.
students will also gain an insight into the changes in style and topic as reflected in the works of successive periods.
a practicum in local schools is a required component of the course.
methodological issues in health psychological research are also explored.
prerequisite: bio 110 or bio 210 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite:  phy 111 or equivalent.
even the internet has not changed the fact that most texts are embodied in books, material forms produced not just by authors, but by larger commercial, governmental, religious enterprises.
students will produce and edit projects from a variety of media formats, depepending on the interests of the student.
3 cr eng 223 children's literature a course that encourages extensive reading, discussing, enjoyment, and appreciation of books, periodicals and other literature for young people.
4 cr bio 218 herpetology this course will introduce you to the scope of herpetology.
project discussions will focus on defining project objectives, building and managing the digital database, identifying the needed data, locating and acquiring the data in digital form, performing the analysis, and presenting results.
a survey of historical and present-day perspectives on alcohol and drug abuse and addiction in society and the workplace will be covered.
3 cr soc 314 environmental law/environmental crime this is a third-year elective online course within sociology that addresses existing environmental laws and the environmental crimes that are committed in violation of these laws.
this course is appropriate for  students interested in careers in criminal justice, as well as students who  plan to work in health and human services with clients who are court-involved  or adjudicated.
the course offers an overview of the ecotourism industry,  including ecotourism markets, destinations and activities, businesses and  supporting organizations.
prerequisite: bus 221.
recent offerings have included tyrannies of the twentieth century, comparative slavery, and the british empire.
students develop skills in aging, identification, fisheries management, and aquaculture during laboratory and field trips.
upon completion of this course, a student should have a qualitative understanding of how many of the basic principles of physics, chemistry and mathematics are applied in meteorology; an ability to relate personal weather observations to data received from weather instruments and analyzed on standard weather charts; and a new set of general data analysis skills.
specifically, the course is designed to enable students to acquire the skills necessary to use graphics packages and design document layout strategies for the purpose of producing professional-looking reports, newsletters, manuals, bulletins, brochures, business forms and other documents.
it assumes no prior knowledge of music and prepares students for lifelong enjoyment as a vital link in the musical experience.
it will explore syntax, morphology, semantics, phonology, and pragmatics, as well as atypical development, individual differences, and how and why they occur.
the laboratory portion of the course includes common organismal and molecular techniques used in whole organism genetic analysis and molecular biology.
3 cr edu 318 evaluation in the classroom examination, development, and use of a variety of means of evaluating student learning.
while the course is centered on the western tradition, it will include sections on non-western traditions and on the post-modern era.
the course is delivered asynchronously and the web is used extensively.
the sociological, psychological and physiological significance of play, recreation and leisure as it relates to the individual lifespan and society as a whole is explored.
the course is designed to be a survey course that will  allow for such a broad view of the development of mathematics.
the course will  cover events such as being a danger to self or other; being so mentally ill  that the person is not able to function; substance abuse related problems;  trauma-related problems and behavior associated with the abuse of children,  spouses and the elderly.
in this course students encounter the many faces of american literature.
focusing on issues of daily life will allow us to avoid imagining china as a monolithic structure marked only by a succession of dynasties and gain a better insight into the tensions that have formed chinese society.
prerequisite: psy 110  or permission of instructor.
3 cr eng 453 shakespeare an upper-level seminar devoted to the close examination of shakespeare's works, culture, and influence.
during this semester, the student completes the experimental portion of thesis work and prepares a draft paper.
prerequisite: fia 103 or sophomore standing.
1-4 cr bio 210 human anatomy & physiology a study of the workings of the human body.
the role of the federal, state and local government in special education issues will also be covered, with special emphasis on case and regulatory law, including maine regulations.
the course is interdisciplinary in scope.
the notion of vocational rehabilitation and the range of employment service programs will be addressed in a holistic fashion, noting their relationship to the conceptual practice of psychosocial rehabilitation and human services.
prerequisite: initial  placement or by completing mat 9 with a minimum grade of c-.
the course also includes a limited introduction to probability.
1-3 cr fia 460 senior project
prerequisite: psy 211 and junior or senior standing.
prerequisite: swim 500 yds. including 200-yd. front crawl, 100-yd.
students completing this course will possess the skills necessary to accurately perform routine quantitative analyses of samples, use a governmental standard methods, and to judge the precision and reliability of their results.
the course emphasizes both the theoretical and the practical, presenting management as a process of utilizing organizational resources to achieve specific objectives through the functions of planning, organizing, leading, and controlling.
2-3 cr env 223 environmental economics in this course economic concepts and tools of analysis are applied to environemtnal and natural resource issues.
3 cr psy 110 intro to psychology an introduction to the scientific study of behavior including a survey of  all the major areas of inquiry pursued by psychologists-history, methods,  physiological aspects, perception, learning, memory, cognition, emotion,  motivation, consciousness, personality, abnormal behavior and therapies, and  social processes.
prerequisite: edu 112 and edu 210; acceptance into upper-division study in elementary education program.
prerequisite: sophomore standing and gpa of 3.0 or better, or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: 9 cr in marketing and mat 113.
songwriting fulfills elective credit in both the creative writing and music minors.
students develop an appreciation of individual differences as they relate to  sports programming.
3 cr psy 215 psychology of gender this course surveys psychological theory and research on gender while emphasizing cross-cultural and multicultural issues to demonstrate what is truly universal about gender.
a practicum in local schools, including observation and presentation of a series of lessons, provides students an opportunity to apply principles and insights acquired through the course.
topics include problem solving, logical thinking, finding numerical patterns, transmitting positive attitudes towards mathematics, and the use of manipulatives and technology.
prerequisite: appropriate english placement examination scores or equivalent.
this is  the only group with a prerequisite.
prerequisite: eng 101 and either hty 115 or hty 116, or permission of instructor.
literacy music notation, basic performance and composition techniques (vocal and  instrumental), beginning harmony and sight singing are covered.
this second semester in a two-semester sequence will cover the homeostatic systems of the body: cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive and excretory systems.
stressed are the following concepts, institutions and topics: culture, society, socialization, the family, social stratification, intergroup relations, deviance, demography, collective behavior, popular culture, social movements, and social change.
courses are identical and may be repeated for  credit.
courses vary in content in response to student interest and  demand.
students will participate in classroom instruction, pool instruction and open water dives.
the course features cultural interactions and comparisons.
3 cr rem 313 advanced athletic training an in-depth study of organizational and administrative aspects of athletic training program management.
umm's mariculture facility is used to culture algae, shellfish, and finfish.
3 cr art 202 art history ii a survey of the visual arts from 1600 a.d. until the present.
this course provides an introduction to the field of community economic development.
policy is analyzed as the  resultant of political structure and process, societal values and perceived  benefits and costs.
topics covered include the mechanisms of evolution, molecular evolution, speciation, and the history of life.
this course includes lectures and discussions of the art and life of people in all major cultures with an emphasis on western culture after the renaissance.
4 cr bio 360 marine ecology an advanced course in ecology comparing the population and community dynamics of a variety of intertidal and subtidal hard-and soft-bottom, planktonic, and coral reef communities.
students are introduced to sampling techniques, experimental design, and statistical analysis of data through field trips to local aquatic, marine, and terrestrial ecosystems.
3 cr mar 323 personal selling insights into the theories, principles, methods and techniques of creative personal selling.
theoretical explanations may include, but not be limited to structural, conflict, interactionist, and evolutionary models.
this course is designed to challenge student assumptions about people and place.
students examine the environmental, economic, and socio-cultural impacts of tourism, and critically evaluate what qualifies as ecotourism.
the study of systems of linear functions, matrices, and linear programming with an emphasis on applications to business, economics, biology, and the social sciences.
students will explore readings in terms of artistry as well as impact on history - how the culture of the book in the united states shapes perceptions and gives a voice to collective goals.
prerequisite: hty 115 or hty 116, or permission of instructor.
depending on the season and the scheduling requirements, this  selection may include canoeing, backpacking, sailing, riflery, and ocean  kayaking.
3 cr phi 212 topics in philosophy topics focusing on a different aspect of study, i.e., science and religion, perception of reality, existentialism, eastern philosophy, and world religions.
there is no prerequisite although rem 121 and rem 122 would be beneficial.
prerequisite: 300-level writing course or permission of instructor.
the structure and function of the human skeleton and musculature is taught through lecture, demonstration and discussion.
this course provides the opportunity to study creative nonfiction through the dual processes of observation and imitation, to understand how specific writing techniques produce effective literature.
the semester culminates in a final project.
may be repeated for credit with different topics.
prerequisite: pos 215 or instructor's permission.
prerequisite: psy 110, mat 113, or permission of  instructor.
finally, major emphasis will be placed on how and why ethical business behavior varies among countries and cultures.
students will be reviewing the history and development of dual diagnosis treatment and learning about screening, assessment and basic treatment models, as well as understanding the current array of services for chemical dependency.
students will also meet with a committee composed of 3 faculty members or visiting artists.
human nature and the motivation of the individual are examined in  order to better understand individuals as members of groups.
topics will include ocean circulation, larval biology, plate tectonics, formation of ocean basins, ocean structure and chemistry, waves, tides, biology of marine life, food webs, productivity, ecology of marine communities and human effects on the oceans.
this course focuses on content area literacy through the exploration and application of strategic teaching approaches that will enhance student understanding of content area material.
this course outlines the research and training methods of sport psychologists and surveys theory and research on sport psychology, including such major areas as the history of sport psychology, the application of principles of learning and behavior, motivation and social psychology, the assessment of individual differences in personality of athletes, and principles of coaching and the psychology of exercise and fitness.
3 cr mtr 101 meteorology an introduction to the study of weather and weather-related phenomena  including solar radiation, temperature, moisture, winds, air pressure, air  masses, weather patterns, weather analysis, weather forecasting, climate,  weather instruments, and computers.
3 cr spa 102 elementary spanish ii a continuation of spa 101 taking the basics and building from there to allow students to develop fluency in writing and speech.
topics include the role of expert witnesses, determination of competency to stand trial, issues informing legal decisions on child custody, assessment of malingering, determination of civil competencies, assessing offenders, use of interrogation techniques and ethical issues that arise in this field.
prerequisite: mus 119 and mus 214, or equivalent.
3 cr pos 314 environmental law/environmental crime this is a third-year elective online course within sociology that addresses existing environmental laws and the environmental crimes that are committed in violation of these laws.
case management is a process of  assessing a client's needs, and planning and facilitating their connections  with health and human services and other resources.
among the topics considered are the development and dynamics of plant community structure; plant population demography; species interactions; effects of disturbance on population and community structure and dynamics.
first-line supervisors are often titled employment supervisor, head nurse, office manager, or shift manager.
topics include voting systems, population growth, fractals, chaos, and game theory.
students plan, organize and lead outdoor recreation activity  courses, outings for the outing club, and other outdoor experiences.
course prepares students to take a certification exam for personal trainers.
cr msy 331 desktop publishing the publishing process combining type, pictures and drawings on a computer  screen.
this course seeks to correct that view by exploring the diverse repertoire of assumptions, goals, approaches, and interpretations among historians past and present.
front  crawl, 100-yd.
prerequisites: gis 230, acceptance by internship supervisor and approval by gis director and director of cooperative education/internships.
investigations into the interactions between microorganisms and humans and the role of microorganisms in the environment will round out student perspectives of these minute life forms.
comparisons will be made between the healthy body and disease states.
students are introduced to basic plant structures and the techniques used for plant identification.
finally, students will be given an overview of the history of ceramics from prehistory to the present.
co-requisites: participation in a research project, such as undergraduate research in environmental studies, an independent study research project, or permission of instructor.
this professional association of diving instructors (padi) course is a  performance-based education course which leads to certification upon completion  of all requirements.
1-2 cr env 401 special topics in environmental studies a seminar providing in-depth study of a selected topic of environmental concern.
policy is analyzed as the resultant of political structure and process, societal values and perceived benefits and costs.
in the latter section, students examine socialization theories as they relate to contemporary american children’s peer cultures and american culture generally.
students are expected to manipulate and analyze demographic data.
theories of the cognitive, affective, and behavioral domains are related to classroom experiences.
topics are rotated to accommodate student needs and interests.
in addition to considering the learner and the learning process, students are equipped with a range of specific instructional strategies for diverse populations, including the multicultural perspective.
there are six primary components of the course: 1) review of primary literature pertinent to the project, 2) presentations by invited experts in the field, 3) discussion of stakeholder perspectives and options for effective communication of data, 4) training and education on new technologies and techniques, 5) student presentations (data presentation and summar will be required) and 6) open discussion and trouble-shooting of individual research projects.
students will gain familiarity with important authors and works from each period of british history.
3 cr ssc 302 intro to counseling techniques this course orients students to the field of applied psychology.
3 cr acc 328 fund accounting covers accounting practices of governmental and non-profit organizations.
prerequisite: mat 113, junior standing, or permission of instructor.
course may be taken multiple times for credit.
1 cr dan 326 advanced belly dance students build on skills learned in previous belly dance classes, learning a dance form that has survived for centuries because of its appeal to the human spirit.
wellness topics discussed  include nutrition, weight management, cardiovascular disease, cancer, stress  management, addictive behaviors, and healthy lifestyle issues.
3 cr cse 115 business spreadsheet applications this course provides an introduction to basic, intermediate and advanced spreadsheet functions.
prerequisite: lat 101 or permission of instructor.
additional prerequisites dependent upon proposed experience, or permission of instructor.
students will develop an appreciation for how factors such as geography, climate, temperature, noise, natural disasters, pollution, personal space, population density, crowding, urban living, rural living, structural design (institutional and residential) and work, learning and leisure environments influence human behavior.
3 cr edu 345 secondary english methods a course designed to acquaint prospective secondary teachers with current language development theory, curriculum methods, and materials for the effective teaching of composition, literature, and oral language.
1 cr dan 219 special topics in dance a learning experience designed to allow students to pursue study in any of a variety of styles in dance and movement as creative expression and may include: format and technique; interpretation, improvisation and choreography; and costuming, performance and production.
prerequisite: edu 352 curriculum design evaluation & assessment, edu 321 secondary methods of teaching i, or permission of instructor.
the student gives an oral presentation of the topic and makes any final corrections to the paper required by the division faculty.
upon completion of this course, a student  should have a qualitative understanding of how many of the basic principles of  physics, chemistry and mathematics are applied in meteorology; an ability to  relate personal weather observations to data received from weather instruments  and analyzed on standard weather charts; and a new set of general data analysis  skills.
students will participate in an extended field experience where they will gain practice in leadership positions in various situations.
instruction on some instruments may be contingent upon faculty availability.
3 cr man 232 supervision focusing on the daily activities of a first-line supervisor providing potential and practicing supervisors practical knowledge for developing supervisory skills and applying management theory through decision making.
prerequisite: rem 202 and rem 321.
these topics will all be touched upon in  regard to curiosity.
3 cr ant 311 archaeology & maine prehistorymaine has a rich tradition of human settlement and cultural diversity spanning from the end of the last ice age to modern times.
3 cr bus 111 introduction to business & entrepreneurship an introductory course providing knowledge of what business and entrepreneurship are all about.
whenever possible the specific topic will be designed and coordinated with local regional agencies.
a key component of the course will be discussions related to how these interpretive assessments can be useful in planning interpretive programs, as well as managing the landscape for recreational or other types of use.
developing an understanding of the nature and diversity of leisure activities is the goal of this course.
one distinction between cooperative education and an internship is that co-op assignments are, more often than not, paid work experiences.
if time and student interest permit, an introduction to arachnid identification (to the family level) will be included.
skills and techniques studied include a sketch map, wreck survey,  photo-mosaic, excavation and conservation of artifacts.
what are the economic, social, professional and cultural needs being fulfilled by online communities?
students also have an opportunity to develop an awareness and  appreciation of the maine waterways.
this course will introduce students to concepts of trauma, as well as resiliency and recovery.
4 cr bio 230 human anatomy & physiology ii this course studies the workings of the human body.
prerequisites: basic knowledge of microsoft windows.
3 cr rem 442 recreation seminar a seminar to integrate previous course and field experiences.
a practicum is required.
prerequisite: mat 126 or 127, depending on the topic.
3 cr phi 101 intro to philosophy a study of the perennial problems of philosophy as discussed by authors of  all periods from the pre-socratic greeks to contemporary writers.
in addition, the course examines the history and impact of laws and regulatory standards that dictate these policies -- and ultimately service provision in behavioral care for children, adults and the elderly.
3 cr rem 225 leadership and group dynamics the study of leadership theory and group dynamics is the primary focus of  this course.
3 cr psy 325 motivation
topics include the history of mariculture in the state, water quality parameters, culture systems, life histories and ecology, public vs. private mariculture, feeding and nutrition, diseases within culture systems, and mariculture economics.
students will be required to develop a classroom management system as well as teach a unit plan developed in their methods course.
students study the effects of protected area  management, business practices, public policies, and other factors on the  ecotourism sector.
students registering for this course must  receive written approval from current instructor.
the course will cover basic dance movements, as well as basic finger cymbal patterns and veil work.
3 cr eng 353 poetry writing: intermediate follows eng 232 techniques of poetry in the creative writing sequence and is intended for those students interested in pursuing the art of poetry writing.
3 cr edu 301 teaching and learning a self-designed supervised practicum experience involving tutoring; assisting a classroom teacher; and planning, implementing, and evaluating lessons in educational settings beyond the university classroom.
it will be attentive to the impact of different kinds of books -- scripture, subversive writings, and consumables -- on societies and across cultures.
an elective course, it may be taken by qualified students and area educators depending on the specific topic being addressed.
a one-year student software license is provided.
the selection may include aerobic dance, aquasize, archery, badminton, basketball, bowling, fitness, folk dance, golf, karate, kickboxing, racquetball, snowshoeing, soccer, softball, swimming, team handball, tennis, volleyball, wallyball, weight training, or cross-country skiing.
the course includes  active participation in outdoor activities such as lake canoeing, ocean  kayaking, backpacking, camping, and map and compass skills.
individual contracts are developed by the student, supervisor, and field practitioner for each experience.
essential components of this course include  addressing contemporary public and social policy -- and social services  provision within those policies -- including fundamentals of behavioral health  care, child protection, and welfare systems.
3 cr psy 213 psychosocial rehabilitation practices this course will address the notion of psychosocial rehabilitation in a  holistic fashion, noting the conceptual practice of psychosocial rehabilitation  as a core organizing attitude underlying all behavioral health care.
a lab may be included as part of the course.
prerequisite: acc 201, mar 101, rem 301, rem 321.
the intermediate-level course utilizes the immersion-style teaching method.
american popular music history, american musical theatre (broadway), jazz survey, women in music, and the beatles are topics offered recently.
prerequisite: permission of marine biologists.
3 cr eng 451 chaucer an in-depth study devoted to the close examination of chaucer's major works.
the american psychological association's ethics code will be  introduced, critically examined and used to discuss ethical tensions that arise  in various psychology professions.
4 cr bio 227 invertebrate zoology this course is a survey of the great diversity of free-living and parasitic organisms without backbones.
3 cr rem 328 forest interpretation this field-based course is about exploring and interpreting forested landscapes to learn about their natural history, based on forest composition and structure, as well as coarse soil examinations.
3 cr bus 334 international business
students learn those aspects of sales management that make it distinct from generic management.
the role of informed consent and internal review boards will be addressed.
historical perspectives, professional responsibilities, human and  natural resource elements, and future trends are explored.
prerequisite: bio 245; mat 215 or higher; junior or senior standing; env 112 or bio 265; or permission of instructor.
emphasis is placed  on outdoor leadership philosophies and techniques.
students will develop inquiry activities that are aligned to standards-based science curriculum and apply them in class through the practicum.
1-3 cr hty 103 american history to 1865
it can take the form of a portfolio, a research project or some other equivalent experience.
prerequisite: chy 222 and chy 322, or permission of instructor.
2-3 cr env 305 research seminar this course is designed to allow students to assimilate the multiple aspects of independent research in a group setting.
this course will introduce students to the skills and  responsibilities central to case management, as well as professional, legal,  and ethical issues that impact this service.
core philosophies are examined, including historical and current theories and practices, noting the use of contemporary effective practices which are key to current psychosocial rehabilitation.
the competencies acquired provide students with a sound  foundation for the primary care of athletes and recreational participants.
3 cr wri 471 advanced creative writing a workshop for writers at an advanced level.
over the course of a week, the class will visit a variety of forested areas (coastal, mixed forest, hardwood stands, cedar bogs and mature stands) in order to examine the differences in terms of soil and forest composition and to search for a variety of other clues about how the landscape was used in the past.
the integrated laboratory reinforces concepts from lecture.
prerequisite:  phe 103 or equivalent certification.
surrounding outdoor areas and nearby facilities for tennis and golf are available.
specific applied policy  analysis will include topical current issues, such as climate change, health  care, education and same-sex marriage.
the course explores a variety of equipment, materials and techniques.
this course explores characteristics of a landscape that are important in motivating recreation participation, and the experiences sought by outdoor recreationists.
prerequisite: junior standing or permission of the instructor.
topics focused on include  personnel psychology, employee motivation and leadership, employee training and  development, organization development and guided change, organizational  behavior, and work and family.
2 cr ses 202 document production the primary focus is on document production and the further development of speed and accuracy.
the impacts of and relationships between many current societal issues and sport are explored.
recent examples include perspectives on literacy; belief systems and the nature of reality; religion and spirituality, and interdisciplinary perspectives on time.
cross-cultural and sub-cultural perspectives are explored.
prerequisite: eng 101 and junior standing, or permission of instructor.
it  is designed to help the beginning mental health professional develop basic  therapeutic skills, understand the role of the counselor and the unique  dynamics which exist in the therapeutic relationship, understand the ethical  nature of the relationship, and to begin to define a working definition of  psychological growth and mental health from a multicultural perspective.
3 cr rem 353 river trip guiding course provides an opportunity for upper class students to practice and  perfect their outdoor leadership techniques by guiding other students on an  extended river canoeing trip.
the course is designed to enable the student to understand and examine important characteristics of an organization.
the student presents their work to the appropriate campus audience.
3 cr spa 101 elementary spanish i developing skills in reading and writing and in speaking and listening to spanish.
3 cr eng 102 introduction to literature an introduction to the study of literature through the discovery of the various genres, styles, periods and major figures of literature, and the methods through which such discoveries might be made.
an in-house performance at semester's end (closed to the  public) is the final for this course.
prerequisite: bio 111, bio 112, bio 206, or permission of instructor.
students will use a variety of species and systems to read about, ask and answer experimental questions related to the ecology and physiology of these organisms.
students are required to demonstrate competency in utilizing technology for skill reinforcement.
while terrestrial and aquatic groups are studied, marine organisms and their planktonic stages are emphasized.
students in eng 12 will establish competency in the essentials of written communication (grammar, sentence structure, punctuation, etc.) as well as develop facility in the editing and revision processes.
the course is intended to create a sense of excitement about marine environments through hands-on field sampling, identifications using guides and keys, and instruction on natural history and ecology.
while much of the course consists of a workshop format, lectures and class discussions cover such topics as sentence effectiveness, writer's block, dynamics of language, metaphor, meter, characterization, plotting, dialogue, narrative point of view, scene construction, revision, and publication.
the impacts of and relationships between many current  societal issues and sport are explored.
through reading both classic and contemporary selections of feminist and non-feminist thinking about women, men, and society, students engage with some of the central problems within feminist theory.
prerequisite: rem 219 or permission of instructor.
topics include problem-solving skills, algebraic equations, inequalities, functions, polynomials, and systems of equations and inequalities.
4 cr mat 126 calculus i basic concepts of differential and integral calculus: limits, continuity, differentiation and integration of elementary functions, graphing, maxima and minima, and the fundamental theorem.
the influence of geological processes in new england on soil formation and community structure is studied in lectures and field trips.
the american psychological association's ethics code will be introduced, critically examined and used to discuss ethical tensions that arise in various psychology professions.
prerequisite: acc 201 3 cr acc 301 intermediate accounting i covers techniques accountants use to measure and communicate general purpose financial information to all interested parties in a manner that complies with generally accepted accounting principles.
4 cr gis 424 advanced projects in geographic information systems (gis) students pursue individual, advanced service-learning or advanced academic projects in gis, meeting in class for critiques, trouble-shooting labs and seminars relevant to project topics or methods.
emphasis is placed on interpersonal skills, ethics, and viewing sales in their natural setting as an event where both buyer and seller benefit.
tests (both standardized and teacher-made) and non-test techniques of assessment are considered as well as their implications for instructional planning.
this course will focus on ways in which psychologists work within legal contexts and how psychological techniques inform civil and criminal legal proceedings.
data production looks at methods for producing data to answer specific  questions.
3 cr hty 341 native american history this course explores the traditions and experiences of the north american indigenous peoples from the hunter-gatherers of prehistory, through encounters with europeans, and into the modern period of resistance and resurgence.
prerequisites: psy 110 and eng 101.
specific topics begin with taxonomy, heredity, evolution, and ecology.
3 cr mat 110 finite mathematics
3 cr cmy 415 special topics in community studies courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within community studies.
those involved in certain technical positions (such as stage management) may meet during this class time.
prerequisite: edu 313 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: eng 101, wri 207, or permission of instructor.
students will primarily use arcgis software, the industry standard, the the class will also explore low- and no-cost gis software appropriate for municipal applications.
1 cr mus 115 intro to music: listening the basic course in musical awareness, informed listening, and the elements of music.
3 cr rem 443 recreation leadrship practicum allows qualified students to gain personal experience teaching and leading  recreation/fitness activities at the college level under supervised conditions.
the intent of the course is to help students in their adjustment to the new experience of college life.
the course is taught through practice, small-group work, presentations and as little spoken word as possible.
subjects include script reading and analysis, the creative components and structure of theatrical art, stage conventions, historical perspectives, and the nature of creative and collaborative work.
this course can be taken multiple times.
prerequisite: bio 111 or equivalent.
control of these systems by the nervous and endocrine systems will be emphasized.
the class will include streaming lectures, hands-on lab exercises and real-world assignments and projects.
assessment will be based on problem sets, lab work and a final project.
prerequisite: acc 202.
3 cr hty 321 world environmental history world environmental history is an upper-level seminar that explores human and environmental connections in a variety of societies.
this course has been taught in both  full-semester/classroom and intensive/outdoor formats.
topics vary with semester and instructor.
3 cr psy 324 lifespan ii this course covers the context and process of human development transitioning out of adolescence and into adulthood and on through older adulthood and death.
3 cr ssc 210 human sexuality an interdisciplinary inquiry into the historical, cultural and developmental issues in human sexuality.
this course teaches the foundational knowledge and skills necessary to dive with a buddy, independent of supervision.
the specific research topics addressed will change as the focus of the various research projects changes.
3 cr rem 125 sailing and basic seamanship designed to introduce students to sailing and basic boating safety.
3 cr ant 330 sociocultural modelsan examination of contemporary theoretical explanations of behavior: how do various models shape the formulation of questions about behavior and the resultant answers.
1-3 cr art 216 book arts
minority  populations, which may be related more to influence than to size, may include  african americans, native americans, roma, middle eastern americans, asian  americans, those individuals that may identify as lgbt, the impoverished, the  elderly, the obese, those with physical or mental disabilities, and women.
3 cr rem 313 advanced athletic training an in-depth study of organizational and administrative aspects of athletic  training program management.
3 cr sed 345 behavior strategies and social skill development for students with disabilities this course provides instruction in a variety of behavior strategies, including the development of social skills.
students will gain familiarity and experience with a range of methods of analyzing and measuring the physical and social impact of recreation in a variety of settings, including survey research, interviews, remote sensing and on-the-ground documentation.
prerequisite:  psy 110, or permission of instructor.
3 cr acc 314 quickbooks accounting for entrepreneurs quickbooks accounting for entrepreneurs will introduce students to quickbooks accounting software.
4 cr chy 102 general chemistry ii a continuation of general chemistry i dealing with kinetics, reaction rates, equilibria, acids and bases, simple thermodynamics, electrochemistry, metals and non-metals and, briefly, elements of organic and biochemistry.
3 cr eng 371 intermediate creative writing intermediate creative writing serves as a workshop for writers at the intermediate level.
3 cr ast 100 descriptive astronomy the goal of this course is to provide students with a basic introduction to astronomy.
belly dancers today enjoy it for fun, fitness and friendship.
in the third semester of the sequence, students enroll in bio 403.
this lengthy period saw the biological development and worldwide dispersal of human beings, the emergence of agriculture, cities, writing, organized religions, complex social organization and political institutions, and the creation of distinct cultural traditions.
3 cr mat 107 structure of arithmetic
3 cr rem 123 river canoeing and camping designed to prepare a student to lead an extended canoeing trip on a  wilderness river.
prerequisite: rem 301. 3
major emphasis is placed on such topics as federal-state-local  relations; government and politics on the state level, including constitutions,  legislatures, governors and judges; law enforcement and court systems; city,  county and town governments; the urban crisis; big city politics; metropolitan  government; local power structures; the politics of education and welfare; and  state and local government regulation and taxation.
it is a basic course in business, economic and entrepreneurial literacy as well as organizational structures and functions, and provides an overview of the traditional business disciplines including marketing, finance, accounting, management, information systems, etc., and additionally forms the basis for subsequent studies.
3 cr mus 223 songwriting the basic tenets of songwriting learned through analysis and creative work.
class meetings include drawing, sculpture, and mixed media as well as lectures and discussions on related topics.
students in this course view and analyze films according to historical, structural, socio-cultural, or other approaches, as determined by the instructor.
this course meets the kinesiology requirement  for the state of maine endorsement: teacher of physical education.
an in-depth look at the game  including fitness, techniques, tactics and systems is taken.
the course will cover the history of technologies of writing, paper, manuscript production, and printing, the history of literacy, education and reading, as well as the history of the book.
prerequisite:  eng 101 and mus 119, or permission of instructor.
attention is given to related research, personality  assessment, and therapies.
prerequisites are established for mathematics courses so students will have  the quantitative skills necessary for success.
exceptions to these restrictions may be made with the approval of the vice president for academic affairs.
mat 12 beginning algebra an introduction to the language and skills used for quantitative problem  solving in all fields of inquiry and for subsequent work in mathematics.
3 cr man 315 essentials of negotiation negotiation is a critical skill needed for effective management.
we will consider the connection between their lives and historical trends of the period such as religious reformation, the rise of capitalism, the growth of literacy, print culture, and science.
prerequisite: demonstrated competency of 40 words per minute on three-minute timed writings and ses 103.
a course to acquaint students with the chemical aspects of environmental concerns including energy production and use, air and water pollution, pesticides and toxic wastes.
students learn about cultural, geographic, economic, political and legal forces affecting international business and the implications for managers.
4 cr mat 127 calculus ii methods and applications of integration, some differential equations,  exponential and logarithmic growth, and infinite series.
3 cr acc 202 managerial accounting covers techniques accountants use to help management plan and control business operations.
emphasis is on the development of an individual vision.
prerequisite: eng 101.
4 cr mat 315 experimental design & analysis for biologists this course will introduce students to the most common and widely used  experimental designs to generate biological data for both continuous and  categorical variables.
this course seeks to expand student understanding of texts by foregrounding the broader cultural context through and in which they take form.
3 cr ant 212 environmental anthropology the field of environmental anthropology explores human-environment relations around the globe and from prehistory to the present.
risk management  planning is an integral part of the course.
the course, interdisciplinary in its approach, involves writers working in a variety of genres in order to improve their expertise in the genre of their choice.
prerequisite: eng 101, or may be taken concurrently.
3 cr psy 329 trauma and recovery
prerequisite: bio 265 or permission of instructor.
topics of consideration include an overview of ecosystems; population growth of plants, animals and humans; species extinction and preservation; natural resource use and conservation; air, water, and soil pollution and control; agriculture and world food production; 'pest' control; solid waste production and disposal.
3 cr ant 415 special topics in applied anthropology course designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within applied anthropology.
individual discretion is advised.
students learn how to find information, read journal articles, pose research questions, select appropriate methods, select participants, select appropriate designs and statistical analyses, report research findings, and do the above in the most ethical manner.
this course gives the student a thorough introduction to important leadership issues that arise in the world of business, including the analysis of the interests of all the individuals who hold a stake in the outcome of any business dilemma or decision.
the course will introduce students to the mission of umm and our vision of the campus's role in downeast maine and beyond, will help them integrate into the umm community as they build relationships with peers and with faculty/staff and will provide knowledge and skills useful in making a successful transition to college life in machias.
students participate in toxic alga monitoring program for the maine state department of marine resources throughout the semester.
3 cr psy 328 case management this course introduces students to case management as it is utilized in the  health and human services fields.
emphasis is placed on students with disabilities in a broad range of educational environments.
uses microsoft access and/or open sourse software.
this course is designed for business majors but is not exclusive to them, as other students may elect the course.
mat 9 fundamentals of mathematics to prepare students for algebra and college-level mathematics, an understanding of arithmetic and pre-algebra topics and their mastery is emphasized.
the course focus will be on small rural communities in areas that have historically depended on natural resource extraction, manufacturing and agriculture.
this course is appropriate for students interested in careers in criminal justice, as well as students who plan to work in health and human services with clients who are court-involved or adjudicated.
with an emphasis on interdisciplinary approaches, students will come to understand more fully a specific field or approach to the arts, to demonstrate the practical applications of this field of knowledge, to carry out appropriate research on limited subjects within the field, and to work in a collaborative atmosphere of creative expression.
prerequisite: swim 500 yds. including 200-yd.
students contemplating such an approach must consult with their faculty advisors well in advance of the development of a prospectus, which should outline the purpose of the study and describe the proposed learning outcomes, methodology, and evaluation techniques.
prerequisite: soc 114 and junior standing, or permission of instructor.
teaching and leadership methodologies, activity  planning and organization, risk management implementation and other topics are  put into practice through this experience.
capitalism's strengths, weaknesses and challenges are considered within the context of post-world war ii global economic history, with particular attention to the impacts of cultural and institutional diversity.
prerequisite: edu 220 or edu 334.
prerequisite: bio 110 human anatomy & physiology i. 4 cr bio 245 general ecology an introduction to the major ecological concepts of energy flow, community and population structure, nutrient cycling, competition, and predation demonstrated through the study of selected ecosystems.
3 cr edu 210 educational psychology a course designed to help prospective teachers reflect upon the dynamics of learning and instruction.
prerequisite: psy 110, mat 113, or permission of instructor.
1-4 cr mat 215 applied statistics designed for students who intend to use statistics and statistical software  later in their education and professional lives.
this course is designed to introduce the student to a variety of those techniques, including cost-volume analysis, decision theory, forecasting, linear programming, work measurement and learning curves, simulation, queuing theory, materials requirement planning, etc.
topics covered include the socio-economic determinants of fertility, mortality and migration, carrying capacity, urbanization, and environmental stress.
in particular, students will learn some of the more complicated editing techniques of non-linear post-production.
prerequisite: edu 337 and sed 310, or permission of instructor.
letterpress printing will be introduced.
the study of four-part harmony is begun.
since the topics studied change each year, students may enroll in the course more than once for a maximum of 9 cumulative cr.
prerequisite: art 211 or permission of instructor.
historical, social and cultural factors which impact our understanding of trauma will also be addressed, as well as trauma's social and physiological impact.
the  motivation for participation and the role of the outdoor leader are explored in  detail.
the integrated laboratory provides basic biochemical techniques and application of concepts discussed in lecture.
a thorough understanding of all skills  necessary to lead a successful trip will be developed.
this course will describe the nature of tests as employed in psychological,  educational, career development, and health settings.
classroom exercises and field work contacts concentrate on the administrative processes of policy development, decision making, personnel management, budgeting and financing, programming, public relations and office management.
students learn  about the role of variability in hypothesis testing using both parametric and  non-parametric tests.
3 cr psy 318 psychology of curiosity this course is designed to survey theory and empirical research on  curiosity -- the innate motive to seek out and acquire new information to  stimulate interest or reduce uncertainty.
3 cr psy 316 industrial/organizational psychology industrial/organizational (i/o) psychology concerns the application of psychological theories, research methods, and intervention strategies to workplace issues.
students will discover how american women from different races, ethnic groups, regions, and classes experienced what it meant to grow up female in america at different historical times, and how these women confronted and created changing concepts of womanhood.
1-4 cr chy 101 general chemistry
3 cr psy 317 environmental psychology this course will acquaint the student with the reciprocal nature of the interplay between people and built and natural environments.
prerequisite:   sophomore standing, or permission of the instructor.
studetns must apply to the coordinator for cooperative education/internship before registering for the class.
every student will demonstrate knowledge and practical skills in all areas to complete the course and to obtain padi certification.
the approval process precedes registration.
special emphasis is given to commercial paper, real and personal property, bailments, agency and employment.
3 cr bio 352 algal & marine plant ecology this course will engage students in studies and active research in the functional biology, ecology, physiology, taxonomy and identification of algae and marine plants (primarily marine macrophytes).
what makes online communities succeed or fail?
the publications will be conceived, designed, edited, proofed, and marketed by students, under the guidance of the instructor(s).
prerequisite:  psy 110, or  permission of instructor.
prerequisite: mat 102 or permission of instructor.
also available is the fitness center with a competition-sized pool and large fitness room with free weights and aerobic equipment.
students will build on their previous knowledge of shakespeare, early modern culture, and literary theory, especially in their completion of an in-depth research project.
competency and/or concurrent enrollment in basic reading, writing, and mathematics courses are a prerequisite for all business studies offerings with a prefix of acc, bus, man, or mar.
prerequisite: mus 115 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: mus 119 or permission of instructor.
on-line computer use required.
students learn how american studies takes its own form of interdisciplinary inquiry, one whose multiple perspectives enrich an understanding of society and culture in america.
this course  emphasizes the practical application of the knowledge and skills gained through  the course.
3 cr coe 301 cooperative education ii involves management or special project assignments related to the student's career interests or academic field.
4 cr env 112 environmental issues a writing-intensive course providing an introduction to the broad areas of concern in environmental studies.
students will spend a minimum of six hours per week in local classrooms while observing, participating and teaching.
prerequisite: mat 113, psy 110, psy 320, or permission of instructor.
prerequisites: soc 114, or permission of instructor.
the earth and its natural cycles are examined as are changes brought about by human technologies.
3 cr rem 122 outdoor recreation ii develops philosophical, organizational, participation and leadership skills in an effort to promote safe, enjoyable participation in outdoor activities while considering the impact on and the protection of the natural resource.
this course balances theory and practice and provides students with the  opportunity to integrate theoretical and practical learning through regular  role-play, to examine their own therapeutic interventions, and to begin to  define their own therapeutic style.
1 cr chy 322 biochemistry a study of the molecules of living systems: amino acids and proteins, enzymes, carbohydrates, nucleic acids and lipids.
prerequisite: psy 110 and cmy 101 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: rem 202.
3 cr eng 232 techniques of fiction a survey course in contemporary fiction.
the course is designed to be a survey course that will allow for such a broad view of the development of mathematics.
various approaches to the course will include interviewing successful entrepreneurs, examining internet promotions, site visits, developing plans of operation and others.
prerequisite: knowledge of nonprofit/public organizations, writing ability, and internet skills.
3 cr rem 111 freshman recreation seminar provides an introduction to college and specifically to umm exploring campus policies and procedures, campus services and opportunities, study skills and time management, student responsibilities and image, etc.
in the second semester of the sequence, the student enrolls in bio 405.
3 cr pos 311 political correctness in american society this course defines, examines, and analyzes political correctness as a long-standing feature of american society, dating back to the salem witch trials and including the alien and sedition acts, prohibition, mccarthyism, and more.
a seminar course whose primary objective is to explore marine ecological concepts, themes, and paradigms of student interest.
the preparation of mock grant proposals takes students through the entire grant application cycle of need definition, grant research, program and budget planning, proposal writing, submission/review/ funding, and post-award administration.
entrepreneurship is analyzed as the fuel and fire of capitalism, and the behavior and characteristics of entrepreneurs are considered.
through this work, students learn to plan, manage, execute and document a multi-faceted gis project, skills with direct applications to the workforce.
the course combines lectures, discussion and laboratory exercises.
3 cr hty 340 history of the social sciences this class explores the emergence and development of the academic disciplines anthropology, psychology, and sociology.
speakers and the career development office will help students explore individual interests, values and job characteristics so they can more readily choose an appropriate career direction.
prerequisite: psy  110, soc 114, and junior standing; or permission of instructor.
3 cr rem 224 athletic & recreational injury management the acquisition of basic skills and knowledge of the prevention, recognition and care of injuries normally occurrirng in athletic and recreational sports.
students will continue to incorporate finger cymbals and a veil with dance movements and learn how to use a dance cane.
may be  repeated for credit with permission of instructor.
use of the computer to enhance management tasks  and program delivery is an important aspect of this course.
it is intended to be the method through which the student clearly demonstrates the linkage between their objectives and the academic work in their self-designed concentration.
3 cr bcs 460 senior project/capstone experience this course is the capstone experience for a student in the bcs program.
topics considered include the structure of plant cells, the organization of cells into tissues, the aggregation of tissues into organ systems, and the unification of organ systems in the whole plant body.
prerequisite: edu 220 or edu 313, mat 107, mat 108, or permission of instructor.
while students will work independently with a mentor from their concentration on the portfolio, all those enrolled in senior seminar will meet periodically to discuss common experiences and readings.
3 cr eng 327 masterpieces of american literature
3 cr phi 101 intro to philosophy a study of the perennial problems of philosophy as discussed by authors of all periods from the pre-socratic greeks to contemporary writers.
a student typically begins in the second half of the junior year of study.
part of this course focuses on what distinguishes writing for children from other forms of creative writing, and the narrowing margin between novels and short stories for young adults and those marketed for an adult audience.
3 cr hty 352 topics in 19th-century american history topics in 19th-century american history focuses on specific trends and issues relevant to the period.
more significantly, they will learn to recognize the period of a work by its style and be able to infer key ideas about the work from its chronological placement.
students  receive firsthand experience of site protection techniques, visitor management,  and other problems involved in managing recreational facilities.
successful completion of this 72-hour course  carries a three-year certification through the wilderness medical associates  and exceeds the maine guide’s requirements for medical training.
3 cr art 217 papermaking
3 cr edu 223 children's literature a course that encourages extensive reading, discussing, enjoyment, and appreciation of books, periodicals and other literature for young people.
3 cr hty 311 medieval europe this course examines aspects of the civilization that developed in europe between the fall of the western roman empire in the 5th century c.e. and the beginning of the modern world in the 16th century.
a practicum in local schools, including observation and presentation of a series of lessons, will provide students an opportunity to apply principles and insights acquired through social studies.
finally, they will engage in a series of reflections upon the shape and usefulness of the program, which become part of the assessment for the program.
students will become familiar with local benthic and pelagic marine communities, their ecology and their animals and plants.
attention is directed to the role of politics, the media and race and social class.
3 cr art 102 art fundamentals: 3-d an introductory course in which students learn the elements and principles of three-dimensional design through hands-on studio practice.
from wilderness areas to tourism developments, the course will look at the settings where people recreate, the psychological and social experiences they seek related to the environment, and their social and ecological impact on the landscape.
students' voices, body movement, and imaginations are developed through a series of exercises.
3 cr int 200 interdisciplinary studies interdisciplinary studies offer models of how informed people educate themselves by examining ideas, issues, and values through gathering, analyzing, and integrating new information; and through recognizing their own and others' assumptions with discernment and sympathy.
the course involves the various areas of life including relationships to family members, to friends and associates, and to professional colleagues.
recognizing the profound role of media in shaping young adults' perceptions of other cultures, soliya trains participating students to create and exchange video segments illustrating their perspectives on world events.
students will examine the demographic, economic, and social consequences of contact with europeans, and the various struggles native americans adopted for survival and persistence.
phe 101 physical education activity a choice of activities is available each semester, depending on the season and scheduling requirements.
topics to be  addressed include skills to increase cultural awareness and understanding,  skills to foster effective interpersonal communication and organizational  change strategies.
3 cr bus 212 business communications a course designed to develop effective communication skills in the areas of writing, speaking, and listening.
prerequisite: mat 215. 4
prerequisite: bio 111 or equivalent, and sophomore or higher standing.
core  philosophies are examined, including historical and current theories and  practices, noting the use of contemporary effective practices which are key to  current psychosocial rehabilitation.
3 cr rem 319 topics in tourism & hospitality management this course will provide an in-depth exploration of a variety of topics  (one for each offering) within the management of the tourism and hospitality  industry.
2-3 cr env 414 environmental studies: issues and actions the course is a project-based course designed to enable students to participate in an environmental hands-on learning experience.
there will be an examination of the history of public lands, their conservation and uses, and the laws and policies that govern their stewardship; including the major agencies charged with managing and protecting these lands and their resources, and the balancing of human activities with protecting wildlife and ecosystems.
students must apply to the coordinator for cooperative education/internship before registering for the class.
objects may include houses, barns and out buildings (vernacular architecture), vehicles, boats, tools, foodways, dress and folk art and crafts.
police culture, issues regarding use of force in civil society, ethical problems, the potential for civil liability and policing the american drug problem are all considered.
prerequisite: mat 012 or mat 102.
this course is about recreational landscapes and how they are used by  people.
this course teaches the foundational knowledge and skills  necessary to dive with a buddy, independent of supervision.
the student will work in consultation with a research advisor to develop a research plan and undertake an environmentally related research project.
students will learn to identify and collect local algae and marine plants through herbaria.
may be taken pass/fail at the option of instructor.
topics include the individual income tax formula, income inclusions and exclusions, ordinary income, capital gains and losses, active and passive income, deductions, and tax credits.
prerequisite: 3.0 gpa within the major and overall, and approval by a thesis advisor. 1 cr bio 404 senior thesis in biological research an opportunity for students to engage in independent research on a biological problem of interest to them.
i the first part of a two-semester introduction to the properties and behavior of matter at the atomic and molecular level: unites and definitions, chemical changes, stoichiometry, energy changes, structure and periodicity of atoms, nuclear chemistry, states of matter, and chemical bonding.
the main emphasis of the course is on understanding collaborative consultation as a process that enables people with diverse expertise to work together to generate solutions for educating students with special needs.
students will also be introduced to pertinent theoretical questions in the field.
why did the social sciences emerge when and as they did?
3 cr hum 113 introduction to humanities introduction to representative works across the humanities: literature, visual art, music, theater, and philosophy.
it is important that these  skills are current.
3 cr eng 228 writer's market this one-credit course provides students with the skills, knowledge and means to promote and protect their writing professionally.
4 cr rem 213 principles of coaching a course to provide students with the basic competencies to teach and coach  sports (usually soccer and basketball) in recreational as well as school  situations.
courses vary in content in response to student interest and demand.
developmental psychology focuses on how learning and  maturation within social, cultural and physical environments shape normal human  development.
this course includes lectures and discussions of the art and life of people in all major cultures in this chronological period.
cse 109 topics in computer trends a hands-on course designed to offer students the latest changes in technology and software.
2 cr edu 338 internship ii with classroom management
this course provides the opportunity for a cross-disciplinary approach and seeks to introduce students to important social science concepts and research findings.
course content emphasizes both normal and abnormal conditions including symptoms, treatment options, and long-term effects as well as prevention.
3 cr hty 104 american history since 1865 this semester covers developments in united states history from the end of the civil war to current times.
this studio course will explore making paper by hand as a component for the making of edition of paper and images critical for the making of books.
first, the  theoretical and academic aspect in which the focus of the class and text is on  major psychological theories and their applications for everyday life.
3 cr rem 322 public service recreation an in-depth study of public recreation, including municipal, state, agency  (ymca/ywca, boys club, etc.), and military recreational services.
the course covers basic seamanship, sailing theory and techniques, boat handling, navigation, marine safety, and proper procedures for administering sailing programs.
prerequisite: acceptance by the student teaching committee.
the course builds strong foundations in mendelian and molecular genetics.
students examine the environmental, economic,  and socio-cultural impacts of tourism, and critically evaluate what qualifies  as ecotourism.
particular emphasis is placed upon development of an understanding that natural resources are extracted from ecological systems and, because of this, that long-term, sustained use of natural resources is subject to the constraints imposed by ecosystem structure and function.
prerequisite: acc 311, acc 321, acc 431, or permission of instructor.
this is the second course of a two-semester sequence, with integrated laboratory, designed to acquaint students with the molecules and reactions of living systems.
the course is taught on the web, and ideological diversity is encouraged and valued.
topics covered will  include: why we test; what makes for a "good" test; what is meant by  reliability and validity of a test, and how these are created and determined;  what makes a test biased; the differences between the concepts of and testing  for intelligence, achievement, aptitudes, personality, interests, interests,  and relationship issues; the basic statistical concepts used in test  construction and scoring; and specific well-known tests.
dual diagnosis in this context refers to having both a mental health diagnosis  (i.e. depression, anxiety, adhd, bipolar disorder) and a substance abuse or  dependence disorder.
1 cr bio 309 special topics in biology a course whose subject matter may come from any of a variety of topics in biology.
cr bio 403 senior thesis in biology
lecture  3 hours, laboratory 2 hours.
acc 201 financial accounting the fundamental principles of accounting as they relate to sole proprietorships.
in addition to considering the practical implications of theoretical disputes in the field, students are equipped with a range of specific instructional strategies.
increasingly, employers expect practial skills in applying geospatial tools to solve real-world problems.
this course may be repeated as topics  vary.
the course is also intended to help students learn or review fundamental accounting concepts and principles, enable students to review financial statements from a user perspective, provide students with a means to investigate the underlying source documents that generate most accounting information, and offer students the chance to explore some managerial aspects of accounting by performing financial analyses and comparisons.
developing an  understanding of the nature and diversity of leisure activities is the goal of  this course.
a course to provide students with an understanding of the ways technology can be used in school settings and to develop the skills to incorporate its use in a variety of educational tasks.
the course takes place in the classroom and the pool in preparation for actual ocean exploration.
studies of current issues, status, trends, and future directions in leisure and recreation are included.
prerequisite: art 219 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: eng 101, ame 220 or permission of instructor.
1-3 cr course descriptions - sed to wst sed special education
the course applies medical terminology through machine transcription.
attention is given to related research, personality assessment, and therapies.
3 cr acc 321 cost accounting covers how accountants measure and allocate the costs of operating a business.
students learn how to measure water quality parameters, assess salmonid habitat, and the use of macroinvertebrates as biological indicators of water and habitat quality.
3 cr ses 246 medical transcription
they will study the applications and properties of clay bodies and glazes.
1 cr dan 419 special topics in dance a learning experience designed to allow students to pursue study in any of a variety of styles in dance and movement as creative expression and may include: format and technique; interpretation, improvisation and choreography; and costuming, performance and production.
the course is intended to provide an in-depth look at childhood throughout history and in contemporary america.
4 cr bio 228 forest ecology lectures and field experiences develop or improve understanding and field skills for identifying and interpreting features in the variation of forest ecosystems over space and their processes of change over time.
this course is designed to survey theory and empirical research on  motivation, defined as the factors that initiate, energize, direct and sustain  behavior.
.5-9 cr edu 303 reading, writing and study skills in the content areas a methods course designed to prepare prospective middle-level and secondary teachers in reinforcing, extending and refining reading, writing and study skills taught at 5-12 grade levels.
topics covered will include: why we test; what makes for a "good" test; what is meant by reliability and validity of a test, and how these are created and determined; what makes a test biased; the differences between the concepts of and testing for intelligence, achievement, aptitudes, personality, interests, interests, and relationship issues; the basic statistical concepts used in test construction and scoring; and specific well-known tests.
the course will also provide students with an overview  of career opportunities in the leisure service industry, and include  discussions of professionalism, exploration of career objectives, and personal  interaction with working professionals from several different segments of the  leisure services industry.
3 cr edu 220 elementary social studies methods this course is designed to acquaint students with the elementary social studies curriculum and the diverse ways this component of the curriculum has been, and continues to be, defined in american schools.
general topics will include basic anatomy and physiology; including fascinating alternative reproductive strategies and physiological ecology.
ssc 320 research methods and design may be substituted for this first semester.
1-4 cr bio 310 special topics in mariculture this course allows students to experience a wide range of topics in marine aquaculture through numerous approaches including classroom seminars where topics may range from the history of mariculture in the u.s. to the biology and culture of salmonids, bivalves, or crustaceans.
there is no prerequisite  although rem 121 and rem 122 would be beneficial.
3 cr cmy 215 special topics in community studies courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within community studies.
the course further explores the material, social and cultural significance of those connections.
the  course covers basic seamanship, sailing theory and techniques, boat handling,  navigation, marine safety, and proper procedures for administering sailing  programs.
skills and techniques studied include a sketch map, wreck survey, photo-mosaic, excavation and conservation of artifacts.
cr msy 331 desktop publishing the publishing process combining type, pictures and drawings on a computer screen.
what is the membership cycle for online community members?
prerequisite: junior or senior history major, or permission of instructor.
since this is ordinarily the student's first methods course, particular attention is paid to the instructional planning process.
the primary emphasis is the development of the arithmetic of natural numbers: integers, rational and real numbers.
prerequisite: bio 111, bio 112, chy 102.
4 cr chy 305 research seminar this course is designed to allow students to assimilate the multiple aspects of independent research in a group setting.
3 cr soc 319 special topics in sociology course designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within sociology.
this course is required for full mhrt certification.
3 cr rem 230 outdoor leadership this course combines the practice of outdoor leadership with the study of  leadership theory and group management.
3 cr gis 204 introduction to global positioning system students will gain a knowledge of the global positioning system, using handheld receivers in the field to navigate and gather local information and entering the data into a computer to make maps.
prerequisite: acc 201 or permission of instructor.
3 cr wri 207 studies in composition and grammar a study of the basic theories and practices in modern grammar and usage, within the context of improving essay-writing skills.
the students will develop inquiry activities that are aligned to standards-based mathematics curricula and apply them to class through practica.
3 cr mat 113 introduction to statistics designed for students who need a reading knowledge of introductory statistical concepts, this course focuses on basic concepts and methods of statistics: data analysis, data production, and statistical inference.
topics covered in this course include the cultural and historical development of the book artifact, its materials and methods of production, the aesthetic integration of topography, text, page, paper and image; printing and methods of book production, and binding structures.
knowledge of reactivity is applied to structural analysis and organic synthesis.
a course, or series of courses, on a variety of topics for birdwatchers, amateur and professional ornithologists, and others interested in the lives of birds in their natural habitats.
prerequisite: sophomore standing and mat 012 or equivalent, or permission of instructor.
this course provides an opportunity to compare the accounting assumptions of organizations with varying purposes and to explore the appropriateness of those assumptions.
assessment and evaluation of exceptional students' progress are also considered.
the primary goals in this course are for each student to gain experience with conducting and writing research reports for a community partner.
such work involves field or laboratory experimentation, computer modeling, or a combination of methodologies.
prerequisite: bio 245 and mat 215, or equivalent.
emphasis is on the family, church, and schools.
prerequisite:  rem 110 or permission of  instructor.
major areas covered include:  sex  roles, theories and methods of studying gender, physiological systems and  development, relationships, sexuality, social performance, education and work,  physical and mental health and mass media and society.
3 cr man 321 operations management a focus on the application of quantitative tools and techniques to enhance decision making.
prerequisite: 3.00 gpa.
1-6 cr coe 301 cooperative education ii involves management or special project assignments related to the student's career interests or academic field.
3 cr bio 107 introduction to human diseases this course will provide students with an overview of a range of infectious, chronic and genetic diseases.
students have the opportunity to discuss a variety of financial reporting topics in seminar fashion.
it will then use this as a base for exploring the cultural development of basic numbering, arithmetic, basic statistics (mean, median, mode, etc.), simple probability, basic geometry, measurement (area, volume, etc.), patterns, including symmetry and basic networks, mathematical reasoning, and using mathematics to communicate.
topics include  quadratic, rational, exponential and logarithmic functions with applications  and solutions to equations and inequalities.
3 cr eco 202 microeconomics an analysis of the behavior and interaction of fundamental economic entities: households and firms.
4 cr phy 112 physics ii a continuation of phy 111 introducing the concepts of sound, electricity, optics, and modern physics.
3 cr acc 212 principles of financial accounting ii in this course, students encounter and are exposed to various topics in accounting for fixed and intangible assets; corporate organization, capital stock transactions and dividends; corporate income and taxes, stockholders' equity and investments in stocks; bonds payable and investments in bonds; cash flows; depreciation; financial statement analysis; alternative methods of recording deferrals, and lastly, partnerships.
prerequisite: art 210 or permission of instructor.
other musical experiences for academic  credit are possible, and have been offered.
3 cr wri 226 copyediting & proofreading this course will teach students the basics of proofreading and copyediting for print and electronic publications such as newspapers, magazines, books, journals, and web sites.
reading and grammatical skills are emphasized, so that students will learn to build solid prose that will be the foundation of their academic career.
the preparation of  mock grant proposals takes students through the entire grant application cycle  of need definition, grant research, program and budget planning, proposal  writing, submission/review/ funding, and post-award administration.
the influences of popular and ethnic musics are discussed, and technological developments are considered, both as delivery media and intrinsic art forms.
1-3 cr sed 310 dimensions of exceptionality in the classroom the purpose of this course is to provide an understanding of the characteristics and needs of k-12 students with exceptionalities.
1-3 cr fia 323 junior seminar this course will build both on the earlier interdisciplinary fine arts seminars and students' ongoing work in the baifa program.
using a variety of non-sport activities such as games, crafts, music and drama, relationships between resources and experiences are explored and appropriate facilitation techniques for all individuals and groups within society are analyzed.
3 cr psy 335 forensic psychology forensic psychology is the application of psychological principles and techniques within a legal setting.
using a variety of non-sport  activities such as games, crafts, music and drama, relationships between  resources and experiences are explored and appropriate facilitation techniques  for all individuals and groups within society are analyzed.
in this class, students will survey the field of environmental anthropology and apply its method and theory to a problem where they live.
practice in sight singing, rhythmic, melodic and  harmonic dictation is given; transcription and original composition are  stressed.
3 cr rem 121 outdoor recreation i a survey of outdoor recreation activities that addresses personal  motivation for participation as well as direct and indirect psychological,  social and physical benefits derived from participation.
3 cr eng 459 major literary figures a seminar involved with an in-depth study of a major literary figure and the social, aesthetic, intellectual milieu surrounding his or her work.
the psychological term trauma describes significant events that are usually devastating, life-threatening and shocking.
3 cr edu 460 secondary school seminar & technology this is an opportunity for secondary education students and in-service educators to explore current issues that affect high schools.
3 cr psy 332 crisis identification & resolution this course is a study of behaviors that typically bring prompt intervention and the interventions appropriate at such times.
4 cr rem 213 principles of coaching a course to provide students with the basic competencies to teach and coach sports (usually soccer and basketball) in recreational as well as school situations.
a computer algebra  system is used extensively.
students not only develop kayak skills, but more importantly develop techniques for programming safe, educational and fun kayak trips for beginners through advanced paddlers.
aside from some lecture and discussion, the course employs principally a workshop format.
3 cr soc 310 childhood & society
students  will gain familiarity and experience with a range of methods of analyzing and  measuring the physical and social impact of recreation in a variety of  settings, including survey research, interviews, remote sensing and  on-the-ground documentation.
students gain the conceptual and theoretical tools to begin to identify and assess a variety of theoretical positions that currently call themselves 'feminist' and appreciate the interconnections of philosophical theories and practices.
1-2 cr env 201 special topics in environmental studies a seminar providing in-depth study of a selected topic of environmental concern.
an approved application for independent study must be filed with the registrar's office at the time of registration for courses.
prerequisite: dan 216, or permission of instructor.
students may elect a maximum of 3 activities in any one semester.
3 cr man 301 management designed to present management as a science, an art, and a profession.
i/o psychologists are interested in helping organizations to  be highly productive while ensuring that their workers are able to lead  physically and psychologically healthy work lives.
this course includes active participation in outdoor activities such as skiing, winter camping, snowshoeing and river canoeing.
a personal portfolio of songs and demonstration recordings is compiled, then shared with, and critiqued by, the class.
the second semester of the sequence examines world history from the 16th century to the present.
3 cr psy 311 social psychology a study of the social and cultural factors affecting human behavior, including effects on observable behavior, emotions, attitudes and other cognitions.
i/o psychologists are interested in helping organizations to be highly productive while ensuring that their workers are able to lead physically and psychologically healthy work lives.
topics covered include the evaluation of analytical data; sampling and sample preparation; solution equilibria; a survey of various analytical methods including gravimetric methods, titrimetric methods, potentiometric methods, atomic and molecular spectroscopy, and chromatographic methods.
prerequisites depend upon the specific course.
topics include problem solving, finding numerical patterns, fractions and percents, measurement, characteristics of geometric shapes, developing positive attitudes towards mathematics, and the use of manipulative and computer software.
3 cr mar 306 marketing management for entrepreneurs this course introduces the new entrepreneur to an understanding of the performance of activities that seek to accomplish an organization's objectives by anticipating customer or client needs and directing a flow of need-satisfying goods and services from producer to customer or client.
methods of data collection and analysis are explored throughout this course.
the ultimate goal of the course is to enhance students' ability to think critically, write effectively, and find pleasure in doing both.
alcoholics anonymos and  other self-help groups, programs and treatment modalities are addressed.
american  popular music history, american musical theatre (broadway), jazz survey, women  in music, and the beatles are topics offered recently.
prerequisite: determined by instructor for each topic presented.
students learn how american studies forms its own mode of interdisciplinary inquiry, one whose multiple perspectives enrich an understanding of society and culture in america.
topics include conditioning; different types of  learning; encoding, storage, and retrieval of memory; and neural mechanisms of  learning and memory.
prerequisite: gis 230, or permission of instructor.
primary emphasis is on the angiosperms and conifers.
students are taught the basic concepts and techniques of drawing in studio sessions using still life, land/seascape, and the model.
grades are determined based on all parts of assessment.
2-3 cr gis 312 municipal applications of geographic information systems
3 cr psy 334 community psychology & the environment
major emphasis is placed on such topics as federal-state-local relations; government and politics on the state level, including constitutions, legislatures, governors and judges; law enforcement and court systems; city, county and town governments; the urban crisis; big city politics; metropolitan government; local power structures; the politics of education and welfare; and state and local government regulation and taxation.
spatial  concepts and site design theory are combined in a laboratory setting where  students draft plans and prepare scaled models of actual facilities.
prerequisite: junior standing or permission of instructor.
therefore, prior to taking mathematics courses that satisfy the university core, all students must demonstrate competency in pre-college math in one of the following ways.
both current practices and historical precedent are  woven into a model represented in both its completeness and contradictions.
developmental research methods will be covered, as well as important areas of application for developmental psychology of childhood and adolescence, including policy and programs directed at families, healthcare and prevention, education, childcare, etc.
(bio 323 recommended.)
prerequisite: fia 400 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: determined by the instructor for each topic presented.
this course is required of all students.
chemical dependency for the purposes of this course will include diagnoses of substance abuse and dependence for alcohol, street drugs and abused prescription medication.
prerequisite: eng 101 or permission of instructor.. 3 cr eng 207 studies in composition & grammar a study of the basic theories and practices in modern grammar and usage, within the context of improving essay-writing skills.
3 cr rem 124 recreation safety and first aid develops an awareness of safety in a variety of recreational settings.
1 cr eco 101 evaluating economic choices basic economic concepts of opportunity cost, market mechanics, efficiency and equity are used to evaluate policy choices in a number of areas, including health and safety regulations, pollution control, distributive tax policies, etc.
this course is a broad survey of american history from the colonial era through the civil war.
the course may be repeated since the topics vary (e.g. fantasy, the occult, women writers, african-american literature).
students will learn to identify clues within a forest which indicate how the land might have been used in the past.
3 cr hty 400 historiography this course explores the practice of the craft of history from the ancient greeks to postmodernism.
testing and evaluation, exercise  techniques, and program design are covered.
activities include development of a philosophy, certification of  coaches, and a study of the athletic educator.
methodological issues in health psychological  research are also explored.
3 cr phi 201 ethics an examination of the task of ethics to elucidate the concept of the good  life; to investigate ideas of obligation, duty, and responsibility; and to  decide what ought to be done.
3 cr hon 303 honors seminar these seminars explore in depth a major academic theme or problem.
prerequisite: acc 302.
they examine such basic topics as human's role in nature, our stewardship of earth, and our connection with the natural environment through a sense of place.
prerequisite: eng 101, sophomore standing or permission of instructor.
the interactions between individual systems of the animal body in maintaining homeostasis is also stressed.
statistical inference moves beyond the data to draw conclusions  about a wider universe, taking into account that conclusions are uncertain.
it also prepares the student for courses in music history.
prerequisite: demonstrated proficiency in mat 12.
topics include current applicable legislation, disabling conditions, community recreation resources for special groups, architectural barriers, program planning and implementation.
4 cr bio 323 comparative vertebrate anatomy and physiology a study of the vertebrate animals exploring how the basic vertebrate pattern has been modified into the wondrous diversity of form and function found in the living vertebrates.
3 cr beh 450 senior seminar an opportunity for students to apply and expand what they have learned in the psychology & community studies program by pursuing locan problems and issues.
by focusing on cross-cultural interactions, we will explore the dynamism that marks south asian cultures.
it is open to writers and aspiring writers of various levels of ability providing course prerequisites have been met.
simultaneously, they develop a new awareness of the image and of themselves as image makers.
areas covered include archival  research, reconnaissance, planning, fundamentals of vessel construction from  sail to steam, mapping, wreck survey and mapping, recording data,  photo-mosaics, excavation and conservation of artifacts, analysis and  interpretation of site and artifacts, publication of findings, and underwater  photography.
prerequisite: hty 115 or hty 116, and eng 101 and a 100-level literature course, or permission of instructor.
3 cr gis 330 geographic information systems applications ii
themes include the impact of national developments on maine, the role of location and physical environment in shaping life here, and sources of internal tension and division.
prerequisite: eng 101, sophomore  standing or permission of instructor.
3 cr hty 320 topics in history this course is organized around a particular theme or issue that spans different times and locations.
laboratory work  includes computer simulation as well as traditional physics activities.
3 cr rem 207 lifeguard training and aquatics management students will acquire general information concerning pool sanitation and aquatics management, and will complete the course with american red cross lifeguard certification.
the novels are chosen from the canons of american, british, and world literature.
while the major focus of the course is on alcohol and drug abuse, substance abuse in special populations is addressed.
case studies, problem-solving and delivery systems are explored in depth.
3 cr bus 400 senior seminar a course designed to be taken by senior level business administration students.
1 cr mus 107 applied music:
applicable to expedition work, camping, backpacking, guiding, rangers  and recreational travelers.
this is a one-semester seminar course in which students can expect to have regular reading assignments and class discussions.
to  describe and understand statistical inference, a limited introduction to  probability is presented.
3 cr man 302 small bus management &entrpreneurship
some possible courses could include conflict analysis & resolution, ecological psychology, readings in applied psychology, industrial & organizational psychology, multicultural psychology, community psychology, stress management, human factors psychology, history of psychology, perception & cognition, psychology of motivation or psychology of the family.
this course outlines  the research and training methods of sport psychologists and surveys theory and  research on sport psychology, including such major areas as the history of  sport psychology, the application of principles of learning and behavior,  motivation and social psychology, the assessment of individual differences in  personality of athletes, and principles of coaching and the psychology of  exercise and fitness.
student teachers will increase their responsibilities over time, with a minimum of two weeks' full-time teaching in the role of special education teacher.
among the topics considered are competition, predator-prey interactions, population dynamics, life-history strategies, species diversity patterns, and community structure and regulation.
topics might include indian-white relations, american identity, regional patterns, religions, or early society.
3 cr bio 100 explorations in biology this course is designed for beginning biology majors (but is appropriate for all students), and attempts to introduce students to some of the content areas within the discipline of biology through investigations focused on a particular maine organism.
topics include a taxonomic survey of the microbes, regulation of cellular activities, and inheritance.
a final written report is required.
1 cr dan 216 intermediate belly dance students build on their experience in beginning belly dance and continue to enjoy a dance form that celebrates feminine grace, beauty and strength.
i the first semester of a two-semester sequence intended as mathematics background for students in elementary education and humanities programs.
4 cr chy 113 intro to forensic science this course will provide an examination of the basic principles and practices of forensic science.
risk management planning is an integral part of the course.
case studies and realistic application of theories are major aspects of the course.
prerequisite: chy 221 or equivalent.
3 cr ant 315 special topics in applied anthropology course designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within applied anthropology.
current labor management contracts and implications for labor and management will also be discussed.
prerequisite: mat 215.
the purpose of this class is to introduce students to the field of archaeology and the discoveries, questions, and problems that have emerged over more than a century of maine archaeological research.
co-requisites: participation in a research project, such as undergraduate research in chemistry (chy 226, chy 326), an independent study research project, or permission of instructor.
methods of increasing the mathematics skills of children with exceptionalities are addressed.
songwriting fulfills  elective credit in both the creative writing and music minors.
through an examination of communities past and present the course surveys developments that have shaped the nature and workings of community and it reviews the theories and methodologies that social scientists have developed for community research.
sport psychologists are interested in how athletics enhance and  support the personal growth and well-being of individuals.
3 cr bio 350 developmental biology a course combining the classical study of embryology with an emphasis on the genetic and biochemical control of development.
2-3 cr env 203 public lands issues this course will introduce the unique ecological issues that impact our public lands; exploring many of the most important and controversial environmental issues.
this course provides students with experience working with geospatial data, software, hardware and techniques in the workplace.
3 cr mus 119 fundamentals of music:
3 cr edu 410 reading and writing for the exceptional student a course designed to assist prospective elementary and middle-level teachers in acquiring competencies to diagnose the reading and writing needs of the learner, plan an appropriate remedial program, and evaluate reading and writing achievement for the exceptional student in the regular classroom.
topics include attention, vision, audition, knowledge representation, memory, language, problem solving, and decision making.
3 cr rem 111 freshman recreation seminar provides an introduction to college and specifically to umm exploring  campus policies and procedures, campus services and opportunities, study skills  and time management, student responsibilities and image, etc.
graphing calculator techniques are principal tools.
3 cr man 313 managerial decision making this course provides an examination of the issues of decision making including personal style, the external environment and internal political, cultural and ethical forces that affect the decision-making process in organizations.
3 cr edu 450 middle school seminar an exploration of emerging philosophy and goals for the educating young adolescents.
integrative laboratory experiences will instruct students in scientific experimentation, basic forensic techniques (including a layman’s discussion of microscopy, chromatography, electrophoresis, spectroscopy and spectrometry) and case studies will be examined as group exercises and individually.
students are assisted in developing and using criteria for evaluating children's literature.
prerequisite: psy 110, psy 211, ssc 302, psy 230 and psy 327, or permission of instructor.
the course involves the historical, cultural and archaeological study of a coastal schooner ship wrecked on the maine coast.
the course is likely to include attendance at the maine  governor’s conference on tourism.
a course to provide familiarity with topics of mathematics that are noted  for their contemporary practicality in non-technical areas, are important  concepts in current public discourse, or have a rich aesthetic value.
3 cr psy 332 crisis identification & resolution this course is a study of behaviors that typically bring prompt  intervention and the interventions appropriate at such times.
a course on the writing of fiction, including such elements as story construction, narrative point of view, character, voice, and dialogue.
3 cr rem 322 public service recreation an in-depth study of public recreation, including municipal, state, agency (ymca/ywca, boys club, etc.), and military recreational services.
it also strives to understand environmental issues and knowledge, not only from a western scientific point of view, but also from the perspectives of people from other cultural backgrounds.
as the smallest unit of life, the cell defines both the potential capabilities and inherent limitations of all forms of life.
3 cr rem 123 river canoeing and camping designed to prepare a student to lead an extended canoeing trip on a wilderness river.
1 cr physical education opportunities
prerequisite: soc 114 or permission of instructor.
4 cr gis 429 geographic information systems internship geospatial technology is now embedded in nearly every field and discipline using a wide array of applications.
some possible courses could include conflict analysis & resolution,  ecological psychology, readings in applied psychology, industrial &  organizational psychology, multicultural psychology, community psychology,  stress management, human factors psychology, history of psychology, perception  & cognition, psychology of motivation or psychology of the family.
such requirements might include evidence of a recent medical examination; evidence of health, auto or other insurance; a written agreement to personally accept and abide by the rules and regulations of that institution; the execution of an indemnity agreement or release relative to personal liability or liability to others; and similar requirements pertinent to the particular study program.
the course is based on the fundamental premise that cultural competence is an ongoing and multi-layered process working at personal, interpersonal, and organization-wide levels.
students participate in an orientation and a bi-weekly seminar during their student teaching experience.
prerequisite: mat 12, or permission of instructor.
3 cr bio 108 introduction to human nutrition this course provides an introduction to the nutrients necessary for humans to live and thrive and the basic mechanisms by which they act.
through readings and discussions, these themes are applied to relevant  contemporary issues such as war and terrorism, the connections between business  and environmental ethics, sexuality, suicide and euthanasia and drug use.
it also is a useful introduction to the subject for students preparing for careers in the healthcare profession.
lecture 2 hours, laboratory 4 hours.
prerequisites: eng 101, or permission of instructor.
the policy process will be introduced and used as an analytical  tool to connect policy outcomes to political, social and economic and  institutional inputs and constraints.
students develop an understanding of the history of asl and learn to communicate through expressive and receptive asl.
proactive systems of behavior intervention, management and modification are examined to target specific behaviors while providing an environment that encourages inclusion, self-advocacy and increased independence.
3 cr mat 108 structure of arithmetic ii
prerequisite: psy 110 and psy 230, or permission of instructor.
students will learn to build vessels and small sculptures out of clay using coil, slab and other hand-building techniques.
3 cr hty 250 history of china rather than identify one china, this course aims to assemble as many disparate elements of the chinese past as possible, thereby complicating what is otherwise simplified as the world's longest continuous "civilization."
possible topics include: stagecraft and design sets, lights, costume and sound design, construction and execution.
natural areas that range from manicured parks to pristine  wilderness areas are examined in light of the different management  philosophies, policies, and techniques needed to maintain them.
during this semester, the bibliography is updated, and a preliminary draft of the paper is submitted to the thesis advisor.
it will then use this as a base for exploring the  cultural development of basic numbering, arithmetic, basic statistics (mean,  median, mode, etc.), simple probability, basic geometry, measurement (area,  volume, etc.), patterns, including symmetry and basic networks, mathematical  reasoning, and using mathematics to communicate.
prerequisite: eng 101 and psy 110, or permission of  instructor.
prerequisite: sed 310 or permission of instructor.
3 cr hty 332 history of american women this course traces the development of women's many roles from the colonial era to modern times.
3 cr hty 330 a sense of place a course offering students the opportunity to participate in a program emphasizing study and travel.
prerequisite: eng 210 or permission of instructor.
3 cr edu 490 student teaching a final field experience for elementary, middle-level, and secondary education students.
laboratory work includes computer simulation as well as traditional physics activities.
3 cr rem 212 wilderness first responder this course will provide outdoor leaders and enthusiasts with the knowledge  and skills necessary to deal with medical and traumatic emergencies in remote  settings.
included are evaluation procedures and research related to administration.
1 cr mus 211 topics in music an umbrella course designed for the investigation of various music styles,  periods, practices, and ideas not covered in other course work.
emphasis will be  placed on understanding limitations in function and how those limitations  affect work as conceptualized within existing models of disability.
4 cr bio 315 experimental design & analysis for biologists this course will introduce students to the most common and widely used experimental designs to generate biological data for both continuous and categorical variables.
3 cr psy 213 psychosocial rehabilitation practices this course will address the notion of psychosocial rehabilitation in a holistic fashion, noting the conceptual practice of psychosocial rehabilitation as a core organizing attitude underlying all behavioral health care.
the second half of a two-semester sequence involving senior students in the english program in the production and publication of printed works.
students in the creative writing, literary studies, and book arts concentrations will use their separate talents in the production of these works.
prerequisite: phe 103 or equivalent certification.
the course will focus on 1) the abiotic and biotic factors affecting their growth and distribution, 2) the structural and physiological differences in their taxonomic and functional groups, 3) the role of algae and plants as important foundation species for habitat and food in major marine communities, and 4) the contrasting ecological differences structuring those communities.
in addition, as class interest and need dictates, blocks of time may be devoted to lecture and/or discussion of the tools of prosody, particularly as they relate to the students' own writing.
1 cr env 312 atlantic salmon conservation projects students in this course work with local watershed councils, state and federal agencies in the recovery of the endangered atlantic salmon.
3 cr ant 312 material culture this course examines the manufacture, use and symbolic function of objects in specific cultural settings.
1-4 cr bio 410 senior seminar in biology biology majors with a gpa less than 3.0 must take bio 410 rather than one of the senior thesis sequences.
students are encouraged to study and duplicate-within the context of their own individual writing styles-the techniques employed successfully by published writers of creative nonfiction.
the course encourages students to open their minds to the variety of opinions on any given ethical issue.
the study promotes independent thinking skills and cultivates careful communication.
special topics include the arithmetic operations of whole,  fractional, and decimal numbers; applications of percentages; basic algebraic  operations; and geometric concepts and measurement.
prerequisite: acc 301.
philosophy, goals and practices are explored through cultural, economic, political and social influences on the curriculum.
upon completion of this course a student should have an appreciation of the diversity of plant life in maine, a knowledge of the local flora and the various habitats in which different species occur, and the ability to identify additional plants that he or she may encounter in the future.
in part a history of ideas, the course is attentive to how the broader historical context shaped thinkers and to the development of the institutions that nurtured them.
any given class might include novelists, short story writers, poets, playwrights, screenwriters, and writers in creative nonfiction.
special topics include the arithmetic operations of whole, fractional, and decimal numbers; applications of percentages; basic algebraic operations; and geometric concepts and measurement.
prerequisite: initial placement or by completing mat 9 with a minimum grade of c-.
3 cr psy 319 special topics in applied psychology courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within  psychology.
communication and collaboration in collaborative group work is emphasized.
students are introduced to green marketing, environmental managment systems, certification programs and sustainability reporting guidelines.
students will learn to identify behaviors that indicate psychological crises.
students tend to share the general public's notion that history presents a series of established facts, which may be entertaining or enlightening.
students develop an appreciation of individual differences as they relate to sports programming.
3 cr soc 114 intro to sociology the study of the concepts, theories and research findings of the discipline of sociology.
ses 102 intro to keyboarding instruction in beginning keyboarding on computers.
the results of this approach will be to help ensure that all stakeholder perspectives are considered.
3 cr rem 443 recreation leadrship practicum allows qualified students to gain personal experience teaching and leading recreation/fitness activities at the college level under supervised conditions.
shape normal human development.
3-4 cr hon 312 soliya advanced projects activities are designed to enable students to further expand upon skills they began to develop through their participation in the initial soliya connect program.
the course is taught in the computer classroom with each  student having individual access to statistical software.
cr edu 337 internship i with classroom management
currently the advanced projects include facilitation training, collaborative video project, and student leadership/developing cooperative actions, each led by highly skilled educators within each field.
0.5 to 4 cr ind 302 independent study and/or research this course allows students the opportunity to pursue in depth or in alternative ways areas of study not otherwise readily available.
emphasized are such topics as human evolution and race; pre-scientific writings and ethnology; the concept of culture; language and perception; economics and technology; marriage, the family and kinship; associations, castes and classes; political organization and warfare; religion and magic; folklore and the arts; culture and personality; american culture; cross-cultural contact; and cultural change.
3 cr eco 201 macroeconomics an analysis of the behavior and performance of the aggregate, or overall, economy.
1-3 cr eng 345 the book, culture, and knowledge the history of the book, a relatively recent and growing focus of scholarship, derives from the recognition of texts -- literary, scholarly, popular, practical, and more -- do not float free.
first the course provides a cross-cultural examination of the idea of childhood with particular reference to the evolution of the idea of childhood in western culture.
the effects on different sectors of american society and  on public policy are identified and analyzed.
the course is designed to meet individual needs by assessing and prescribing personalized programs to improve the different components of fitness and wellness.
in addition to the exploration of the cooking, beating, and sheet forming of fiber into paper, students will learn about the history of papermaking, the materials used in the history of writing and printing, and the aesthetics of material usage as it pertains to interpreting a specific written text or visual image.
3 cr rem 328 forest interpretation this field-based course is about exploring and interpreting forested  landscapes to learn about their natural history, based on forest composition  and structure, as well as coarse soil examinations.
these communities -- in maine, across the us and throughout the world -- have often been "left behind" in the changing arena of global markets, global competition, global finance and post-industrialization.
3 cr rem 417 outdoor recreation leadership practicum a supervised situation in which students are given the opportunity to gain personal experience and knowledge in teaching and leading outdoor recreation activities.
rehearse weekly,  culminating in public performance(s) near the end of the semester.
the selection may include aerobic dance, aquasize,  archery, badminton, basketball, bowling, fitness, folk dance, golf, karate,  kickboxing, racquetball, snowshoeing, soccer, softball, swimming, team  handball, tennis, volleyball, wallyball, weight training, or cross-country  skiing.
relationships between psychological and physical realities are formalized as students consider the physiological and psychological processes in the behaviors discussed.
original research will occur in the field and laboratory through a process of guided inquiry.
from this starting point, the course is constructed around several critical approaches.
1-2 cr bio 212 ornithology
3 cr psy 219 special topics in applied psychology courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within psychology.
emphasis is  placed on problem-solving procedures using case studies.
3 cr mar 315 marketing for nonprofit organizations marketing as a subject of growing interest to managers of public and private nonprofit organizations.
entrance into course requires passing 50 yard swim test as well as a basic knowledge of swimming strokes.
prerequisite: edu 220, edu 313, or permission of instructor.
students develop both strategic and tactical problem-solving skills using cases and decision-making formulae.
this course explores characteristics  of a landscape that are important in motivating recreation participation, and  the experiences sought by outdoor recreationists.
in consultation with a thesis advisor the student selects a research project, prepares a bibliography and preliminary literature review, and submits a research proposal.
the project will vary from year to year.
prerequisite: art 216 or permission of instructor.
major american institutions including the police, the courts and corrections, as well as major criminal justice initiatives like the 'war on drugs' are examined.
prerequisite: the 101, the 211, and the 311, or permission of instructor.
the use of publicity and public relations with a successful advertising campaign is explored.
as an interdisciplinary study of women's experience in cross-cultural and historical perspective, the course investigates women's personal and public lives, and seeks to identify and understand the particularly "female" aspects of these experiences.
this course may be repeated as topics vary.
historical, social and  cultural factors which impact our understanding of trauma will also be  addressed, as well as trauma's social and physiological impact.
3 cr art 101 2-d fundamentals of art an introductory-level course in which students learn the elements and principles of two-dimensional design through hands-on studio practice.
ways to work to ameliorate prejudice will be explored.
use of the computer to enhance management tasks and program delivery is an important aspect of this course.
student teachers must also attend orientation sessions and seminars on campus designed to complement the student teaching experience.
prerequisite: psy 110 and psy 211, or permission of instructor.
4 cr mat 315 experimental design & analysis for biologists this course will introduce students to the most common and widely used experimental designs to generate biological data for both continuous and categorical variables.
prerequisites: matriculation into degree or certification program; application to student teach submitted and approved by education faculty semester prior to student teaching; acceptance by the student teaching committee.
prerequisite: sophomore  standing.
topics include research project formulation, research designs, secondary data, sampling techniques, data collection, editing, coding, tabulation, data analysis, report writing, and communication.
3 cr bio 229 plant taxonomy an introduction to the identification, classification and evolution of vascular plants.
enrollment  in this course is by permission of instructor.
prerequisite: rem 121 and rem 122, or  permission of instructor.
students will wear costumes and learn dance routines to sultry middle eastern rhythms.
this course provides  excellent preparation for taking the maine guide exam.
specific disciplinary perspectives and value conflicts are  emphasized.
3 cr art 313 photography ii advanced development of students' photographic skills and understanding.
experience with spreadsheets and high school algebra are helpful.
the study of systems of linear functions, matrices, and linear programming  with an emphasis on applications to business, economics, biology, and the  social sciences.
before enrolling in this course students must have padi advanced open water diver certification or equivalent rating.
development is a holistic process, yet can be broken down into physical, cognitive, social and emotional aspects, as well as development of communication and language, self, gender and prosocial behavior.
lecture three hours, laboratory three hours.
co-requisites: for elementary majors: edu 344 and/or edu 349; for secondary majors: edu 321.
theories of poverty, its definition, nature and causes will be reviewed from a sociological perspective, exploring the intersections of gender, race, ethnicity and class as they impact those in poverty.
an environmental policy analysis project synthesizes demography and human ecology.
3 cr soc 214 crime & society this is an introductory course in the nature, causes, prevention and treatement of crime in modern american society.
3 cr psy 317 environmental psychology this course will acquaint the student with the reciprocal nature of the  interplay between people and built and natural environments.
topics include accounting for manufacturing costs, budgeting and performance reporting, cost-volume-profit analysis, differential analysis, the computation of financial ratios, and the comparison of cash flow with net income.
1 cr mus 312 music history i historical study tracing the main lines of development in the art-music of  western europe from the middle ages through the baroque and classical periods,  from hildegarde to beethoven.
1-2 cr bio 106 topics in women's health an introduction to the many aspects of women's health.
it is also about  studying different ways to communicate this information to a range of audiences.
students gain the ability to understand complex medical terms.
the student will work in consultation with a research advisor to develop and undertake a research project in chemistry.
3 cr psy 215 psychology of gender this course surveys psychological theory and research on gender while  emphasizing cross-cultural and multicultural issues to demonstrate what is  truly universal about gender.
3 cr eng 209 selected maine authors maine's special contribution to the american literary scene.
3 cr rem 223 ecotourism this course provides an introduction to the concept and practice of ecotourism, a term used to describe nature-based tourism that promotes environmental conservation, respects local culture, and improves the economic well-being of host communities.
subject areas include debt vs. equity financing; short, intermediate, and long term capital structuring; and qualitative and quantitative decision making.
this course is required for  full mhrt certification.
3 cr sed 490 student teaching in special education student teachers participate in a variety of supervised experiences in a school while working with children with mild to moderate disabilities.
prerequisite: bio 245.
proper selection and use of equipment and current safety programs are addressed.
3 cr env 226 undergraduate research in environmental studies the objective of this course is for the student to conduct an original research project under the supervision of a faculty member.
1 cr mus 211 topics in music an umbrella course designed for the investigation of various music styles, periods, practices, and ideas not covered in other course work.
3 cr rem 212 wilderness first responder this course will provide outdoor leaders and enthusiasts with the knowledge and skills necessary to deal with medical and traumatic emergencies in remote settings.
students examine the importance of natural resources and environmental services for the economy and human well-being.
topical articles will be presented at a level that mirrors and develops basic scientific literacy for the educated layperson.
3 cr fia 419 special topics in interdisciplinary fine arts these courses will allow for further study in special fields within the fine arts.
prerequisite:  mat 102 or permission of instructor.
prerequisite: soc 114 and sophomore standing, or permission of instructor.
the learning experiences in this course are designed to help students develop an awareness and appreciation of the maine woods, and to enjoy it safely, while leaving it environmentally sound.
prerequisite: mus 115 or permission of  instructor.
the senior seminar prepares students for the senior project.
a major project or term paper allows students to hone their research and presentation skills.
prerequisite: rem 121  and rem 122, or permission of instructor.
developmental psychology focuses on how learning and maturation within social, cultural and physical environments shape normal human development.
teaching and leadership methodologies, activity planning and organization, risk management implementation and other topics are put into practice through this experience.
it introduces students to a diversity of views, peoples, and ideas, and connects these diverse phenomena to each other and to the individual.
to the extent possible, given the lack of prerequisites, the etiology of the diseases will be examined.
lecture 3 hours, laboratory 2 hours.
influences of the environment on developmental processes will also be investigated.
courses vary in content in response to student interest and faculty availability.
3 cr art 211 painting i the introductory course in painting.
the role of the  counselor in substance abuse prevention, substance abuse addiction  identification and treatment will be addressed.
the topic of this course varies in response to student interest and faculty availability and expertise.
performing groupsinstrumentalists and singers (pop band, chamber ensemble, town/pep band, etc.)
emphasis is placed on appropriate formats for business communications including grammatical style, clarity, and conciseness of messages.
may be offered pass/fail at instructor's option.
this course will introduce the field, its history, methods, and perspectives, and emphasize the application of its principles and perspectives to the understanding and management or resolution of real-world, environment-related problems.
animal embryos are studied in the context of cell differentiation and formation of body pattern.
students  examine various sectors of the tourism industry and have the opportunity to  explore their own special areas of interest.
students should have completed a proposal in senior seminar and have acquired a mentor and a committee.
prerequsite: edu 210 and edu 352, or permission of instructor.
community psychology focuses on understanding humans in communities.
following the introduction to sign language, this course serves as the second half of the sign language sequence.
1-3 cr cmy 315 special topics in community studies courses designed to allow students to pursue study in an area within community studies.
specifically, the course is designed to enable students to acquire  the skills necessary to use graphics packages and design document layout  strategies for the purpose of producing professional-looking reports,  newsletters, manuals, bulletins, brochures, business forms and other documents.
4 crmat 200 topics in  mathematicsa post-calculus course in multi-variable calculus, linear algebra,  dynamical systems, differential equations, discrete math, numerical analysis or  modeling.
in an attempt to develop authentic assessments aligned to mathematics education standards, students will also examine a comprehensive assessment system and critically evaluate assessment portfolios based on standards.
developmental psychology focuses on  how learning and maturation within social, cultural and physical environments
prerequisites: psy 110  and eng 101.
in most cases, students should plan to take both chy 101 and chy 102.
i a course designed to create an understanding of the fundamentals of business law and an awareness of the legal environment in which the business enterprise operates.
focuses on forces determining equilibrium output and income, employment, inflation, growth and economic stability.
topics to be covered include the basic principles of the technology, uses of gps, sources of error, methods used to minimize error and prevent data loss, basic geodesy related to gps and basic mapping software.
students will also learn advanced methods of estimation with spatial interpolation, as well as methods for analyzing error and uncertainty.
this course has been taught in both full-semester/classroom and intensive/outdoor formats.
may be repeated for credit.
periodic trips have been planned to american or european locales in order that participants gain a better understanding of historic events and/or the people associated with these locales.
this course also focuses on wildlife and the role that hunting and fishing play in wildlife management programs.
3 cr hty 345 the book, culture, and knowledge the history of the book, a relatively recent and growing focus of scholarship, derives from the recognition of texts -- literary, scholarly, popular, practical, and more -- do not float free.
aspects of both a literature course and writing course are thus combined in pursuit of a pragmatic working knowledge of the techniques of poetry.
students will improve their own outdoor leadership capacities through practice, feedback and reflection.
each student, whether a  beginner or a more experienced musician, is expected to progress at his or her  own optimum rate.
this course is organized around a single-semester topic or theme such as imperialism, sexual diversity, or ethnicity; or it may focus on a particular era such as the gilded age or the fifties.
students work individually with a faculty supervisor.
students work with the current edition of "writer's market" to identify markets for writing projects they are working on or have previously produced.
prerequisite: acc 201,  mar 101, rem 301, rem 321.
the  sociological, psychological and physiological significance of play, recreation  and leisure as it relates to the individual lifespan and society as a whole is  explored.
2 cr rem 115 history and philosophy of recreation a philosophical foundation in the theories of leisure, recreation and play that also traces the historical framework of the leisure service industry.
topics will include the witch-hunts, the ideology of womanhood, folk traditions, women's roles in the family economy and in the public sphere.
prerequisite: eng 101 and psy 110, or permission of instructor.
enrollment in this course is by permission of instructor.
3 cr hty 307 american economic history an examination of the development and growth of the united states economy from native american settlements to the present.
3 cr rem 207 lifeguard training and aquatics management students will acquire general information concerning pool sanitation and  aquatics management, and will complete the course with american red cross  lifeguard certification.
3 cr rem 206 sea kayaking & camping designed to prepare students as leaders of an extended wilderness sea  kayaking trip.
students are encouraged to study and duplicate-within the context of their own individual writing styles-the techniques employed by successful poets.
topics to be addressed include skills to increase cultural awareness and understanding, skills to foster effective interpersonal communication and organizational change strategies.
issues such as state standards, assessment, censorship, use of technology, and the needs of mainstreamed exceptional students are included.
this course includes active participation in outdoor activities such as  skiing, winter camping, snowshoeing and river canoeing.
the course is concerned with a host of problems nonprofit organizations face that would be analyzed as straightforward marketing problems if found in the profit sector.
topics of conformity, persuasion, aggression, prejudice, prosocial behavior, relationships, and group influence are considered.
the student is expected to arrange out-of-class photo session and darkroom time.
the course will explore the changing role of leisure and the leisure  services profession.
students enrolled in this course will actually teach a .5-1.0 college credit course under the direct supervision of a umm faculty member.
the course provides students with opportunities for self-expression and encourages effective oral and written communication skills.
prerequisite: bio 111, mat 113, psy 110, and junior standing; or permission of instructor.
topics vary and include different cultures, historical periods, human values, viewpoints, and problems.
prerequisite: bio 111, bio 112, chy 101, chy 102, mat 102, or equivalents.
major playwrights, dramatic genres, theatrical periods, and movements are explored.
3 cr psy 351 chemical dependency and dual diagnosis counseling this course is an overview of different treatment models for chemical  dependency and dual diagnosis treatment.
the first half of the world history sequence covers the time from the first emergence of homo sapiens to the establishment of regular, ongoing, contact between the americas, europe, africa, and asia.
prerequisite:  junior standing or permission of instructor.
a course to help students improve their skill in expository, analytical, and persuasive writing.
prerequisite: basic open water certification or higher from an approved association; medical clearance.
in addition, students learn to plan, budget, execute and manage a successful advertising campaign.
topics include quadratic, rational, exponential and logarithmic functions with applications and solutions to equations and inequalities.
prerequisites: psy 110 and sophomore standing, or permission of instructor.
3 cr art 210 drawing i the introductory course in studio drawing.
3 cr psy 325 motivation this course is designed to survey theory and empirical research on motivation, defined as the factors that initiate, energize, direct and sustain behavior.
the course requires good qualitative and quantitative skills in order  to effectively examine the performance of movement and to be able to apply  these concepts to professional responsibilities in areas such as physical  therapy, athletic training, physical education, coaching, health club  management or personal training.
3 cr pos 313 introduction to policy analysis this course will introduce students to the art and science of policy analysis.
cr bio 409 special topics in biology a course whose subject matter may come from any of a variety of topics in biology.
second, the experiential aspect in which the students are encouraged to participate in growthful exercises individually and in group situations.
the  primary emphasis is the development of the arithmetic of natural numbers:  integers, rational and real numbers.
this training and certification are valuable credentials for any water related employment including water theme parks, waterfront director, swim instructor, pools and beaches, as well as guiding (canoes, kayaks, white water rafting).
demonstration  software packages may be available.
prerequisite: psy 110, psy 211, or psy 213 or permission of instructor.
3 cr mus 207 applied music:
this course will introduce students to the skills and responsibilities central to case management, as well as professional, legal, and ethical issues that impact this service.
students  will develop an appreciation for how factors such as geography, climate,  temperature, noise, natural disasters, pollution, personal space, population  density, crowding, urban living, rural living, structural design (institutional  and residential) and work, learning and leisure environments influence human  behavior.
1-3 cr the 219 topics in theatre studies in practical aspects and styles of theatre production.
3 cr mus 313 music history ii a continuation of european-american art-music history, from beethoven to the present.
students will participate in  classroom instruction, pool instruction and open water dives.
this course in  practical music making is the first course in the music theory sequence and is  a prerequisite to all other theory courses.
4 cr chy 224 analytical chemistry the goal of this course is to introduce students to the quantitative methods of chemical analysis and methods of analytical separations.
5 cr chy 226 undergraduate research in chemistry the objective of this course is for the student to conduct an original research project under the supervision of a faculty member.
this is a course focusing on teaching methods for secondary education.
3 cr hty 316 the age of the french revolution this course considers the french revolution both as the culmination of the 18th century-a period of rapid economic, social, and intellectual change-and as a major source of 19th- and 20th-century ideologies, myths, and political struggles.
prerequisite: art 101 or art 102 and sophomore standing, or permission of instructor.
participants continue to work on their technique while learning new choreographies; and dance with finger cymbals, veil and cane, adding dance fans and balance props like the sword.
the course also includes an introduction to smartboard technology and utilizes a mac lab.
through close readings of classic texts by european and american thinkers such as john locke, jean-jacques rousseau, adam smith, charles darwin, karl marx, william james, jane addams, max weber, and sigmund freud, the course explores attempts to apply the methods of science to human behavior.
students will be introduced to psychology professions in healthcare, public policy, the legal system, education, research and industry.
to describe and understand statistical inference, a limited introduction to probability is presented.
3 cr edu 327 secondary methods of teaching ii
one of these is a formalist approach in which students interpret the literary text on the basis of its formal features and stylistic conventions.
3  cr rem 101 outdoor recreation activities a course in the field of outdoor recreation providing a choice of activity  and credit.
prerequisite: bio 111, or permission of instructor.
developmental research methods will be covered, as well as important areas of application for developmental psychology of adulthood and older adulthood, including policy and programs for healthcare and prevention, education, employment and community supports, etc.
(chy 221 and mat 215 recommended.)
3 cr rem 311 recreation services for special populations a course to provide the student with a general understanding of leisure services for 'special' populations.
the university assumes assent and compliance to such requirements, rules, and regulations by each student upon his or her enrollment in those courses involving outside study.
students will also learn to identify the barriers to effective communication and positive relationships including how culture may be a barrier.
prerequisite: mar 101, psy 110 or soc 114, or permission of instructor.
this course will focus on ways in  which psychologists work within legal contexts and how psychological techniques  inform civil and criminal legal proceedings.
topics covered include creating, presenting and analyzing worksheets, charts and graphs, templates, filter lists, macros and hyperlinks.
world environmental history explores human interactions with their environment over time and in different places.
prerequisite: mat  102 or equivalent.
participating students from across the globe literally see and hear one another in a rich and intimate online environment utilizing the latest in videoconferencing and online collaboration technology.
some work submitted might include revised versions of previously submitted work.
the course combines lecture, discussion and mapping exercises which cover the remote sensing technologies and image formats, the physics of light and optics, potential sources of error, analytical methods and applications of remote sensing in a variety of fields.
placement in mat 9 is by the umm mathematics placement test.
3 cr ame 220 american studies in theory and
3  cr mus 301 umm chorale a choral group performing a cappella and accompanied songs and larger works  of all periods and styles.