you will be able to print a certificate of completion for each course.
aahperd home  >  head start body start  >   online learning  >  head start body start online courses online courses designed to explore topics in depth, our online courses provide  research-rich content to help provide early childhood educators the background  they need to better understand and facilitate motor skill development in the  classroom.
each course is self-paced and takes approximately 2 – 3 hours  to complete.
you will be able to print a certificate of completion for each  course.
in movement home | about us | toolbox | for families | resources |  training | grants | success stories news & events |
course 101: movement for young children course 102: including all children
home > head start body start > online learning > head start body start online courses designed to explore topics in depth, our online courses provide research-rich content to help provide early childhood educators the background they need to better understand and facilitate motor skill development in the classroom.
change text size online learning aahperd home > head start body start > online learning > head start body start online coursesaahperd
each course is self-paced and takes approximately 2 – 3 hours to complete.
course 101: movement for young children course 102: including all children in movement 2012 head start body start 1900 association drive • reston, va 20191-1599 • 703.476.3454 head start body start is brought to you by the american association for physical activity and recreation (aapar) and the national association for sport and physical education (naspe) with funding from the office of head start , administration for children and families, u.s. department of health and human services.
get connected |  aapar/naspe opportunities 2012 head start body start 1900 association drive • reston, va 20191-1599 • 703.476.3454 head start body start is brought to you by the american association  for physical activity and recreation (aapar) and the national association for  sport and physical education (naspe) with funding from the office of head start , administration for children and families, u.s. department of health and human  services.
© 2012 american alliance for health, physical education, recreation  and dance
© 2012 american alliance for health, physical education, recreation and dance