has there been a paradigm shift in the domain field?
"inheritance" refers to the acceptance of the curriculum by other faculty who will teach to the established and formal standards of that course, module, or learning object.
professionally developed logo to brand pathways to public health videos on youtube dr. dan richardson, "human and animal food safety: k-state olathe innovation campus" dr. doug powell, "handling food safely" mylissia stukey, "lab biosafety" dr. marty vanier, "public health and biosecurity" dr. ingrid garrison, "public health and the role of veterinarians" challenge:
the true total cost of ownership of online learning materials is high if one does an actual accounting that factors in all the costs associated with the countless elements that typically contribute to a curriculum, from information technologies staff and faculty to the costs of wired infrastructure, hardware, software, security, subscriptions to data repositories, maintenance of digital labs, funding for curriculum development and maintenance, and so on.
open-source resources are many, but there are many gaps in terms of online learning.
some of these resources provide opt-in, context-sensitive help, such as directions for using a learning/course management system or a certain software program.
games, simulations, and immersive learning can contextualize the learning (to enhance "situated cognition").
endnotes back to article this basic template for considering ways to update and revise an online course can be tailored to various course revision situations by adding questions.
it can be used, for example, with student "outliers," such as the novice (a learner who is inexperienced and naïve but aims to become expert in a particular field) and the amateur (a naïve learner who seeks only a surface understanding of a particular field and does not aim for future expertise).
figure 2 shows how, at "five after," student work has already left the classroom and has potential commercial applications — thus often changing student rights to use particular copyrighted materials.
some programs use undergraduate research as a means to increase student retention and help them bridge to graduate-level learning.8 cumulative activities such as e-portfolio building support student reflection on their learning, provide a vehicle for students to receive feedback from experts, and enhance peer learning.
informational learning conceptual learning: principles, theories, values, and themes; the learning of abstractions (affective, cognitive) logical analysis: the identification and locating of relevant information to the relevant issues; the proper application of logic to the relevant issues; the drawing of correct conclusions based on the given knowledge (affective, cognitive) synthesis of complex information: systems relationships roles categories and typologies interrelationships causes and effects (affective, cognitive) factual learning: historical details, biographies of contributors to the field, empirical research findings, statistical analyses, research artifacts (cognitive) troubleshooting problems: setting up problems/solutions; conducting research on projects (affective, cognitive) research and discovery: the conceptualization and execution of rigorous research; the revelation and presentation of new information and knowledge about the field (affective, cognitive, behavioral) evaluative learning: aesthetic approaches, analytical concepts and methods, logical analysis (cognitive) psychomotor skills: troubleshooting and appropriate actions (affective, cognitive, behavioral) design: the application of complex information to a design challenge; the creation and execution of a new design (affective, cognitive, behavioral) affective learning: attitudes, emotions (affective) social learning: interactions with others; soft skills (affective, cognitive) innovation: the creation of new applications of a field (affective, cognitive, behavioral) as student-centered learning continues to supplant instructor-centered learning, many instructors are retrofitting their courses for more planned intercommunications, interactivity, and collaborations between learners.9 various methods of student community-building in distance courses enhance a sense of interactivity and promote learner retention.10
e. this solution is too expensive.
kitchen at the liveability house on morrill island challenge: how could this professor address diversity in avatar representation in a sensitive and inclusive way?
while ideally value will be designed into an  online curriculum from the start, the reality is that, across the spectrum of  e-learning, there is a wide range of quality.
this approach has reformulated the  instructor-learner power structure by emphasizing the importance of learner  choices, attitudes, and voices.
focusing on learner-centered curriculums and experiences a curriculum should be calibrated to the particular developmental levels of  its students.
the creation of a basic packet for inheriting instructors, with insider tips about instructional methods, strategies, and resources, ensures the smoother transition of a course from one professor to another.
in this context, this article presents ideas for an approach based in the  principles of instructional design to updating the curriculum for online  courses.
while learners base their decisions to continue in or drop out of a course on a range of reasons, only some of which instructors can influence, instructors do play an important role in helping learners, including adult students, acclimate to an online classroom.
instructors and course designers can enhance the online learner experience and make it more real and engaging through applications of rich, multimodal, multimedia, and full-sensory (visual and sound) immersive learning.
lacking a way to add metadata when he made the slideshows and having no raw image repository, he had no way to establish either provenance or ownership of the images.
by contrast, value-added technological updates involve the uses of high-tech resources to enhance learning experiences.
in addition, curricular updates can introduce important new content, and may also introduce pedagogical enhancements that can improve the quality of e-learning.
similarly, practices within domains can change, in  both research and applications in the field.
to explore his options, see "modeling proper handling of intellectual property." informed by a constant stream of new research and information, domain fields change constantly.
table 1 shows three main types of learning, from basic informational learning to learning acquired through applied skills and conceptual domain-level modeling and innovations.
researchers have found that such a presence enhances the learning experience but does not have a direct effect on "perceived learning, satisfaction, engagement, or the quality of their final course product.
building the knowledge of human perception into e-learning http://scholarspace.jccc.edu/c2c_sidlit/2010/session1/1/ academic writing and publishing in a digital age http://scholarspace.jccc.edu/c2c_sidlit/2010/session7/1/ and others...
the frequency of online course element updates1.
any works used under fair  use will have to be removed.
apart from those legitimate avenues, course developers are sometimes tempted to  take decidedly riskier and ill-advised routes, swiping content off the world  wide web without checking the content's provenance, ownership, or rights  protection.
he should turn himself in to the federal government.
the assumption is that experts in the field will be able to intuit the curriculum creator's intentions through the course's syllabus, assignments, assessments, lectures, and other elements.
course attractions could also involve trips abroad, participation in professional conferences, fieldwork, and other inducements.
c. lacks some of the nuances of 3d perception.
targeting curriculum for different  learning needs — including different developmental phases, different  primary languages, and different learning contexts (cultural, geographical,  social, political, technological, and domain field) — can enhance both  individual and group learning experiences.
a well-designed curriculum for online learning nurtures both student  learning and student retention.
the educational research literature includes many important findings about what is effective for online teaching and learning.
worse yet, developers might bypass digital rights management (drm)  protections around certain works in order to build their online learning  collection.
often an early  assignment introduces the course and encourages learners to share their  hypotheses of where the course might be headed.
volume 33, number 4, 2010 »
relevant updated technologies every term syllabus – guidelines and policies scheduling connections to relevant campus resources new sample student assignments (with student releases) correction of "dead links" to learning resources updated assignments (to head off plagiarism or academic dishonesty from prior terms) curricular fixes during
this approach has reformulated the instructor-learner power structure by emphasizing the importance of learner choices, attitudes, and voices.
effective updating of course curriculums to support and engage learners will encourage their persistence in the course and ultimately in their program of study, promoting degree attainment.
a team built a virtual space in second life to demonstrate the adaptations possible to meet the needs of people with disabilities.
when it does take place, curricular redesign tends to focus on particulars rather than the big picture.
he also knows of some images available on public image-sharing.
the legal dimensions of curriculum redesign include three key areas: any use of copyrighted text, images, videos, audio, or other content in an online course brings intellectual property considerations into play.
apart from those legitimate avenues, course developers are sometimes tempted to take decidedly riskier and ill-advised routes, swiping content off the world wide web without checking the content's provenance, ownership, or rights protection.
c. book knowledge without lived knowledge is a limiting option.
as one practical example, data that show that students are hard-pressed to submit work in particular times of a learning term can help the professor schedule heavier work at a different time.
his educational resources include slideshows and images illustrating his lectures, with materials pulled from multiple online sources.
games, simulations, and immersive learning can  contextualize the learning (to enhance "situated cognition").
games may evoke more positive emotions in learners toward the subject matter.7 informational structures and ontologies help learners form mental models of dynamic interrelationships and systems.
also important is the human-facilitated capability of adjusting a curriculum to meet the unique needs of a range of online learners.
as online curriculums reach wider audiences, more retrofitting might be  necessary to ensure that particular learning sequences are tailored to  particular learners and the cultural environments in which the learning content  will be used.
a wide range of guidelines describe how to build digital tables in a way that  is machine-readable using text readers.
related learning content needs to be clearly labeled with consistent semantics, and these ought to be co-located in the same area in the online classroom.
an instructor teaching about weather and flight uses numerous images found on the world wide web and the internet to illustrate his slideshows and talks.
the course designer should clearly define the e-learning trajectory and pacing and properly design them for the particular levels of learners.
figure 1 shows this conceptualization.
updating online curriculums — whether through tweaks or paradigm shifts — offers a key way to increase learner retention and success.
the learning sequence needs to make developmental sense: foundational knowledge should be addressed first, followed by discussions of more complex content.
all changes should be implemented, though, within the limits of the documents authorizing the course and the authorizing environment.
the  uses of role plays in these situations enable learners to empathize with  certain roles and to view strategic interplays of various entities in a system.
d. is a little idealistic.
or, she could partner with another department on campus.
popular ones for information aggregation and sharing include wikis, web logs or blogs (including in-the-cloud solutions), 140-character long microblog entries, social networking sites (for identity management, socializing, real-time information-sharing, and co-learning), and content sharing sites (for videos and digital imagery).
courses could be linked to external repositories of digital resources, add-on functionalities (such as e-portfolios and galleries), and immersive worlds to add learning value.
table 1 shows three main types of  learning, from basic informational learning to learning acquired through  applied skills and conceptual domain-level modeling and innovations.
new informational data sets may become available, and more online resources may be released into the public domain.
these are only freshman and sophomore students.
she could just assume a diverse audience would relate to characters derived from the mainstream.
responsiveness to learner feedback both during and after the course may ease student frustrations, both by addressing their challenges and concerns and by respecting their voices.
what are some options she could consider?
they set a professional and respectful tone by adhering to applicable laws and policies.
each course redesign will have its own considerations and require tailoring to meet the specific situation.
the life cycle of student work yet another legal issue concerns online accessibility.
many online courses also use a certain "glamour appeal" to attract learners.
these factors underscore the need for measureable and clear learning objectives and also suggest attributes that should be part of any course that will have adults as students.
while different workplace contexts might emphasize these factors  differently, and while many may include additional areas for update, answers to  these questions are likely to have the greatest impacts on learning and the  fundamental quality of the curriculum.
figure 2 shows how, at "five after," student work has already  left the classroom and has potential commercial applications — thus often  changing student rights to use particular copyrighted materials.
the sequentiality of the  learning needs to be clear.
an online course curriculum that reflects the  instructor's ability to stay current with research and developments in a  particular discipline, perhaps in tandem with relevant interdisciplinary  knowledge, will enhance learning by ensuring that students have the most  current and relevant information.
he has no real recollection of where the images came from.
hurricane tracking (national oceanic and atmospheric administration)
learner privacy rights a final concern focuses on the privacy rights of learners.
available technologies enable developers to include alt (alternative) text  for imagery, as well as transcription and captioning for audios, narrated  slideshows, videos, and simulations, and to build accessible learning objects.
redesigning an online curriculum presents rich opportunities to integrate  the latest thinking in given disciplines and to incorporate new methodologies  for teaching and learning.
project-based learning can encourage students to engage in  unwieldy projects, either alone, in pairs, or as part of multidisciplinary  teams.
has the definition of professionalism evolved?
a variety of options were considered, and many others would have been possible, too.
given that de facto copyright ownership pertains once creative content has been put into fixed form, virtually anything created during the past few generations is automatically given copyright protections (unless that material is explicitly released by contract).fair use exemptions and the teach act (and its implications fordistance education) allow very narrow uses of some small parts of copyrighted materials.
cross-cultural alliances between institutions can lead to richer learning.
there may be contractual challenges with a faculty member who is taking a curriculum commercial if he or she was paid to create the work for an accredited nonprofit institution of higher education.
conceptual  domain-level modeling and innovations this domain-level of  mastery results in expert-level analysis and expert-level knowledge of  interrelationships in a particular field.
a four-fold approach for updating an online curriculum a variety of factors can impede or preclude substantive updates in course  content, including a lack of dedicated resources (budget, time, expertise); a  lack of political will at the administrative level; inertia on the part of  those who first developed the curriculum; and a protectionist attitude toward  the existing course on the part of the course developers.
b. have some multimedia-rich methods been applied to make the learning more engaging? ________
students in many  academic, design, and research-based courses will originate new ideas, lines of  research, and innovations that have research and development implications.
similarly, they can become dated by virtue of changes in their learning/course management system, web browser, media player, virtual world space, or related elements and layers of the technological dependencies required for online learning.
the figure shows the overall course trajectory in a developmental and modular structure.
domain fields often undergo true paradigm shifts, in which central concepts  of the past are superseded by more nuanced understandings based on empirical  research, quantitative and qualitative and mixed methods research, and  high-level meta-analyses.
the url for this call for chapter proposals follows below.
c. they should convey book knowledge and not worry about the real-world lived knowledge yet.
nancy hays,eq editor, has provided critical support.
once the decision to revise a curriculum is made, faculty and subject
a course trajectory may be built on an informational structure that shows a clear progression of learning and ensures that learners have the information they need at a particular time.
the releases must be specific about what the learners are releasing and must delimit how digital captures may be used (in future online courses as student work samples, in publicity materials, in a broadcast digital video-sharing site, or on a course-related cd or dvd).
beyond a simple instruction packet, full documentation of the entire course is also a necessary component of optimal curriculum design.
a final concern focuses on the privacy rights of learners.
other readily available  guidelines, such as thequality matters rubric, also provide valuable reality  checks that can help inform a curricular redesign effort.
students have intellectual property rights to much of the work that they create in an academic course — including partial rights to co-developed works created by a student team.
challenge: this professor wants to model the proper uses of resources for his students by not contravening others' intellectual property rights.
what are some strategies to create value-added learning for "experts" from the field taking the course?
b. has already been done and was found to be onerous.
this is especially noticeable in research  institutions that emphasize applied and theoretical research.
other researchers have found that direct personal attention may relieve adult anxieties about school and increase learner retention.13 some instructors plan synchronous events — with guest speakers, complex role plays in virtual worlds, and cross-institutional learning exchanges — to enhance the value of the learning.
are there engaging types of interactivity for the learners?
by shalin hai-jew to remain fresh and relevant, online courses need to be continually  revised and improved.
successful early  assignments help build online learner efficacy.
he pursued copyright releases for materials that he couldn't verify were fully available and kept documentation of the releases.
for shared, inherited courses that a group of instructors teach, the faculty may share their notes about lessons learned from their hands-on use of the curriculum and the experiences they had while teaching the course.
the integrity of digital content must be maintained in all its incarnations, no matter the platform used.
students learn by rote memorization and practice and study.
the team also wanted to accommodate learners from around the world in their own locales, helping them understand some of the government structures put into place for human public health.
when it does  take place, curricular redesign tends to focus on particulars rather than the  big picture.
the informational value of learning materials must be preserved over time.
a trajectory helps learners get a sense of  where they are in the curriculum, where they're going, and where they've been,  at any time in a course.
she should use words and other descriptors to give a sense of the physical aspects of these grains.
here, instructors  are valued not only for their support of learners but for their contributions  of new learning through their own work, their collaborations with colleagues,  and student research under their tutelage.
g. what are some strategies to create effective learning for novice and amateur learners?
course  attractions could also involve trips abroad, participation in professional  conferences, fieldwork, and other inducements.
conversant knowledge in those peripheral fields will be necessary.
because they work within a  componentized environment, course designers have considerable flexibility in  reworking the modular curriculum and can switch content in and out at will.
the uses of role plays in these situations enable learners to empathize with certain roles and to view strategic interplays of various entities in a system.
the instructor might address his or  her pedagogical strategies and course expectations.
instructors  need to help students understand the legal issues implicit in their work and  keep within the law as constructive contributors in their respective fields.
the field's  original set of ethics might have been derived from often competing interests,  such as standards of the profession, a professional code of ethics, ethics of  the community, personal codes of ethics, and individual professional codes.2
commercialization of a curriculum raises its own legal issues, which are often further complicated because commercialization of a curriculum often requires that it be changed substantively.
many distributed learning courses become dated essentially as soon as they launch.
scaffolding can effectively help a range of learners remain engaged.
e. requiring travel is too expensive for a fully online course.
on jan. 11, shalin presented "on the z-axis: research into immersive learning" for igi-global via elluminate (v.10).
to understand the nuances of handling property rights appropriately in a  classroom situation, consider the case of a professor teaching a class on  weather and flight.
remaking of some lecture captures
because raw digital data captures tend to be the "least lossy," they must be protected for potential later use and possible editing into different file types and digital learning objects.
some of these resources provide opt-in,  context-sensitive help, such as directions for using a learning/course  management system or a certain software program.
the integration of relevant imagery into the curriculum
the instructor might address his or her pedagogical strategies and course expectations.
students have intellectual property rights to much of the work that they  create in an academic course — including partial rights to co-developed  works created by a student team.
curriculums might need redesigns to be more inclusive, particularly of groups whose voices have not always been fully heard,5 even requiring translation of content into different languages.
the better an online course build is documented, the more easily it is preserved into the future.
courses built with federal and state  funds are often required to be fully accessible persection 508 and other  applicable accessibility standards.
students can push the edges of the academic and outside worlds by engaging in professional or amateur competitions, apprenticeships, service learning, and work-study endeavors.
h. is the curriculum tailored to the particular learner group and its unique needs and characteristics?
f. does the curriculum include all relevant information for students in the particular field?
in addition, the flexibility of online course design enables faculty members to update teaching and learning methodologies.
(the videos were shot by kent nelson, with assistance from joseph chapes.
once online courses are developed and implemented, however, their  curriculum might not be changed or updated for some time, if ever.
related learning content needs to be clearly labeled with  consistent semantics, and these ought to be co-located in the same area in the  online classroom.
because they work within a componentized environment, course designers have considerable flexibility in reworking the modular curriculum and can switch content in and out at will.
in making work accessible, subject matter experts focus on making sure that  the informational value of the images and other digital elements is equal for  all users.
formal channels usually involve learner surveys that are part of student satisfaction feedback.
while some instructors might consider a course design complete once the course has been created, periodic or even regular updates can greatly enrich a course.
are there ways to be more inclusive and supportive of learners?
building usability into online data repositories and resources
e. are there value-added high-tech elements?
as the realities of a field evolve, they can have reverberating impacts.
b. he should switch out all the images and put in ones from respected sources that put images in the public domain.
successful early assignments help build online learner efficacy.
here, instructors are valued not only for their support of learners but for their contributions of new learning through their own work, their collaborations with colleagues, and student research under their tutelage.
the scaffolding concept can also effectively enhance learning for expert outliers at the other end of the bell curve of learners, perhaps through the study of more advanced research topics.
the availability of camcorders, digital cameras, scanners, microscope-mounted cameras, digital microphones, and desktop lecture-capture software enables virtually anyone to become a producer of digital content.
he wants to make sure all of his slideshows and desktop lecture captures used only images that he has fair rights to use.
these characters were professionally designed in second life as avatars.
in addition,  curricular updates can introduce important new content, and may also introduce  pedagogical enhancements that can improve the quality of e-learning.
i. is the learning tailored to a particular context — whether cultural, geographical, social, political, technological, or domain field?
the life cycle of student work accessibility of online learning yet another legal issue concerns online accessibility.
some  faculty use case studies to enliven discussion and show how theories apply in  real-world situations.
also, building a curriculum with an eye toward eventual inheritance can reduce the idiosyncratic elements in course materials.
new thinking could lead to changes in what is considered ethical in a particular field.
what should they do?
a virtual graduation ceremony for online distance students about  this issue an instructional design approach to updating an online course  curriculum career counselor clickers and cats: using learner response  systems for formative assessments in the classroom cloud computing defeating the kobayashi maru: supporting student retention by balancing the  needs of the many and the one defining it’s role in mission-critical  retention initiatives enhancing student learning and retention with  blended learning class guides future of higher education gps:
all projects balance competing interests and constraints.
everyday exposure to sophisticated production values in multimedia applications creates expectations among students that online courses will have similar production values; anything less can draw negative responses about the course as a whole.
conversant knowledge in those peripheral  fields will be necessary.
students form professional networks and personal friendships.
this suggests a powerful ability to  analyze problems and troubleshoot them in a live situation.
in higher level courses, problem-based learning can be effective.
an  instructional design approach to updating an online course curriculum educause quarterly educause quarterly magazine, volume 33, number 4,  2010
these relatively new technologies enable students to represent ideas in different formats, which enhances their deep learning along both visual/spatial and auditory/verbal information channels.14 material that originated in digital form can be readily deployed in online immersive sites or on different platforms.
the materials need to be accessible, and both deliverable by a university and receivable by its learners.
e. have there been changes in related fields that have impacts on the learning?
a course retrofit should include an analysis of the learner experience as well as a review of the content segment by segment.
they might include interviews, simulations, role plays, interactive spaces, photo collections, and other types of files.
e. is there a formal course policy about academic honesty and an honor code?
once a  work goes commercial, academic exemptions to copyright no longer apply.
applying the latest pedagogical methods can  enhance the online learning experience.
it also suggests  the ability to conceptualize new research and to carry through that research to  fruition and to contribute new knowledge to the field.
how could they give learners an idea of some of the offices that support public health in their respective locales?
works created in classes may fall under "fair use" in terms of the  materials used in the student papers, portfolios, designs, drawings, and  multimedia — but those works cannot be used under "fair use" if  students are using the works for out-of-classroom purposes.
there may be contractual challenges  with a faculty member who is taking a curriculum commercial if he or she was  paid to create the work for an accredited nonprofit institution of higher  education.
in addition to the many dimensions of curriculum redesign already discussed, several other considerations merit brief mention.
new, emerging, and evolving technologies can greatly enhance work to  update the curriculum of an online course.
other readily available guidelines, such as thequality matters rubric, also provide valuable reality checks that can help inform a curricular redesign effort.
the course designer should clearly  define the e-learning trajectory and pacing and properly design them for the  particular levels of learners.
once online courses are developed and implemented, however, their curriculum might not be changed or updated for some time, if ever.
once a work goes commercial, academic exemptions to copyright no longer apply.
because students have a right to their own image and voice, they need to sign releases before a class can be captured on video, audio, or even in still images.
digital labs, simulations, and immersive experiences need to function as scripted.
b. are the core learning contents accessible to all learners (regardless of visual acuity, hearing loss, mobility, and symbolic processing challenges)?
domain fields often undergo true paradigm shifts, in which central concepts of the past are superseded by more nuanced understandings based on empirical research, quantitative and qualitative and mixed methods research, and high-level meta-analyses.
updated legal guidelines and relevant policies curriculum revision requires careful attention to legal requirements and  relevant institutional policies.
students may also apply skills in  apprenticeships out in the community, in service learning (whether locally,  domestically or abroad), fieldwork, and field research.
also important is the human-facilitated capability of adjusting a  curriculum to meet the unique needs of a range of online learners.
is the learning paced appropriately?
works used with the permissions of third-party  content providers (often contingent on learners using particular purchased  textbooks) will likely need to be removed.
a variety of factors can impede or preclude substantive updates in course content, including a lack of dedicated resources (budget, time, expertise); a lack of political will at the administrative level; inertia on the part of those who first developed the curriculum; and a protectionist attitude toward the existing course on the part of the course developers.
vincent tinto noted that there are five conditions16 for learner retention: as tinto wrote, "learning has always been the key to student retention.
some programs use undergraduate research as a means to increase student  retention and help them bridge to graduate-level learning.8 cumulative  activities such as e-portfolio building support student reflection on their  learning, provide a vehicle for students to receive feedback from experts, and  enhance peer learning.
new informational data sets may become available, and more online  resources may be released into the public domain.
courses might include such assignments as the creation of a faux history for a criminology class, role-playing global interrelationships for a political science course, preparation of a feast for a nutrition class, or creation of a simple digital game for a computer science course.
informational learning this  level of learning is the type conveyed in survey and introductory courses.
to enrich the learning experience, "digital storytelling" involves the creation of narratives and shared experiences using multimedia.3 figure 4 outlines one approach to a course trajectory, a course folder structure from the introduction to public health course.
thanks to the various principal investigators and professors with whom i worked on the various projects described here.
in terms of relevant technologies, most course or instructional designers need to consider two main elements, maintenance and value-added.
an academic course becomes a  commercial work once it is used as part of a profit-making venture, outside the  bounds of the umbrella implicit in an institution's nonprofit status.
she had written a script with various characters that would interact in supportive and real-life ways.
in making work accessible, subject matter experts focus on making sure that the informational value of the images and other digital elements is equal for all users.
what updates in relevant technologies could improve the course?
the process also involves instructional design (how the online learning experience is conceptualized and created) and development/scripting work (how the digital materials are created) to ensure that the digital learning objects fully comply with accessibility requirements.
instructors sometimes solicit informal feedback from learners at the end of the term.
the releases must be specific about what the learners are releasing and  must delimit how digital captures may be used (in future online courses as  student work samples, in publicity materials, in a broadcast digital  video-sharing site, or on a course-related cd or dvd).
because students have a right to their own image and voice, they need to  sign releases before a class can be captured on video, audio, or even in still  images.
segues between modules, courses (in a degree  program), or sequences add coherence for learners, connecting students more  directly with the content and enriching learning.
a faculty member worked with a team to build a virtual space in second life to showcase the adaptations that could meet the needs of people with disabilities.
curriculum revision requires careful attention to legal requirements and relevant institutional policies.
a. they should do video tours of facilities stateside and explain how the various public health offices or water treatment facilities or other offices work.
progress/change in the domain field ________ a.
a simple conceptualization of types of higher education  learning 1.
an online learning experience that  adheres to legal principles will uphold the reputation of the university and  protect the rights of students.
they represented various disciplines, including veterinary medicine, biology, epidemiology, food science, biosecurity, law enforcement, and kinesiology.
a. video tours would be a stand-in for some types of site visits.
a core challenge in an online curriculum is to create a coherent e-learning path or trajectory, particularly for online learning deployed through multiple technologies or a learning/course management system.
a four-fold approach for updating an online curriculum
in further developing the concepts introduced in this virtual world, a series of videos were created showcasing problems faced by caregivers and healthy solutions to them.
to explore the options and limitations of virtual inclusiveness, see "inclusiveness in a virtual world."
a curriculum might  require tailoring content to a particular context, whether cultural,  geographical, social, political, technological, or specific to a domain field.
g. is the curriculum sufficiently flexible to accommodate the various needs of online learners?
a newer type of learning path involves a story-centered curriculum, which tells a story with critical dramatic learning points along the way.
figure 5 shows the conceptualization of the minority outliers on a bell curve, with novices and amateurs at one end and expert outliers at the other.
once the decision to revise a curriculum is made, faculty and subject matter experts need to ask themselves four central questions: coupled with these primary considerations should be an assessment of whether the individual interested in revising the course has the time and skills to do so effectively, and whether there is adequate institutional support for making the right changes to the curriculum.
students who take courses with peers often are more motivated and committed to continue in their learning.
haptic devices (in direct-manipulation animation) have been integrated with 3d virtual spaces for a more full-sensory experience.
new thinking could lead  to changes in what is considered ethical in a particular field.
the field's original set of ethics might have been derived from often competing interests, such as standards of the profession, a professional code of ethics, ethics of the community, personal codes of ethics, and individual professional codes.2
http://www.igi-global.com/authorseditors/authoreditorresources/callforbo...
many assessments that are effective in the face-to-face classroom also work well in the online classroom.6 there are many ways to create value-added learning for online studies.
however, he has limited time to make changes to his extensive curriculum.
an academic course becomes a commercial work once it is used as part of a profit-making venture, outside the bounds of the umbrella implicit in an institution's nonprofit status.
private  academic, health, and other student information may not be publicly shared.
scaffolding learning for the outliers: novices and amateurs, and experts one recent trend in curriculum design has been toward a "contributing student pedagogy," in which learners contribute to each other's learning and value the contributions of peers.
they have a major responsibility to create a rewarding learning experience that actualizes learner skills and knowledge.
instructors should identify at-risk learners (based on their communications and their submitted work) and provide tailored support for their learning.
in this context, this article presents ideas for an approach based in the principles of instructional design to updating the curriculum for online courses.
students who learn are students who stay.
he knows of various government websites related to weather which have the resources he needs.
research suggests that adult learners prefer practical learning that benefits their work lives.
is there a formal course policy about student privacy rights? ________ d. is there a formal course policy about copyright?
this has not yet been achieved.
courses might include such assignments as the creation of a  faux history for a criminology class, role-playing global interrelationships  for a political science course, preparation of a feast for a nutrition class,  or creation of a simple digital game for a computer science course.
a curriculum should be calibrated to the particular developmental levels of its students.
another complication arises when student work is involved.
the learning sequence needs  to make developmental sense: foundational knowledge should be addressed first,  followed by discussions of more complex content.
shaping  student success one conversation at a time hands-on practice helps  students master it skills and succeed how the iccoc uses analytics to  increase student success increasing corporate philanthropy to enrich  technology innovation in higher education intelligent counseling system: a  24 x 7 academic advisor social networking tools to facilitate  cross-program collaboration student engagement sustaining students:  retention strategies in an online program teaching and learning in review:  insights from the educause 2010 annual conference the case for nudge  analytics using e-portfolios to support an undergraduate learning career:  an experiment with academic advising using technology to impact student  retention at montgomery county community college video demo of  umbc’s “check my activity” tool for students visualizing  math: how intelligent tutoring technology can help math-challenged students an instructional design approach to updating an online course curriculum an instructional design approach to updating an online course curriculum an instructional design approach to updating an online course curriculum
d. they should encourage students to visit their local public health venues — with the permission of their local authorities —to get a hands-on and lived sense of how public health is done.
this aging-out of content also occurs as a byproduct of the ongoing push to develop new technological and pedagogical methods.
when he looked for a particular image, he found several versions (with different names and labels) on various sites, but he could not establish the original owner or even a consistent name for each image.
this is especially noticeable in research institutions that emphasize applied and theoretical research.
answer: d. the team created flexible assignments that would allow learners to capitalize on their local public health resources in order to learn about the on-ground realities where they lived.
one of the implications of "scaffolding" learning is to build structures that enable learners to achieve learning that they wouldn't otherwise.
she wanted to convey stories of their continuing interactions over episodic time.
moving forward a grain science instructor had used a paper-bound book with samples of actual grains in plastic bags stapled into the pages for many semesters.
as the instructional designer on this project, i created and conducted all the interviews.)
similarly, practices within domains can change, in both research and applications in the field.
all options except c are reasonably appropriate.
b. web-based tours may also substitute for some live visits.
why are these four questions important?
one feedback loop involves learner participation in the online course.
before student-created works are used for  future courses, publications, or other similar applications, faculty members  and administrators need to ensure that students officially release their rights  for those purposes in writing.
a simple conceptualization of types of higher education learning1.
the use of the latest relevant technologies for lecture capture, synchronous interactivity, simulations, student interactivity and intercommunications, student group work, research, design, and other learning activities can all improve the learner experience.
other components might include a review of course standards and policies and the sharing of learning tips.
this article suggests four main foci for online course updates and retrofitting: changes do not have to be made all at once.
targeting curriculum for different learning needs — including different developmental phases, different primary languages, and different learning contexts (cultural, geographical, social, political, technological, and domain field) — can enhance both individual and group learning experiences.
others create blended experiences for learning, with students meeting in physical spaces for field trips and experiments.
e. is there sufficient flexibility in the curriculum to accommodate a range of learners with differing and unique learning and professional needs?
different research frameworks may  be applied.
the  fundamental concern is how well curricula are developed to accommodate such  users.
the scaffolding of learner interactivity supports learner retention and may combat "feelings of isolation, lack of self-direction and management, and (an) eventual decrease in motivation levels.
faculty in online courses benefit from information streams with learners and other stakeholders.
scaffolding  can effectively help a range of learners remain engaged.
given the breadth of the four areas, one faculty member will probably not be able to engage the issues of laws and policies, information quality, curricular strategies, and updated technologies; ideally, a healthy institution of higher education will have support offices that provide a range of course design support services to faculty along with subject matter experts, perhaps as part of ad hoc teams.
in this context,  this means the ability of people with a range of different types of abilities,  including those with visual acuity, sound acuity, mobility, and symbolic  processing challenges, to access an online course and curriculum.
e. she can abandon the series idea and just use different avatar characters each time.
the information quality, timeliness, and domain-based digital contents 3.
rarely do we step back to fundamentally assess the raison d'etre  for a given curriculum — to examine the essential cultural factors that  undergird that curriculum and the purposes for which it was created.1 analyses  at that level have great potential to enrich a curriculum.
applied skills this level of learning is often used in higher  level courses.
to understand the nuances of handling property rights appropriately in a classroom situation, consider the case of a professor teaching a class on weather and flight.
e-learning path or trajectory a core challenge in an online curriculum is to create a coherent e-learning  path or trajectory, particularly for online learning deployed through multiple  technologies or a learning/course management system.
are there sufficient resources for self-learners who pursue self-discovery learning?
to explore the additional issues involved in successful redesign of an online course curriculum, see "further considerations for curricular updates." updating an e-learning course, whether through modest tweaks or a total overhaul, can help make a course more competitive, memorable, and effective.
those combined with 2d images should be sufficient.
by shalin hai-jew a well-designed curriculum for online learning nurtures both student learning and student retention.
to explore the complexity of working across disciplines in developing a course for geographically diverse learners, see "collaborations across institutions and disciplines" describing development of a public health course.
from the value perspective, the selection of instructional technologies depends on a robust assessment of learning needs.15 technological advancements also affect the types of tools used for learning.
some of these updates deal with issues of maintenance, while others derive from a desire to improve value-added learning.
while different workplace contexts might emphasize these factors differently, and while many may include additional areas for update, answers to these questions are likely to have the greatest impacts on learning and the fundamental quality of the curriculum.
instructors who maintain a course revision journal to capture the suggestions can apply these ideas to new designs, or they can integrate them immediately in the master course.
these are 3d and can be handled in a tactile way.
the speed of change will leave behind those who do not move with the technological current.
the content has to be portable between technological systems.
the  instructor can include examples that have no apparent solution, even for  subject matter experts, or where the "answer" involves complex,  open-ended designs with varying and competing degrees of appropriateness for  the context (as, for example, in land-use proposals in the context of landscape  architecture).
digital content can be edited at one's desktop through video editing, image editing, and sound editing software.
those who inherit a course will have a clearer range of choices and motion if they know the provenance of all the contents, if the digital materials are properly annotated and reasonably accessible, and if the original pedagogical plans are shared.
the students were asked to share their findings with each other for an effective "jigsaw" experience.
a multi-institutional team of faculty from four colleges and one university in kansas collaborated around developing a shared freshman level course for public health.
considerations of relevant laws and institutional policies should be a  core focus of every curriculum redesign.
this is certainly true of course content.
tutorial systems sometimes feature animated intelligent avatars to  interact with learners.
commercialization of a curriculum raises its own legal issues, which are  often further complicated because commercialization of a curriculum often  requires that it be changed substantively.
students may create rich works for digital gallery shows, or they might conduct research and write up their findings in integrative papers.
j. are there sufficient opt-in help resources for students who engage in help-seeking?
c. is an option, but it still leaves him and the university with liabilities for the resources that possibly contravene copyright.
the course curriculum and teaching and learning methodologies 4.
screenshot of the top-level folder structure of  introduction to public health
private academic, health, and other student information may not be publicly shared.
available technologies enable developers to include alt (alternative) text for imagery, as well as transcription and captioning for audios, narrated slideshows, videos, and simulations, and to build accessible learning objects.
typical sequences involve an early social "icebreaker" to help online learners connect with each other and with the instructor.
many online courses, modules, and digital learning objects are not built with instructor inheritance in mind.
locally, the limitations of political will, budget, time, and expertise will all have an effect.
a wide range of guidelines describe how to build digital tables in a way that is machine-readable using text readers.
the documentation may include legal documents, such as contracts, grants, formal letters of support, memorandums of agreement or understanding, media rights releases, copyright releases, and permissions.
before student-created works are used for future courses, publications, or other similar applications, faculty members and administrators need to ensure that students officially release their rights for those purposes in writing.
to accommodate a diversity of learners with different learning preferences and  styles — such as kinesthetic/tactile, auditory/visual,  logical/mathematical, musical/rhythmic, verbal/linguistic, visual/spatial, and  interpersonal/intrapersonal — might require diversifying assessments to  include a wider range of formative and summative measurements.
the technology could not provide fullmachinima captures, and the human-embodied avatar faces weren't realistically expressive.
conversion of the original to an e-book made the material more accessible to students, as explained in "a grain science e-book."
it might also include raw files from photo shoots, videography sessions, audio sessions,machinima captures, and lecture captures.
note the placement of the heat adjustments on the stove — up-front, they will not require reaching to the back of the stovetop — and the lower-height countertop to accommodate wheelchairs.
the course curricular strategies/teaching and learning methodologies ________ a. have visual aids been integrated with the learning?
faculty adherence to the law can help keep  legal liabilities for both the institution and the respective faculty member in  check.
she could just use the pre-made avatars without any changes but using a variety of diverse voices and accents for the actors.
faculty members have other pathways to content: they can create their own content; use content released to the public domain; access open-source (and royalty-free) resources; or use content released through variouscreative commons licenses.
given the breadth of the field and its changing nature (the h1n1 flu epidemic hit during the building of the course), the team wanted to bring in varied types of expertise to help learners.
consequently, virtually every  online course can benefit from periodic curricular updates.
a curriculum might require tailoring content to a particular context, whether cultural, geographical, social, political, technological, or specific to a domain field.
screenshot of the top-level folder structure of introduction to public health
value-added learning extra credits field trips case studies digital labs research opportunities student publications student gallery shows student e-portfolios the add-on of tech-intensive learner experiences the uses of a richer array of tech-enabled research streams (as relevant)…such as with remote sensing, geographical information systems, digital repositories and referatories (like themultimedia educational resource for learning and online teaching from merlot), and so on the addition of metadata to learning objects for findability and accurate labeling
the professor actually went through and scrubbed his extant slideshows and lectures and swapped in images from the public domain.
this way, she could have diverse characters at a small cost, with a kind of narrative and character-based continuity.
the course updated file types the portability and transferability of digital objects the usability of digital objects in various technological systems/socio-technological systems integration of open-source resources integration of virtual/immersive worlds (in alignment with new assignments) anything that needs updates for functioning (staying ahead of technological obsolescence) every academic year relevant new laws, state policies, and campus policies third-party publisher-created contents e-books published articles
faculty members have other pathways to content: they  can create their own content; use content released to the public domain; access  open-source (and royalty-free) resources; or use content released through  variouscreative commons licenses.
consequently, virtually every online course can benefit from periodic curricular updates.
what progress or change in the domain field might inform the course  revision?
a. ignoring the law is no solution and no defense.
an online course curriculum that reflects the instructor's ability to stay current with research and developments in a particular discipline, perhaps in tandem with relevant interdisciplinary knowledge, will enhance learning by ensuring that students have the most current and relevant information.
also, the easier it is to update.
the  scaffolding concept can also effectively enhance learning for expert outliers  at the other end of the bell curve of learners, perhaps through the study of  more advanced research topics.
applying the latest pedagogical methods can enhance the online learning experience.
is this path adaptable to changing circumstances, resources, and instructor and learner needs? ________ d.
through the  family education rights and privacy act (ferpa), students have privacy rights  that protect much of their non-directory types of information.
virtual worlds enable the creation of discovery learning spaces; they also enable live simulations with other human-embodied avatars for different social scenarios and digital dramaturgy.
in this context, this means the ability of people with a range of different types of abilities, including those with visual acuity, sound acuity, mobility, and symbolic processing challenges, to access an online course and curriculum.
the three dimensions are not necessary.
on the other hand, many forces can stimulate a curricular update, including  the availability of external or internal grant funds, a push from  administrators for higher course quality, an impending visit by an  accreditation team, or the emergence of the need for a new degree or program  that builds on the substructure inherent in existing courses.
at the micro level, unique changes to a course — such as the inclusion of guest speakers with plenty of real-world experiences, multi-language accommodations, or the inclusion of original student work samples — would improve the learner experience.
hands-on practice may be done via simulations, digital wet labs,  role plays, and virtual immersive spaces.
typical sequences involve an early social "icebreaker" to help  online learners connect with each other and with the instructor.
b. she should have a separate physical set of grains that can be mailed to students.
changes in fields that are peripheral to a specific discipline often have impacts in a main area of study.
an immersive and interactive space demonstrates accessibility in action.
the enriching of a curriculum through more customized assignments and more learner feedback and choices on the topics of study improved student interactivity improved instructor feedback loops the integration of new technologies
gaps in knowledge, skills, and or learner preparation — problems that occur with more frequency given today's high drop-out rates in high schools and college — need to be addressed with remedial work, support, and well-presented information.
e. he should purchase all curricular contents from third-party content providers and get out of the business of creating his own teaching contents.
at the macro level, changes may be made to the superstructures outside of a class to enhance its value by linking it to a sequence of learning or a powerful applied learning context (service learning or study abroad programs are good examples).
c. is the e-learning trajectory or path sensible?
maintenance refers to a kind of digital preservation of online learning content; value-added refers to the enrichment of the online learning experience.
are they aligned with federal laws and university policies?
what updates in teaching and learning methodologies might be relevant?
a course trajectory may be built on an informational structure that shows a  clear progression of learning and ensures that learners have the information  they need at a particular time.
works used with the permissions of third-party content providers (often contingent on learners using particular purchased textbooks) will likely need to be removed.
back-end data mining in the learning/course management system can also be highly instructive.
given that  de facto copyright ownership pertains once creative content has been put into  fixed form, virtually anything created during the past few generations is  automatically given copyright protections (unless that material is explicitly  released by contract).fair use exemptions and the teach act (and its  implications fordistance education) allow very narrow uses of some small parts  of copyrighted materials.
the contributing student pedagogy also focuses on building "increased content understanding, improved generic skills, increased motivation, increased satisfaction, increased confidence, (and) improved social skills" — all of which contribute to learner retention.4 instructors might also design opt-in resources for students who seek assistance.
she could ignore this issue and go with "generic" avatars.
relevant updated technologies ________ a. are the digital learning contents engaging?
the  figure shows the overall course trajectory in a developmental and modular  structure.
to accommodate a diversity of learners with different learning preferences and styles — such as kinesthetic/tactile, auditory/visual, logical/mathematical, musical/rhythmic, verbal/linguistic, visual/spatial, and interpersonal/intrapersonal — might require diversifying assessments to include a wider range of formative and summative measurements.
faculty adherence to the law can help keep legal liabilities for both the institution and the respective faculty member in check.
"17 learner successes in learning, course by course, are a critical building block to their persistence.
that  means that a massive retrofitting will be required.
often an early assignment introduces the course and encourages learners to share their hypotheses of where the course might be headed.
d. do the digital labs, simulations, and 3-d immersive experiences (if included) work as scripted (on various platforms and operating systems, with various browsers, alongside various software technologies)?
those who may be interested may access the presentation below.http://tiny.cc/be0i7 the igi global online symposim series may be accessed at the following url: http://www.igi-global.com/advertisements/symposium/symposium.aspx .
one of the  implications of "scaffolding" learning is to build structures that  enable learners to achieve learning that they wouldn't otherwise.
adherence to legal guidelines and relevant policies 2.
the contributing student pedagogy also focuses  on building "increased content understanding, improved generic skills,  increased motivation, increased satisfaction, increased confidence, (and)  improved social skills" — all of which contribute to learner  retention.4 instructors might also design opt-in resources for students who seek  assistance.
username: password: create a profile | forgot your username or password?
worse yet, developers might bypass digital rights management (drm) protections around certain works in order to build their online learning collection.
she should pursue an on-campus grant source for teaching excellence.
the instructor can include examples that have no apparent solution, even for subject matter experts, or where the "answer" involves complex, open-ended designs with varying and competing degrees of appropriateness for the context (as, for example, in land-use proposals in the context of landscape architecture).
figure 3 shows these mixes of interrelationships.
through the family education rights and privacy act (ferpa), students have privacy rights that protect much of their non-directory types of information.
instructors help connect learners to the campus, which can improve retention.3 they play a critical role in connecting learners to resources on campus.
coupled with these primary considerations should be an assessment of  whether the individual interested in revising the course has the time and  skills to do so effectively, and whether there is adequate institutional  support for making the right changes to the curriculum.
the following table differentiates between updates needed for every term, each academic year, as needed.
e. she should partner with another institution of higher learning and collaborate on a digital grain "laboratory" that offers high-resolution images in 2d and 3d, enabling learner immersion in the grain work.
the process also involves instructional design (how the online  learning experience is conceptualized and created) and development/scripting  work (how the digital materials are created) to ensure that the digital  learning objects fully comply with accessibility requirements.
while ideally value will be designed into an online curriculum from the start, the reality is that, across the spectrum of e-learning, there is a wide range of quality.
she had a digital camera mounted on a microscope and instructed a graduate student to capture the images of the various grains at several levels of magnification, with digital images of a measure to help learners get a sense of the actual size.
as online curriculums reach wider audiences, more retrofitting might be necessary to ensure that particular learning sequences are tailored to particular learners and the cultural environments in which the learning content will be used.
as a serious professional, he wants to uphold the standards of the field.
c. do the course materials and online teaching practices support learner privacy rights?
she might design the avatars visually and in dialogue and behavior to be strategically ambiguous in terms of backgrounds.
they invited experts in public health, gerontology, human-animal bonds and health, lab biosecurity measures, global food production, rabies, and national agricultural defense to speak on camera about their work and concerns.
putting the book together required painstaking human labor to create the bags, staple them in, and make sure the pages of the book were complete.
the legal dimensions of curriculum redesign include three key areas: ownership of intellectual property learner privacy rights intellectual property protections any use of copyrighted text, images, videos, audio, or other content in an  online course brings intellectual property considerations into play.
however, she could take screen shots of the avatars in the online spaces, and she could bring in amateur voice actors to play the roles.
his educational resources include slideshows and images  illustrating his lectures, with materials pulled from multiple online sources.
maintenance means ensuring that digital content is preserved against obsolescence and the "slow fires" that degrade technological content.
in  addition, the flexibility of online course design enables faculty members to  update teaching and learning methodologies.
courses built with federal and state funds are often required to be fully accessible persection 508 and other applicable accessibility standards.
are these legal guidelines and policies applied fairly and equitably?
instructors need to help students understand the legal issues implicit in their work and keep within the law as constructive contributors in their respective fields.
is the curriculum deployable on mobile devices (such as podcasts)?
other components might include a review of course standards and  policies and the sharing of learning tips.
he should ignore intellectual property concerns and keep using his digital contents on a password-protected course site.
|  cancel home | contact | login keyword search: major initiatives resources  professional development community about educause location:  home » resources » educause quarterly (eq)
many assessments  that are effective in the face-to-face classroom also work well in the online  classroom.6 there are many ways to create value-added learning for online studies.
games may evoke more positive emotions in learners toward the subject matter.7  informational structures and ontologies help learners form mental models of  dynamic interrelationships and systems.
project-based learning can encourage students to engage in unwieldy projects, either alone, in pairs, or as part of multidisciplinary teams.
answer: a. this is the simplest solution, but if e. is possible, it should be pursued.
new generations of online learners have learned to expect regular rollouts of newer, better, and faster levels of technological expertise.
updates in teaching and learning methodologies while some instructors might consider a course design complete once the  course has been created, periodic or even regular updates can greatly enrich a  course.
participation and interactions with learners in an online classroom help create a stronger telepresence, or sense of "being" in the classroom, on the part of the instructor.
conceptual learning: principles, theories, values, and  themes; the learning of abstractions (affective, cognitive) logical analysis: the identification and locating of  relevant information to the relevant issues; the proper application of logic to  the relevant issues; the drawing of correct conclusions based on the given  knowledge (affective, cognitive)
different research frameworks may be applied.
they provide academic advisement.
b. have there been changes in the way that research is done?
on the other hand, many forces can stimulate a curricular update, including the availability of external or internal grant funds, a push from administrators for higher course quality, an impending visit by an accreditation team, or the emergence of the need for a new degree or program that builds on the substructure inherent in existing courses.
the system might also note which files learners access and what class-related message boards and activities they like the best, data that can spark ideas for enhanced student participation.
________ c. are the core digital contents portable between technological systems (learning/course management systems, digital repositories, websites, and socio-technical systems)?
many online courses also use a certain "glamour appeal" to  attract learners.
if not, what is missing?
courses can become dated by virtue of the authoring tools used to create their content, including text files, the slideshows, the audio, the imagery, and the video.
» eq archives  »eq volume 33 (2010)
they need to have a clear sense about why they need to learn a particular thing.
another strategy is to create formal and informal (back-end) channels for learner feedback.
changes in fields that are peripheral to a specific discipline often have  impacts in a main area of study.
for human-facilitated courses,  instructors also make themselves more widely available to support student  learning by providing information, access to resources, constructive critiques,  and rich learning opportunities.
if so, has this been captured in the course curriculum and student learning?
then she had an instructional designer (me) put together the electronic book, which has long replaced the paper one.
another option, of course, is to do without.
in practice, they may occur in a piecemeal way.
scaffolding learning for the outliers: novices and  amateurs, and experts one recent trend in curriculum design has been toward a "contributing  student pedagogy," in which learners contribute to each other's learning  and value the contributions of peers.
peer learners give feedback and support each other's learning.
digital rights must be preserved, as must metadata about the objects.
to explore his options, see "modeling proper handling of intellectual  property."
b. she could make each of the characters clearly represent a different demographic niche.
________ c. are there innovative methods of applied work in the field?
a trajectory helps learners get a sense of where they are in the curriculum, where they're going, and where they've been, at any time in a course.
the interrelationships between domain-field elements that  affect a curriculum given the reality of ongoing, often significant change in domain fields, it  is imperative that faculty members stay apprised of the discoveries in their  particular areas of expertise — certainly in the general interest of  building new knowledge, but also in revising the curriculum for an online  course.
it can also reveal students'  expectations about the course materials, enabling the instructor to address  misperceptions.
tools from that realm — including establishing processes for  effective online learning, templating digital learning objects and modules for  quality, defining clear work flows and decision junctures, adhering to  standards of legality and ethics, and applying wise leadership and project  management—offer a powerful approach to the development and refinement of  quality curricula.
the reality is that e-learning is predicated on layers of technological and human resources dependencies.
the draft checklist for updating an online curriculum that accompanies this  article expands on the four questions/areas.
legal guidelines and relevant policies ________ a. do the course materials adhere to intellectual property (ip) laws and university/college guidelines?
segues between modules, courses (in a degree program), or sequences add coherence for learners, connecting students more directly with the content and enriching learning.
they should encourage their learners to take web-based tours of various public health offices and venues.
endnotes depending on organizational priorities, online course curricular updates may occur at various intervals.
do websites display well on mobile devices and other types of small-screens?
she wanted to have characters whom a range of people could relate to, in terms of race, age, ethnicity, culture, and other aspects.
the sequentiality of the learning needs to be clear.
encouraging interrelationships between learners helps improve student retention and degree completion rates.
do these deploy well on different systems and platforms?
e. they should require students to travel to the u.s. to go on local tours of various public health facilities.
a newer type of learning path involves a  story-centered curriculum, which tells a story with critical dramatic learning  points along the way.
the fundamental concern is how well curricula are developed to accommodate such users.
these four broad areas are not comprehensive listings for online course updating.
a course retrofit should include an analysis of the learner experience as  well as a review of the content segment by segment.
he should build new slideshows using higher intellectual property standards, and he should slowly phase out the elements that contravened copyright.
that means that a massive retrofitting will be required.
to save on the labor and other costs, the faculty member commissioned an electronic book.
an online learning experience that adheres to legal principles will uphold the reputation of the university and protect the rights of students.
tools from that realm — including establishing processes for effective online learning, templating digital learning objects and modules for quality, defining clear work flows and decision junctures, adhering to standards of legality and ethics, and applying wise leadership and project management—offer a powerful approach to the development and refinement of quality curricula.
for human-facilitated courses, instructors also make themselves more widely available to support student learning by providing information, access to resources, constructive critiques, and rich learning opportunities.
f. are the course policies transparent?
the books were stored in a cabinet and doled out each semester to a small group of students.
gaps in knowledge, skills, and or learner preparation —  problems that occur with more frequency given today's high drop-out rates in  high schools and college — need to be addressed with remedial work,  support, and well-presented information.
it can be used, for  example, with student "outliers," such as the novice (a learner who  is inexperienced and naïve but aims to become expert in a particular  field) and the amateur (a naïve learner who seeks only a surface  understanding of a particular field and does not aim for future expertise).
matter experts need to ask themselves four central questions: have legal guidelines and relevant policies that might affect the course  revision changed?
the scalability of some of these online experiences can help learning experiences feel more personal and intimate, particularly in larger sections of courses where direct one-on-one interaction with the instructor is rare.
many forms of digital content, such as images, audio, videos, simulations, and games, have been rendered in digital form and made available through many technology structures, including digital repositories and libraries.
some fundamental works include ruth colvin clark and richard e. mayer'se-learning and the science of instruction: proven guidelines for consumers and designers of multimedia learning (2nd edition), and clark aldrich's learning online with games, simulations, and virtual worlds: strategies for online learning and learning by doing: a comprehensive guide to simulations, computer games, and pedagogy in e-learning and other educational experiences.
instructor manuals rarely accompany such courses.
progress and change in domain fields informed by a constant stream of new research and information, domain  fields change constantly.
course content now often needs to be deployable on mobile devices.
curriculums might need redesigns to be more inclusive,  particularly of groups whose voices have not always been fully heard,5 even  requiring translation of content into different languages.
do the teaching and learning practices in the course adhere to ip laws and organizational guidelines?
the accompanying slideshow will be available at the above url.
pages from the grain science e-book challenge: the instructor still wants learners to get a sense of the grains in a three-dimensional sense.
to enrich the learning experience, "digital  storytelling" involves the creation of narratives and shared experiences  using multimedia.3 figure 4 outlines one approach to a course trajectory, a  course folder structure from the introduction to public health course.
this initial level  of learning sets the groundwork of understandings in a field.
students may create rich works for digital gallery  shows, or they might conduct research and write up their findings in  integrative papers.
f. is the curriculum tailored for the particular developmental levels of the learners?
are there new ways that fresh information is vetted and integrated into the field?
the more complex the  content, the more diverse the learner skill sets, and the more divergent the  preferred modes of learning, the harder it is to create a coherent sense of a  singular path.
do practitioners in the field have to use new skill sets? ________ d. are there modern thoughts on ethical practices in the field?
any works used under fair use will have to be removed.
the interrelationships between domain-field elements that affect a curriculum given the reality of ongoing, often significant change in domain fields, it is imperative that faculty members stay apprised of the discoveries in their particular areas of expertise — certainly in the general interest of building new knowledge, but also in revising the curriculum for an online course.
is this policy made widely, transparently, and equitably available?
figure 5 shows the conceptualization of the  minority outliers on a bell curve, with novices and amateurs at one end and  expert outliers at the other.
works created in classes may fall under "fair use" in terms of the materials used in the student papers, portfolios, designs, drawings, and multimedia — but those works cannot be used under "fair use" if students are using the works for out-of-classroom purposes.
then she should have her graduate student do 3d captures of the grains and have them delivered as part of a digital repository that students may access and use to manipulate the images.
focus on healthy caregiving chapter 1: laying the foundation chapter 2: understanding options chapter 3:
what are some of his options?
any help would be deeply appreciated.
learners may participate in professional online conferences and digital poster sessions.
students can push the edges of the academic and outside  worlds by engaging in professional or amateur competitions, apprenticeships,  service learning, and work-study endeavors.
the more complex the content, the more diverse the learner skill sets, and the more divergent the preferred modes of learning, the harder it is to create a coherent sense of a singular path.
the use of the latest relevant  technologies for lecture capture, synchronous interactivity, simulations,  student interactivity and intercommunications, student group work, research,  design, and other learning activities can all improve the learner experience.
(if applicable) ________
b. do the course materials and learning events adhere to accessibility requirements? ________
what is innovative and new in a curriculum today becomes simply the baseline expectation of new generations of learners.
for example, the system may capture patterns of when students participate in class.
she should check the open-source world for full 3d captures of the various grains that she's using in her courses.
i am grateful to the anonymous peer reviewers who gave me plenty of constructive and insightful feedback to improve this work.
some faculty use case studies to enliven discussion and show how theories apply in real-world situations.
a grain science instructor had used a paper-bound book with samples of grain, which restricted use to relatively few students and required a great deal of labor to maintain.
rarely do we step back to fundamentally assess the raison d'etre for a given curriculum — to examine the essential cultural factors that undergird that curriculum and the purposes for which it was created.1 analyses at that level have great potential to enrich a curriculum.
students in many academic, design, and research-based courses will originate new ideas, lines of research, and innovations that have research and development implications.
they need grounded learning that taps into lived experiences1 and are motivated by the usefulness of information and skills.2
to explore the complexity of working across disciplines in developing a  course for geographically diverse learners, see "collaborations across  institutions and disciplines" describing development of a public health  course.
students will often communicate directly with instructors and offer ideas via e-mails and telephone calls, all information-rich ways to capture suggestions.
tutorial systems sometimes feature animated intelligent avatars to interact with learners.
other learning may occur in augmented physical spaces ("mixed reality"), with digital installations built for immersive experiences that take advantage of proprioception and muscle memory.
it can also reveal students' expectations about the course materials, enabling the instructor to address misperceptions.
in this model, learners work on shared independent projects.
hello, all: please consider submitting chapter proposals for a forthcoming text (in 2012) titled "open-source technologies for maximizing the creation, deployment and use of digital resources and information" (forthcoming from igi-global).
in this case, the principal investigator chose to go with strategic ambiguity in the characters.
as needed intellectual property corrections accessibility retrofitting for machine readability, textual annotations, and other accommodations media rights releases for video/audio/digital still image and other captures of student learning and activities universal design retrofitting sme guest speakers' presentations and resources scaffolding for novices/amateurs and experts (with learning aids, games, opt-in help, and other elements)
the draft checklist for updating an online curriculum that accompanies this article expands on the four questions/areas.