before you start signing up for courses, you should make an appointment with an academic advisor at your university to discuss your plans.
focus on required courses first of course, you will need to take classes to fulfill your school's general  education requirements as well as your major's departmental requirements.
i feel like psychology is related to every aspect of our lives,  so all of these topics can be tied back in with my major.
while your plans may changes over time, starting out with a solid understanding of what you will need to do in order to graduate is always a good idea.
for example, a students interested in pursuing a career inart therapy might take fine arts classes as part of her undergraduate electives.
kendra cherry psychology guide ©2012 about.com.
do you think it is a good idea to take such a wide variety of classes or should i just stick to the core psychology curriculum?
some of the electives that might be of interest to psychology majors include courses in: as you choose electives, think about how these courses relate to your career goals.
i feel like psychology is related to every aspect of our lives, so all of these topics can be tied back in with my major.
while the requirements vary from program to program, but some of the most commonly required core psychology classes include: other classes that may or may not be required by your program include: most psychology programs also require a minimum number of psychology electives in order to graduate.
before you start signing up for courses, you should make an appointment  with an academic advisor at your university to discuss your plans.
talk to your advisor to  learn more about thedifferences between a b.a. and a b.s. in psychology.
for  example, bachelor of science degrees involve taking more science courses, while  bachelor of arts degrees usually involve more liberal arts classes and often  include a certain number of foreign language credits.
for example, bachelor of science degrees involve taking more science courses, while bachelor of arts degrees usually involve more liberal arts classes and often include a certain number of foreign language credits.
many students choose to take elective courses that are related to their future career goals.
while the requirements vary from program to program, but some of the most  commonly required core psychology classes include: introduction to psychology
one of the big advantages of taking electives is that these courses are oftenprerequisite classes for many psychology graduate programs.
for example, a student with an interest inconsumer psychology might focus on electives in areas like marketing, advertising, social psychology, experimental design and statistics.
what are some good electives for psychology majors?"
general education courses usually include a certain number of credits of math, physical and biological sciences, writing and composition and social sciences.
beyond the general education and departmental requirements, you can then take elective courses based upon your interests.
a good idea is to make a four-year academic plan outlining the courses that you would like to take each semester.
of course, you will need to take classes to fulfill your school's general education requirements as well as your major's departmental requirements.
while you should certainly focus on your core courses first and foremost, you should plan on scheduling at least a few elective courses in order to get the minimum credits needed to graduate.
beyond the general education and departmental requirements, you can then take  elective courses based upon your interests.
during your first year or two of college, you should concentrate on taking  the required general education and major classes.
general education requirements may also vary depending on the type of degree you are earning.
what are some good electives for psychology  majors?"
however, i don't want to be limited to just  taking psychology courses.
talk to your advisor to learn more about thedifferences between a b.a. and a b.s. in psychology.
general education  requirements may also vary depending on the type of degree you are earning.
your advisor can help you sort through all the requirements you need to fulfill in order to earn your degree and provide a clearer picture of the courses you should take.
other students might opt to take some elective courses in psychology along with classes in other interest areas.
however, i don't want to be limited to just taking psychology courses.
your advisor  can help you sort through all the requirements you need to fulfill in order to  earn your degree and provide a clearer picture of the courses you should take.
your advisor can inform you about specific university requirements as well as make additional suggestions based on your major, interests and goals.
i want to explore all of my possibilities and study a broad range of topics such as english, statistics, philosophy, sociology and even fine arts.
remember that not all schools and programs are the same.
college is a time to prepare for your future and explore your academic interests.
a part of the new york times company.
do you think it is a  good idea to take such a wide variety of classes or should i just stick to the  core psychology curriculum?
if you end up filling your schedule with elective courses during the early years of your college education, you may find yourself scrambling to play catch up during your junior and senior year.
if you end up filling your  schedule with elective courses during the early years of your college  education, you may find yourself scrambling to play catch up during your junior  and senior year.
electives for psychology majors image by bsk - modified by kendra cherry question from a reader: "i am currently a freshman and i am  planning to major in psychology.
this not only ensures that you meet all of the requirements of your degree program; it also allows you to see where you can schedule in elective courses.
general education courses usually include a certain number of credits of math,  physical and biological sciences, writing and composition and social sciences.
i want to explore all of my possibilities and study  a broad range of topics such as english, statistics, philosophy, sociology and  even fine arts.
on the other hand, if you are thinking of a career in mental health, courses in biology and health sciences might be the most beneficial.
if you plan on being a research psychology, classes in statistics, writing and research methods would prove particularly useful.
elective courses are an excellent way to learn more about new subjects and broaden your education, so spend some time browsing through your school's course catalog to familiarize yourself with what is available.
this is why it is so important to talk to your academic advisor.
while your plans may changes over time, starting out with a solid understanding  of what you will need to do in order to graduate is always a good idea.
discuss in my forum by kendra cherry, about.com guidesee more about: electives for psychology majorsimage by bsk - modified by kendra cherry question from a reader: "i am currently a freshman and i am planning to major in psychology.
during your first year or two of college, you should concentrate on taking the required general education and major classes.
by saving most of your electives for the third and fourth year, you'll be able to enjoy some fun and interesting courses when many of your required program courses are starting to get tougher and more challenging.
by saving most of your electives for the third and fourth  year, you'll be able to enjoy some fun and interesting courses when many of  your required program courses are starting to get tougher and more challenging.