it's an international project.
i blog frequently enough...
it is a single stopping point of information which allows contribution from any physical therapist.
so i have a unique perspective to bring  to all of you.
the first step is always  knowing what's out there before i post
yes, she chose to do this
come on... that is so...
from what i read on pt now, the product won't be as good as what is  already out there.
experts are curious individuals.
our american physical therapy association didn't do its homework.
i want to say no to pt now and yes to physiopedia.
all have an option to freely contribute and learn.
i assume you each have found informal options where you learn - whether it is twitter or blogs or forums or something even larger like physiopedia.
i don't want my membership dollars going toward some spin-off product that won't be as good... and i don't want my membership dollars going toward something that discludes so many by elevating others to contribute because they were nominated and have "experience"...
an expert never becomes an expert independently.
« congrats to a #physicaltherapy team - creating change | main | the  california debacle ab 783 stoppopts » april 05, 2011 collaboration in #physicaltherapy creates better physical therapists disappointed... very disappointed is how i currently feel.
experts are curious  individuals.
i want to say yes to helping the whole profession - members or not members of our association, united states citizens or not... in this situation, i want my association to choose to collaborate and help all.
is there any reason we sometimes choose to complicate matters?
i don't want my membership dollars going toward a stagnant, filtered product.
an expert becomes an expert via engagement,  discussion and communication.
one stop shopping where those contributing have to be nominated?
i don't want my membership dollars  going toward a stagnant, filtered product.
lowe has given herself freely to physiopedia.
i tend to think we all prefer life to be easy.
even though that is the case, individual physical therapists and our association are no different.
how many of you agree with my perspective?
it is a  project bigger than herself.
is there any  reason we sometimes choose to complicate matters?
generally speaking, companies are "for profit" and of course, they  have to calculate their return on investment in any endeavor.
it's a great free product for anyone with internet access.
i would like to think the apta not only wants us americans to be "evidence based," but would also like to see canadians and scottish and british and dutch and australian and mexican and italian and african and...
hopefully, we all continually learn and grow in our areas of interest.
our membership dollars were wasted on trying to reinvent  the wheel.
i truly don't understand why the apta wouldn't want to immediately  jump on board with physiopedia.
even though that is the case, individual physical  therapists and our association are no different.
a researcher has an idea...
lowe has given herself freely to  physiopedia.
an expert becomes an expert via engagement, discussion and communication.
any successful company always, always researches what is out there in the world before even beginning to create a new product or offer a new service.
sadly, the  first step was forgotten.
you're all familiar with the staples commercial and the "easy"  button, right?
from what i read on pt now, the product won't be as good as what is already out there.
oh... just a little disclaimer... of course, this is just my opinion posted at 07:27 am | permalink trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341c6c5d53ef014e874084a2970d
the first step is always a literature search to learn what is known in the  field about the idea.
the first step is always knowing what's out there before i post
last night, i saw a tweet from @mpascoe just saw demo of http://t.co/3o8xqjp - reminds me and @spascoedpt of @physiopedia - hmmm....
i would like to think the apta not only wants  us americans to be "evidence based," but would also like to see  canadians and scottish and british and dutch and australian and mexican and  italian and african and...
before rolling out some supposed "new" idea  - the research aspect.
before rolling out some supposed "new" idea - the research aspect.
i want to say yes to helping the whole profession - members or  not members of our association, united states citizens or not... in this  situation, i want my association to choose to collaborate and help all.
i don't want my membership dollars going toward a selfish project...
and yes, it started as "her baby."
a researcher has an idea... the first step is always a literature search to learn what is known in the field about the idea.
individual physical therapists and our associations most certainly are not  "for profit."
you're all familiar with the staples commercial and the "easy" button, right?
our membership dollars were wasted on trying to reinvent the wheel.
« congrats to a #physicaltherapy team - creating change | main | the california debacle ab 783 stoppopts » disappointed... very disappointed is how i currently feel.
and yes  to physiopedia.
no one becomes an expert in a lone environment.
hopefully, we all continually learn and grow in our areas of  interest.
i vote the apta take my membership dollars that are going to be spent on pt  now and give that money to rachael lowe.
as we each become experts and continue to grow, did you happen to see something very common in all of those informal options?
i assume you each have found informal options where you learn -  whether it is twitter or blogs or forums or something even larger like physiopedia.
as we each become experts and continue to grow, did you happen to  see something very common in all of those informal options?
last night, i saw a tweet from @mpascoe just saw demo of http://t.co/3o8xqjp - reminds me and @spascoedpt  of @physiopedia - hmmm....
generally speaking, companies are "for profit" and of course, they have to calculate their return on investment in any endeavor.
i truly don't understand why the apta wouldn't want to immediately jump on board with physiopedia.
do you know why that is?
i vote the apta take my membership dollars that are going to be spent on pt now and give that money to rachael lowe.
so i have a unique perspective to bring to all of you.
sadly, the first step was forgotten.
oh... just a little disclaimer... of course, this is just my opinion posted at 07:27 am | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341c6c5d53ef014e874084a2970d listed below are links to weblogs that reference collaboration in #physicaltherapy creates better physical therapists:
individual physical therapists and our associations most certainly are not "for profit."
an expert never  becomes an expert independently.
i want to say no to pt now
and yes, it started as "her  baby."
it is a single  stopping point of information which allows contribution from any physical  therapist.
any successful company always, always researches what is out there in the  world before even beginning to create a new product or offer a new service.
i  don't want my membership dollars going toward some spin-off product that won't  be as good... and i don't want my membership dollars going toward something  that discludes so many by elevating others to contribute because they were  nominated and have "experience"...
i got curious and had to click... and then, i was more than disappointed.
it is a project bigger than herself.