number of places/applicants: annual intake 25-30.
tel: +44 (0) 161 306 6000 contact details royal charter number:
all fees for entry will be subject to yearly review and incremental rises  per annum are also likely over the duration of courses lasting more than a year  for uk/eu students (fees are typically fixed for international students, for  the course duration at the year of entry).
[university home] searchengineering and physical sciences view tabbed content | view all content (for printing) degree awarded: msc duration: 12 months full-time, 36 months part time.
entry requirements: the standard academic entry requirements for this masters programme will be a lower second uk honours degree, or international equivalent, in a relevant science or engineering discipline.
the fees quoted above will be fully inclusive for the course tuition,  administration and computational costs during your studies.
for general fees information please visit:postgraduate fees .
duration: 12 months full-time, 36 months part time.
course fees: for entry in 2012 for home/eu/overseas & distance learning students,  the fees are full time: msc £15,400/ diploma £12,100/
course fees: for entry in 2012 for home/eu/overseas & distance learning students, the fees are full time: msc £15,400/
one scholarship is available to the value of $5,000 to american students  registered on any of the full time msc courses in the school of mechanical,  aerospace & civil engineering.
always contact the department if you are unsure which  fee applies to your qualification award and method of attendance.
part time per year: msc £5,133 (3 years)/ diploma £6,050 (2  years)
this award is not available to  students on part-time or distance learning courses.
scholarships/sponsorships: charles marks award available to registered msc students from usa.
contact email: yulia.jensen@manchester.ac.uk contact telephone: +44 (0)161 306 3754 how to apply: apply online course options full-time part-time full-time distance learning  part-time distance learning pgcert y y n y pgdip y y n y next tab disclaimer | privacy | copyright notice | accessibility | freedom of  information faculty of engineering and physical sciences, the university of manchester,  oxford road, manchester, m13 9pl, uk | tel: +44 (0) 161 306 6000 contact  details royal charter number: rc000797 |  skip to main content  | skip to navigation |  skip to search | this website will look much better in a web browser that supports web  standards, but it is accessible to any browser or internet device.
rc000797 this website will look much better in a web browser that supports web standards, but it is accessible to any browser or internet device.
one scholarship is available to the value of $5,000 to american students registered on any of the full time msc courses in the school of mechanical, aerospace & civil engineering.
module fee: £2,300 per module (up to three modules can be taken).
contact email: yulia.jensen@manchester.ac.uk contact telephone: +44 (0)161 306 3754 how to apply: apply online next tab disclaimer | privacy | copyright notice | accessibility | freedom of information faculty of engineering and physical sciences, the university of manchester, oxford road, manchester, m13 9pl, uk |
the fees quoted above will be fully inclusive for the course tuition, administration and computational costs during your studies.
this award is not available to students on part-time or distance learning courses.
always contact the department if you are unsure which fee applies to your qualification award and method of attendance.
all fees for entry will be subject to yearly review and incremental rises per annum are also likely over the duration of courses lasting more than a year for uk/eu students (fees are typically fixed for international students, for the course duration at the year of entry).
entry requirements: the standard academic entry requirements for this masters  programme will be a lower second uk honours degree, or international  equivalent, in a relevant science or engineering discipline.
for general fees information please  visit:postgraduate fees .
part time per year: msc £5,133 (3 years)/ diploma £6,050 (2 years)