first, let’s tackle the differences of type 1 & type 2 physical therapy ceu courses and activities:type 1 “face-to-face” courses type 2 courses/activities “an organized program of study, classroom experience or similar educational experience that is directly related to the clinical practice of physical therapy…”face-to-face” means learning activities or courses obtained in a group setting or through interactive, real-time technology”
the above excerpt was taken from the virginia board of physical therapy website.
leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
this means you can take up to 15(pt)/20(pta)
i can’t promise that the in-laws and crowded malls won’t cause stress.
you can leave a response, or trackback.
the  virginia board of physical therapy has designated several physical therapy  continuing education courses as type 1 and others as type 2.
i know what  you’re thinking – “i want to take all of my courses  conveniently online!”
share and enjoy: physical therapist, physical therapist assistant, physical therapy, requirements, virginia you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0
well, if you’re an occupational therapist or  occupational therapist assistant in ... subscribe via email about homeceuconnection.com homeceuconnection.com specializes in continuing education for physical  therapists and assistants, occupational therapists and assistants, massage  therapists, athletic trainers and speech language pathologists.
the continuing education requirements for west virginia physical therapists  & assistants were enacted in june of 2011, and requires that your  continuing education be fulfilled before december ...
to find additional information, please visit the board’s rules  and regulations webpage by clicking on the following link: (http://www.dhp.state.va.us/physicaltherapy/physther_laws_regs.htm) must be approved or provided by one of the following organizations:
yes, during  the hustle and bustle your 30 hours of physical therapy continuing education  will be due.
required fields are marked * name * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                posts related to physical therapy continuing education: a guide for  virginia pts & ptas to better understand the differences of type 1 &  type 2 courses west virginia pts & ptas – ceu requirements faq
we wish you could as well…and it’s  possible that you may be able to in the future.
type 2: up to, but no more than 20 hours may be type 2.
contact hours with us to go towards your requirement.
pta rehab rally  requirements seminars-on-demand speech language pathologist speech language  pathologists speech therapist team texas video courses webinar webinars recent tweets
all 30 contact hours may be type 1.
well, if you’re an occupational therapist or occupational therapist assistant in ... homeceuconnection.com specializes in continuing education for physical therapists and assistants, occupational therapists and assistants, massage therapists, athletic trainers and speech language pathologists.
tennessee pt & pta continuing competency requirements – faq tennessee physical therapist and physical therapist assistants, need to  complete continuing competency (continuing education) every 2 years, due based  on their license renewal deadline.
guide for pts guide for ptas contact hours needed: 30  total type 1: a minimum of 15 contact hours are required to be  type 1.
to find additional information, please visit the board’s rules and regulations webpage by clicking on the following link: (http://www.dhp.state.va.us/physicaltherapy/physther_laws_regs.htm) as a physical therapist or physical therapist assistant in the state of virginia, you need a total of 30 contact hours.
below you will find the limitations and requirements of type 1 & type 2 courses and activities, based on whether you are a pt or pta.guide for pts guide for ptas type 1: a minimum of 15 contact hours are required to be type 1.
type 2: up to, but no more than 15 hours may be type 2.
however, ican tell you that fulfilling your pt ceu and pta ceu requirements in advance will feel like an early gift to yourself… and we’re here to offer outstanding customer service when you are ready to begin the process.
contact hours needed: 30 total type 1: a minimum of 10 contact hours are required to be  type 1.
and because we offer a wide variety of courses, we know you’ll find some that peek your interests.
tennessee physical therapist and physical therapist assistants, need to complete continuing competency (continuing education) every 2 years, due based on their license renewal deadline.
we wish you could as well…and it’s possible that you may be able to in the future.
no need to fret – i’ll break it down for you: the rules, regulations and limitations… with the snooze-level kept to a minimum.
homeceuconnection.com also offers a first-class video course titled “effective examination and treatment of the shoulder complex” that counts for 5 contact hours.
wrigley tells us some things in life can “double your pleasure, double your fun.”
courses obtained in a group setting or through interactive, real-time  technology”
to find additional information, please visit the board’s rules and regulations webpage by clicking on the following link: (http://www.dhp.state.va.us/physicaltherapy/physther_laws_regs.htm) “may include, but not be limited to, consultation with colleagues, independent study, and research or writing on subjects related to practice.
as a physical therapist or physical therapist assistant in the state of  virginia, you need a total of 30 contact hours.
the above excerpt was taken from the virginia board of physical therapy  website.
your email address will not be published.
follow us on twitter
[courses] shall be related to the clinical practice of physical therapy…and shall be activities considered by the learner to be beneficial to practice or to continuing learning”
well virginians, dec. 31st will be here before you know it.
now bear with me, because here is where ceus start to become confusing.
homeceuconnection.com also offers  a first-class video course titled “effective examination and treatment of  the shoulder complex” that counts for 5 contact hours.
[courses] shall be related to the clinical practice of physical  therapy…and shall be activities considered by the learner to be  beneficial to practice or to continuing learning”
example of type 2 courses: online courses  (homeceuconnection.com)
ah, the holidays – the time for gifts, mistletoe and license renewal.
homeceuconnection.com courses are considered type 2.
example of type 1 courses: webinars  (interactive, face-to-face online seminars), classroom instruction, etc.
i know what you’re thinking – “i want to take all of my courses conveniently online!”
connecticut occupational therapy continuing education requirements wrigley tells us some things in life can “double your pleasure,  double your fun.”
and because we offer a wide variety of courses, we know  you’ll find some that peek your interests.
yes, during the hustle and bustle your 30 hours of physical therapy continuing education will be due.
homeceuconnection.com is here to help answer any questions you may have  regarding physical therapy continuing education courses.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              the continuing education requirements for west virginia physical therapists & assistants were enacted in june of 2011, and requires that your continuing education be fulfilled before december ...
some of our most popular  courses for pts and ptas are: orthopedic physical assessment, neurological  interventions for physical therapists, pharmacology for physical therapists and  postsurgical rehabilitation guidelines.
however, ican tell you that fulfilling  your pt ceu and pta ceu requirements in advance will feel like an early gift to  yourself… and we’re here to offer outstanding customer service  when you are ready to begin the process.
type 2: up to, but no more than 15 hours may be type 2.contact hours needed: 30 total type 1: a minimum of 10 contact hours are required to be type 1.
first, let’s tackle the differences of type 1 & type 2  physical therapy ceu courses and activities: type 1 “face-to-face” courses type 2 courses/activities “an organized program of study, classroom experience or similar  educational experience that is directly related to the clinical practice of  physical therapy…”face-to-face” means learning activities or
no need to fret  – i’ll break it down for you: the rules, regulations and  limitations… with the snooze-level kept to a minimum.
below you will find the  limitations and requirements of type 1 & type 2 courses and activities,  based on whether you are a pt or pta.
i can’t promise that the in-laws and crowded  malls won’t cause stress.
the  virginia physical therapy association, the american physical therapy  association, local/state/or federal government agencies, regionally accredited  colleges or universities, health care organizations accredited by the jcaho,  the american medical association – category i continuing medical  education course, the national athletic trainers association.
this  means you can take up to 15(pt)/20(pta) contact hours with us to go towards  your requirement.
[courses] shall be related to the clinical practice of physical therapy…and shall be activities considered by the learner to be beneficial to practice or to continuing learning”“may include, but not be limited to, consultation with colleagues, independent study, and research or writing on subjects related to practice.
to find additional information, please visit the board’s rules  and regulations webpage by clicking on the following link: (http://www.dhp.state.va.us/physicaltherapy/physther_laws_regs.htm) “may include, but not be limited to, consultation with  colleagues, independent study, and research or writing on subjects related to  practice.
ah, the  holidays – the time for gifts, mistletoe and license renewal.
share and enjoy: physical therapist, physical therapist assistant, physical therapy,  requirements, virginia you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 you can  leave a response, or trackback.
may be offered by  an approved organization, but does not have to be offered by an approved  organization.
homeceuconnection.com is here to help answer any questions you may have regarding physical therapy continuing education courses.
fpo: national lampoon’s christmas vacation
the virginia board of physical therapy has designated several physical therapy continuing education courses as type 1 and others as type 2.
courses faq physical therapy continuing education: a guide for virginia pts & ptas  to better understand the differences of type 1 & type 2 courses september 19th, 2010 | posted bylindsey@homeceuconnection.com in requirements well virginians, dec. 31st will be here before you know it.
some of our most popular courses for pts and ptas are: orthopedic physical assessment, neurological interventions for physical therapists, pharmacology for physical therapists and postsurgical rehabilitation guidelines.
tags aota approved provider atc athletic trainers authors boc  california certified athletic trainers ceu continuing education florida georgia  home study illinois interactive iowa john o'halloran live seminars louisiana  mandatory requirement massage therapists mt occupational therapist occupational  therapist assistant occupational therapy oklahoma online ot ota physical  therapist physical therapist assistant physical therapy pt
i encourage you to call us, toll-free, at 1-800-554-2387 or visit our course catalog ( https://www.homeceuconnection.com/ceu/courses) when you are ready to purchase any of our quick, quality and user-friendly courses for physical therapists and physical therapist assistants.
i encourage you to  call us, toll-free, at 1-800-554-2387  or visit our course catalog ( https://www.homeceuconnection.com/ceu/courses) when you are ready to purchase  any of our quick, quality and user-friendly courses for physical therapists and  physical therapist assistants.