- is this a better approach to face-to-face learning?
so that’s what you use.
2 comments comment from: janet clarey [visitor] so true and i can't help but wonder why it isn't more of a performance issue.
so, often, you end up with far worse experiences online than happen in a classroom.
so  that’s what you use.
you have no  captive audience.
what i do agree with totally is that teaching online is completely  different.
disclaimer: the contents of this website do not necessarily reflect the opinions of my employer nor any other organisation with which i am associated.
there's nothing that canforce a teacher, tutor or materials designer to try better pedagogical practices.
you have no ability to lean on your physical presence and stagecraft as a teacher.
skin by tender feelings / evo factory.
one of the reasons that i love working in this field is thatit forces teachers to try better pedagogical practices that they then often bring back to the physical classroom.
from my experiences both in he (as a post-graduate student) and in corporate learning (as a learning technology specialist), i can say categorically that the last phrase (in italics) just isn't true.
you have no ability to lean on your physical presence and  stagecraft as a teacher.
16/09/09 @ 12:14 comment from:mark [member] @janet: i agree.
what you do have is the wide world that the student is immersed in, and the student’s imagination and initiative.
perhaps we should just accept that and not expect good classroom  trainers/teachers to be good online trainers/teachers, and vice versa?
i have to wonder if some just don't see the value in online learning and don't see it as better.
continuing professional development just doesn't seem to play much of a part in the life of many teachers or trainers.
- xml feeds what is rss?
what i do agree with totally is that teaching online is completely different.
design & icons by n.design studio.
what you do have is the wide world that the student is  immersed in, and the student’s imagination and initiative.
entries rss comments rss log in
- rss 2.0: posts, comments - atom: posts, comments - recent posts - who owns corporate social media?
placement of an advert does not constitute endorsement - although i will not accept advertisements from organisations that provide services contrary to my ethical standpoint and beliefs.
from my experiences both in he (as a post-graduate student) and in  corporate learning (as a learning technology specialist), i can say  categorically that the last phrase (in italics) just isn't true.
you have no captive audience.
engaging the unwilling learner - blogging and learning - embedding learning in work - search - communities visit the learning and skills group - categories - all - books - connected learning environment - consultancies - continuing professional development - games based learning - information systems - knowledge management - content management - topic maps - learning - assessment - connectivism - designing online courses - evaluation - foe2007 - large scale programmes - learning ecosystem - learning objects - learning to learn - learning conversations book - masters degree in elearning - context, management & implementation - dissertation - research methods - social networks - teacher cpd - mobile - naace2007 - networks - not yet categorised - performance support - personal - politics - presentations & workshops - project management - publishing - research - reviews - roi - schools - social media - support - technology - content management systems - elgg - etomite - exponentcms - graphics - joomla - large systems - moodle - open source - podcasting - rss - yammer - video - - archives - february 2012 (4) - january 2012 (10) - december 2011 (4) - november 2011 (8) - october 2011 (9) - september 2011 (6) - august 2011 (6) - july 2011 (5) - june 2011 (7) - may 2011 (2) - april 2011 (3) - march 2011 (7) - more... - postrank powered by postrank contact.
- elevator pitch - expanded - click for usability advice - my elevator pitch - reflections on learning technologies 2012 - campaign for effective elearning - #lt12uk conference presentation:
one of the reasons that i love working in this field  is thatit forces teachers to try better pedagogical practices that they  then often bring back to the physical classroom.
« blended learning - a personal definition  sustainable software » sep 16 teaching online forces better pedagogy learning, designing online  courses   2517 views michael feldstein, in responding to a comment on his review of a sakai book , made a statement that i wish i could agree with wholeheartedly: teaching online is completely different.
©2012 by mark berthelemy.blogging tool / uk hosting.
perhaps we should just accept that and not expect good classroom trainers/teachers to be good online trainers/teachers, and vice versa?
there's  nothing that canforce a teacher, tutor or materials designer to try  better pedagogical practices.
16/09/09 @ 12:22 comment feed for this post this section can only be displayed by javascript enabled browsers.
so, often, you end  up with far worse experiences online than happen in a classroom.
you'd hope that their professional pride would lead them down that route, but the pressures of time and money, as well as a lack of understanding of pedagogy often dictate otherwise.
why is it ok in our field to use the same old, same old?
you'd hope that their professional pride would  lead them down that route, but the pressures of time and money, as well as a  lack of understanding of pedagogy often dictate otherwise.
learning conversations thoughts, ideas and reflections from mark berthelemy « blended learning - a personal definition sustainable software » - home - community of practice - key articles - about me - log in sep 16 teaching online forces better pedagogy learning, designing online courses 2517 views michael feldstein, in responding to a comment on his review of a sakai book , made a statement that i wish i could agree with wholeheartedly: teaching online is completely different.
- learning conversations -
you wouldn't cut it in the engineering field if all you used was a drafting table when better options are available (3-d modeling, etc.).
looking at learning technologies, workplace learning, schools, teaching and the interactions between people, organisations and technology.