click the "add to cart" button to register for  this course.
it is a comprehensive program designed to provide a safe and supportive work environment for spanish-speaking employees.
click "more..." below to review the course learning objectives.
this course has been approved for 22 hours of continuing education credit by the continuing respiratory education (crce) system of the american association for respiratory care (aarc).
teachers who have routine or periodic interactions with spanish-speaking children will be helped greatly byspanish for school teachers.
many realtors have experienced trying to work with spanish-speaking clients, only to find that the job becomes very frustrating since they are unable to explain to these clients the intricacies of buying homes.
more... [read reviews] [write a review] spanish for the community new low price!
in recent years there has been an amazing increase in inrollment of  spanish-speaking students in our public and private schools.
topics include: courtesy phrases, communication strategies, numbers, the spanish alphabet, classroom management phrases, general instructional management phrases, and much more.
for course credit information check the description under "more." approximate time for course completion: 40 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
more... new low price!
more... [read reviews] [write a review] spanish for physicians (and nurse practitioners) new low price!
approximate time for course completion:  18 hours (course remains  active for 120 days)
this online course gives you the basic spanish language you need to travel to a spanish-speaking country.
spanish for respiratory therapists will  allow respiratory therapists to use spanish successfully to perform routine  duties.
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 3 ceus to all participants who successfully complete thisprogram.
approximate time for course completion: 22 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
command spanish®, inc. has been reviewed and approved as an authorized provider by the international association for continuing education and training (iacet).more... © 2012
our online  program gives you the basic spanish language you need to welcome and assist  these new members of your community.
the course “spanish for school teachers” has been approved by  the texas education agency, tea, and  itcounts toward satisfying the texas  cpe requirements.
this program is designed for physical therapists who need to break the  language barrier in order to better care for spanish-speaking patients.
as a result, you will be better able to serve the real estate needs of your community.
if you are planning to travel to a spanish-speaking country, take this course to protect your travel investment by learning some key phrases that will increase the value of your experience.
this program is designed for respiratory therapists who work in a hospital and need to break the language barrier in order to better care for spanish-speaking patients.
topics include: greetings, communication strategies, identifications and introductions, procedure discussions, body positioning, basic respiratory commands, breathing treatments, diagnostic questions, and much more.
topics include: greetings, communication strategies, identifications and introductions, procedure discussions, body positioning, basic physical commands, physical treatments, diagnostic questions, and much more.
topics include:  greetings,  communication strategies, identifications and introductions, procedure  discussions, body positioning, basic physical commands, physical treatments,  diagnostic questions, and much more.
the material is applicable  in the retail workplace for sales clerks, salesmen, and cashiers as well as  anyone who wants to better serve their spanish-speaking clientele.
topics include: greetings and goodbyes;  etiquette and social niceties; communication strategies; cash transactions at  the register; credit transactions at the register; returns, exchange, and  refunds; assisting the customer; and numbers 0-499.
as a physician you know how critical it is to be able to communicate effectively with your patients in order to ascertain what the symptoms of their illness or injury may be.
approximate time for course completion: 17 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
© 2012 command spanish online all rights reserved.
click "more..." below to review the course learning  objectives.
topics  include:  courtesy phrases, communication strategies, numbers, the spanish  alphabet, classroom management phrases, general instructional management  phrases, and much more.
if you need or want to interact more affirmatively with your new neighbors, then spanish for the community would be of great value to you.
if you have spanish-speaking patients you also  know how frustrating it can be to diagnose and treat them.
approximate time for course completion: 20 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
many realtors have experienced trying to work with  spanish-speaking clients, only to find that the job becomes very frustrating  since they are unable to explain to these clients the intricacies of  buying homes.
command spanish®, inc. has been  reviewed and approved as an authorized provider by the international  association for continuing education and training (iacet).
spanish for physical therapy will allow physical therapists to use spanish successfully to perform routine duties.
command spanish®, inc. has been reviewed and approved as an authorized provider by the international association for continuing education and training (iacet).approximate time for course completion: 14 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
command spanish®, inc. has been reviewed  and approved as an authorized provider by the international association for  continuing education and training (iacet).
as our country’s demographics change, we find that more  spanish-speaking persons are becoming members of our community.
command spanish®, inc. has been reviewed and approved as an authorized provider by the international association for continuing education and training (iacet).more... new low price!
cpe provider number: #501749.
our online program gives you the basic spanish language you need to welcome and assist these new members of your community.
you need our  online program,spanish for physicians!
approximate time for course completion: 27 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
you need our online program,spanish for real estate sales in order for you to meet the needs of the growing hispanic market in this country.
our communities are changing and as a real estate agent you have probably become aware that with those community changes, your clientele has also changed.
topics include: greetings and goodbyes; etiquette and social niceties; communication strategies; cash transactions at the register; credit transactions at the register; returns, exchange, and refunds; assisting the customer; and numbers 0-499.
the course focuses on such topics as: the hiring process, explaining work schedules and pay, describing work rules and regulations, and safety issues.
this course has been approved for 22 hours of continuing education  credit by the continuing respiratory education (crce) system of the american  association for respiratory care (aarc).
approximate  time for course completion: 14 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
command spanish online all rights reserved.
[read reviews] [write  a review] spanish for real estate sales new low price!
this program will teach you the spanish you need for examining, diagnosing, and explaining treatment to spanish-speaking persons.
more...more... new low price!
click the "add to cart" button to register for this course.
you need our online program,spanish for physicians!
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 1.8 ceus to all participants who successfully complete thisprogram.
approximate time for course completion:  27 hours (course remains  active for 120 days)
[read reviews] [write a  review] spanish for school teachers new low price!
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 2 ceus to all participants who successfully complete thisprogram.
arello credit for contact hours available (click "more..."  for info)
approximate time for course completion: 25 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
salesmen, cashiers, sales clerks, or anyone whose workplace involves making sales trasactions with customers who may speak spanish, needs spanish for retail sales.
in recent years there has been an amazing increase in inrollment of spanish-speaking students in our public and private schools.
spanish for respiratory therapists will allow respiratory therapists to use spanish successfully to perform routine duties.
approximate time for course completion: 30 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
if  you need or want to interact more affirmatively with your new neighbors, then spanish for the community would be of great value to you.
for course credit information check the description under  "more." approximate time for course completion:  40 hours (course remains  active for 120 days) click "more..." below to review the course learning  objectives.
click "more..." below to review the course learning  objectives.
approximate time for course completion: 18 hours (course remains active for 120 days)
approximate time for course completion:  20 hours (course remains  active for 120 days)
as a result, you will be better able to serve the real estate needs of  your community.
[read reviews] [write  a review] spanish for respiratory therapists new low price!
arello credit for contact hours available (click "more..." for info)
teachers who  have routine or periodic interactions with spanish-speaking children will be  helped greatly byspanish for school teachers.
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 1.4 ceus to all participants  who successfully complete thisprogram.
if you have spanish-speaking patients you also know how frustrating it can be to diagnose and treat them.
salesmen, cashiers, sales clerks, or anyone whose workplace involves making  sales trasactions with customers who may speak spanish, needs spanish for retail sales.
approximate time for course completion:  25 hours (course remains  active for 120 days)
if you have spanish-speaking employees in your workplace who speak limited english or no english, then you needspanish for the workforce .
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 1.7 ceus to all participants who successfully complete thisprogram.
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 2 ceus to all participants who  successfully complete thisprogram.
this program is designed for physical therapists who need to break the language barrier in order to better care for spanish-speaking patients.
as our country’s demographics change, we find that more spanish-speaking persons are becoming members of our community.
topics include:  greetings, communication strategies,  identifications and introductions, procedure discussions, body positioning,  basic respiratory commands, breathing treatments, diagnostic questions, and  much more.
the course “spanish for school teachers” has been approved by the texas education agency, tea, and itcounts toward satisfying the texas cpe requirements.
our communities are changing and as a real estate agent you have  probably become aware that with those community changes, your clientele has  also changed.
the material is applicable in the retail workplace for sales clerks, salesmen, and cashiers as well as anyone who wants to better serve their spanish-speaking clientele.
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 2.7 ceus to all participants  who successfully complete thisprogram.
spanish for physical therapy will allow physical therapists to use spanish  successfully to perform routine duties.
as a physician you know how critical it is to be able to communicate  effectively with your patients in order to ascertain what the symptoms of their  illness or injury may be.
[read reviews] [write  a review] spanish for retail sales new low price!
approximate time for course completion:  22 hours (course remains  active for 120 days)
this program is designed for respiratory therapists who work in a hospital  and need to break the language barrier in order to better care for  spanish-speaking patients.
this program will teach you  the spanish you need for examining, diagnosing, and explaining treatment  to spanish-speaking persons.
you need our online program,spanish for real estate sales in order for you to meet the needs of the growing hispanic market in this  country.
more... price: $69.00
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 1.8 ceus to all participants  who successfully complete thisprogram.
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 2.7 ceus to all participants who successfully complete thisprogram.
command spanish®, inc. has awarded 1.4 ceus to all participants who successfully complete thisprogram.