number of places/applicants: annual intake: 20-25 contact email: yulia.jensen@manchester.ac.uk contact telephone: +44 (0)161 306 3754 how to apply: apply online course options full-time part-time full-time distance learning  part-time distance learning msc y n n n next tab disclaimer | privacy | copyright notice | accessibility | freedom of  information faculty of engineering and physical sciences, the university of manchester,  oxford road, manchester, m13 9pl, uk | tel: +44 (0) 161 306 6000 contact  details royal charter number:
rc000797 |  skip to main content  | skip to navigation |  skip to search | this website will look much better in a web browser that supports web  standards, but it is accessible to any browser or internet device.
course fees: for entry in the academic year beginning  september 2012, the tuition fees are as follows: msc (full-time) uk/eu students (per annum):  £5,950 international students (per annum): £15,400 the fees quoted above will be fully inclusive for the course tuition,  administration and computational costs during your studies.
tel: +44 (0) 161 306 6000 contact details royal charter number:
all fees for entry will be subject to yearly review and incremental rises  per annum are also likely over the duration of courses lasting more than a year  for uk/eu students (fees are typically fixed for international students, for  the course duration at the year of entry).
number of places/applicants: annual intake: 20-25 contact email: yulia.jensen@manchester.ac.uk contact telephone: +44 (0)161 306 3754 how to apply: apply online next tab disclaimer | privacy | copyright notice | accessibility | freedom of information faculty of engineering and physical sciences, the university of manchester, oxford road, manchester, m13 9pl, uk |
for general fees information please visit:postgraduate fees .
[university home] searchengineering and physical sciences view tabbed content | view all content (for printing) degree awarded: msc duration: 12 months full time entry requirements: the standard academic entry requirements for this masters programme will be a upper second uk honours degree, or international equivalent, in a relevant science or engineering discipline.
one scholarship is available to the value of $5,000 to american students  registered on any of the full time msc courses in the school of mechanical,  aerospace & civil engineering.
always contact the department if you are unsure which  fee applies to your qualification award and method of attendance.
this award is not available to  students on part-time or distance learning courses.
scholarships/sponsorships: charles marks award available to registered msc students from usa.
rc000797 this website will look much better in a web browser that supports web standards, but it is accessible to any browser or internet device.
one scholarship is available to the value of $5,000 to american students registered on any of the full time msc courses in the school of mechanical, aerospace & civil engineering.
course fees: for entry in the academic year beginning september 2012, the tuition fees are as follows: the fees quoted above will be fully inclusive for the course tuition, administration and computational costs during your studies.
this award is not available to students on part-time or distance learning courses.
always contact the department if you are unsure which fee applies to your qualification award and method of attendance.
all fees for entry will be subject to yearly review and incremental rises per annum are also likely over the duration of courses lasting more than a year for uk/eu students (fees are typically fixed for international students, for the course duration at the year of entry).
degree awarded: msc duration: 12 months full time entry requirements: the standard academic entry  requirements for this masters programme will be a upper second  uk honours degree, or international equivalent, in a relevant science or  engineering discipline.
for general fees information please  visit:postgraduate fees .