site map - a to z curriculum: online courses: making music in cyberspace faq's frequently asked questions about farmington public school’s  music in cyberspace on-line course
it is in addition your face to face classes and is a way to earn extra credit, possibly raise your grade point average, and experience online instruction.
this course is for anyone interested in becoming a better musician using cutting edge technology.
many full and part time college students enroll in online courses.
sheri.jaffurs@farmington.k12.mi.us
who do i contact if i need more information?
experiencing online instruction is a terrific way to prepare for higher education.
phone: 248.489.3349 | info@farmington.k12.mi.us
this online course is taken outside of your daily high school course  schedule.
experiencing online  instruction is a terrific way to prepare for higher education.
what is an online course?
this course satisfies michigan high school  michigan merit curriculum .5 credit, performing and applied arts requirement as  well as the online learning graduation requirements.
students receive a password and access to a moodle site that is open for them to use for the duration of the semester that they are enrolled.
students enrolled in the course will utilize music technology in arranging,  composing, and performing.
this course is free to in-district students.
check out the enrollment link on the webpage.
many full and  part time college students enroll in online courses.
you may have heard of blackboard, angel, or moodle.
you may have  heard of blackboard, angel, or moodle.
moodle participants can access the site  at any time and anywhere as long as they have a computer and internet access.
the course is offered in the fall and spring, twice a year.
a password is required to enter the moodle website and all grades are locked  and available only to course administrator access.
the course runs for 12 weeks.
this online course is taken outside of your daily high school course schedule.
a similar course offered outside of the district would be several hundred dollars.
online courses allow you to earn  extra credit and possibly raise your grade point average.
it is in addition your face to face classes and is a way to earn  extra credit, possibly raise your grade point average, and experience online  instruction.
schools in the oakland schools  consortium (of which farmington public school is a part) use moodle course  management system.
students enrolled in any of these are in the process of  undertaking educational classes or programs remotely from the schools, campuses  or physical institutions that provide them.
students who take online  courses find that they must be self-motivated and take initiative about their  own learning.
music experience from beginners  to advanced may enroll.
what is music in cyberspace?
the delivery of instruction, assignments,  tests etc. is usually provided through some type of a course management system.
a similar course offered  outside of the district would be several hundred dollars.
download the documents,  acquire the needed signatures and return the forms to dr. sheri e. jaffurs,  30175 highmeadow rd., farmington, mi 48335.
enrollment is limited.
the only difference is  that this classroom is in cyberspace.
moodle participants can access the site at any time and anywhere as long as they have a computer and internet access.
online courses, correspondence courses and distance learning are all terms for a similar idea.
frequently asked questions about farmington public schools music in cyberspace on-line course
judy nichols from oakland schools described online learning best, “it’s mediated communication for the purpose of instruction and learning across space and time” (personal communication, august 28, 2008).
students who take online courses find that they must be self-motivated and take initiative about their own learning.
how does an online course fit in my daily schedule?
online instruction provides you with an opportunity to take a course you may not have had time in your schedule for.
the delivery of instruction, assignments, tests etc. is usually provided through some type of a course management system.
course management systems, among other things, allow students and instructors to share ideas, share lessons, blog, create wikis, upload assignments, upload quizzes and tests, and chat in synchronous or asynchronous sessions.
enrollment is  limited.
music in cyberspace is an on-line music technology course  offered by the farmington public school district.
online instruction provides you with an opportunity to take a course you  may not have had time in your schedule for.
students receive a password and  access to a moodle site that is open for them to use for the duration of the  semester that they are enrolled.
students enrolled in the course will utilize music technology in arranging, composing, and performing.
this course satisfies michigan high school michigan merit curriculum .5 credit, performing and applied arts requirement as well as the online learning graduation requirements.
if you are able to scan documents,  you may scan them and email to sheri.jaffurs@farmington.k12.mi.us how often is the course offered?
online courses, correspondence courses and distance learning are all terms  for a similar idea.
experiencing an online course helps you prepare for higher education.
think of moodle as a physical classroom where students are assigned to meet to gather information, discuss, and receive assignments.
the only difference is that this classroom is in cyberspace.
think of moodle as a physical classroom where students are assigned to meet to  gather information, discuss, and receive assignments.
music experience from beginners to advanced may enroll.
schools in the oakland schools consortium (of which farmington public school is a part) use moodle course management system.
course management systems are usually named by the developer.
this high school course is offered for .5 fine arts credit.
these are important traits for successful students, no matter what grade.
as an  online course it is an addition to your schedule but credits will be  accumulated toward possible early graduation.
this is the first  semester it is offered and we are anticipating that it will be a popular  course.
course management systems, among other things, allow  students and instructors to share ideas, share lessons, blog, create wikis,  upload assignments, upload quizzes and tests, and chat in synchronous or  asynchronous sessions.
students are expected to complete assignments and lessons they receive through communications with an instructor.
a password is required to enter the moodle website and all grades are locked and available only to course administrator access.
this high school course is  offered for .5 fine arts credit.
what do i need to do to enroll?
moodle has many functions and components.
how long is the course?
music in cyberspace is an on-line music technology course offered by the farmington public school district.
students enrolled in any of these are in the process of undertaking educational classes or programs remotely from the schools, campuses or physical institutions that provide them.
this is the first semester it is offered and we are anticipating that it will be a popular course.
sheri.jaffurs@farmington.k12.mi.us translate our website: © 2008-2012 farmington public schools 32500 shiawassee | farmington, michigan 48336
students enrolled in online courses  should have access to a computer, internet connection, and an email account.
judy nichols from oakland schools described online learning best,  “it’s mediated communication for the purpose of instruction and  learning across space and time” (personal communication, august 28, 2008).
as an online course it is an addition to your schedule but credits will be accumulated toward possible early graduation.
moodle is a course management system.
what are the course objectives?
students are expected to complete assignments and lessons they receive through  communications with an instructor.
online courses allow you to earn extra credit and possibly raise your grade point average.
these are important traits for successful students, no matter  what grade.
this course is for anyone interested in becoming a  better musician using cutting edge technology.
if you are able to scan documents, you may scan them and email to sheri.jaffurs@farmington.k12.mi.us how often is the course offered?
what’s so great about online instruction?
students enrolled in online courses should have access to a computer, internet connection, and an email account.
download the documents, acquire the needed signatures and return the forms to dr. sheri e. jaffurs, 30175 highmeadow rd., farmington, mi 48335.
what are course management systems?
all in a closed, password protected environments.