you will complete this project in phases over the duration of the course, and you will receive feedback on the project from course instructors and participants.
she is the recipient of a us distance learning association (usdla) gold award for online technology.
we will also walk you through a step-by-step process to transform a face-to-face course to an online delivery format.
syllabus session 1: tuesday, march 20, 2012 (re)mapping course design principles of successful course redesign course review rubrics selecting from four basic redesign steps identifying objectives supporting objectives with technology, assessment, and active learning organizing modules and the course
to ensure maximum interactivity and personal attention, enrollment  will be limited.
take the "faculty self-assessment:
the variety of materials, speakers, and activities and resources was effective and enjoyable.
she has been awarded research fellowships with the national learning infrastructure initiative (educause learning initiative), american society of engineering education (asee)/navy, and the asee/air force.
as the demand for high-quality online courses and programs rapidly  increases, instructional designers and course developers are faced with a new  set of challenges.
who should attend instructional designers, course developers, instructional technologists, and faculty charged with the design of online courses will benefit from this course.
as the demand for high-quality online courses and programs rapidly increases, instructional designers and course developers are faced with a new set of challenges.
complete "mapping your course" handout assigned section add/build as we progress through webcasts submit on course site read and review the "quality matters" rubric standards consider how your course can be redesigned to address each of these  elements
session 4: wednesday, april 18, 2012 interactive learning design 1:00 - 2:45 p.m. edt - identifying benefits and limitations of interaction - selecting types of interactivity - instructor-to-student interaction - student-to-content interaction - student-to-resources interaction - facilitating interaction - making connections across the course - reinforcing alignment - focusing on course design transparency and consistency - utilizing manageable benchmarking assignments: - review your module completed thus far and review for types of interaction - are any types of interaction types missing?
the university of texas at san antonio as associate professor of instructional technology in the department of educational psychology at the university of texas at san antonio, patricia has designed and taught more than 20 online and blended courses.
save 50% when you purchase a recording in conjunction with a live event connection!
overview learn the essential components of designing effective online courses.
our group was challenged and we enjoyed the topics each session.
for a difficult and challenging course topic, the presenters encouraged questions and were very helpful with their answers. ”
- revise or add interactions as appropriate - post session 4 homework to course site - do one of the following: - review a course member's module - select one course from those provided learning outcome: after participating in this session, you will be able to design interactive elements that support student learning.
session 2: thursday, march 29, 2012 course organization 1:00 - 2:45 p.m. edt - necessary components with an online course rubric - chunking course content - utilizing course content - benchmarking progress - storyboarding - linear model vs. hypertext model - lesson construction - supporting the learner assignments: - download session 2 assignment in course site - chunk the module you began in session 1 into lessons with: - activities - assignments - assessments - post document to course site learning outcome: after participating in this session, you will be able to devise a strategy to divide courses into manageable modules.
sonja lanehart professor and brackenridge endowed chair in literature and the humanities, university of texas, san antonio “ this four-part webinar course was informative, collaborative, and structured very well for the time blocks.
join us for a unique experience to examine steps to design effective online courses.
course format and signature project
at the university of texas at san antonio, she is involved in both blended and online learning initiatives, serving on advisory and planning committees and conducting research.
- is there a variety?
a prolific author, patricia publishes in the areas of online and blended pedagogy, faculty technology use, and emerging learning systems and tools.
if you purchase the recordings of this event only, you will receive access to the course site.
visit the online course site  for more details.
share this page: making the shift from classroom to online course design march 20,  2012 -1:00 to 2:45 pm edt & march 29, 2012 - 1:00 to 2:45 pm edt & april 9, 2012 - 1:00 to 2:45 pm edt & april 18,  2012 -1:00 to 2:45 pm edt horizontal tabs overview learn the essential components of designing effective online courses.
visit the online course site for more details.
you will not have access to instructor feedback on your signature project, but you will be able to view other participants' completed projects and the online discussion threads.
we will  also walk you through a step-by-step process to transform a face-to-face course  to an online delivery format.
can't attend this session?
you desire one-on-one interaction with course instructors and other course  participants.
special considerations are required to ensure the development of effective courses and a high level of engagement for a variety of learners.
special considerations are required to ensure the  development of effective courses and a high level of engagement for a variety  of learners.
take advantage of this unique opportunity while space is still  available!
skip to main content - manage subscriptions - contact us - cart search form search - home - areas of expertise - academic administration - advancement/development - blended and online learning - enrollment management - finance and planning - physical campus - student affairs - training & events - conferences - webcasts - recorded webcasts - online courses - continuing education unit credits - on-campus workshops - news & publications - article archive - monographs - about ai - employment opportunities - faq - contact us - home - training & events - online courses - making the shift from classroom to online course design follow ai online course share
- is it possible to include?
registration live online course connection registrations are no longer being accepted online for this course.
join us for a unique experience to examine steps to design effective online  courses.
- you desire one-on-one interaction with course instructors and other course participants.
$1,070.00 cd recordings for all sessions in making the shift from classroom to online course design download the brochure shopping cart your shopping cart is empty.
session 2: thursday, march 29, 2012 course organization necessary components with an online course rubric chunking course content
your project for this course will involve converting components of one of your own face-to-face courses to the online format.
what you will learn
we will be running this event again in october.
designing a module and understanding the steps using a mapping strategy to convert into an online course revising or redesigning goals and objectives bloom's taxonomy and course redesign assignments: identify course to be redesigned; be sure to utilize a syllabus and any  other course materials.
between sessions, you will have the chance to practice this process using one of your own courses.
this four-part program uses a blend of synchronous and asynchronous components to model an effective online course.
who should attend instructional designers, course developers, instructional technologists,  and faculty charged with the design of online courses will benefit from this  course.
please call us at 720.488.6800.
the academic impressions online course format differs from our traditional  webcasts in that it offers content, networking, and activities for one group of  learners over a longer period of time.
in four sessions, we will cover remapping your course, organizing  content, using web 2.0 technology, and integrating learning design.
to ensure maximum interactivity and personal attention, enrollment will be limited.
this format is right for you if: you desire the intensity, depth, and interaction of a face-to-face  conference format but wish to complete many of the components on your own time  and at your own pace.
her professional work and consulting includes k-20 education, military, nonprofit, for-profit, and public sector projects.
you work well in a format where a portion of the work is self-directed.
going through the levels always gives an id an 'aha!'
moment and that, to me, was very stimulating. ”
this four-part program uses a blend of synchronous and asynchronous  components to model an effective online course.
you want to create a signature project as part of the course that will  directly apply to the goals you are working to achieve on your campus.
between sessions, you will have the opportunity to practice the process through the creation of a signature project that is specific to your work and your institutional setting.
instructors patricia mcgee associate professor of instructional technology
you will learn how to: - use instructional redesign strategies for online courses - organize content into instructional modules - align course objectives, activities, and assessments - intentionally develop instructional activities that are interactive and engaging - select appropriate technology to support instructional objectives how is this online course different from a standard webcast?
the cd recordings are mailed with a bound copy of the presentation materials and handouts approximately 10 business days following the live webcast date.
- is interaction meaningful and relevant?
syllabus session 1: tuesday, march 20, 2012 (re)mapping course design 1:00 - 2:45 p.m. edt - principles of successful course redesign - course review rubrics - mapping your course - selecting from four basic redesign steps - identifying objectives - supporting objectives with technology, assessment, and active learning - organizing modules and the course - designing a module and understanding the steps - using a mapping strategy to convert into an online course - revising or redesigning goals and objectives - bloom's taxonomy and course redesign assignments: - identify course to be redesigned; be sure to utilize a syllabus and any other course materials.
laura sederberg manager of the technology and learning program, csu, chico “ this event was very deliberate and thoughtful.
- complete "mapping your course" handout assigned section - add/build as we progress through webcasts - submit on course site - read and review the "quality matters" rubric standards - consider how your course can be redesigned to address each of these elements - take the "faculty self-assessment:
you may, however, register by phone.
take advantage of this unique opportunity while space is still available!
kwesi tandoh instructional design specialist, university of arkansas, fayetteville articles you may enjoy course materials for mobile devices: key considerations strategies for supporting a diverse faculty information literacy and the first-year student doing service learning right speechwriting for your institution's leaders: why speeches fail sign up to receive free higher ed impact news your email address daily weekly monthly event announcements share
your project for this  course will involve converting components of one of your own face-to-face  courses to the online format.
the academic impressions online course format differs from our traditional webcasts in that it offers content, networking, and activities for one group of learners over a longer period of time.
during the synchronous  sessions, you will be invited to contribute ideas, make decisions, and  ask questions about the course (re)design process.
session 3: monday, april 9, 2012 web 2.0 technology design 1:00 - 2:45 p.m. edt - determining technology's instructional functions - introduce and present material - support learners' interaction with content, one another, instructor, and resources - assist learners in constructing knowledge - allow learners to practice - providing feedback and assessing learners' achievements - using rubrics and guides to align technology with course goals assignments: - given your module, review your design and select at least five tools that could be used in a lesson, activity, assignment, or assessment - download the session 2 handout and use to enter your tools - post session 3 homework to course site learning outcome: after participating in this session, you will be able to identify some strategies for selecting and integrating learning technologies into the online course.
- you work well in a format where a portion of the work is self-directed.
cd recording of live online course we record the audio and visual portion of all live webcast events and make them available as a cd recording.
want more information about this event?
preparing for online  teaching" survey learning outcome: after participating in this session, you  will be able to redesign a chunk of an existing face-to-face course into an  online course.
- you want to create a signature project as part of the course that will directly apply to the goals you are working to achieve on your campus.
between sessions, you will have the chance to  practice this process using one of your own courses.
contact tunde brimah, senior conference director if you'd like additional information about the program agenda.
during the synchronous sessions, you will be invited to contribute ideas, make decisions, and ask questions about the course (re)design process.
what others are saying “ if you’re interested in learning how to teach in an online or hybrid environment, you’ve come to just the right place. ”
you will learn how to: use instructional redesign strategies for online courses organize content into instructional modules align course objectives, activities, and assessments intentionally develop instructional activities that are interactive and  engaging select appropriate technology to support instructional objectives how is this online course different from a standard webcast?
this page: making the shift from classroom to online course design march 20, 2012 -1:00 to 2:45 pm edt & march 29, 2012 - 1:00 to 2:45 pm edt & april 9, 2012 - 1:00 to 2:45 pm edt & april 18, 2012 -1:00 to 2:45 pm edt horizontal tabs
preparing for online teaching" survey learning outcome: after participating in this session, you will be able to redesign a chunk of an existing face-to-face course into an online course.
this format is right for you if: - you desire the intensity, depth, and interaction of a face-to-face conference format but wish to complete many of the components on your own time and at your own pace.
between sessions, you will have the opportunity to  practice the process through the creation of a signature project that is  specific to your work and your institutional setting.
this page: - home - areas of expertise - academic administration - advancement/development - blended and online learning - enrollment management - finance and planning - physical campus - student affairs - training & events - conferences - webcasts - recorded webcasts - online courses - continuing education unit credits - on-campus workshops - news & publications - article archive - monographs - about ai - employment opportunities - faq - contact us academic impressions 4601 dtc blvd., suite 800 denver, co 80237 © copyright 2012 academic impressions
in four sessions, we will cover remapping your course, organizing content, using web 2.0 technology, and integrating learning design.
really thought-provoking.
you will complete this project in phases over the  duration of the course, and you will receive feedback on the project from  course instructors and participants.