this week i had the pleasure of attending citrix systems’ annual analyst event.
today, the centra platform has been transformed, merging withsaba live (saba’s new best-of-breed enterprise social software platform) into the saba collaboration suite.
at first, centra was positioned as simply a place for meetings  and synchronous training events, completely integrated with the lms.
this recording has proven so easy, in  fact, that adobe has noticed an intriguing trend with many of its customers:  adobe connect pro used explicitly as a rapid self-paced e-learning  development platform.
the saba collaboration suite incorporates all of the trends covered in this post so far, and it turns talent management back into people management.
combine that simplicity with a low price point, and we are  starting to hear more and more organizations tell us that there is pressure  (both bottom up and top down) to put access to these environments in the hands  of almost everyone in the company (not just a select few).
you have to give citrix credit.
-david add to del.icio.us digg
posted by topsy.com sunday, june 05, 2011 20:37 pingback from kimgreenwriterdesigner.wordpress.com virtual classrooms: adobe connect | just curious posted by kimgreenwriterdesigner.wordpress.com david mallon leads our research practice in learning and development.
feature and function-wise, saba collaboration suite is an enterprise business networking solution that includes all of the usual web 2.0 social tools integrated with presence, im, and integrated, real-time meetings and virtual classroom experiences.
adobe is well known to the learning industry for two families of products:  one virtual classroom (adobe connect pro) and one of the market leaders in  desktop e-learning development: adobe captivate.
in short, the  physical classroom is no longer a requirement; the best of blended learning  experiences can happen entirely online – and on-the-go, which leads us  to… reflect 4: blackboard mobile: the virtual un-classroom… as part of our recent research into both mobile learning and virtual  classroom platforms, we saw many places where these two topics are converging.
in light of these challenges, the virtual classroom represents an ideal  technology solution for modern high-impact learning organizations.
we would like your feedback on our website.
captivate interactions – for demonstration, practice, and assessment – can be used in the virtual space, adding powerful depth to the learning experiences supported there.
so, here are five reflections for this week – each using today’s leading providers as examples of the evolution of these platforms: reflect 1: citrix gotomeeting, gotowebinar, gototraining: simplicity leads to ubiquitous adoption which leads to_____?
thoughts and comments welcome.
in light of these challenges, the virtual classroom represents an ideal technology solution for modern high-impact learning organizations.
feature and function-wise, saba  collaboration suite is an enterprise business networking solution that includes  all of the usual web 2.0 social tools integrated with presence, im, and  integrated, real-time meetings and virtual classroom experiences.
today, the centra platform has been transformed, merging withsaba live (saba’s new best-of-breed enterprise social software platform)  into the saba collaboration suite.
and they provide an ideal, on-demand environment for employee collaboration.
their tools are simple, easy to use and easy  to implement.
the offering has been highly successful.
buzz newsvine close friday reflects #4 - virtual classroom edition friday, september 17,  2010 hello there.
home >  analyst blogs  > mallon/clarey's blog learning  on the leading edge social networks digg this linkedin del.icio.us facebook  yahoo!
these  platforms can support both rapid delivery and creation of high quality content,  are usable by non-specialist end-users, and yet support high-interactivity,  high-fidelity content if needed.
social learning, mlearning, and the virtual classroom are colliding.
janet clarey is senior analyst for l&d.
social learning, mlearning,  and the virtual classroom are colliding.
and, that said, i have a sense that some of its best uses are  still to be invented by its users.
feedback from participants has been very positive and overall results have been high.
one of the products they introduced to us was leadership direct, a seamless integration of innovative program content and technology platform designed to develop emerging leaders’ critical leadership capabilities and management skills in a real time, collaborative environment.
more recently, however, the convergence of rapid content development tools  and social software has many companies using these systems in very different  ways.
does this option hurt captivate at all?
in fact, adobe has done an admirable job integrating both of these  products.
btw - blackboard recently bought two of the leading virtual classroom providers in the education space, elluminate and wimba.
virtual classrooms, video conferencing, and telepresence technologies can provide benefits not found in the face-to-face classroom with a greater return on investment.
like most of blackboard’s offerings, the aesthetic for blackboard  mobile is decidedly academic.
like most of the other leading platforms today, connect pro supports easy  and efficient creation and delivery of live, synchronous learning events.
by several measures, they’ve likely reached #2 in the web conferencing market with gototraining – in a very short amount of time.
it feels like taking a college course online.
the role of this new platform within  organizations is now far more profound.
if the name does not immediately ring a bell for you, i am  fairly certain you know their products, includinggotomeeting andgotomypc.  and, as you may also know, earlier this  year they added a virtual classroom product,gototraining.
in short, the physical classroom is no longer a requirement; the best of blended learning experiences can happen entirely online – and on-the-go, which leads us to… reflect 4: blackboard mobile: the virtual un-classroom… as part of our recent research into both mobile learning and virtual classroom platforms, we saw many places where these two topics are converging.
the fact that recording activity in these spaces and then sharing those recordings is now trivial also makes them powerful enablers of knowledge sharing, which leads us to… reflect 2: adobe connect pro: is your virtual classroom platform actually a better rapid content development tool than the desktop options?
she writes on the changing learning landscape with the goal of helping learning professionals produce results for their organizations.
not simply an ‘app’ for playing on-demand presentations or accessing performance support (like some many other examples of m-learning today), blackboard mobile provides access to an entire blended learning experience.
btw - blackboard recently bought two of the leading virtual classroom providers in  the education space, elluminate and wimba.
that’s because virtual classroom brings  the learning experience directly to employees’ desktops or, in some  cases, their mobile device.
feedback from participants  has been very positive and overall results have been high.
they are a place for everyday collaboration and for continuous learning.
not simply an  ‘app’ for playing on-demand presentations or accessing performance  support (like some many other examples of m-learning today), blackboard mobile  provides access to an entire blended learning experience.
most corporate employees are  quite familiar with what it means to take a course over time: to meet in  regularly recurring sessions, to have one-on-ones with the teacher, to have  ongoing assignments, and to engage with fellow students in discussions and in  project work.
webinars  and online virtual classroom events are presented by harvard business school  faculty, well-known authors, leading practitioners, and other experts.
the resulting on-demand access  to all learning – content and experts, formal and informal, anywhere and  everywhere –is what will make mlearning mainstream; and it brings us  to… reflect 5: saba collaboration suite: putting it altogether –  is instant live interaction anywhere a better option for social learning than  social software?
logging into the virtual classroom,  delivering a presentation (somethingmost sme’s can do), and then  distributing the recording as a turn-key self-paced course is a compelling  low-cost, low-overhead option for content development.
blackboard mobile brings the best of the physical classroom experience to the learner wherever they are.
blending live, recorded, and self-directed can happen all within the online platform, which leads us to… reflect 3: harvard leadership direct: effective blended learning does not necessarily require the classroom anymore… last week, i had the chance to visit the folks as harvard business publishing.
in light of this trip and our own virtual classroom study – set to be released a little later this year – this week’s theme is the virtual classroom.
they are a place for everyday collaboration and for continuous  learning.
by several measures, they’ve  likely reached #2 in the web conferencing market with gototraining – in a  very short amount of time.
and centra’s place in their product family has also changed.
for these reasons, it is commonly viewed as a special instance of face-to-face classroom training.
their credibility and relevancy is  increasingly based more on timeliness (their ability to meet time-critical  needs), rather than simply the instructional craft of their content.
and these interactions work  even in the recorded presentations, meaning connect pro enabled courses,  synchronous or asynchronous, do not have to be simply flat presentations.
blackboard mobile brings the best of the physical classroom  experience to the learner wherever they are.
please send comments, questions or report problems to us at: » websitefeedback@bersin.com close
yet, as i’ve catalogued here today, many of today’s virtual classroom systems are now also helping to bridge the gap between self-paced e-learning and face-to-face ilt as well as provide powerful support for informal learning – be it social, on-demand, and embedded.
in light of this trip and our own virtual classroom study – set to  be released a little later this year – this week’s theme is the virtual classroom.
combine that simplicity with a low price point, and we are starting to hear more and more organizations tell us that there is pressure (both bottom up and top down) to put access to these environments in the hands of almost everyone in the company (not just a select few).
these platforms can support both rapid delivery and creation of high quality content, are usable by non-specialist end-users, and yet support high-interactivity, high-fidelity content if needed.
and they provide an ideal, on-demand  environment for employee collaboration.
he studies the role and make-up of high impact learning organizations - and how they are evolving to meet the changing needs of today's workforces and workplaces, including organization & governance, learning architectures, integration with talent management, working with solution providers, and globalization.
registerloginask the experts close hello there.
it feels like taking a college course  online.
the saba collaboration suite incorporates all of the trends  covered in this post so far, and it turns talent management back into people  management.
logging into the virtual classroom, delivering a presentation (somethingmost sme’s can do), and then distributing the recording as a turn-key self-paced course is a compelling low-cost, low-overhead option for content development.
j ust as the lms and virtual classroom spaces have evolved since then, saba has  as well.
and  in these companies where this ubiquitous usage is becoming a reality,  employees now see these environments as an indispensable part of their  workspace (just as much as the conference room down the hall, if not more  so).
like most of blackboard’s offerings, the aesthetic for blackboard mobile is decidedly academic.
this recording has proven so easy, in fact, that adobe has noticed an intriguing trend with many of its customers: adobe connect pro used explicitly as a rapid self-paced e-learning development platform.
we’ve known for some time that both mature and emerging synchronous  learning tools can provide benefits that foster productivity and reduce the  cost of training.
like most of the other leading platforms today, connect pro supports easy and efficient creation and delivery of live, synchronous learning events.
a few years ago, leading learning and talent management system provider, saba, purchased centra, adding a web conferencing and virtual classroom platform to its suite of products.
that’s because virtual classroom brings the learning experience directly to employees’ desktops or, in some cases, their mobile device.
but, as we’ve noted in past case studies such the amazing  work being done at westinghouse electric, the higher-ed model for distance  learning is a remarkably effective strategy for blending social learning with  formal learning in the corporate world.
one impressive example is blackboard’s blackboard mobile offering,  available on platforms such as the apple ipad.
the fact that recording activity in these spaces and then  sharing those recordings is now trivial also makes them powerful enablers of  knowledge sharing, which leads us to… reflect 2: adobe connect pro:  is your virtual classroom  platform actually a better rapid content development tool than the desktop  options?
since then, the virtual classroom has been primarily used to approximate face-to-face instruction and often serves as a replacement or enhancement for face-to-face, instructor-led training and asynchronous learning.
but, as we’ve noted in past case studies such the amazing work being done at westinghouse electric, the higher-ed model for distance learning is a remarkably effective strategy for blending social learning with formal learning in the corporate world.
a few years ago, leading learning and talent management system provider, saba, purchased centra, adding a web  conferencing and virtual classroom platform to its suite of products.
if the name does not immediately ring a bell for you, i am fairly certain you know their products, includinggotomeeting andgotomypc.
and – like most – it also provides for easy recording and  distribution of content as well.
virtual classrooms, video conferencing, and telepresence  technologies can provide benefits not found in the face-to-face classroom with  a greater return on investment.
and, as you may also know, earlier this year they added a virtual classroom product,gototraining.
in fact, adobe has done an admirable job integrating both of these products.
one impressive example is blackboard’s blackboard mobile offering, available on platforms such as the apple ipad.
learners can  access learning content, assignments, news, alerts, social and collaborative
direct, a seamless integration of innovative program content and technology  platform designed to develop emerging leaders’ critical leadership  capabilities and management skills in a real time, collaborative environment.
learning activities, and integrated virtual classroom spaces.
their tools are simple, easy to use and easy to implement.
more recently, however, the convergence of rapid content development tools and social software has many companies using these systems in very different ways.
at first, centra was positioned as simply a place for meetings and synchronous training events, completely integrated with the lms.
although computer-mediated distance education has been around since the 1960s, the first internet-based virtual classrooms weren’t marketed to the enterprise until the 1990s.
most corporate employees are quite familiar with what it means to take a course over time: to meet in regularly recurring sessions, to have one-on-ones with the teacher, to have ongoing assignments, and to engage with fellow students in discussions and in project work.
this week i had the pleasure of attending citrix systems’ annual  analyst event.
their credibility and relevancy is increasingly based more on timeliness (their ability to meet time-critical needs), rather than simply the instructional craft of their content.
since then, the virtual classroom has been  primarily used to approximate face-to-face instruction and often serves as a  replacement or enhancement for face-to-face, instructor-led training and  asynchronous learning.
blending live, recorded, and self-directed can happen all within the online  platform, which leads us to… reflect 3: harvard leadership direct: effective blended learning  does not necessarily require the classroom anymore… last week, i had the chance to visit the folks as harvard business  publishing.
learners can access learning content, assignments, news, alerts, social and collaborative learning activities, and integrated virtual classroom spaces.
so, here are five reflections for this week – each using  today’s leading providers as examples of the evolution of these platforms: reflect 1: citrix gotomeeting, gotowebinar, gototraining:  simplicity leads to ubiquitous adoption which leads to_____?
and centra’s place in their product family has also  changed.
adobe is well known to the learning industry for two families of products: one virtual classroom (adobe connect pro) and one of the market leaders in desktop e-learning development: adobe captivate.
and these interactions work even in the recorded presentations, meaning connect pro enabled courses, synchronous or asynchronous, do not have to be simply flat presentations.
participants in the program engage in online discussions, case studies,  virtual workshops, and action-learning projects; and can access additional  resources such as e-learning courses, case studies, research studies, videos,  articles and other tools – all within the virtual space.
and, that said, i have a sense that some of its best uses are still to be invented by its users.
the role of this new platform within organizations is now far more profound.
webinars and online virtual classroom events are presented by harvard business school faculty, well-known authors, leading practitioners, and other experts.
learning leaders have to be concerned about keeping pace in a rapidly-changing business environment, navigating a swirl of challenges brought on by rapid innovation in technology, changes in workforce demographics, and a challenging economic environment.
we’ve known for some time that both mature and emerging synchronous learning tools can provide benefits that foster productivity and reduce the cost of training.
participants in the program engage in online discussions, case studies, virtual workshops, and action-learning projects; and can access additional resources such as e-learning courses, case studies, research studies, videos, articles and other tools – all within the virtual space.
how do you use your virtual classroom?
thisdzone it!permalink 2 comments saturday, september 18, 2010 06:00 pingback from topsy.com twitter trackbacks for friday reflects #4 - virtual classroom edition [bersin.com] on topsy.com
although computer-mediated distance education has been around since the  1960s, the first internet-based virtual classrooms weren’t marketed to  the enterprise until the 1990s.
in many organizations today,  sme’s develop rapid e-learning.
one of the products they introduced to us was leadership
used in  conjunction with the rich set of employee profile information and sophisticated  talent management process support naturally part of an enterprise talent  management suite such as saba, and suddenly the result isinstant business  community, both an ongoing enabler of and a ever growing representation of  organizational learning agility, collaboration, and – ultimately –  innovation.
used in conjunction with the rich set of employee profile information and sophisticated talent management process support naturally part of an enterprise talent management suite such as saba, and suddenly the result isinstant business community, both an ongoing enabler of and a ever growing representation of organizational learning agility, collaboration, and – ultimately – innovation.
for these reasons, it is commonly viewed as a  special instance of face-to-face classroom training.
j ust as the lms and virtual classroom spaces have evolved since then, saba has as well.
the resulting on-demand access to all learning – content and experts, formal and informal, anywhere and everywhere –is what will make mlearning mainstream; and it brings us to… reflect 5:
and – like most – it also provides for easy recording and distribution of content as well.
her areas of focus are successful applications of learning; core processes such as program management, instructional design, and content management; learning tools and technologies; and learning staff development.
saba collaboration suite: putting it altogether – is instant live interaction anywhere a better option for social learning than social software?
learning leaders have to be concerned about keeping pace in a  rapidly-changing business environment, navigating a swirl of challenges brought  on by rapid innovation in technology, changes in workforce demographics, and a  challenging economic environment.
yet, as i’ve catalogued here today, many of today’s virtual  classroom systems are now also helping to bridge the gap between self-paced  e-learning and face-to-face ilt as well as provide powerful support for  informal learning – be it social, on-demand, and embedded.
captivate interactions – for demonstration, practice, and  assessment – can be used in the virtual space, adding powerful depth to  the learning experiences supported there.
in many organizations today, sme’s develop rapid e-learning.
and in these companies where this ubiquitous usage is becoming a reality, employees now see these environments as an indispensable part of their workspace (just as much as the conference room down the hall, if not more so).