columbia college has started a five-year program to increase the day-campus enrollment by 20 percent, to 1,250, by 2012.
… our bottom line  is meant for the sole purpose of re-investing it into the infrastructure and  personnel of the institution.”
“we are a private institution.
we have a solid product, and weve been able to grow and increase quality.
there is lots  of biology and chemistry.”
the columbia daily tribune 101
“we have a solid product, and  we’ve been able to grow and increase quality.”
its very heavily a science degree, he advised.
brouder and smith also said creating new programs to meet market needs has  increased students from outside missouri.
the college has 8,000 online students taking  12,000 courses.
he asked rhetorically.
reach abraham mahshie at (573) 815-1733 or amahshie@tribmail.com.
while other local schools have cut back or plan to scale back faculty and programs, smith said columbia college is gearing up for an increase in faculty to maintain a student-to-faculty ratio of 14:1.
how do you know you become a model?
that often means tenured,  full-time professors teaching traditional students while adjunct faculty who  are working professionals teach online and adult night classes.
there is lots of biology and chemistry.
that often means tenured, full-time professors teaching traditional students while adjunct faculty who are working professionals teach online and adult night classes.
advertisement get your brain and body in shape.
at any given time, 8,000 students are enrolled in 12,000 courses.
reach abraham mahshie at (573) 815-1733 or  amahshie@tribmail.com.
looking into the future, we want to become the model institution of our type that combines a number of venues in classroom or in-seat and online while making ourselves qualitatively better and more flexible, said gerard brouder, who is in his 13th year as president of the private liberal arts school.
we have established a very fine reputation for that.
the school has already raised $1 million.
we feel the quality of the education for an online course is as good i hate to use the words if not better than traditional, said gary massey, associate dean of adult higher education & online campus, who said the online campus is growing by 20 percent a year.
we charge much less than many of our competitors, brouder said.
columbia college plans to continue playing to its strength of being at the  cutting edge of online education.
greater interest in physical sciences has prompted the school to plan for a new $14 million science building to replace its 1960s-era building that formerly was an infirmary.
“we were looking at some of the liberal arts majors at the college,  and several of them had some room for growth,” said terry smith, executive  vice president and dean of academic affairs.
we don’t run  into politics,” said brouder, who worked at mu for 18 years before joining  columbia college, which he believes is a model hybrid institution.
columbia college bolsters appeal with online  classes by abraham mahshie of the tribune’s staff  published sunday,  june 22, 2008 gerik parmele photo ernie wren, an adjunct professor at  columbia college, prepares class materials at the school’s online campus  building.
“we feel the quality of the education for an online course is as good  — i hate to use the words — if not better … than  traditional,” said gary massey, associate dean of adult higher education  & online campus, who said the online campus is growing by 20 percent a year.
13 weeks of everyday delivery for as  little as 29¢ a day.
get your brain and body in shape.
“i think it’s in good part because of the increased reputation of  the school,” smith said, referring to enrollment growth of 30 to 50  students per year for several years.
they are taught differently, and they learn differently, brouder said.
theyre very different populations.
“we have established a very fine  reputation for that.”
north 4th street, columbia, mo 65201 contact us | anonymous tips | search | subscribe
we dont run into politics, said brouder, who worked at mu for 18 years before joining columbia college, which he believes is a model hybrid institution.
by how many institutions are coming to us, or ask us to come to them to guide them on the path that columbia college has taken with variable delivery modes and various venues and has a singular mission: teaching and learning.
“how do you know you become a model?”
columbia college has ridden the internet wave to establish itself as one  of the largest and best values in online education, but this year,  administrators are talking about how to beef up the day and night campuses, too.
massey and others contend that part of the online success is understanding that day, night and online courses have different students and require different learning and teaching styles.
by abraham mahshie of the tribunes staff published sunday, june 22, 2008by
we are able to do it because we are a non-profit.
columbia college has started a five-year program to increase the day-campus  enrollment by 20 percent, to 1,250, by 2012.
“looking into the future, we want to become the model institution of  our type that combines a number of venues — in classroom or in-seat and  online — while making ourselves qualitatively better and more  flexible,” said gerard brouder, who is in his 13th year as president of  the private liberal arts school.
food wednesdays,  pulse sundays and sports daily.
“we were the first to establish an undergraduate forensic science  program in the state,” smith said.
and those professionals are savvy about what they are spending their money  on.
back to our town copyright © 2008
our bottom line is meant for the sole purpose of re-investing it into the infrastructure and personnel of the institution.
seven years ago, there were 180 students taking 10  classes.
they want to get a degree for that next promotion, massey said.
we were looking at some of the liberal arts majors at the college, and several of them had some room for growth, said terry smith, executive vice president and dean of academic affairs.
“we charge much less than many of our competitors,” brouder said.
advertisementadvertisement get your brain and body in shape.
“almost all our adjuncts are working,  practicing professionals.”
and those professionals are savvy about what they are spending their money on.
“by how many institutions are coming to us, or ask us to come to them to  guide them on the path that columbia college has taken with variable delivery  modes and various venues and has a singular mission: teaching and  learning.”
brouder and smith also said creating new programs to meet market needs has increased students from outside missouri.
the columbia daily tribune.
at any given time, 8,000 students are  enrolled in 12,000 courses.
seven years ago, there were 180 students taking 10 classes.
wren owns a property management company and teaches management and  small business over the web.
they are taught differently,  and they learn differently,” brouder said.
our students are working adults.
smith said the program’s popularity is a result of the television  series “csi,” and it prepares students for jobs as criminal lab  technicians and investigators.
abraham mahshie of the tribunes staff published sunday, june 22, 2008 columbia college has ridden the internet wave to establish itself as one of the largest and best values in online education, but this year, administrators are talking about how to beef up the day and night campuses, too.
while other local schools have cut back or plan to scale back faculty and  programs, smith said columbia college is gearing up for an increase in faculty  to maintain a student-to-faculty ratio of 14:1.
they want to get a degree for that  next promotion,” massey said.
in fact, columbia college does  not have classrooms capable of seating more than 30 students.
“our students are working adults.
greater interest in physical sciences has prompted the school to plan for a  new $14 million science building to replace its 1960s-era building that  formerly was an infirmary.
we report to a board.
i think its in good part because of the increased reputation of the school, smith said, referring to enrollment growth of 30 to 50 students per year for several years.
“they’re very different populations.
brouder said columbia college has another advantage over other local schools such as the university of missouri.
we are a private institution.
“it’s very heavily a science degree,” he advised.
smith said columbia college has stepped up marketing and international  recruiting, boasting 100 international students from 25 countries last year.
brouder said columbia college has another advantage over other local  schools such as the university of missouri.
columbia college plans to continue playing to its strength of being at the cutting edge of online education.
“we are able to do it because we are a non-profit.
almost all our adjuncts are working, practicing professionals.
massey and others contend that part of the online success is understanding  that day, night and online courses have different students and require  different learning and teaching styles.
smith said columbia college has stepped up marketing and international recruiting, boasting 100 international students from 25 countries last year.
“it’s not just criminal justice plus intro to biology.
we were the first to establish an undergraduate forensic science program in the state, smith said.
its not just criminal justice plus intro to biology.
smith said the programs popularity is a result of the television series csi, and it prepares students for jobs as criminal lab technicians and investigators.
in fact, columbia college does not have classrooms capable of seating more than 30 students.