thea 2513 fine arts-film 3 credits the study of the origin and development of film from the late 19th century to the present.
prerequisite: cis 1503 book required.
the united states since 1876 3 credits a survey of changing social, political and economic policies in the united states from reconstruction to the present.
library online course list below is a list of courses that are offered online.
the course is an interactive seminar that requires  student participation in the exploration of improving academic skills and  providing an orientation to campus services.
ech 1103 child growth and development 3 credits this course is the  study of environmental and hereditary effects on the cognitive, affective,  psychomotor, and sociolinguistic development of typically and atypically  developing children from conception to middle school (conception through age 8)  with diverse cultural backgrounds within and outside of the united states.
the united states to 1876 3 credits a survey of the  development of social, political and economic institutions in the united  states from the age of exploration and discovery to reconstruction.
students will also become familiar with childhood immunizations and how to tract them manually and on the computer.
students will learn the  complexities of these interrelationships and the effect of humans on the  biosphere.
(credit earned not applicable toward a degree.)
cis 2403 database applications 3 credits a study of database management  principles including file organization, data storage, access methods, data  structures, data privacy, security, and integrity.
examining  such areas as societal changes over the years towards victims; children as  victims versus adult victims; victim reparation and the change of victim rights  with the advent of plea bargaining.
the instructor will help with placement for those students who are not  currently employed at a child care facility.
posc 2203 state and local government 3 credits an examination of the  basic principles and problems with state and local governments and the  administration of their programs.
biol 2013 nutrition 3 credits a study of human nutritional needs over the human life span.
ech 1203 business administration in early childhood education 3 credits students will learn how to develop policies and procedures pertaining to child care facilities based on arkansas state licensing regulations.
practical application  of theory is provided through a variety of hands on experiences and a minimum  of five (5) hours of observation.
observation of the student's work and evaluation of students skills are conducted by instructors following the naeyc associate standards.
acct 2033 computerized accounting 3 credits students' knowledge of  accounting concepts and principles is reinforced through use of the  computer.
qm 2113 business statistics 3 credits statistical methods used in studying business and economic data, averages, and dispersions, probability, sampling, statistical inference, estimation, tests of hypotheses, index numbers, linear regression, and correlation.
prerequisites: acct 2003  recommended.
this course may not  transfer for credit to some institutions.
students will  become familiar with moral laws, both good and bad; ethical issues in  punishment versus rehabilitation; moral and ethical education of police  officers and the other criminal justice employees; and ethical decisions when  dealing with homeland security issues.
the various job and career opportunities will be reviewed.
crim 2263 criminal evidence and procedure 3 credits rules of evidence  of import at the operational level in law enforcement and criminal  procedures, personal conduct of the officer as a witness, and examination of  safeguarding personal constitutional liberties.
hum 2003 introduction to humanities i: greece and rome 3 credits this  course is a study of the history, literature, arts, and philosophy of ancient  cultures, reflecting the major historical, artistic, and philosophical trends  of different time periods.
crim 2233 criminal law 3 credits this course is a survey of the history  and nature of criminal law in the united states.
cis 1503 microcomputer applications i 3 credits a course designed to introduce students to the concepts of computer information systems through the application of software packages for microcomputers.
individual nutrients, their nature, functions, and  their processing by the human body.
eng 2013 world literature ii 3 credits a continuation of eng 2003, from the renaissance to the present.
the first section addresses the basics of behavioral science and the  law, as it relates to the various components of the criminal justice system.
univ 1003 principles of academic success iii 3 credits this course  serves as an introduction to concepts and information that are essential  for academic success.
techniques for managing groups of children in the various childcare settings are practiced.
crim 1103 victimology 3 credits this course addresses the issue of how  the criminal justice system deals with the victim of a violent crime.
they will also learn how to inspect playgrounds and identify hazards on playgrounds.
prerequisite: eng 1003.
a total of 96 hours of  observation is required.
crim 1023 introduction to criminal justice 3 credits this course is intended to expose the student to the workings of criminal justice systems, exploring the historical development, current operation, and future trends of criminal justice.
bsys 2583 spreadsheet applications for business 3 credits the study of  electronic spreadsheet concepts.
topics include  inflation, unemployment, national income, and the monetary system.
hist 2083 history of arkansas 3 credits a survey of arkansas history  from the pre-columbian period to the present.
crim 2253 criminal investigation 3 credits includes fundamentals and theory of an investigation, conduct at crime scenes, collection and presentation of physical evidence, and methods used in the police service industry.
eng 1003 freshman english i 3 credits instruction in expository essay  form, structure, and style.
the purpose is to help the student  develop criteria for appreciation of music.
developmental algebra 3 credits an introduction to fundamental algebraic concepts.
prerequisite: math 1023.
phil 1103 introduction to philosophy 3 credits an examination of the  basic problems of philosophy as evidenced in the major schools of  philosophical thought.
students will explore the human experience through the theatre arts.
cis 1503 microcomputer applications i 3 credits a course designed to  introduce students to the concepts of computer information systems through the  application of software packages for microcomputers.
the major emphasis will be on african americans and native americans.
surveys current generalized database management systems.
specific areas such as biological and biochemical, psychological and social theories will be explored.
prerequisites: acct 2003 recommended.
this course is designed to provide an understanding  of the facts, methods, and significance of the physical sciences by  concentrating on selected topics from physics, chemistry, earth science,  and astronomy.
students will observe infants, toddlers, and preschool children in a child care facility approved by the instructor.
lecture three hours, laboratory two hours per  week.
(this course does not fulfill the fine arts requirement in the core curriculum  for the associate of arts degree.)
hum 2003 introduction to humanities i: greece and rome 3 credits this course is a study of the history, literature, arts, and philosophy of ancient cultures, reflecting the major historical, artistic, and philosophical trends of different time periods.
math 2233 applied statistics 3 credits a study of elementary statistics for students in the biological, physical, or social sciences.
both  theory and hands-on application will be emphasized.
hist 1023 world civilization since 1660 3 credits a survey of world  civilizations from 1660 to present.
prerequisite: acceptable act score or compass score.
acct 2003 principles of accounting i 3 credits the accounting cycle for  merchandising and service-oriented business organizations.
the various job and career opportunities will  be reviewed.
crim 1123 criminal profiling 3 credits this course is designed to  provide students with an understanding and appreciation for the darkest part of  our society, attempting to understand the incomprehensibility of horrific acts  committed by individuals we have yet to understand.
crim 2043 community relations in the administration of justice 3 credits provides an understanding of the complex factors in human relations.
prerequisite: "c" or better in math 0003 or acceptable act score and high school algebra i. (credit earned not applicable toward an associate of arts or an associate of science degree.)
this course requires four hours of observation in four separate early childhood settings.
competencies are based on standards developed by the national association for the education of young children for quality early childhood settings.
econ 2323 principles of microeconomics 3 credits analysis of the decision making of individual units of economics: households, business firms, and the government.
prerequisite: eng 1013 or  a 21 act or its equivalent in both english and reading book required.
students concerned about transferability should  check with their transfer institution.
students concerned about transferability should check with their transfer institution.
introduction to psychology covers a wide  range of human behavior.
primary emphasis is on financial accounting principles applicable to measuring assets, liabilities, and owners' equity.
food  labels and their interpretation, weight control, exercise, food safety,  relationships of nutrition to health and the environment diet analysis required  - code must be purchased.
crim 1123 criminal profiling 3 credits this course is designed to provide students with an understanding and appreciation for the darkest part of our society, attempting to understand the incomprehensibility of horrific acts committed by individuals we have yet to understand.
biol 2013 nutrition 3 credits a study of human nutritional needs over  the human life span.
students will  become familiar with signs and symptoms of a variety of physical, mental, and  learning disabilities, their prognosis, treatment, educational implications,  and expected outcomes.
topics include inflation, unemployment, national income, and the monetary system.
econ 2313 principles of macroeconomics 3 credits analysis of whole  economic systems, particularly the u.s. economy.
the following concepts are interwoven throughout this course: sustainability, natural capital, natural capital degradation, and solutions to environmental problems.
areas of concentration include contracts, torts, sales, agency, negotiable instruments, and government regulation.
ech 2023 child development 3 credits this course is a study of the  nature and development of children from pre-birth to the middle years of  childhood.
the fundamentals of worksheets, graphics, database, and macro features of electronic spreadsheets will be utilized to solve problems.
techniques for managing groups of children in the various childcare  settings are practiced.
students will design a developmentally appropriate playground and budget that  complies with arkansas licensing regulations.
they will develop a parent handbook, personnel policies, job descriptions and teacher evaluations.
eng 1033 technical writing & communication 3 credits a course designed to prepare students to demonstrate a high level of effectiveness in handling the demands of workplace writing and communication.
{ ©  1998-2011 arkansas state university-beebe all rights reserved. }
pe 1623 concepts of fitness 3 credits provides knowledge and appreciation of the importance of physical activity for lifelong health, wellness, and a quality life; provides opportunities for psychomotor development.
ech 1113 foundations of early childhood education 3 credits this course  is designed to acquaint the student with the historical roles of families  in their child's development.
ech 2203 exceptional children 3 credits students will become familiar  with the laws pertaining to disabled children in child care facilities and  special accommodation that childcare facilities are required to make according  to the americans with disabilities act.
mgmt 2003 introduction to management 3 credits introduction to  management techniques and organizational structure.
agec 1003 introduction to agricultural economics 3 credits basic economic principles and their application to agriculture.
laboratory three hours.
mus 2503 fine arts-musical 3 credits an introduction to music for the  listener who has had no formal training.
mus 2503 fine arts-musical 3 credits an introduction to music for the listener who has had no formal training.
hist 1013 world civilization to 1660 3 credits a survey of world civilizations from pre-history to 1660.
the students will also obtain knowledge of state and federal laws pertaining to the care and education of young children.
cis 2403 database applications 3 credits a study of database management principles including file organization, data storage, access methods, data structures, data privacy, security, and integrity.
cis 2453 microcomputer applications ii 3 credits an intermediate course  in the application of software packages for microcomputers with emphasis on  common business functions.
crim 2213 criminology 3 credits this basic course provides an  examination of the nature and extent of crime and theories of crime causation,  as well as the societal reaction of criminal behavior.
lecture 3 hours, laboratory 2 hours per week.
students will be provided with a thorough introduction of html and  basic web page design concepts.
additional topics include: economic goals and tradeoffs, marginal benefit marginal cost, production possibilities and comparative advantage, unemployment, and inflation.
econ 2313 and econ 2323 may not be taken concurrently.
this course provides students with the opportunity to gain valuable insight into the field of early childhood education.
the united states since 1876 3 credits a survey of changing  social, political and economic policies in the united states from  reconstruction to the present.
crim 2243 criminalistics 3 credits this course covers topics such as  the discovery, recognition, observation, identification, and collection and  comparison of physical evidence, including a review of various current  techniques in the testing of physical evidence.
introduction to psychology covers a wide range of human behavior.
thea 2503 fine arts-theatre 3 credits introduction to the creative process and history of theatre.
the course is divided into three sections of study.
includes criticism of  film, concentrating on the creative elements used in the development of film  aesthetics and the application of scholarly and popular critical standards.
ech 2023 child development 3 credits this course is a study of the nature and development of children from pre-birth to the middle years of childhood.
instruction is provided in computer operations using commercially  available accounting software.
students will become familiar with moral laws, both good and bad; ethical issues in punishment versus rehabilitation; moral and ethical education of police officers and the other criminal justice employees; and ethical decisions when dealing with homeland security issues.
crim 2223 criminal justice management/planning 3 credits this course  examines budgeting, personnel, and planning.
prerequisites: cis 1503.
crim 1033 introduction to corrections 3 credits this basic course discusses correctional concepts from their historical background to the present.
a | b | c | e | g | h | l | m | p | q | s | t | u acct 1003 introduction to accounting 3 credits this course teaches  the fundamentals of accounting and is a survey for students with no  previous accounting knowledge.
cst 1124 microcomputer operating systems 4 credits instruction of the  current microcomputer operating systems.
phsc 1204 physical science 4 credits an introduction to basic concepts  of physical science for the student who has completed no college course in  chemistry or physics.
prerequisite: math 0003 with a grade of c  or better.
ech 2313 literacy & language for early childhood 3 credits this  course is designed to make the early childhood educator aware of the  acquisition of language and how to provide children, birth through  pre-kindergarten, including children with special needs, with language rich  environments by incorporating the four areas of language: speaking, listening,  reading, and writing.
hist 2893 american minorities 3 credits a survey course involving the  study of several minority groups in american society from colonial times to  the present.
this depends on the program  and instructor availability.
crim 1153 theories and practice of crime 3 credits this course provides an overview in the current psychological and sociological issues concerning crime causation.
practice in writing business  letters and reports, and preparing various types of oral presentations.
microsoft office  2010 required.
acct 2033 computerized accounting 3 credits students' knowledge of accounting concepts and principles is reinforced through use of the computer.
provides students with an appreciation of how various artistic elements combine to produce theatrical presentations.
prerequisite:  eng 1003.
cis 2013 web page design 3 credits this course provides instruction on  the development of web pages using basic html and web page authoring  software.
eng 1033 technical writing & communication 3 credits a course  designed to prepare students to demonstrate a high level of effectiveness  in handling the demands of workplace writing and communication.
the in-class instruction will focus on the development of the following skills: observation, record keeping, and interpretation of data.
posc 2103 introduction to united states government 3 credits a survey  of the structure and process of american national government.
students should be familiar with the internet and the world wide web.
this course is an integrated and science-based study of environmental issues, connections, and solutions.
students will also become familiar with signs and symptoms of communicable illnesses that pertain to children.
includes historical and contemporary readings.
envr 1004 introduction to environmental science 4 credits this is an  interdisciplinary study of how things in nature are interconnected.
they will  also learn how to inspect playgrounds and identify hazards on playgrounds.
crim 2243 criminalistics 3 credits this course covers topics such as the discovery, recognition, observation, identification, and collection and comparison of physical evidence, including a review of various current techniques in the testing of physical evidence.
crim 2223 criminal justice management/planning 3 credits this course examines budgeting, personnel, and planning.
ech 1103 child growth and development 3 credits this course is the study of environmental and hereditary effects on the cognitive, affective, psychomotor, and sociolinguistic development of typically and atypically developing children from conception to middle school (conception through age 8) with diverse cultural backgrounds within and outside of the united states.
prerequisite: eng 1013 or a 21 act or its  equivalent in both english and reading.
ech 2313 literacy & language for early childhood 3 credits this course is designed to make the early childhood educator aware of the acquisition of language and how to provide children, birth through pre-kindergarten, including children with special needs, with language rich environments by incorporating the four areas of language: speaking, listening, reading, and writing.
criminal profiling is a multi-disciplinary practice that employs knowledge of criminalistics, death investigation, and psychology.
students will be provided with a thorough introduction of html and basic web page design concepts.
prerequisite: acceptable act score or  compass score.
math 2233 applied statistics 3 credits a study of elementary statistics  for students in the biological, physical, or social sciences.
eng 1013 freshman english ii 3 credits a continuation of eng 1003 with the addition of research papers and literary genres.
mktg 1013 introduction to business 3 credits a survey course to acquaint beginning students with the major institutions and practices in the business world, and to provide the elementary concepts of business.
crim 2253 criminal investigation 3 credits includes fundamentals and  theory of an investigation, conduct at crime scenes, collection and  presentation of physical evidence, and methods used in the police service  industry.
usually required for nursing, psychology, and social work majors.
students will also compare and contrast the pros and  cons of integrating special needs children into the regular classroom.
criminal profiling is a  multi-disciplinary practice that employs knowledge of criminalistics, death  investigation, and psychology.
cis 2874 structured programming in the c language 4 credits structured design in software development will be emphasized, along with usage of the many software modules available in most libraries that come with c compilers.
crim 2023 probation, parole, and community corrections 3 credits this course examines the principles, problems, and trends in the probation, parole, and communications of both adults and juveniles.
prerequisite: acct 2003 with a grade of c or better or consent of instructor.
the philosophy of law enforcement is examined with the emphasis on the social forces that creates social change and disturbance.
biol 2024 ecology 4 credits this course will provide an understanding of the natural world and the relationship of the organisms with one another and the environment in which they live.
food labels and their interpretation, weight control, exercise, food safety, relationships of nutrition to health and the environment diet analysis required - code must be purchased.
faculty and staff should use their asub.edu domain log in username and password.
univ 1003 principles of academic success iii 3 credits this course serves as an introduction to concepts and information that are essential for academic success.
students will develop and understanding of these  disciplines and how they are applied in understanding and organizing  investigative leads towards apprehension and/or at least assisting law  enforcement organizations with foundation in which to launch investigations.
includes criticism of film, concentrating on the creative elements used in the development of film aesthetics and the application of scholarly and popular critical standards.
surveys current  generalized database management systems.
ech 1003 child guidance 3 credits this course relates principles of  child development to appropriate methods of guiding children's behavior for  children birth through pre-kindergarten, including children with special needs.
upon completion of the cpr and first aid portion of the course, students will  participate in a simulated trauma where they will be required to prioritize  and treat injuries until emergency medical personnel arrive.
prerequisite: act scores of 19 or better on  reading and english or successful completion of developmental english and  reading improvement.
students will also learn how to monitor children's normal growth patterns and how to identify and seek treatment for abnormalities.
the in-class instruction will focus on the development  of the following skills: observation, record keeping, and interpretation of  data.
mgmt 2153 small business management 3 credits a course covering the  organization and operation of the small business, with emphasis on personal  qualification, small business techniques, capital requirements, forms of  organization, location, and sources for assistance.
bus 1013 introduction to business 3 credits a survey course to acquaint beginning students with the major institutions and practices in the business world, and to provide the elementary concepts of business.
crim 2263 criminal evidence and procedure 3 credits rules of evidence of import at the operational level in law enforcement and criminal procedures, personal conduct of the officer as a witness, and examination of safeguarding personal constitutional liberties.
must be able to submit  speeches through youtube or digital video.
this depends on the program and instructor availability.
content includes  not only practices in the united states, but also other cultures and their  systems of justice.
related to math and science.
students will design a building blueprint and will create an  operating budget and a one-time start up budget.
prerequisite: acct 2003 with a grade of  c or better or consent of instructor.
crim 2233 criminal law 3 credits this course is a survey of the history and nature of criminal law in the united states.
the legal environment of business 3 credits introduction to  the fundamental concepts of the american legal system, especially as it  relates to business.
students will gain  "hands-on" experience using popular business application software  including word processing, spreadsheets, databases, and presentation graphics.
students will observe infants, toddlers, and preschool children  in a child care facility approved by the instructor.
the purpose is to help the student to develop criteria for appreciation of painting, sculpture, and architecture.
math 1023 college algebra 3 credits a detailed study of functions and  their applications including linear, quadratic, polynomial, rational, radical,  absolute value, exponential, and logarithmic functions.
this course may not transfer for credit to some institutions.
emphasis is  placed on the study of film as a distinctive art form.
specific areas such as biological and biochemical,  psychological and social theories will be explored.
(credit earned not applicable  toward a degree.)
dietary analyses and evaluations.
students are  required to pass an exit exam in order to earn credit for this course.
bsys 2533 internet, intranet, and e-mail business applications 3 credits this is a course to teach students about the internet, intranet, and e-mail.
math 1003 intermediate algebra 3 credits continued development of fundamental concepts with additional topics including functions, rational expressions, absolute value equations and inequalities, rational exponents, radical expressions, quadratic equations, and complex numbers.
a required course for physical education majors.
phil 1103 introduction to philosophy 3 credits an examination of the basic problems of philosophy as evidenced in the major schools of philosophical thought.
in the safety portion of the course, students will become familiar with basic classroom and playground safety issues and how to avoid problems.
hist 1023 world civilization since 1660 3 credits a survey of world civilizations from 1660 to present.
ech 1302 practicum ii 2 credits students must be employed or volunteer in a licensed childcare facility to apply the knowledge acquired and skills learned in previous coursework.
essential  macroeconomic and microeconomic problems, possible solutions and market  implications will be examined.
students will also be able to  demonstrate proper fire and emergency procedures and will develop evacuation  plans that meet arkansas state regulations.
dl home getting started orientation faq webct login page exam proctoring policy proctoring locations, dates & other information proctor request form online courses online instructors distance education degrees contact us schedule of classes tuition and fees online campus resources academic advising bookstore campus connect learning center library below is a list of courses that are offered online.
the major emphasis will be on african americans and native  americans.
some require book - some require  mymathlab access code.
students will also  become familiar with childhood immunizations and how to tract them manually and  on the computer.
topics also include  systems of equations and matrices.
usually required for nursing, psychology, and social  work majors.
econ 2323 principles of microeconomics 3 credits analysis of the  decision making of individual units of economics: households, business  firms, and the government.
(required for full-time, first  time entering students who are required to take one or more developmental courses and for transfers with fewer than 15 transfer credits who are required  to take one or more developmental courses.)
both theory and hands-on application will be emphasized.
a study of the transformation in human development from pre-birth to death.
cis 2453 microcomputer applications ii 3 credits an intermediate course in the application of software packages for microcomputers with emphasis on common business functions.
ech 2123 curriculum development in early childhood education 3 credits this course is based on the foundation of research in child development and  focuses on planning and implementing enriching environments with appropriate interactions and activities for young children (ages 0-5 years) including those with special needs, to maximize physical, cognitive,  communication, creative, language/literacy, and social/emotional growth and  development.
an emphasis will be on the observation of physical, cognitive, language, social, and emotional development in connection with previous courses.
thea 2503 fine arts-theatre 3 credits introduction to the creative  process and history of theatre.
psy 2013 introduction to psychology 3 credits a scientific study of behavior and cognitive processes.
this course deals  briefly with production, distribution, value, price, credit, land value,  marketing, and related problems.
additional topics include: economic goals and  tradeoffs, marginal benefit marginal cost, production possibilities and  comparative advantage, unemployment, and inflation.
mgmt 2003 introduction to management 3 credits introduction to management techniques and organizational structure.
the purpose of this course is to provide the necessary background to enter chem 1014.
competencies are based on standards developed by the national  association for the education of young children for quality early childhood  settings.
students will also become familiar with child care  software and how to run programs that will monitor student attendance,  emergency information and billing.
the second part of the course focuses on managerial and cost accounting concepts, reporting, and decision making.
this course requires four hours of observation in four separate early  childhood settings.
students will develop and understanding of these disciplines and how they are applied in understanding and organizing investigative leads towards apprehension and/or at least assisting law enforcement organizations with foundation in which to launch investigations.
acct 2013 principles of accounting ii 3 credits the first part of this  course is an extension of basic financial accounting concepts from  principles of accounting i, applied to corporate equity structures, long-term  debt issues, and cash flows.
in addition certain  societal issues will be addressed such as the general and specific deterrence  and feminist theories.
the following concepts are interwoven throughout  this course: sustainability, natural capital, natural capital degradation, and  solutions to environmental problems.
crim 1013 introduction to law enforcement 3 credits this course in an introduction to the law enforcement segment of the criminal justice system, with an examination of the history and development of law enforcement, especially in the united states.
the students will also obtain knowledge of state and federal laws pertaining to the  care and education of young children.
prerequisite: eng 1013 or a 21 act or its equivalent in both english and reading book required.
eng 2013 world literature ii 3 credits a continuation of eng 2003, from  the renaissance to the present.
oral communications 3 credits a basic speech course in which  an understanding of the fundamentals of communication theory and a  proficiency in the use of oral communication skills are developed.
crim 1033 introduction to corrections 3 credits this basic course  discusses correctional concepts from their historical background to the  present.
cis 2874 structured programming in the c language 4 credits structured  design in software development will be emphasized, along with usage of the  many software modules available in most libraries that come with c compilers.
lecture three hours, laboratory two hours per week.
practical application of theory is provided through a variety of hands on experiences and a minimum of five (5) hours of observation.
psy 2533 life-span development 3 credits (formerly developmental  psychology)
eng 2003 world literature i 3 credits a study of literature from  antiquity through the renaissance, reflecting the major philosophical,  religious, and literary trends of these time periods.
the  students will be introduced to methods used to observe and evaluate children's  development and recognize possible delays in development.
crim 2023 probation, parole, and community corrections 3 credits this  course examines the principles, problems, and trends in the probation, parole,  and communications of both adults and juveniles.
students will become familiar with signs and symptoms of a variety of physical, mental, and learning disabilities, their prognosis, treatment, educational implications, and expected outcomes.
ech 2113 health, first aid, and safety 3 credits students will become proficient and certified in cpr and first aid.
crim 2013 agency administration 3 credits this course examines  management models, administrative techniques and patterns of organizational  structure characteristics of criminal justice agencies.
hist 2083 history of arkansas 3 credits a survey of arkansas history from the pre-columbian period to the present.
ech 1213 perspectives in early childhood education 3 credits this  course introduces students to current research in the field of early childhood education.
the course is an interactive seminar that requires student participation in the exploration of improving academic skills and providing an orientation to campus services.
thea 2513 fine arts-film 3 credits the study of the origin and  development of film from the late 19th century to the present.
algebraic topics include real numbers,  linear equations, linear inequalities, integral exponents, polynomials,  factoring, and graphing linear equations.
an emphasis will  be on the observation of physical, cognitive, language, social, and emotional  development in connection with previous courses.
geog 2603 world regional geography 3 credits a general survey of  geographic regions of the world emphasizing culture, demography, and  economic and social patterns.
the course may be taken by the general population.
acct 2013 principles of accounting ii 3 credits the first part of this course is an extension of basic financial accounting concepts from principles of accounting i, applied to corporate equity structures, long-term debt issues, and cash flows.
cis 2033 visual basic programming 3 credits an introduction to object oriented high level programming language.
econ 2313  and econ 2323 may not be taken concurrently.
chem 1003 introduction to chemistry 3 credits fundamentals of chemistry  and a survey of topics for students with no previous training in chemistry.
students will also participate in simulated job interviews and will demonstrate questioning techniques that facilitate answers that provide insight into personalities and attitudes within the statutes of the law.
ech 2303 math & science for early childhood 3 credits students will become familiar with a variety of ways to introduce children, birth through pre-kindergarten, including children with special needs to ideas and concepts related to math and science.
the second part of the course focuses on  managerial and cost accounting concepts, reporting, and decision making.
instruction is provided in computer operations using commercially available accounting software.
practice in writing business letters and reports, and preparing various types of oral presentations.
ech 2013 survey of early childhood 3 credits this course will provide a  study of the history, theory, and practice of early childhood education in  context as well as supervised observation and experience in the early childhood  field.
in  the safety portion of the course, students will become familiar with basic  classroom and playground safety issues and how to avoid problems.
students are required to pass an exit exam in order to earn credit for this course.
emphasis will be placed on contemporary problems in the  definition of law, the enforcement of law, strategies of policing, judicial  system, sentencing strategies, and correctional practices.
students must demonstrate competency in all areas observed and complete a minimum number of clock hours, determined by the institution, of observation and work experience with children, birth to five.
the  purpose of this course is to provide the necessary background to enter chem  1014.
a total of 96 hours of observation is required.
this  course is an integrated and science-based study of environmental issues,  connections, and solutions.
ech 2203 exceptional children 3 credits students will become familiar with the laws pertaining to disabled children in child care facilities and special accommodation that childcare facilities are required to make according to the americans with disabilities act.
purpose of the os, application of essential commands, file and disk management, directory organization, creating and modifying batch files, and system configurations will be studied.
ech 1301 practicum i 1 credit
prerequisite: act scores of 19 or better on reading and english or successful completion of developmental english and reading improvement.
the fundamentals of worksheets, graphics,  database, and macro features of electronic spreadsheets will be utilized to  solve problems.
the students will be introduced to methods used to observe and evaluate children's development and recognize possible delays in development.
ech 1003 child guidance 3 credits this course relates principles of child development to appropriate methods of guiding children's behavior for children birth through pre-kindergarten, including children with special needs.
eng 1003 freshman english i 3 credits instruction in expository essay form, structure, and style.
areas of concentration include contracts, torts,  sales, agency, negotiable instruments, and government regulation.
ech 2013 survey of early childhood 3 credits this course will provide a study of the history, theory, and practice of early childhood education in context as well as supervised observation and experience in the early childhood field.
prerequisite: math 0003 with a grade of "c" or better.
substantive criminal law, defenses, and criminal responsibility will be studied within the context of the criminal justice process and rules of evidence.
eng 2003 world literature i 3 credits a study of literature from antiquity through the renaissance, reflecting the major philosophical, religious, and literary trends of these time periods.
crim 2013 agency administration 3 credits this course examines management models, administrative techniques and patterns of organizational structure characteristics of criminal justice agencies.
posc 2103 introduction to united states government 3 credits a survey of the structure and process of american national government.
ech 1302 practicum ii 2 credits students must be employed or volunteer  in a licensed childcare facility to apply the knowledge acquired and skills  learned in previous coursework.
developmental algebra 3 credits an introduction to  fundamental algebraic concepts.
posc 2203 state and local government 3 credits an examination of the basic principles and problems with state and local governments and the administration of their programs.
the course also serves as a prerequisite for all other speech courses unless exemption is granted by the division.
pe 1623 concepts of fitness 3 credits provides knowledge and  appreciation of the importance of physical activity for lifelong health,  wellness, and a quality life; provides opportunities for psychomotor  development.
topics include price determination, production, income distribution, market structures, and international economics.
students will create activities; plan and practice  developmentally appropriate experiences that would meet recognized standards  (naeyc, nctm, etc.) for these areas.
prerequisite: basic computer competency.
substantive criminal law,  defenses, and criminal responsibility will be studied within the context of the  criminal justice process and rules of evidence.
content includes not only practices in the united states, but also other cultures and their systems of justice.
prerequisite: eng  1003.
mgmt 2043 supervisory management 3 credits a course covering the  responsibilities of first line supervisor; development of techniques and  skills in employee communications, decision making, motivation, leadership, and  training.
lecture three hours per week.
(required for full-time, first time entering students who are required to take one or more developmental courses and for transfers with fewer than 15 transfer credits who are required to take one or more developmental courses.)
the purpose is to help the student develop criteria for appreciation of music.
students will develop a knowledge base of the naeyc code of ethical conduct through analyzing case studies designed to demonstrate competencies compatible with current research and practice, development of a professional portfolio to demonstrate competencies in the skills relating to the naeyc associate degree standards.
an emphasis will be placed on the multi-faceted approach to correction in our society, including the use of alternatives to incarceration.
crim 1113 ethical dilemmas 3 credits this course is designed to introduce criminal justice students into the world of ethics and its application to professionals in the criminal justice system.
emphasis is placed on  analysis of economic problems and their possible solutions.
emphasis will be placed on contemporary problems in the definition of law, the enforcement of law, strategies of policing, judicial system, sentencing strategies, and correctional practices.
students must demonstrate competency in all areas observed  and complete a minimum number of clock hours, determined by the institution, of  observation and work experience with children, birth to five.
psy 2013 introduction to psychology 3 credits a scientific study of  behavior and cognitive processes.
biol 1004 biological science 4 credits a study of the similarity and  diversity of life on earth.
the student will become familiar with the  theories supporting early childhood education and learn how to develop an  effective program designed uniquely for children (ages birth to eight).
geog 2603 world regional geography 3 credits a general survey of geographic regions of the world emphasizing culture, demography, and economic and social patterns.
must be able to submit speeches through youtube or digital video.
the instructor will help with placement for those students who are not currently employed at a child care facility.
students will gain an increased level of understanding of the integration of word processing, spreadsheet applications, databases, and presentation graphics.
students will design a developmentally appropriate playground and budget that complies with arkansas licensing regulations.
it will satisfy the 2 hours activity physical education requirement for the core curriculum.
it overviews the methods of achieving organizational changes and the evaluation of correctional units and probation systems.
students will also become  familiar with signs and symptoms of communicable illnesses that pertain to  children.
prerequisite: math 0003 with a grade of c or better.
prerequisite: math 1023 with grade of c or better.
envr 1004 introduction to environmental science 4 credits this is an interdisciplinary study of how things in nature are interconnected.
fundamentals of various approaches to managing: planning; decision making; strategic management; organizing and coordinating work; authority, delegation, and decentralization; organizational design; interpersonal skills; leadership; organizational effectiveness; control methods; and organizational change and development.
individual nutrients, their nature, functions, and their processing by the human body.
qm 2113 business statistics 3 credits statistical methods used in  studying business and economic data, averages, and dispersions, probability,  sampling, statistical inference, estimation, tests of hypotheses, index  numbers, linear regression, and correlation.
art 2503 fine arts-visual 3 credits an introduction to visual arts for  all students regardless of background or experience.
crim 1103 victimology 3 credits this course addresses the issue of how the criminal justice system deals with the victim of a violent crime.
ech 2113 health, first aid, and safety 3 credits students will become  proficient and certified in cpr and first aid.
three lecture hours per week.
biol 2024 ecology 4 credits this course will provide an understanding  of the natural world and the relationship of the organisms with one another  and the environment in which they live.
emphasis is placed on the study of film as a distinctive art form.
students will design a building blueprint and will create an operating budget and a one-time start up budget.
finally, section three addresses non-judicial areas in which behavioral sciences and the justice system interact.
credit will not be given if taken  after acct 2003 or higher.
emphasis is placed on analysis of economic problems and their possible solutions.
phsc 1304 earth science 4 credits the study of descriptive and  historical geology, earth systems and processes, astronomy, and  meteorology.
students will also learn how to use the  arkansas state voucher program.
prerequisite: cis 1503.
students will also learn how to use the arkansas state voucher program.
topics also include systems of equations and matrices.
prerequisite: eng 1013 or a 21 act or its equivalent in both english and reading.
emphasis will be on designing full  featured gui applications that exploit the key features of microsoft windows.
microsoft office 2010 required.
econ  2313 and econ 2323 may not be taken concurrently.
in addition certain societal issues will be addressed such as the general and specific deterrence and feminist theories.
send site  feedback
math 1023 college algebra 3 credits a detailed study of functions and their applications including linear, quadratic, polynomial, rational, radical, absolute value, exponential, and logarithmic functions.
crim 1143 forensic psychology 3 credits this course explores psychology and the criminal justice system.
students will also compare and contrast the pros and cons of integrating special needs children into the regular classroom.
this course provides students with the  opportunity to gain valuable insight into the field of early childhood  education.
soc 2213 principles of sociology 3 credits a survey of origin,  development, structure, and functioning of human relationships, and the factors  influencing group life.
an emphasis will be placed on the multi-faceted approach to correction  in our society, including the use of alternatives to incarceration.
essential macroeconomic and microeconomic problems, possible solutions and market implications will be examined.
observation of the student's work and  evaluation of students skills are conducted by instructors following the naeyc  associate standards.
the purpose of this course is to provide the necessary background to enter acct 2003.
purpose of the os, application of  essential commands, file and disk management, directory organization, creating  and modifying batch files, and system configurations will be studied.
crim 1023 introduction to criminal justice 3 credits this course is  intended to expose the student to the workings of criminal justice systems,  exploring the historical development, current operation, and future trends of  criminal justice.
students will also learn how to tailor  classroom curriculum to meet the individual needs of each child.
a successful login will show your name in the top right corner of the page.
math 1003 intermediate algebra 3 credits continued development of  fundamental concepts with additional topics including functions, rational  expressions, absolute value equations and inequalities, rational exponents,  radical expressions, quadratic equations, and complex numbers.
geog 2613 introduction to geography 3 credits emphasizes the physical and cultural patterns of the world.
psy 2533 life-span development 3 credits (formerly developmental psychology)
bsys 2563 business communications 3 credits survey of the principles of effective oral and written communication.
topics include price determination, production,  income distribution, market structures, and international economics.
math 2143 calculus with business applications 3 credits topics in  elementary differential and integral calculus, stressing applications in  business and economics.
my accounting lab required.
the course will also examine the contributions of oriental and hispanic minorities to the development of american culture.
students will gain "hands-on" experience using popular business application software including word processing, spreadsheets, databases, and presentation graphics.
the  philosophy of law enforcement is examined with the emphasis on the social  forces that creates social change and disturbance.
cis 2033 visual basic programming 3 credits an introduction to object  oriented high level programming language.
the course is divided into three sections of  study.
econ 1303 introduction to economics 3 credits introduction to  fundamental economic concepts including scarcity, choice, opportunity cost,  basic demand and supply and their application involving critical reasoning  skills in a market-orientated economic system of organization.
students should be familiar with the internet and the world wide  web.
credit will not be given if taken after acct 2003 or higher.
ech 2123 curriculum development in early childhood education 3 credits this course is based on the foundation of research in child development and focuses on planning and implementing enriching environments with appropriate interactions and activities for young children (ages 0-5 years) including those with special needs, to maximize physical, cognitive, communication, creative, language/literacy, and social/emotional growth and development.
this course is a prerequisite for most other biol and zool courses.
students will develop a knowledge base of the naeyc code of ethical conduct through analyzing case studies designed to demonstrate  competencies compatible with current research and practice, development of a  professional portfolio to demonstrate competencies in the skills relating to  the naeyc associate degree standards.
this course is designed to develop a working knowledge of management planning in criminal justice.
a | b | c | e | g | h | l | m | p | q | s | t | u acct 1003 introduction to accounting 3 credits this course teaches the fundamentals of accounting and is a survey for students with no previous accounting knowledge.
the  course also serves as a prerequisite for all other speech courses unless  exemption is granted by the division.
biol 1004 biological science 4 credits a study of the similarity and diversity of life on earth.
mgmt 2153 small business management 3 credits a course covering the organization and operation of the small business, with emphasis on personal qualification, small business techniques, capital requirements, forms of organization, location, and sources for assistance.
geog 2613 introduction to geography 3 credits emphasizes the physical  and cultural patterns of the world.
mgmt 2043 supervisory management 3 credits a course covering the responsibilities of first line supervisor; development of techniques and skills in employee communications, decision making, motivation, leadership, and training.
soc 2213 principles of sociology 3 credits a survey of origin, development, structure, and functioning of human relationships, and the factors influencing group life.
the course will also examine the contributions of oriental and  hispanic minorities to the development of american culture.
bsys 2583 spreadsheet applications for business 3 credits the study of electronic spreadsheet concepts.
hist 2893 american minorities 3 credits a survey course involving the study of several minority groups in american society from colonial times to the present.
prerequisite: "c" or better in math 0003 or acceptable act score and  high school algebra i. (credit earned not applicable toward an associate of  arts or an associate of science degree.)
phsc 1204 physical science 4 credits an introduction to basic concepts of physical science for the student who has completed no college course in chemistry or physics.
required mymathlab access code.
agec 1003 introduction to agricultural economics 3 credits basic  economic principles and their application to agriculture.
phsc 1304 earth science 4 credits the study of descriptive and historical geology, earth systems and processes, astronomy, and meteorology.
fundamentals of various  approaches to managing: planning; decision making; strategic management;  organizing and coordinating work; authority, delegation, and decentralization;  organizational design; interpersonal skills; leadership; organizational  effectiveness; control methods; and organizational change and development.
crim 2213 criminology 3 credits this basic course provides an examination of the nature and extent of crime and theories of crime causation, as well as the societal reaction of criminal behavior.
the first section addresses the basics of behavioral science and the law, as it relates to the various components of the criminal justice system.
hist 1013 world civilization to 1660 3 credits a survey of world  civilizations from pre-history to 1660.
students will become proficient in dealing with emergency situations.
ech 1213 perspectives in early childhood education 3 credits this course introduces students to current research in the field of early childhood education.
crim 1013 introduction to law enforcement 3 credits this course in an  introduction to the law enforcement segment of the criminal justice system,  with an examination of the history and development of law enforcement,  especially in the united states.
crim 1143 forensic psychology 3 credits this course explores psychology  and the criminal justice system.
students will gain an increased level of  understanding of the integration of word processing, spreadsheet applications,  databases, and presentation graphics.
students will also participate  in simulated job interviews and will demonstrate questioning techniques that  facilitate answers that provide insight into personalities and attitudes within  the statutes of the law.
prerequisite:  math 1023 with grade of c or better.
econ 2313 principles of macroeconomics 3 credits analysis of whole economic systems, particularly the u.s. economy.
some require book - some require mymathlab access code.
students will learn the complexities of these interrelationships and the effect of humans on the biosphere.
ech 1113 foundations of early childhood education 3 credits this course is designed to acquaint the student with the historical roles of families in their child's development.
the course  may be taken by the general population.
oral communications 3 credits a basic speech course in which an understanding of the fundamentals of communication theory and a proficiency in the use of oral communication skills are developed.
students will create activities; plan and practice developmentally appropriate experiences that would meet recognized standards (naeyc, nctm, etc.) for these areas.
the purpose is to help  the student to develop criteria for appreciation of painting, sculpture, and  architecture.
emphasis will be on designing full featured gui applications that exploit the key features of microsoft windows.
section two addresses specific questions the law poses to behavioral sciences  regarding such areas as criminal competencies.
bsys 2563 business communications 3 credits survey of the principles of  effective oral and written communication.
prerequisites: cis 1503 or consent of instructor.
ech 2303 math & science for early childhood 3 credits students will  become familiar with a variety of ways to introduce children, birth through  pre-kindergarten, including children with special needs to ideas and concepts
usually  required for nursing, psychology, and social work majors.
(this course does not fulfill the fine arts requirement in the core curriculum for the associate of arts degree.)
algebraic topics include real numbers, linear equations, linear inequalities, integral exponents, polynomials, factoring, and graphing linear equations.
prerequisite: acct 2003 with a grade of c or better.
students will also learn how to tailor classroom curriculum to meet the individual needs of each child.
it includes physical, cognitive, and psychosocial development.
psy 2533 human growth and development 3 credits a study of the transformation in human development from pre-birth to death.
eng 1013 freshman english ii 3 credits a continuation of eng 1003 with  the addition of research papers and literary genres.
chem 1003 introduction to chemistry 3 credits fundamentals of chemistry and a survey of topics for students with no previous training in chemistry.
students will also become familiar with child care software and how to run programs that will monitor student attendance, emergency information and billing.
lecture 3 hours, laboratory 2 hours per  week.
provides students with an appreciation of  how various artistic elements combine to produce theatrical presentations.
upon completion of the cpr and first aid portion of the course, students will participate in a simulated trauma where they will be required to prioritize and treat injuries until emergency medical personnel arrive.
prerequisites: cis 1503 or consent  of instructor.
examining such areas as societal changes over the years towards victims; children as victims versus adult victims; victim reparation and the change of victim rights with the advent of plea bargaining.
this course deals briefly with production, distribution, value, price, credit, land value, marketing, and related problems.
this course is designed to provide an understanding of the facts, methods, and significance of the physical sciences by concentrating on selected topics from physics, chemistry, earth science, and astronomy.
art 2503 fine arts-visual 3 credits an introduction to visual arts for all students regardless of background or experience.
the student will become familiar with the theories supporting early childhood education and learn how to develop an effective program designed uniquely for children (ages birth to eight).
the purpose of this course is to provide the  necessary background to enter acct 2003.
they will develop technology skills and research strategies using the internet.
cst 1124 microcomputer operating systems 4 credits instruction of the current microcomputer operating systems.
the united states to 1876 3 credits a survey of the development of social, political and economic institutions in the united states from the age of exploration and discovery to reconstruction.
finally, section three  addresses non-judicial areas in which behavioral sciences and the justice  system interact.
students will also be able to demonstrate proper fire and emergency procedures and will develop evacuation plans that meet arkansas state regulations.
this course is designed to develop  a working knowledge of management planning in criminal justice.
a study of the transformation in human development from  pre-birth to death.
the legal environment of business 3 credits introduction to the fundamental concepts of the american legal system, especially as it relates to business.
section two addresses specific questions the law poses to behavioral sciences regarding such areas as criminal competencies.
psy 2533 human growth and development 3 credits a study of the  transformation in human development from pre-birth to death.
primary emphasis  is on financial accounting principles applicable to measuring assets,  liabilities, and owners' equity.
math 2143 calculus with business applications 3 credits topics in elementary differential and integral calculus, stressing applications in business and economics.
bus 1013 introduction to business 3 credits a survey course to acquaint  beginning students with the major institutions and practices in the business  world, and to provide the elementary concepts of business.
acct 2003 principles of accounting i 3 credits the accounting cycle for merchandising and service-oriented business organizations.
crim 1113 ethical dilemmas 3 credits this course is designed to  introduce criminal justice students into the world of ethics and its  application to professionals in the criminal justice system.
econ 1303 introduction to economics 3 credits introduction to fundamental economic concepts including scarcity, choice, opportunity cost, basic demand and supply and their application involving critical reasoning skills in a market-orientated economic system of organization.
some are offered every semester, others are offered on a rotation.
students will also learn how to monitor children's normal  growth patterns and how to identify and seek treatment for abnormalities.
mktg 1013 introduction to business 3 credits a survey course to  acquaint beginning students with the major institutions and practices in  the business world, and to provide the elementary concepts of business.
cis 2013 web page design 3 credits this course provides instruction on the development of web pages using basic html and web page authoring software.
some are offered  every semester, others are offered on a rotation.
it overviews the methods of  achieving organizational changes and the evaluation of correctional units and  probation systems.
crim 1153 theories and practice of crime 3 credits this course provides  an overview in the current psychological and sociological issues concerning  crime causation.
prerequisite: eng 1013 and keyboarding ability.