the school directory »
what began as a trend among community colleges in the 1990s now has a  growing number of takers among high school students.
it's not that online schools provide 'easy' courses.
[return to main articles page]browse top online colleges
the reasons are varied - other interests and hobbies like athletics and music can be pursued; inability to attend physical classes; or quite simply, the desire to study at one's own pace and style.
according to the north american council for online learning,  enrollment (the total number of available seats and not students) has grown  twenty fold in the last seven years, and is likely to grow 30 percent annually!
what began as a trend among community colleges in the 1990s now has a growing number of takers among high school students.
and for good reasons.
they  predict that over the next two years, online enrollments will increase by 19  percent and blended course enrollment by 23 percent.
one million students from kindergarten to high school and as many more college and university students are living this dream of gaining a 'customized' education and you can too!
in washington state alone, the number of students in elementary, middle  and high school who are enrolled full-time in public online schools has nearly  quadrupled in the last three years and in the last four years, it has risen by  about 75 percent.
ever felt that you didn't want an education that worked at you like a cookie cutter?
at the same time, don't let questions of credibility hold you back: as long as the institution is accredited by a reputed agency, you can't go wrong!
though online schools are generally associated with bachelor's, master's,  diplomas and certificate programs, a large number of k-12 students are also  opting for cyber classes through emergingonline elementary schools, as well as  online middle and high schools.
thanks to online schools, your wishes are more likely to be realized than  you may have ever imagined.
to keep pace with this trend, many universities  are making an all out effort to ensure that online courses are on par with  traditional classroom instruction.
california has taken the lead with a senator even introducing a bill to  ensure that online schools are not deprived of state funding.
the future of online schools if experts are to be believed, online learning will "reinvent" high school in the united states.
it's not that online  schools provide 'easy' courses.
to keep pace with this trend, many universities are making an all out effort to ensure that online courses are on par with traditional classroom instruction.
the future of online schools if experts are to be  believed, online learning will "reinvent" high school in the united  states.
the reasons are varied - other interests and  hobbies like athletics and music can be pursued; inability to attend physical  classes; or quite simply, the desire to study at one's own pace and style.
also, while online schools are a great way to home school your kids, remember that the rules of the game are quite different, there will be a standard curriculum and there will be assignments and tests.
according to the north american council for online learning, enrollment (the total number of available seats and not students) has grown twenty fold in the last seven years, and is likely to grow 30 percent annually!
california has taken the lead with a senator even introducing a bill to ensure that online schools are not deprived of state funding.
almost 61 percent of students are likely to be from high school according to federal data.
peer interaction and social  skills are an important aspect at the formative stages and unless you have  other circles, perhaps church meetings, hobby clubs etc., where your kids can  interact with others, it's better to put cyber classes on hold or to opt for a  blended course.
but they do offer a great amount of flexibility that makes it a viable option for those juggling jobs, kids at home, sickness, aged parents and so on.
according to the u.s. department of education, the number of students  nationwide who're enrolled in online schools has jumped by 60 percent.
[return to main articles page] browse top online colleges b.s. in business/public sectorm.a. in education/curriculum and instruction  - readingb.s. in business/sustainable enterprise management master of social work pharmacy technician diplomamedical billing and coding - diplomamedical  billing and coding - associates bachelor's - business administration - financebachelor's - business  administration - sales and marketingbachelor's - network & communications  management mba@unc
though online schools are generally associated with bachelor's, master's, diplomas and certificate programs, a large number of k-12 students are also opting for cyber classes through emergingonline elementary schools, as well as online middle and high schools.
also  readonline education vs. onsite education to compare and contrast a distance  learning education and the standard on-campus learning programs.
the following article in the north county times also outlines the growth in the online schooling sector and it's exponential growth in the future.
what that essentially means is that there has been a growing acceptance  about this mode of education.
ever felt that you didn't want an education that  worked at you like a cookie cutter?
what that essentially means is that there has been a growing acceptance about this mode of education.
if you're thinking of enrolling younger students, you may have to think twice.
more than 60 percent of school districts having students enrolled in  online courses expect their online enrollments to grow exponentially.
thanks to online schools, your wishes are more likely to be realized than you may have ever imagined.
one million students from kindergarten to high  school and as many more college and university students are living this dream  of gaining a 'customized' education and you can too!
your uncomplicated guide to professional colleges and schools.
don't just opt for an online school because you think that it's the cool  thing to do: evaluate your own reasons.
the  following article in the north county times also outlines the growth in the  online schooling sector and it's exponential growth in the future.
today, nearly  half the states, about 24 in fact, offer public school classes online.
ever wondered if you could switch off,  switch on and rewind your instructor?
a survey published in 2007 by the sloan consortium found that online  enrollment across the country was growing faster than average student-growth  rates, with almost 3.5 million students taking at least one online course in  the fall of 2006.
only 2 percent of students in elementary schools opt for virtual schooling  and these are mostly students with special needs such as child actors, students  training for ballet or music, athletes, slow learners, advanced learners or  students from rural districts.
don't just opt for an online school because you think that it's the cool thing to do: evaluate your own reasons.
at the same time, don't let questions  of credibility hold you back: as long as the institution is accredited by a  reputed agency, you can't go wrong!
always felt that it would be a great idea if classes began and ended as and when you wanted them to?
among college students, nearly 20 percent were taking an online course .
peer interaction and social skills are an important aspect at the formative stages and unless you have other circles, perhaps church meetings, hobby clubs etc., where your kids can interact with others, it's better to put cyber classes on hold or to opt for a blended course.
also readonline education vs. onsite education to compare and contrast a distance learning education and the standard on-campus learning programs.
what the statistics say if you need to see the  numbers to really believe in the potential of online schools, check out these  stats!
but they do offer a great amount of flexibility  that makes it a viable option for those juggling jobs, kids at home, sickness,  aged parents and so on.
if you're thinking of enrolling  younger students, you may have to think twice.
articles  » online education » online school popularity why online schools are booming always felt that it would be a great idea if classes began and ended as and  when you wanted them to?
almost 61 percent of students are likely to be from high school according  to federal data.
ever wondered if you could switch off, switch on and rewind your instructor?
life as an online school student with an internet  connection, requisite software and the desire to study at your own pace,  virtual schools are all the rage.
also, while online schools are a great way to home school your kids,  remember that the rules of the game are quite different, there will be a  standard curriculum and there will be assignments and tests.
life as an online school student with an internet connection, requisite software and the desire to study at your own pace, virtual schools are all the rage.
today, nearly half the states, about 24 in fact, offer public school classes online.
only 2 percent of students in elementary schools opt for virtual schooling and these are mostly students with special needs such as child actors, students training for ballet or music, athletes, slow learners, advanced learners or students from rural districts.
what the statistics say if you need to see the numbers to really believe in the potential of online schools, check out these stats!