we are starting to see some  innovative internship models emerging, such as those at the university of  pittsburgh, mgh institute of health professions, the us army-baylor doctoral  program in physical therapy, and rocky mountain university, among others.
other than altruism, it is curious how academic programs have been  successful in affiliating with clinical practices at all.
fundamentally, the potential transformation of physical therapy clinical  education is dependent upon the ability of academic institutions and clinical  practices to align themselves in a symbiotic relationship that delivers mutual  benefit and value for all stakeholders.
we diligently measure student performance through  countless rigorous written and practical exams.
yet, in our typical peace gene like fashion, we oblige the “predatory” behaviors of academic programs who have duped us into believing that it is our professional duty to provide free clinical education for students while the academic program rakes in substantial tuition dollars during clinical affiliation semesters for which the academic program provides virtually no services!
for example, the  short duration of the average clinical affiliation combined with the  interns’ limited skill set mitigates their potential to become a  productive, value added member of the staff.
what strikes me as most odd then is why we don’t appear to be bothered by the lack of a clinical education curriculum that you can "touch and feel".
for example, can a single dce in the country tell me what content their students are learning on week 4 of their clinical education experience?
the current physical therapy clinical education system leans heavily on a  ‘barter arrangement’ completely dependent on the altruism of  clinical practices at the sheer mercy of the academic program.
yet, in our typical  peace gene like fashion, we oblige the “predatory” behaviors of  academic programs who have duped us into believing that it is our professional  duty to provide free clinical education for students while the academic program  rakes in substantial tuition dollars during clinical affiliation semesters for  which the academic program provides virtually no services!
as educators in entry-level academic programs, we  sit in many a faculty meeting debating the pedagogical pros and cons of adding  “abc” content, taking away “def” content, dedicating  more time to topic “x”, less time to topic “y”, etc.
in summary, we can no longer justify clinical education being relegated to  2nd class citizen status, and surely such a low view is inadequate for the  contemporary vision 2020 physical therapist.
unfortunately, the default strategy for clinical education hinges on a  “hope and prayer” strategy in which we send our students out into  widely disparate learning experiences with little to no connectivity between  clinical sites or even to the academic program.
fundamental reform of clinical education is critical for guiding the future of  physical therapist education, and the immediate possibilities for such reform  are real and tangible.
as always, it's a genuine privilege to be in the same room (whether face-to-face or virtually) with friends and colleagues who are members of the greatest profession on earth.
unfortunately, academic programs are in a negative incentive situation when it  comes to such reform because students currently pay tuition to their academic  institution while completing their clinical rotations, creating a veritable  cash cow for the academic program, yet the academic program provides few  services during this period.
in short, the indirect costs for clinical  practices to provide clinical education under the current model are steep and  bothersome.
finally, it’s an outrage that our graduates currently have debt that is completely out of proportion with their ability to recoup their investment.
as always, it's a genuine privilege to be in the same room (whether  face-to-face or virtually) with friends and colleagues who are members of the  greatest profession on earth.
unfortunately, the default strategy for clinical education hinges on a “hope and prayer” strategy in which we send our students out into widely disparate learning experiences with little to no connectivity between clinical sites or even to the academic program.
in short, the indirect costs for clinical practices to provide clinical education under the current model are steep and bothersome.
fundamentally, the potential transformation of physical therapy clinical education is dependent upon the ability of academic institutions and clinical practices to align themselves in a symbiotic relationship that delivers mutual benefit and value for all stakeholders.
migrating the preponderance of clinical education to the post professional,  post licensure setting would shorten the typical academic program by 1/3 (2  years rather than 3), trimming tuition accordingly.
therefore, the dce inefficiently spends countless hours managing  affiliation agreements with practices that take very few students in aggregate  over time.
interns  would train collaboratively in group settings rather than a far more narrow  learning experience that occurs when you only have 1 clinical faculty member.
we then sit back and  “hope and pray” that our students have a good experience.
as a result, our students tend to progress through a highly organized and systematic curricula during this phase, evidence by a detailed schedule and syllabus.
if you meet these 3 criteria, you will be inundated with requests  from dces around the country to affiliate with their program.
most will answer somewhere between 250-500 contracts, yet the  program is only able to assign 1 or 2 students each year per location in most  cases.
in  other words, we need to “crowd source” clinical education so that  the full “universe” of knowledge is available to them, not an  isolated slice.
john delivered via skype on saturday, jan 14 at the recent pps graham session in charleston, sc despite positive reforms in physical therapy education in recent years including the transition to a doctoral level education, clinical education has lagged.
by the way, if we are to achieve meaningful reform in clinical education, clinical faculty must have the same faculty status and privileges of full time core faculty, if not higher!
for example, can  a single dce in the country tell me what content their students are learning on  week 4 of their clinical education experience?
we should foster the development and evaluation of a standardized internship  curriculum that leverages online learning management systems and team-based  learning to deliver a consistent learning experience regardless of location.
one could even envision a matching process whereby students are  competitively matched to specific residency programs…the right student  to the right clinical education experience at the right time, the results of  which would further incentivize quality and standardization and create a  win/win/win proposition for students, educational programs, clinical practices,  and most importantly, the patients to whom we provide care.
for  example, it’s no mystery to the student as to what books they need to  buy, what time they need to be where for what class, and what content to review  prior to each class.
:)), think about this with me for a moment in practical terms.
the medical model of clinical education  has long proven useful in the training of residency-trained physicians.
in fact, i routinely advise students that when their dce calls them during their clinical affiliation to check in on how things are going, they should make the dce stay on the phone for at least 100 hours to even begin recouping the value of the investment of tuition dollars the students have poured into the program.
most will answer somewhere between 250-500 contracts, yet the program is only able to assign 1 or 2 students each year per location in most cases.
i unfortunately was unable to attend due to a last minute military deployment.
clinical resources are  inefficiently expended to help the interns learn the various systems,  documentation standards, billing procedures, etc., only to have the student  move on to their next clinical affiliation immediately after their useful  assimilation into the practice.
in  fact, many of our curricular “experts” even get passionately  defensive when making such arguments.
even the  most highly capable clinical faculty do not have the depth and breadth of  knowledge and experience necessary for a comprehensive clinical education  experience.
as a result, the clinical education sites are rarely connected to  each other in an organized way and frequently even remain at an arm's length  from the academic program, tethered only by the clinical affiliation agreement.
for example, it’s no mystery to the student as to what books they need to buy, what time they need to be where for what class, and what content to review prior to each class.
by the way, if we are to achieve meaningful reform in clinical  education, clinical faculty must have the same faculty status and privileges of  full time core faculty, if not higher!
finally, it’s an outrage that our graduates currently have debt that  is completely out of proportion with their ability to recoup their investment.
if you meet these 3 criteria, you will be inundated with requests from dces around the country to affiliate with their program.
before i offend those of you in the audience who are on faculty in an  academic program (ok, i probably already have!
therefore, the dce inefficiently spends countless hours managing affiliation agreements with practices that take very few students in aggregate over time.
disruptive innovation  is needed…and needed fast!
we diligently measure student performance through countless rigorous written and practical exams.
think about the lunacy of our current 1:1 model with me for just a moment.
similar to the medical model, students should attend physical therapy academic programs for didactic learning experiences, graduate once that component is finished, sit for licensure, and immediately begin a formal internship/residency lasting a minimum of 1 year.
i unfortunately was unable to attend  due to a last minute military deployment.
physical therapy  clinical education remains a highly fragmented and ill equipped system, marked  by an inefficient 1:1 student to instructor format consisting of several short  duration clinical affiliations, which leads to disjointed, highly variable, and  non-collaborative learning.
similar to the medical model, students should attend physical  therapy academic programs for didactic learning experiences, graduate once that  component is finished, sit for licensure, and immediately begin a formal  internship/residency lasting a minimum of 1 year.
posted at 07:01 pm in clinical practice, education | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341c6c5d53ef0168e597f64c970c listed below are links to weblogs that reference we can do better than a ‘hope and prayer’ strategy for clinical education in physical therapist academic programs:
interns would receive a  modest stipend in exchange for receiving a high quality standardized training  program delivered under the auspices of a credentialed graduate medical  education system that adheres to rigorous accreditation and quality standards.
second, you must have a heart rate and pulse.
you should see some of the heated debates that ensue when it comes to determining what content should be included in the didactic phase of physical therapy education!
nothing is left to chance.
even the most highly capable clinical faculty do not have the depth and breadth of knowledge and experience necessary for a comprehensive clinical education experience.
lest you doubt me, just ask any dce how many contracts he or she attempts to manage under the current system.
if we are going to be a meaningful contributor to health care reform and more importantly, play a prominent role in the reform process, we must hurriedly wake up from our delusions of grandeur, embrace the fact that we have a deep chasm in clinical education that must be closed, and wholeheartedly distance ourselves from the status quo.
as it currently stands, there is no compelling economic argument to pursue a  career as a physical therapist because of the inability to achieve a return on  investment that justifies the necessary debt burden of the average student.
we are starting to see some innovative internship models emerging, such as those at the university of pittsburgh, mgh institute of health professions, the us army-baylor doctoral program in physical therapy, and rocky mountain university, among others.
in summary, we can no longer justify clinical education being relegated to 2nd class citizen status, and surely such a low view is inadequate for the contemporary vision 2020 physical therapist.
as a result, our students tend to  progress through a highly organized and systematic curricula during this phase,  evidence by a detailed schedule and syllabus.
you don’t have to be an iso 5000 certified quality engineer to understand that quality assurance across this many educational experiences is impossible.
other than altruism, it is curious how academic programs have been successful in affiliating with clinical practices at all.
we then sit back and “hope and pray” that our students have a good experience.
third and final, you must not be in a coma.
migrating the preponderance of clinical education to the post professional, post licensure setting would shorten the typical academic program by 1/3 (2 years rather than 3), trimming tuition accordingly.
in fact, i routinely advise students that when  their dce calls them during their clinical affiliation to check in on how  things are going, they should make the dce stay on the phone for at least 100  hours to even begin recouping the value of the investment of tuition dollars  the students have poured into the program.
many thanks to steve anderson and the graham meeting participants (and as i understand it, was record attendance and a terrific meeting) for allowing me to be there virtually via skype to deliver my talk.
unfortunately, academic programs are in a negative incentive situation when it comes to such reform because students currently pay tuition to their academic institution while completing their clinical rotations, creating a veritable cash cow for the academic program, yet the academic program provides few services during this period.
fundamental reform of clinical education is critical for guiding the future of physical therapist education, and the immediate possibilities for such reform are real and tangible.
interns would train collaboratively in group settings rather than a far more narrow learning experience that occurs when you only have 1 clinical faculty member.
one could even envision a matching process whereby students are competitively matched to specific residency programs…the right student to the right clinical education experience at the right time, the results of which would further incentivize quality and standardization and create a win/win/win proposition for students, educational programs, clinical practices, and most importantly, the patients to whom we provide care.
third and final, you must not be  in a coma.
in fact, many of our curricular “experts” even get passionately defensive when making such arguments.
you should see some of the heated debates  that ensue when it comes to determining what content should be included in the  didactic phase of physical therapy education!
you don’t have to be an iso 5000 certified quality engineer to understand  that quality assurance across this many educational experiences is impossible.
the current physical therapy clinical education system leans heavily on a ‘barter arrangement’ completely dependent on the altruism of clinical practices at the sheer mercy of the academic program.
posted at 07:01 pm in clinical practice, education | permalink trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341c6c5d53ef0168e597f64c970c listed below are links to weblogs that reference we can do better than a  ‘hope and prayer’ strategy for clinical education in physical  therapist academic programs:
however, the rate at which the transformation is happening is far too slow.
physical therapy clinical education remains a highly fragmented and ill equipped system, marked by an inefficient 1:1 student to instructor format consisting of several short duration clinical affiliations, which leads to disjointed, highly variable, and non-collaborative learning.
in doing so, clinical education can be transformed into a collaborative and highly effective experience that will serve to elevate the role of the physical therapist in our health care system.
as it currently stands, there is no compelling economic argument to pursue a career as a physical therapist because of the inability to achieve a return on investment that justifies the necessary debt burden of the average student.
as a result, the clinical education sites are rarely connected to each other in an organized way and frequently even remain at an arm's length from the academic program, tethered only by the clinical affiliation agreement.
in doing so, clinical education can be transformed into  a collaborative and highly effective experience that will serve to elevate the  role of the physical therapist in our health care system.
john delivered via skype on saturday, jan 14 at the recent pps  graham session in charleston, sc despite positive reforms in  physical therapy education in recent years including the transition to a  doctoral level education, clinical education has lagged.
as educators in entry-level academic programs, we sit in many a faculty meeting debating the pedagogical pros and cons of adding “abc” content, taking away “def” content, dedicating more time to topic “x”, less time to topic “y”, etc.
if we are going to be a meaningful contributor to  health care reform and more importantly, play a prominent role in the reform  process, we must hurriedly wake up from our delusions of grandeur, embrace the  fact that we have a deep chasm in clinical education that must be closed, and  wholeheartedly distance ourselves from the status quo.
in other words, we need to “crowd source” clinical education so that the full “universe” of knowledge is available to them, not an isolated slice.
clinical resources are inefficiently expended to help the interns learn the various systems, documentation standards, billing procedures, etc., only to have the student move on to their next clinical affiliation immediately after their useful assimilation into the practice.
disruptive innovation is needed…and needed fast!
« the new year and resolutions | main | the pain game » january 15, 2012 we can do better than a ‘hope and prayer’ strategy for  clinical education in physical therapist academic programs below is the text from a talk i recently gave via skype at the pps graham  session this weekend in charleston, sc.
we should foster the development and evaluation of a standardized internship curriculum that leverages online learning management systems and team-based learning to deliver a consistent learning experience regardless of location.
we must disruptively innovate within clinical education to attract the best applicants into our profession, many of whom currently pursue careers in medicine instead.
:)), think about this with me for  a moment in practical terms.
complicating matters, there are only 3 prerequisites for qualifying as a clinical instructor in our current model.
lest you doubt  me, just ask any dce how many contracts he or she attempts to manage under the  current system.
« the new year and resolutions | main | the pain game » below is the text from a talk i recently gave via skype at the pps graham session this weekend in charleston, sc.
for example, the short duration of the average clinical affiliation combined with the interns’ limited skill set mitigates their potential to become a productive, value added member of the staff.
the medical model of clinical education has long proven useful in the training of residency-trained physicians.
what strikes me as most odd  then is why we don’t appear to be bothered by the lack of a clinical  education curriculum that you can "touch and feel".
think  about the lunacy of our current 1:1 model with me for just a moment.
first, you must have a pt license.
complicating matters, there are only 3 prerequisites for qualifying as a  clinical instructor in our current model.
we must disruptively innovate within clinical education to attract the best  applicants into our profession, many of whom currently pursue careers in  medicine instead.
interns would receive a modest stipend in exchange for receiving a high quality standardized training program delivered under the auspices of a credentialed graduate medical education system that adheres to rigorous accreditation and quality standards.
before i offend those of you in the audience who are on faculty in an academic program (ok, i probably already have!
many thanks to steve anderson and the  graham meeting participants (and as i understand it, was record attendance and  a terrific meeting) for allowing me to be there virtually via skype to deliver  my talk.