unfortunately, online formats do allow certain professors to hide behind the electronic cloak and politely excuse themselves from the equation, which greatly hurts the student.
on the other hand, all three groups of students thought unimportant the need to pay home phone bills incurred in online education, whereas bee
online literature library internet public library- references, magazines, newspapers, online texts.
as i added more aln modules in place of lectures, answers to these questions virtually all moved to "very heavy" and "very difficult."
"it certainly is not perfect," said mr. pepicello of some of the test scores.
at 4 am students can have lively interchanges on the site.
unfortunately, most would-be authors cling to the myth that if they just put in enough effort, people will automatically want to read what they write.
there is an odd tendency for rigorous thinking to cling to  particular examples or types of problems.
we can get a flavour of a new learning environment.
contrast that with our research processes.
if you are interested, i'll be happy to send it to you (or give you the url) when it is available.
too easy concerns about making aln learning too hard concerns about corporate influences on traditional missions concerns about library services concerns about academic standards and student ethics concerns about messaging overload concerns about faculty efficiency and burnout concerns about misleading and fraudulent web sites concerns about cyberpsychology concerns about computer services and network reliability concerns about faculty resistance to change concerns about effectiveness of learning technologies in large classes concerns about attrition and drop out rates from online courses other concerns a message from peter kenyon on november 18, 1999 performance evaluations and program assessments student evaluations and learning styles the noteworthy success of variable speed video at byu evaluation of aln experiments at the university of illinoisupdate on august 12, 2000 outcomes assessment of the multi-million dollar, multi-year experiments on campus at the university of illinois regarding the efficiency and effectiveness of asynchronous learning classesvis-a-vis traditional classes.
there are more dropouts than in actual on-campus courses - loss of commuinty/campus atmosphere - there are no current standards for program assessment, so it is difficult for students to know which courses will be worth the money they are spending - often, the high fees charged for some aln courses go to fund actual campus courses rather than the virtual courses being offered.
a drawback of the world wide web, however, is flow capacity (bandwidth) that can make transmissions very slow.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents components of sln online courses need not be aln.
professor arvan concludes that the proportion of actual eager beavers may be overstated and, in their cases, the need for labor intensive discourse is different but nevertheless significant: i'd be remiss if i didn't say something about aln and eager beavers before concluding.
finding these instances of plagiarism was much easier in their web documents due to the ability to search for suspected phrases in web search engines.
the moral of the story: students would be better served with much of the curriculum being online.
there are extensions such as object-oriented moo applications that, along with muds, have become serious educational experiments and applications.
>less than 1000 undergraduate students ___ >
aug-nov (home&ey): cpa review program the e&y master plan curriculum plan at notre dame is shown below: summer, 1999 negotiations/communication taxes and business strategy financial statement analysis (same as mba elective) fall, 1999 distance learning (synchronous) finance (investments, same as mba elective) spring, 2000 distance learning (syncrhronous) business risk analysis summer, 2000 advanced assurance services course special topics in financial reporting (securitization, derivatives, hedging,...)
"case studies" of the development and use of certain classes of · widely used drugs including analgesics, antidepressants, · anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics, aids and anti-cancer compounds > · 4.
dl seems better suited to mature learners with well-developed learning skills.
among other things nacra meets to critique each others’ cases, and critique they do.
this environment will include a convergence of sound, video, and data with synchronous and asynchronous communication.
the emphasis is on asynchronous learning rather than synchronized presentations.
my friend thomas calderon writes as follows: yesterday i visited ohio university to take a look at their "mba without boundaries" program.
geoghegan analyses social and diffusion barriers in particular.
by formal study, i mean using the same instructors, the same  materials, and essentially the same examinations.
there was no detailed curriculum information available on the e&y program, but it appeared to me that given the five things enumerated above, it would be impossible to accomplish such our own program for students not having more accounting prerequisites.
volume i: "a resource for campus leaders" reports the results of 231 interviews conducted with administrators, faculty, and students on online learning programs and initiatives.
one advantage to this program that both company enjoyed was that both companies didn't have to give up their employees to go back to a university campus for the 2 yr.
hi tom, i added a few comments below your comments.
chronicle  of higher education, june 11, 2008 (audio) ---   http://chronicle.com/media/audio/v54/i40/cyber_classroom/ ·         all course  materials (including textbooks) online; no additional textbooks to purchase ·         $1,600 fee for  the course and materials ·         woman instructor  with respectable academic credentials and professional experience in course  content ·         instructor had  good communications with students and between students ·         total of 14 quite  dedicated online students in course, most of whom were mature with full-time  day jobs ·         30% of grade from  team projects ·         many unassigned  online helper tutorials that were not fully utilized by goldie ·         goldie earned a  92 (a-) ·         she gave a  positive evaluation to the course and would gladly take other courses if she  had the time ·
also see concerns about faculty resistance to change bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents how to reduce messaging costs in aln courses the "cheap shot" way to reduce messaging costs is to virtually do away with messaging to course administrators by limiting messaging to only technical support in making the online or cd-rom course work on a given computer.
http://mitpress.mit.edu/books/chapters/future_of_learning.pdf
the establishment of such a university would cost less than the addition of a single classroom building on a physical college campus (approximately $15 million us).
each academic year will consist of three twelve-week sessions.
the partnership mentioned above is one of many in a rising trend of partnerships between corporations and universities for delivery of online and on-campus degree programs.
thus, a student may have learned to  estimate the answer to a math problem before beginning calculations as a way of  checking the accuracy of his answer, but in the chemistry lab, the same student  calculates the components of a compound without noticing that his estimates sum  to more than 100 percent.
another example is california virtual university.
``the kelley school of business takes pride in its ability to build curricula,'' said dan dalton, dean of the kelley school.
librarians will have to be proactive and learn about the new technologies and make the materials available to students all over the world.
in one class of 100 last month, freeman found that every student had private internet access.
after repeated exposure to either or both, the subject simply perceives the  deep structure as part of the problem description.
sometimes online students initially believe the myth that online courses are easier than onsite courses and, therefore, take less time.
the program will use only full-time tenure-track faculty recognized for their quality of teaching in other kelley school programs.
mr. zogby says polls detect signs of society's emerging resistance to big institutions, and its de-emphasis on things and places.
the online version is at http://www.thejournal.com/magazine/current/feat04.html also see concerns about faculty resistance to change bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2
kevin's message was less detailed, but it did give me my first insight into the curriculum.
to do so i provide as much literature as possible on cd-roms (many of which i record myself), my lan hard drive, and the university's web server.
the abstract reads as follows: this paper is an update of one that the author published in 1982.
in this course, the internet will be used for discussions among students (student listserv and webboard), faculty (faculty listserv and webboard) and experts, all from around the world.
for example, suppose you read these two sentences:  “after years of pressure from the film and television industry, the  president has filed a formal complaint with china over what u.s. firms say is  copyright infringement.
about  the only thing she hadn't done, it seemed, was to take a course from an online  university.
w. crawford and m. garnow state (as quoted by eli noam in educom review, march/april 1998, p. 18)
- "learning ceases to be about analysis, discussion, and examination, and becomes a product to be bought and sold, to be packaged, advertised, and marketed."
cost savings may not be as dramatic in aln.
estimates run as high as 95% of higher education faculty are not using these technologies.
having taught students in conventional classrooms for two decades, i experienced the computer-mediated mode of instruction as more time-consuming, at least initially, both from the standpoint of up-front course design and later, painstaking, labor intensive hours online - designing messages for the classroom forum, reading and downloading from the screen, posting new material, providing feedback, checking community bulletin boards, e-mailing student comments and grade reports, etc.
it also takes longer for faculty members and administrators to reach consensus in electronic group meetings.
barbara means, the study’s lead author and an educational psychologist at sri international, was quoted on the new york times’ website that “the study’s major significance lies in demonstrating that online learning today is not just better than nothing - it actually tends to be better than conventional instruction.”
she considered  the course to have a heavy workload august 11, 2009 reply from steve markoff  [smarkoff@kimstarr.org] bob: i've always believed that the role of the teacher is one of  facilitator.
the internet enhances choice and challenges regulation.
to provide an electronic forum which permits students to · interact with professionals who are involved with · the processes in #1 and #2 > · 4.
those creating computing progress increasingly see these  journals as unreadable, outdated and irrelevant.
while the authors disagree on the details, they share at least two broad conclusions: 1) boys are not girls, and 2)
but many more girls actually take the test.
if so, no doubt a whole new series of postsecondary learning opportunities will emerge from the commercial sector of our economy.
also see http://w3.scale.uiuc.edu/scale/ for a description of the program.
only 27 percent of respondents agreed that "online universities and colleges provide the same quality of education" as traditional institutions.
students in most cases will be existing or incoming employees of the firms.
" higher education, he said in the interview, needs to take notice and adapt.
there are now over 1,600 corporate colleges and universities, most of which are gearing up for online delivery and full accreditation of their courses and degree programs.
another less extreme extension is the mush which, like a mud, is an electronic space in which multiple persons (players, users, students) socialize, create "worlds," and interact in gaming or serious episodes.
thus, we have developed a unique program in which ernst & young will pay for you to obtain your master of science in accountancy at a premier institution while working at the firm.
on february 12, 1998 this search engine generated 1,494 documents on asynchronous learning topics at the university of illinois.experiments at the university of illinois are discussed athttp://w3.scale.uiuc.edu/scale/ click on http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/slide01.htm to see professor oakley's powerpoint slide on grade impacts in the course ece 270.
why are students able to think critically in one situation, but not in another?
in addition, the new economy requires a workforce capable of handling an exploding knowledge base.
their traditional lecture courses are often neat and tidy with problems assigned from the back of the textbook and sufficient material in the textbook or lectures to master the assigned materials.
chronicle of higher education, june 11, 2008 (audio) --- http://chronicle.com/media/audio/v54/i40/cyber_classroom/ · all course materials (including textbooks) online; no additional textbooks to purchase · $1,600 fee for the course and materials · woman instructor with respectable academic credentials and professional experience in course content · instructor had good communications with students and between students · total of 14 quite dedicated online students in course, most of whom were mature with full-time day jobs · 30% of grade from team projects ·
“contrary to popular myths, faculty at all ages and levels are participating.”
also, some of our traditional courses perhaps should no longer meet in regularly scheduled class periods even if these courses are only made available to resident students.
"when you add up all the niche products, it's a market unto itself," he says.
students must complete a number of individual projects and about 8 major group projects.
freeman is the only observer able to read the messages.
it also enables differentiation; products and services can be combined and used in different ways for more than one purpose to meet different needs.
mr. pepicello said he wished the seniors' scores were higher, particularly in math, but he considered all of the findings positive because they indicated that students improve when they attend.
in the nature versus nurture debate, gurian comes down squarely on the side of the former.
if knowledge of how to solve a problem never transferred to  problems with new surface structures, schooling would be inefficient or even  futile—but of course, such transfer does occur.
pollack's view of what makes boys the way they are is less rooted in biology than gurian's.
so,  why is thinking critically so hard?
what they found, ice said, was that “students are actually listening to the instructor and reading what they wrote so they have two sensory modes working at the same time,” which could actually improve cognition.
her problem is that she is just too busy to learn about computers.
this type of learning has been discovered to be self-directed learning.
we attribute this to the erroneous assumption that research  rigor is excellence, a myth contradicted by the scientific method itself.
some states east of the mississippi are now seeking to join wgu.
thirdly, the librarian's role "will shift to one of facilitator/instructor, rather than provider of information."
one problem that experimenters with aln are having is that budgets and material preparation time are inadequate for creating great aln content with creative navigation aids.
- try to attain face-to-face socialization benefits in virtual universities.
most aln courses assume that the email messages and chat line messages from a student are genuine without monitoring those messages with the same scrutiny that is given to course examinations.
professors need to organize lecture notes and other materials with more care.
but they do get their case published and enjoy each others’ company.
we should listen more to the ideas of thinkers such as schank (see, for example, a short article by schank in the july issue of communications of the acm).
in addition, i create new homework sets every semester because i know my old ones are out there in cyberspace.
real boys earned a stamp of approval from mary pipher, who writes in the foreword that "our culture is doing a bad job raising boys.
recently, motorola paging division has made a commitment to extend this sdl approach to all of its sites worldwide.
if knowledge of how to solve a problem never transferred to problems with new surface structures, schooling would be inefficient or even futile—but of course, such transfer does occur.
provide convenient anytime/anywhere/anyhow access to support continuous education.
- asynchronous cal can be extremely effective for learning technical material before coming to class.
research is undertaken by search for, and integration of, knowledge.
this was in the mid-1990s, and everyone was concerned about girls.
neither e-mail nor chat, the forum classroom environment at fielding calls for and inspires thoughtful, composed (after reading and reflection) asynchronous networked interactions, without sacrificing human warmth.
she also worries that all this worrying—much of it, she says, from middle-class parents—could have a negative effect on boys, marking them as victims when they're nothing of the sort.
is is comparable to their colleagues in off-line classrooms?
"it is where we are." in its report, phoenix shows the results from its 1,966 students who took the mapp test this year, compared with the national sample of more than 376,000 students from about 300 institutions.
this purchasing power will have a tremendous impact on who controls learning.
this shift in mindset will foster increased responsibility on the part of learners to take charge of their own learning and hence their careers.
thank you for this clarification.
moline, ill., oct. 8 /prnewswire/ -- deere & company, the world's leading manufacturer of agricultural equipment, has entered into a web-based academic partnership with indiana university's kelley school of business to provide a master of business administration degree program for deere's finance professionals, beginning in august 2002.
other instructor(s> involved (if any>: > >email address(es>: > >business phone number(s>: > >field(s> of interest: > >estimated number of students: >
the web address is http://www.biz.uiowa.edu/class/6e002/audio/index.html you can read more about web streaming athttp://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/245glosf.htm#web5 - wireless communications --- portable computers can now be turned into cellular telephones such that students can communicate with faculty and each other with the flick of an antenna on the side of the computer.
one example of this is atuniversity of maryland university college where students can "chat" with librarians online and ask any questions they might have.
there are ways to overcome every obstacle the negative article described, with perhaps time being the toughest one to handle.
they came up with a three year program that would train their students online.
i decided that these "in-between" calls and on-line sessions were essential if i was going to keep them on track during the month between in person classes.
drug discovery including computer-aided design, combinatorial · chemistry and other, earlier strategies > · 2.
the e&y program is also controversial in that e&y does not provide funding for this program for any of its employees at any colleges or universities other than notre dame and the university of virginia.
the online pedagogy tended to have no effect on d and f students --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#illinois listen to dan stone’s audio about the scale experiments --- http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/000cpe/00start.htm but keep in mind that in the scale experiments, the same instructor of a course was grading both the online and onsite sections of the same course.
send your recommendations to carolyn_kotlas@unc.edu for possible inclusion in this column.
young hans also fantasizes about having a "widdler," as the boy puts it, as large as his father's.
having said this, there are countless cases that emerge from cactus gulch colleges of this world.
they're concerned that such programs, in order to compete against all the stimuli vying for boys' attentions, have become more aggressively in-your-face, more fearlessly risk-taking, manlier than thou.
secondly, in the case of the casb, the students are all employed full time in chartered accountancy firms and are under heavy pressure to do well at all stages of the three year program.
students in the program are all full-time employees of pwc.
the amazing way children can organize to teach each other appendix 3: onsite versus online universities in the 21st century appendix 4: virtual university gazette appendix 5: public policy implications and the digital future appendix 7: michael zatrocky powerpoint file on trends and issues for the 21st century appendix 8: university of phoenix appendix 9: gender differences helpers for writers and users of cases from emory university study skills tip sheets & advice --- http://www.college.emory.edu/home/academic/learning/studyskillsconsultations/tips.html "asynchronous and synchronous e-learning: a study of asynchronous and synchronous e-learning methods discovered that each supports different purposes," by stefan hrastinski, educause quarterly, october-december 2008 --- http://connect.educause.edu/library/educause+quarterly/asynchronousandsynchronou/47683 click here to view working paper 265 on metacognition concerns in designs and evaluations of computer aided education and training: are we misleading ourselves about measures of success?
finding ways to decrease attrition in distance education classes and programs is critical both from an economical and quality viewpoint.
a summary of the article is provided by jensen and sandlin at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/245ch02.htm#advantages5.
when aln becomes more widely deployed in existing courses, it becomes much easier to expand the curriulum by "buying into" selected off-campus aln courses from other colleges and universities.
an even greater proportion of those polled said it was their perception that employers and academic professionals thought more highly of traditional institutions than online ones.
we are sure to see a huge increase in aln used in the business environment.
often students must spend a great deal of time building foundations to even study the material.
if the aln materials contained artificial intelligence that identified the type of learner, it might be possible to reduce messaging costs by automatically varying the navigation options to learning styles and aptitudes.
among those 18 to 24 years old, only 23 percent agreed.
for more information, contact: aplu, 1307 new york avenue, nw,  suite 400, washington, dc 20005-4722 usa; tel: 202-478-6040; fax: 202-478-6046; web:  http://www.aplu.org/ articles providing an overview and summary of the study: "strong faculty engagement in online learning aplu reports" a public voice:
the new tools for communication that have become part of the 21st century no doubt contribute to thinking.
the new book packaging boyhood: saving our sons from superheroes, slackers, and other media stereotypes offers an analysis of what boys soak in from tv shows, video games, toys, and other facets of boy-directed pop culture.
the system provides through a single url the student's access to course materials, discussion forums, virtual groups and chat, testing, grades, and electronic communication.
however, i predict that by year 2010 a significant proportion of required and elective courses will be globally networked by universities and business firms.
the chronicle's goldie blumenstyk has covered distance education for  more than a decade, and during that time she's written stories about the  economics of for-profit education, the ways that online institutions  market  themselves, and the demise of  the 50-percent rule.
in a chapter titled "feminine boys," he writes of counseling the parents of a boy who liked to wear bracelets and perform a princess dance.
but this spring she finally took the plunge, and now she has completed a class in government and nonprofit accounting through the university of phoenix.
early evidence indicates that students do as well or better in acynchronous courses that do not meet in classrooms.
the results of the students' performance were put through statistical analysis and the null hypothesis was rejected for the cd/film and cd/text groups.
the common access restriction is a password that in the case of online course materials must be purchased.
students demand more feedback; and the more feedback they receive, the more interaction they want.
when one is very familiar with a problem’s deep-structure, knowledge about how to solve it transfers well.
"we're redefining geography and space," he says—and a widening acceptance of online education is part of the trend.
are there any online resources?
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents components of aln jack wilson at rensselaer polytechnic institute has had a great deal of experience in an aln program at rennsselaer.
at a later point she writes the following: aln courses can be dehumanized to such an extent that students will no longer feel as if they belong to a learning community.
that has really changed with arrival of web-based video, instant messaging and collaboration tools.
by formal study, i mean using the same instructors, the same materials, and essentially the same examinations.
“faculty who get involved in online teaching have to be more reflective about their teaching,” wilson said.
we have been using a conferencing program called firstclass to have students interact with each other, me, and on-line undergraduate tas.
in particular, the final report from stanford university is negative about current technologies for aln courses and calls cost problems "problematic."
continued in article bob jensen's threads on education technology are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/0000start.htm bob jensen's threads on assessment are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/assess.htm bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents why all universities may be aln course "customers" before reading this section, you may want to take a brief look at the web of asynchronous learning networks.
it leads to an mba degree and does not compete with masters of accounting programs.
in research projects constituting over 50% of the course grade, they must seek out, sift, digest, and nurture a vast amount of learning material.
students generally voice complaints when workloads are unreasonable (they will not always complain when a course is too easy).
however, there is a fine line in aln between making alntoo easy versus making aln too hard.
these are extensions of dungeons and dragons that seduced "adolescents" into a network world of imaginary places.
technology is creating new thinking that is "at once creative and innovative, volatile and turbulent" and "nothing less than a shift in worldview."
in addition, nearly 64 percent of faculty said it takes 'somewhat more' or 'a lot more' effort to teach online compared to a face-to-face course.
the  online version of the syllabus article is not yet posted, but will eventually  be available athttp://www.syllabus.com/
real audio makes it possible to have radio broadcasts around the clock over the internet, and these broadcasts can come from any part of the world.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents aln vs self-directed learning (sdl) aln and self-directed learning (sdl) had different origins.
on-campus courses will be available for certifications across a wide variety of educational accomplishments.
this is the purported experience of the aln experiments in the college of commerce and business administration at the university of illinois under a relatively large grant from the sloan foundation.
until the evaluation culture is changed in peers who hold you on leash, try to do web publishing alongside your refereed journal publishing.
the students in the experiment were full time on campus students, such  that the confounding problems of having adult part-time students was not a  factor in the scale experiments of online, asynchronous learning.
whether or not the "labor" (faculty, graduate students, or hired guns) will be provided by the "vendor" (say mit) or the "customer" (say trinity university) is a matter of conjecture.
to wadsworth's list we might add some extensions of the above technologies.
plagiarism has always been and will always be a problem in education and research.
the attention given to group process online and the thoughtful nature of masters-level conversations establish an intimacy within the group, belying the myth of impersonality.
the course is sponsored by the american chemical society, division of chemical education's committee on computers in chemical education (ccce).
the electronic version, however, is easier to search and index.
the above financial reporting & assurance services curriculum appears to me to be an outstanding curriculum for former accounting majors.
the variations differ more in terms of underlying software codes than in purpose and application.
another essay of interest by him is an aln time management essay given at http://www.cba.uiuc.edu/~larvan/alnessays/aln5.html one of the most complete listing of asynchronous advantages and disadvantages can be found by using the search engine at the university of illinois home page athttp://www.uiuc.edu/
the "urge to message" phenomenon among students will come as no surprise to major corporations such as wal-mart, microsoft, and most other corporations that have very fine web sites but cannot afford the labor expenses of personally responding to email messages from customers and the public at large.
it sold more than 750,000 copies and has been published in 13 countries.
click here to go to the mallard home page of econ 300.
the institution that has become the largest private university in north america is releasing its first "annual academic report," which it will make available on its web site today.
also there are huge differences between being connected to arteries (e.g., t1 lines) versus capillaries (modems).
jerry trites in nova scotia forwarded the link below: "online learning boosts student performance," by don tapscott, grownup digital, august 20, 2009 --- http://www.grownupdigital.com/index.php/2009/08/online-learning-boosts-student-performance/ the u.s. department of education has just released a report comparing traditional face-to-face classroom instruction to learning supplemented or completely replaced by online learning.
as online learning spreads throughout higher education, so have calls for quality control and assessment.
in grown up digital, i describe this as “student-focused” learning as opposed to traditional “teacher-focused” broadcast techniques with the teacher in front of a large class.
freeman says: "students get completely immersed in the role playing.
- voice mail --- this can reach users and educators at times when they do not have access to computers.
the article is athttp://www.microsoft.com/education/hed/vision.htm
" -- accessibility to online student services.
faculty bring individual biases into peer evaluation, and at the moment web publishing is a new thing to most of them.
but a prominent pollster, john zogby, says in a book being released today that it won't be long before american society takes to distance education as warmly as it has embraced game-changing innovations like microbrewed beers, flexcars, and "the simple miracle of netflix."
the above trends are a mixed blessing.
the casb program is flexible, combining the  successful completion of a series of online modules with a three-year term of  professional experience.
it will be delivered through multiple technologies including the internet, broadband cable, and satellite.
instead of leading the way, faculty in traditional schools and colleges are behind corporate and military/goverment trainers in adapting to technologies and learning experimentation.
william j. pepicello, president of the 330,000-student university, said those and other findings shared in advance
"writing a publishable case: some guidelines," by james j. chrisman --- http://www.wacra.org/writing%20a%20publishable%20case%20-%20some%20guidelines.pdf from emory university study skills tip sheets & advice --- http://www.college.emory.edu/home/academic/learning/studyskillsconsultations/tips.html advice from students - essential tips for freshmen (and other students too) (pdf) - science and math tips for success (pdf) - humanities and social science tips for success (pdf)
in 2006, the national humanities alliance (nha) created a task force to assist in "exploring issues related to scholarly journal publishing in [u.s.] humanities and social science (hss) associations."
though i believe there can be substantial benefit from utilizing aln in a course primarily composed of eager beavers, that use should be substantially different from what i have outlined above, because the teaching objective is different.
in higher education, there is still too much debate about how we are delivering content: is it online education, face-to-face teaching, or hybrid instruction?
as competition for students becomes more intense, colleges and universities will experiment more and more with business strategies of the late 20th century.
i also log on aim when students set up a time they want to meet.
the cambridge handbook of thinking and reasoning ---  click
researchers looked at more than a thousand studies conducted between 1996 to 2008.
in my earlier concerns i thought that you were intending to make students eligible to sit for the cpa examination and would offer a more traditional masters of accounting program that had more accounting prerequisites and/or more accounting courses required in the program.
according to the book, boys are being taught they have to be tough and cool, athletic and stoic.
(3) both notre dame and uva have signed a letter of understanding with e&y.
the main difference is the lock-step calendar for the e&y master plan and possibly fewer choices due to the customized e&y calendar.
so says a comprehensive study released today by the association of public and land-grant universities (aplu) and the sloan national commission on online learning, which gathered survey responses from more than 10,700 faculty members and 231 interviews with administrators, professors, and students at aplu institutions.
the impact on higher education a learning infrastructure based on digital technology offers more than just education as usual on the internet.
"this ties into our social mission for our university," said mr. pepicello, in an interview at the company's headquarters here.
i create a summary of the week, using snippets of chat that made me laugh, cry, or go omg.
until a rigorous web refereeing process is established, those who must evaluate a web publisher must do more work.
a different kind of outcome for learners who are juggling work and family responsibilities, would be to be able to earn a degree or certification at home.
i created my own online text with links to spreadsheets, videos, and self-tests incorporated in the modules.
publication of the report, he added, was in line with other efforts by the university "to be part of the discussion on the outcomes of higher education."
students who are motivated but find they cannot keep up the pace, may be able to slow down and take longer to complete a degree, and not just drop out in frustration.
it is also useful, i think, not to think in terms of either-or but to think in terms of online/web courses/internet courses as points on a continuum.
bob jensen's threads on assessment --- also in this year's report: - strategies for teaching and doing research online - members of the u.s. military are taking online courses while serving in afghanistan - community colleges are using online technology to keep an eye on at-risk students and help them understand their own learning style - the push to determine what students learn online, not just how much time they spend in class - presidents' views on e-learning bob jensen's threads on asynchronous learning --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm bob jensen's threads on online course and degree programs --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/crossborder.htm online learning styles here are a few links of possible interest with regard to student evaluations and online learning styles.
the classes do not necessarily have to meet twice or three times a weeks as most do now, but rather as needed by the demands of students or by the judgement of the professor.
14, no. 8, august 3, 2009 http://www.uic.edu/htbin/cgiwrap/bin/ojs/index.php/fm/article/viewarticle/2609/2248 "while current computing practice abounds with innovations like online  auctions, blogs, wikis, twitter, social networks and online social games, few  if any genuinely new theories have taken root in the corresponding 'top'  academic journals.
some of the many types of muds and mudding are reviewed http://www.lysator.liu.se/mud/faq/faq1.html.
the experience of being a boy is exactly what miles groth wants to capture.
the report noted that only half of the faculty it surveyed reported receiving extra compensation.
part i: rigor, relevance and  practice" by brian whitworth and rob friedman first monday, vol.
computer networks offer the possibility of disintermediation -- that is, when the consumer can access services and information directly rather than going through an intermediary.
once again i remind you to visit the tools site at http://www.uwex.edu/disted/interactive.html bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents mud, moo, and mush extensions a somewhat bolder extension of aln pedagogy entails having students create their own avatars and learning worlds.
for more on the story, see a free article in today’s chronicle.
“i’ve tried other methods, too, where you send the students a document and then also send them a [separate] sound file, and the effect is not nearly as strong; as a matter of fact, it’s barely significant when you do that,” ice said.
the lives of many online college students are not easy.
the main goal in the case of eager beavers is to promote high-quality discourse, rather than to offer a channel for getting help and to provide an incentive for doing the work.
mr. zogby said that differing attitudes in two polls within a year show that "the gap was closing"—and he said that wasn't as surprising as it might seem.
that particular article is entitled "daring professors" and contains audio and email messages from other faculty members who were willing to take some chances with their careers.
bob jensen's threads on assessment are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/assess.htm
from there you can access some other interesting links.
the tools mentioned by at the by andrew wadsworth at http://talon.extramural.uiuc.edu/ws97/intro/tsld033.htm include the following: - print --- good aln courses may not be entirely paperless.
but there is still a huge workload in the internet-posted queries.
it was much more work to prepare and execute the course than i ever expected.
a central finding was that “universities must recognize this new way of learning and adapt or risk becoming obsolete.
there are many opportunities where aln may contribute to another outcome: lowering the cost of education, e.g., by naturally introducing new values for old measures such as student-faculty ratios.
still other courses are available from prominent consulting and accounting firms such as eds, andersen consulting, arthur d. little, price waterhouse, ernst & young, pricewaterhouse coopers, deloitte and touche, etc.
high attrition rates have a negative economic impact on universities.
it is anticipated that even if the q-set were administered to a larger number of students, similar viewpoints would still emerge.
the  reason was not likely to be that online sections were easier.
in defining the word 'teaching', i think many people overemphasize the last transition that i mentioned, thinking that the primary movement of information is from them(the teacher) to the students.
" "asynchronous and synchronous e-learning: a study of asynchronous and synchronous e-learning methods discovered that each supports different purposes," by stefan hrastinski, educause quarterly, october-december 2008 --- http://connect.educause.edu/library/educause+quarterly/asynchronousandsynchronou/47683 table of contents introduction why top universities will be aln course "vendors" why all universities may be aln course "customers" bridging the gaps explosion of corporate/university partnerships the controversial ernst&young and pricewaterhouse coopers free masters degree programs deere contracts with indiana university for online mba degrees in finance tools and innovations in aln technologies mud, moo, and mush extensions types of aln contracting the myth of lower faculty cost: network bridges may be cheap shots or very costly to deliver how to reduce messaging costs in aln courses components of aln (asynchronous learning networks)
email sending and receiving devices are now being (experimentally) installed in wrist watches.
it offers a set of extraordinary new tools: self-paced, multimedia modules that deliver leading pedagogy; in-depth outcome assessments; and online interaction with fellow students and teachers that facilitates continuous feedback and improvement.
the cpa exam consists of four sections.
people make the mistake of thinking it's a boy's world."
an example is provided in a motorola corporation plant as follows: in 1994, 633 associates undertook 853 self-study courses.
re: distance learning with traditional undergraduate students peter made one comment that i suspect reflects the sentiments of many 20th century educators- any technology that detracts from our ability to physically connect with our students is going to diminish our career satisfaction.
to provide a forum for discovery of and discussion of industry's · interaction with its regulatory, client and physical environment · (including such items as government inspections, user complaints and · hazardous waste handling responsibilities of participants: > · students will participate in collaborative learning assignments where · they can practice division of labor, teamwork, and individual · responsibility.
there could be many reasons for this, but, especially in light of the u.s.  department of education study, it seems that online learning has contributed  meaningfully to their becoming better teachers.
our offload courses are paid at the same rate whether they are online of ftf.
about the only thing she hadn't done, it seemed, was to take a course from an online university.
although it may not be available for long on the web, at the time of this writing thebusiness week article is available free at http://www.businessweek.com/1997/42/b3549015.htm
so even though students have been taught how to solve a particular type of word problem, when the teacher or textbook changes the scenario, students still struggle to apply the solution because they don’t recognize that the problems are mathematically the same.
at the technology core of the global learning infrastructure are fully interoperable modules and an enabling infrastructure which will: extend access to virtually anyone including old and young, part- and full-time.
it is tough to mix former accounting majors with non-accounting majors who have only had a five week readiness program.
professor wilson also argues that good aln courses will still have both instructor-led and student-led learning in addition to pre-recorded aln learning materials.
the following describes some of what the digital future holds in store for higher education: disaggregation unbundles the instructional process.
we cap sections at 35 students.
she  considered the course to have a heavy workload "u. of phoenix reports on its students' academic achievement, " by goldie blumenstyk,chronicle of higher education, june 5, 2008  ---   http://chronicle.com/daily/2008/06/3115n.htm?utm_source=at&utm_medium=en the 2006 national survey of student engagement, released november 13,  2006, for the first time offers a close look at distance education, offering  provocative new data suggesting that e-learners report higher levels of  engagement, satisfaction and academic challenge than their on-campus peers ---  http://nsse.iub.edu/nsse_2006_annual_report/index.cfm "the engaged e-learner," by elizabeth redden, inside higher ed , november 13, 2006 ---  http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2006/11/13/nsse september 4, 2009 message from carolyn kotlas [kotlas@email.unc.edu] report on online education study "more than one-third of public university faculty have taught an  online course while more than one-half have recommended an online course to  students . . . .
part i: rigor, relevance and practice" by brian whitworth and
the average sat of students in these uva classes is over 1300.
following the famous latin maxim “mens sana in corpore sano”, the bloggers also write posts on healthy eating—not only for the online students, but for their families, too.
for more discussion and references about corporate universities and partnerships between corporations and traditional universities, see http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#corporatepartnerships and http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#ernstandyoung .
this said to me that this program and its curriculum plan were "the best" vis-à-vis what students can get from other masters programs in accounting, including our program at trinity university.
> · instructors at local sites will guide "traditional" literature searches · as well as on-line data-gathering.
duke's pricey online b-school program is winning raves from students and rivals."
many proponents of aln still agree that the human component of education and university life is necessary.
"we take these students and we do give them a significant increase in skills."
they are more likely to express empathy and affection through an activity, like playing basketball together, than having a heart-to-heart talk.
the report is available in pdf via cc by-nc-nd.
the main issue is that web publishing is not refereed with the same rigor (as refereeing in leading journals) or, in most cases, is not refereed at all.
for example, projects entailing both design and implementation of relational datatbases entail learning how to make complicated software work.
the  study was "designed to illuminate how public institutions develop and  implement the key organizational strategies, processes, and procedures that  contribute to successful and robust online learning initiatives."
the program will be launched each year with a one- to two- week residential module on indiana university's bloomington campus.
good design will not eliminate messaging, but great designs might eliminate an enormous proportion of the messages.
“if these rates of participation among faculty are going to continue to grow, institutions will have do a better job acknowledging the additional time and effort on the part of the faculty member,” said jeff seaman, co-director of the babson survey research group and the study’s lead researcher.
goldie came away from  the course exhausted.
even if the university has chosen to release data that put it in the best light, as others often do, mr. callan said the report will be a significant piece of the national debate over what value an institution can add to a student.
in most instances they do so without intent to cause great harm.
issues are archived athttp://www.geteducated.com/vugaz.htm.
he predicts that in the coming decade, some universities will fail, especially those that have chased short-term economies at the expense of quality.
years ago, i encountered an assistant professor from a prestigious university who reported that the only way for faculty or students to really make contact (before email was invented) with one of the superstars on the faculty was through written memos even though that superstar was located two doors down the hall.
“the leadership of universities has been trying to understand exactly how [online education] fits into their strategic plans, and what this shows is that faculty are ahead of the institutions in these online goals.”
in fact, i maintain messages of selected "daring professor" who are willing to take chances in adverse environments.
however, if we frame the issue as the need for the production, maintenance, and delivery costs of an asynchronous course to be less than that of either a live or televised class, we can make some observations.
this paper reviews the existing literature to present the seven most commonly reported such problems of online group learning, as identified by both researchers and practitioners, and offers practical solutions to each, in the hope that educators may be encouraged to “take the risk”.
in the traditional classroom a professor can easily detect if a person is cheating on their test, but how can they monitor that if someone is taking a test by way of a computer?
also, online formats can be fertile ground for  professors who lack not only the desire to 'teach' but the ability and thus  become mere administrators versus teachers.
a statement about why the scale experiments were funded aln =
asynchronous computer networks have the potential to improve contact with faculty, perhaps making self-paced learning a realizable goal for some off- and on-campus students.
i viewed the curriculum for regular students not part of the e&y program at http://www.commerce.virginia.edu/ms_accounting/requirements.htm .
"that's a really difficult thing to validate more beyond anecdote."
these programs promise to be premier graduate experiences with customized and innovative curriculums.
do you recall the praise that i lavished on the ethics website of a carnegie-mellon university philosophy professor named robert cavalier in my march 22, 000 edition ofnew bookmarks?
i have been teaching my undergraduate course using asynchronous learning networks (aln) to enhance instruction.
- remember that it is usually more important to inspire students to want to learn than it is to have them learn technical content in any particular course.
please see your e&y campus recruiter for your school, or if unsure of your e&y recruiter, please contact one of the contacts listed below to see if you qualify.
these opinions can be used to aid educators in reaching their students and increasing the effectiveness of their online courses.
this morning i had none," freeman says.
we attribute this to the erroneous assumption that research rigor is excellence, a myth contradicted by the scientific method itself.
when asynchrounous courses are delivered off campus, library access becomes a major problem that is frequently ignored in the hype of aln promotion.
why and how they're different from girls, what's behind their trouble, and what if anything to do about it—all that depends on whom you read.
an example of this type of partnering is the at&t partnering withwestern governors university that was announced in two magazines that i track regularly.
the introduction this academic year of a test that could be administered to both campus-based and distance-education students—the measure of academic proficiency and progress exam by the educational testing service—also made this kind of reporting possible, he said.
thus, a student may have learned to estimate the answer to a math problem before beginning calculations as a way of checking the accuracy of his answer, but in the chemistry lab, the same student calculates the components of a compound without noticing that his estimates sum to more than 100 percent.
the prestigious executive education network (exen) uses name recognition universities to deliver a wide array of courses, including the following courses listed athttp://www.exen.com/evaluations.html: carnegie-mellon university 604 manufacturing excellence center for creative leadership 617 creative leadership 618 women as leadership 619 assessing leadership harvard business school publishing 614 managing in the marketspace pennsylvania state university 609 human resource management program 620 program for strategic leadership southern methodist university 606 mid-management program 625 first line management program university of massachusetts at amherst 611 how to make successful presentations university of north carolina at chapel hill 605 leadership into the 21st century 615 international business leadership university of southern california 608 leading through change 616
bill wynne, mapp test product specialist, said that without knowing more about the makeup of the comparative samples and other information, he could not characterize the statistical significance of the gains the university was reporting, except that they were at least as good as those reported by the national cross section.
vendors having solid gold name recognition for quality will probably have a competitive advantage in distributing aln courses.
the unexpected huge cost arises from labor intensity of dealing with increased messaging of students in networked courses and the varying aln styles needed for differing types of students.
every professional at ernst & young is dedicated to growth and speed to market, speed to reacting to new opportunities, and the speed to stay ahead of the competition.
delivery will not be in the form of the dying synchronous distance education classes transmitted to remote sites by television.
among the study's findings was that "a shift to an entirely new  funding model in the pure form of open access (author/producer pays) in which  the costs of publishing research articles in journals are paid for by authors  or a funding agency, and readers have access free online, is not currently a  sustainable option for any of this group of journals based on the costs  provided."
i like to force students to struggle on their own, because i think this prepares them for life after graduation.
so they look down at boys and say, 'they are small men, so they must be on the way to success,'" says pollack.
funding already received by cvu, including $250,000 from the alfred p. sloan foundation and $375,000 from corporate sponsorships, has already been spent, in part on developing the web site.
"going for distance" inside higher ed, august 31, 2009 http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2009/08/31/survey "professors embrace online courses despite qualms about quality" the chronicle of higher education, august 31, 2009 http://chronicle.com/article/professors-embrace-online/48235/ ......................................................................
my suggestion was met with extreme skepticism by faculty at the present time.
given those two "assumptions," most (if not all) educators must learn how to develop an appropriate classroom community in cyberspace.
" that, says mr. zogby, is why he writes about online universities in a chapter—"dematerializing the paradigm"—that discusses the rise of car-sharing companies like flexcar (now merged with zipcar), the emergence of internet blogs as a source of news and information, and the popularity of microbrewed beer.
we attract multi-talented, motivated individuals who seek to be on the cutting edge of technology and knowledge.
now i realize that you are not constrained by this requirement.
another way to reduce messaging costs is to invest more heavily in developing "intelligent" aln materials versus "one size fits all" materials.
i believe this intimacy results from a sense of shared control and esponsibility, commitment to collaboration and dialogue, and increased willingness to take risks in communications with others nline.
interactive multimedia and other technologies will change how we think about providers and whom we regard as providers.
it is being developed in phases, but will ultimately cross all institutional, state, and national borders.
the problem is exacerbated by computing technologies due to the ease of selecting all or part of a document and clicking on (edit, copy) and (edit, paste).
these are the kinds of questions asked by anxious parents and, increasingly, academic researchers.
if you have audio on your computer, you can listen to mike kearl discuss what makes his "tail wag."
however, if high quality pedagogy is to be maintained,  there are some significant costs that are being discovered in early experiences  with asynchronous networked learning (aln).
(adobe provided 60 copies of acrobat pro for the study but no additional funding or support.)
to the extent that i am making discovery less difficult and more predictable, i might in fact be improving students' short term performance at the expense of long-term memory and cognition.
most certainly we do not put up a web counter and brag about the number of hits --- playboy probably gets more hits per day than all professors combined.
[smarkoff@kimstarr.org] bob: i've always believed that the role of the teacher is one of facilitator.
component technologies used by gemba at present are as follows: voice over network synchronous discussions application-sharing software cd-rom multimedia course ware electronic bulletin boards streaming audio synchronous group discussion software world wide web browser internet based search engines, including dialog, dow jones & proquest another leading edge program is the ohio university online mba without boundries program athttp://sirius.cba.ohiou.edu/www/intranet/#mbawb .
and to repeat what i said in the book, this does not mean a diminished role for teachers.
the john deere mba program is a customized adaptation of the kelley direct online mba program, which is the first fully online mba offered among nationally ranked top-20 business schools.
web: http://www.aplu.org/ articles providing an overview and summary of the study: "strong faculty engagement in online learning aplu reports" a public voice:
ron tidd bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents student evaluations and learning styles
robert s. sullivan, august 20, 1997 plenary session annual meeting of the american accounting association bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about impersonality and becoming irrevocablyorwellian one of my students, elizabeth eudy, coined the phrase "irrevocably orwellian."
the american federation of teachers report on guidelines for good practice in distance education acknowledges that it takes “anywhere from 66 to 500 percent longer” to prepare an online course than a face-to-face one, and “additional compensation should be provided to faculty to meet the extensive time commitments of distance education.”
says brown: "what really got us was the pumping up of the volume."
jesse h. jones distinguished professor of business administration trinity university, san antonio, tx 78212-7200 voice: 210-736-7347 fax: 210-736-8134 -----original message----- from: thomas frecka [smtp:thomas.j.frecka.1@nd.edu] sent: monday, february 15, 1999 9:30 am to: rjensen@trinity.edu subject: notre dame/e&y m.s. in accountancy program bob, just read the stuff about the program on your web site.
it appears that graduates from your m.s. in accounting program will not be able to sit for the cpa examination unless they take more accounting courses other than accounting courses you require in the program and as prerequisites for the program.
“cause and effect:  instrumental variable help to isolate  causal relationships, but they can be taken too far,”the economist , august 15-21, 20098 page 68.
reply from bob jensen hi ______
it seems very easy for someone to cheat in an asynchronous learning environment.
networked learning, contrastingly, is an “open source” culture that seeks to share openly and freely in both creating and distributing knowledge and products.”
students need social interaction as vital component sof maturation and professional development.
since the paper was produced, ice added, additional research has confirmed that the findings are generalizable over many different contexts, such as types of learners and types of institutions.
to provide an opportunity for students to investigate · frequently used processes for discovery and manufacture of · pharmaceuticals used as drugs for man and other animals > · 2.
for more on this, skip to the section entitledfostering deeper learning: risks of teaching more than you know.
even though it came out a decade ago, pollack says he still receives e-mail every week from readers.
those creating computing progress increasingly see these journals as unreadable, outdated and irrelevant.
for example, a series of national seminars were conducted by the international quality & productivity center on self-directed learning during the past three years.
the nacra home page is at http://www.nacra.net/nacra/ most really active faculty in nacra have made a career choice to concentrate writing efforts on cases.
the authors experience inspires a healthy skepticism in this regard.
on their own, each of these factors is significant; collectively they challenge fundamental higher education strategies and practices as we approach the 21st century.
distance learning technologies, such as the internet, and to a lesser extent, cable and satellite-based systems, enables learners to access education whenever and wherever they want.
to buy the full, data-rich 50-page report, see the links at the end of this executive summary.
see http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/#bigones
but it's not statistics that have persuaded parents and educators that boys are in desperate straits, according to sara mead, a senior research fellow with the new america foundation, a public-policy institute.
however, a large majority of faculty cited student needs  as a primary motivator for teaching online, most commonly citing 'meet student  needs for flexible access' or the 'best way to reach particular students' as  the reason they choose to teach online courses."
- email --- email and the internet comprise the core technologies of aln communications.
the program is online in an asynchronous mode.
topics may include but not necessarily be limited to: > · 1.
one of my undergraduate students, paul meekey, notes the rise of partnerships between universities and corporations where the universities participate in educating and training employees of companies.
it is tempting to contemplate adding courses by contracting for networked courses developed by and possibly distributed from other universities.
>fall 1998 calendar: > · semesters or quarters: > · beginning date: > · fall break (other than thanksgiving, if any>: > · last regular class day before exams: > >indicate the type and approximate size of your institution.
that was edward leamer’s uncharitable description of  his profession in 1983.
another student named katie lawrence lists drawbacks of aln as follows at http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~alawrenc/aln.html -
if done well, distance education tends to burn out instructors and  takes an extraordinary amount of time relative to teaching onsite.
students have a penchant for catching us in our offices at a bad time, and they become embarrassed that it is a bad time.
the fbi, for instance, probably has little clout in reykjavik bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about cyberpsychology
emerging digital technology, especially the internet, is ideally suited to meet the new learning needs.
she considered the course to have a heavy workload "u. of phoenix reports on its students' academic achievement, " by goldie blumenstyk,chronicle of higher education, june 5, 2008 --- http://chronicle.com/daily/2008/06/3115n.htm?utm_source=at&utm_medium=en the 2006 national survey of student engagement, released november 13, 2006, for the first time offers a close look at distance education, offering provocative new data suggesting that e-learners report higher levels of engagement, satisfaction and academic challenge than their on-campus peers --- http://nsse.iub.edu/nsse_2006_annual_report/index.cfm "the engaged e-learner," by elizabeth redden, inside higher ed , november 13, 2006 --- http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2006/11/13/nsse september 4, 2009 message from carolyn kotlas [kotlas@email.unc.edu] report on online education study "more than one-third of public university faculty have taught an online course while more than one-half have recommended an online course to students . . . .
it also involves many fewer students than the new e&y program at notre dame and the university of virginia.
in addition, aln in a college setting is rarely totally asynchronous.
online experiences offer educational opportunities to millions of learners previously constrained by time, location, and other factors.
firstly, students admitted to these programs were top undergraduate students majoring in very difficult concentrations.
second, these sites are not under any single legal jurisdiction.
the fda approval and fda regulated testing process process and content related goals of the pharmaceuticals course > · 1.
now, without the internet, the requests would be totally unmanageable.
in some cases you may have to contact to presenters to get copies of their papers.
significant statistical difference was demonstrated in favor of interactive multimedia.
the difference was more marked in mathematics, although the university's freshmen and seniors' scores were both notably lower than those of the whole test-taking pool.
it’s here where the most prestigious universities with powerful alumni (e.g., harvard, wharton, stanford, etc. have a valuable edge).
i have discussed web publishing with administrators is many universities.
so does ken corbett, whose new book, boyhoods: rethinking masculinities, steers clear of generalizations and doesn't try to elucidate the ideal boyhood (thus the plural "masculinities").
the firm of arthur d. little is one of the most prestigious and well known consulting firms in the world.
to that end, universities should be better able to demonstrate -- quantitatively and qualitatively -- the employability and success of their students and graduates.
however, most respected universities are not considering the cheapest form of distributed education.
but  this spring she finally took the plunge, and now she has completed a class in  government and nonprofit accounting through the university of phoenix.
if anything, the report says, boys are doing better than ever: "the past few decades have seen remarkable gains for girls and boys in education, and no evidence indicates a crisis for boys in particular."
this difference was significant z = 3.00, p  http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen jesse h. jones distinguished professor of business administration trinity.
source: pr newswire country: united states date: 09 june 2005 contributor: andrew priest web: http://www.newswise.com/ when it comes to the certified public accountant (cpa) exam, baylor university's accounting graduates out-scored their counterparts at other texas schools, according to data released by the texas state board of public accountancy detailing the results of the january-march 2005 exam.
there are added costs that are noted in some of the grant reports filed with the sloan foundation.
do you want to position yourself ahead of the rest?
"where are they?": why technology education for teachers can be so difficult" by claudia rebaza http://www.microsoft.com/education/hed/vision.htm
asynchronous computer networks have the potential toimprove contact with faculty, perhaps making self-paced learning a realizable goal for some off- and on-campus students.
among the interesting passages from jeanne meister is the following passage (which she elaborates upon in the book):
this checklist is available at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/ideasmm.htm.
this does not necessarily mean that institutions granting diplomas and degrees will crumble and fall as households become linked to the web around the world.
will our kids open up more to anonymous strangers on the web than they will face-to-face with us.
analysts then screened these studies to find those that (a) contrasted an online to a face-to-face condition, (b) measured student learning outcomes, (c) used a rigorous research design, and (d) provided adequate information to calculate an effect size.
if you live in western canada, you obtain your ca designation by enrolling in the ca school of business.
he has written two more books about boys, including the purpose of boys, published this year, which argues that boys are hard-wired to desire a sense of mission, and that parents and teachers need to understand "boy biology" if they want to help young men succeed.
bob jensen's threads on asynchronous learning are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm bob jensen's threads on assessment --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/assess.htm barbara brown wrote the following: there are many myths and tacit assumptions about computer-mediated learning that can be explored in the fielding context.
the largest growth opportunities in learning and education lie in networked courses and programs.
http://www.syllabus.com/ probably more important than the tools are the clever ways in aln for using these tools and the possibility for abusing the tools.
it is a type of thought that even 3-year-olds can engage in—and even trained scientists can fail in.”
at this point, however, my comments are restricted to the above notre dame curriculum.
although many of us that teach in universities having some form of masters programs in accounting try to some extent to avoid having the cpa examination dictate our curricula, we generally do make it possible for our graduates to meet the minimum requirements to sit for the cpa examination in our own states and many other states.
the flip side of the coin is that the universities may sacrifice some of their independence in setting curricula and course contents since corporations paying for the education and training will dictate such matters to a large degree.
students who rarely take the trouble to visit faculty during office hours will send email and chat room communications.
the program is offered on the web using lotus notes and domino.
but while this debate is far from settled, the field has expanded to include how marketers target boys, the nature of boys' friendships, and a host of deeper, more philosophical issues, all of which can be boiled down, more or less, to a single question: just what are boys, anyway?
as one administrator put it: "in an online environment, words matter....
each of the  eight collaborating associations selected a representative journal for detailed  review.
in other instances, the price may be very high (e.g., where the vendor both develops and administers the aln course).
secondly, in the case of the casb, the students are all  employed full time in chartered accountancy firms and are under heavy pressure  to do well at all stages of the three year program.
"going for distance," by steve kolowich, inside higher ed , august 31, 2009 --- http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2009/08/31/survey online education is no longer a peripheral phenomenon at public universities, but many academic administrators are still treating it that way.
amy uconn appendix 9: gender differences
perhaps my materials are becoming better over time, so there is less confusion.
- you can avoid teaching toward obsolescence.
i recently listened to an address by robert s. sullivan, directory of the ic 2 institute, university of texas at austin.
students must research how their character would react, and type responses to the central on-line site.
recently, we examined the successes of walden graduates who are teachers in  the tacoma, wash., public school system, and found that students in walden  teachers’ classes tested with higher literacy rates than did students  taught by teachers who earned their master’s from other universities.
in addition they do not have the hang-ups often suffered by people in face-to-face arguments, such as deferring to those of the opposite sex or those perceived to be higher in status.
moreover, absent face-to-face contact and ordinary non-verbal clues, even very mature students on the internet demand more frequent interaction and reassurance in dialogue with their professors, an observation confirmed in student course evaluations.
copyright restrictions deliberately protect vast bodies of new and older literature from being digitized.
my introduction to ethics class was divided into three groups: text, film, and cd-rom.
in fact, our program won an award for best distance learning in higher education last year.
an interesting paper by william h. geoghegan at ibm academic consulting is entitled "what ever happened to instructional technology?" discusses some of the issues as to why the faculty are not yet adapting to education technologies.
the dispute is, in part, a dispute over data.
there is an important debate going on that focuses on the issue of whether the "university concept" might be undermined.
if you have a file of correspondence from people that your peers know and respect, chances are that your peers will take notice.
the interpersonal and social dynamics of a campus may be put at risk with distributed learning.
we may repeat daily greetings with colleagues in the hallways who we rarely communicate with in depth.
and now i am going back to my vacation.
on-line questions from faculty will sometimes require critical · thinking about industrial procedures in terms of a personal values · framework > · it is the responsibility of each participating institution to register · students and to provide college credit for the course.
after a face-to-face or telephone visit, there are almost always things that i belatedly think that i should have said or not said.
so, why is thinking critically so hard?
today there is still a "cultural lag" between the public's desire for flexible ways to take college courses and what the most-established players offer, mr. zogby said in an interview withthe chronicle on monday.
this represented over 3,000 hours of sdl training in just four months.
the development of ever more effective electronic modes of delivering education at a distance and the explosive growth of networks will continue to erode the geographic hegemony of higher education and continue to challenge current state regulatory mechanisms.
eventually, all universities may become "customers" for aln courses developed at other universities.
the book is reviewed int.h.e. journal, october 1998, pp.
current gaps will be more visible as online education opportunities become more popular due to a wide array of specialty courses not presently found in most traditional curricula.
the web site is at http://www.ey.com/careers/masters/default.asp notre dame's web site of interest is at http://www.nd.edu/~acctdept/careers.htm#2
most professors said they are motivated by their students’ need for flexible access to course materials, and a belief that the web allows them to reach certain types of student more effectively.
those books were best sellers and continue to attract readers and spirited debate.
the course has one instructor from each of the campuses.
freeman felt an obligation to make learning better for students who are struggling to hold down a job or cope with english, pay fees, mind children and resist fatigue at night.
the title of the course will be "pharmaceuticals, their discovery, regulation and manufacture."
"perishing without publishing" by rob weir inside higher ed, august 12, 2009 http://www.insidehighered.com/advice/instant_mentor/weir11 "as one who has served (and is serving) as an associate editor for actual paper journals, let me share some bad practice observations that could sandbag your career -- and this advice almost all applies to any online peer-reviewed journal too.
aln appears to be more like the old days where great teachers spent a lot of time with students outside of class.
in most cases, large group lectures are poorly presented, inadequately planned and almost completely lacking in challenges to the students.
the web address is http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/ideasmes.htm some email correspondence from a faculty member at trinity university is provided below: dear bob, thanks for sending along your web assignment and its rationale.
older technologies include teleconferencing and video conferencing.
freud (typically) reads the kid's issues as primarily sexual, and his desire to be more like his father as oedipal.
in general, comparisons of onsite versus online test and grade performance will tend to show "no differences" among good students, because good students learn the material under varying circumstances.
paul's paper can be found athttp://www.resnet.trinity.edu/users/pmeekey/frame2.htm wherein he states the following: employers are always trying to find ways to cut costs and now with the introduction of aln, they should be able to do so.
field(s> of interest: > >
and while it's a fact that boys and girls are both more likely to attend college than they were a generation ago, girls now make up well over half of the student body, and a projection by the department of education indicates that the gap will widen considerably over the next decade.
even universities that sell an aln course in one discipline may contract to purchase an aln course in another discipline.
the bottom line is that it is would not be reasonable for all five graduate courses each semester to take as much time as my courses.
in return, the student is indentured for three years and must repay the education costs if he or she should voluntarily leave e&y before the three year commitment is satisfied.
"the best part is that the students are not learning just what i tell them, but learning to think and make choices based on good information."
the explosion of corporate universities and corporate partnerships with traditional universities offers many new opportunities and challenges.
she  shares tales from the cy ber-classroom -- and her final grade -- in a podcast  with paul fain, achronicle reporter.
increasingly, we are experiencing the permeation of new technologies and network use throughout society.
thought i might set the record straight on a few points: comment from bob jensen: it is controversial to the extent that some states require 21 to 24 credits of content that is traditionally covered at the undergraduate level.
not coincidentally, one of the ten principles for redesigning learning institutions was open source education: “traditional learning environments convey knowledge via overwhelmingly copyright-protected publications.
for example, monitoring students on chat lines becomes expensive and intrusive.
another question reads: "how difficult did you find this course?"
old ways included loan programs and mailing books and other materials.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about library services the internet has become the world's library.
my point here is to avoid associating "closeness" with "face-to-face."
for more information, contact jeo, 500 university drive, dothan, alabama 36303 usa; tel: 334-983-6556, ext.
b.m. brown "digital classrooms: some myths about developing new educational programs using the internet," t.h.e. journal, december 98, pp.
he is preparing a larger follow-up study with at least six different institutions around the world.
at this point in time, i must assume that the uva curriculum for the e&y master plan will be somewhat similar to the notre dame curriculum.
one problem with emerging speech recognition technologies is that spoken words (e.g., in a lecture or a session at a conference) can be recorded and digitized automatically such that text that has never appeared in print is created by speech recognition software.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about computer services and network reliability this morning i went to one of our student labs to check to see if one of my new toolbooks was being transported properly on the internet.
anything  you hear or read is automatically interpreted in light of what you already know  about similar subjects.
- accounting educators can react to appeals of the accounting education change commission.
the accelerating pace of networking for education, entertainment, research, therapy, and commerce is having profound psychological impacts on society.
richard h. lytle, dean ofdrexel's college of information and technology, says that the he is really excited that both companies are not only using his program but applying it to software application within their own applications of everyday work.
producing  good aln materials entails significant training of faculty and reconsideration  of reward structures for learning materials development of college faculty.
students are bored to tears by them.
the online version is at http://www.thejournal.com/magazine/current/feat04.html bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about making education and training too easy it has been demonstrated in various ways in cognitive and learning science that making a training environment easier may be dysfunctional in the sense that it improves short term memory at the expense of long-term memory and performance.
thinking tends to focus on a problem’s “surface  structure” to understand why the surface structure of a  problem is so distracting and, as a result, why it’s so hard to apply  familiar solutions to problems that appear new, let’s first consider how  you understand what’s being asked when you are given a problem.
bob jensen the one thing to keep in mind is that there is no one pedagogy that is best in all circumstances.
comment from bob jensen: i have added you message to the web document so that your concerns are fully stated in your own words.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents explosion of corporate/university partnerships "e-learning demand to double in 2005," smartpros, january 7, 2004 ---http://www.smartpros.com/x46477.xml
at the end of the semester, i feel the same pangs of loss that i felt when my ftf classes ended.
in my asynchronous modules, students must do a lot more digging on their own and generally come away frustrated by the "loose ends" that they neither have the time nor skills to master nor the skills to master.
also, you may find the following of interest: http://www.cba.uiuc.edu/~larvan/alnessays/aln5.html this material is all from 1996, though essay 5 was written a bit later than the earlier essays.
customers, students, and network users in general appear to "love to message" according to early experiments in web site administrators.
it is a type of thought that even  3-year-olds can engage in—and even trained scientists can fail in.”
it is the only approach possible for keeping learning in sync with the rapidly changing environment.
what type of e-mail system do you have? >
computer access and availability and modem speed are problems for aln courses given on college campuses - students are often times unable to log on due to slow modems or busy network lines.
the deficiencies may be in terms of content or in terms of poor aids in navigating that content.
my role in the classroom is making it easier for information  to move from one place to another - from point a to point b.  this could  be from textbook to student, it could be from the outside world to the student,  from another student to the student, from the student him or herself to that  same student and from teacher to student (me to them).
initially they think they are going to have time for a course, but then the course becomes too demanding and/or unexpected things happen in their lives such as computer crashes, a change in job demands (such as more travel), family illness, marital troubles, etc.
once again, the link to the survival guide is http://onlinestudentsurvival.com/ the dark side of education technology and online learning --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/theworry.htm bob jensen's threads on distance education are at the following sites: other concerns "the chronicle's special report on online learning explores how calls for quality control and assessment are reshaping online learning, " (not free),chronicle of higher education, november 2011 --- https://www.chronicle-store.com/store/productdetails.aspx?co=cq&id=78602&cid=ol_nlb_wc the chronicle's special report on online learning explores how calls for quality control and assessment are reshaping online learning.
casb is one of the few competency-based graduate programs in the world.
program in online teaching (6 course program) pre-mba skills and test preparation program (9 course program) all eyes are now on the western governors university ( http://www.wgu.edu ) that is cranking up fully accredited degree programs on the internet.
the trouble is that, being so busy, there is rarely a really good time for us to really communicate face-to-face.
as a young professional, you most likely desire to distinguish yourself early on from other business graduates to jump start your career.
all of our modern technologies with rapid diffusion rates -- high consumer acceptance -- have been personal and disintermediated.
i reproduced tom's message in the above web document.
these are distortions and possibly non-sustaining effects of a treatment just because its newness captures more of an individual's attentiveness.
we are working on some some more recent evaluation material involving the scale efficiency projects.
the program was based on a method used at macquarie university in a simulation of middle-eastern politics.
i have noticed, however, over the years that students use aim, my chat tool of choice, to contact me less often, but instead work with other students online more often.
that familiarity can come from long-term, repeated experience with one  problem, or with various manifestations of one type of problem (i.e., many  problems that have different surface structures, but the same deep structure).
there are many (like me) who seem to do better with electronic communications.
almost two-thirds of the faculty said it takes more effort to teach a course online than in a classroom, while 85 percent said more effort is required to develop one.
the really bright spots in distance education are the times when the  practicing professionals who are really good at their craft take on a distance  education course either as a public service or as an experiment to see how they  like teaching.
online learning occurs on the student’s time, making it more accessible, convenient, and attainable.
in fact, there were many times when i felt torn between my real life and my virtual life on-screen, in an identity challenging " turkle[turkle, sherry (1995),life on the screen: identity in the age of the internet, new york, ny: simon & schuster.] sort of way, simply because there did not seem to exist enough hours in the day to do justice to both.
pwc's program is aimed mostly at existing consulting division employees and is not used as heavily as a recruiting enticement for graduating students.
it is easy to become too cynical about the refereeing process.
but teaching on the web is a lot of work, and professors are not happy about lack of support from administrators.
it does not lead up to taking the cpa examination.
what is unique about wgu is that its curriculum is comprised of many course offerings from leading colleges and universities in states west of the mississippi river and as far away as western samoa.
``this is a rigorous program drawing from the strengths of both the kelley school and the deere management team.
the professors and students ideally belong to the same community of learning; although in some universities students feel that professors are too inaccessible.
nevertheless, there are enormous problems with ethics and academic standards in aln.
for all practical purposes it is even more than a "free" masters degree.
"wishing to be big is wishing to fill in the drawing," corbett writes.
the cambridge handbook of thinking and reasoning --- click here the miniature guide to critical thinking concepts & tools --- click here "critical thinking: why it's so hard to teach," by daniel t. willingham --- http://www.aft.org/pubs-reports/american_educator/issues/summer07/crit_thinking.pdf also see simorleon sense --- http://www.simoleonsense.com/critical-thinking-why-is-it-so-hard-to-teach/ “critical thinking is not a set of skills that can be deployed at any time, in any context.
“the urban legend out there was that many faculty out there don’t want to participate” in online education, said wilson.
which may be why a relative recently said, "well, he's definitely all boy."
send  your recommendations to  carolyn_kotlas@unc.edu for possible inclusion in this  column.
two graders were trained and achieved more than 90 percent in grader variabilility.
the web address for mikes audio on this is athttp://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/ideasmes.htm .
even though stanford has not yet announced plans to make these courses available to other campuses through its stanford online program, it will not take much effort to do so when competition from other prestige universities makes it popular to join in the movement toward global networking of courses and/or entire degree programs.
one of the first so-called boys' books, michael gurian's the wonder of boys, was not immediately embraced by publishers.
in higher education, there is still too much debate about how we are  delivering content: is it online education, face-to-face teaching, or
the really bright spots in distance education are the times when the practicing professionals who are really good at their craft take on a distance education course either as a public service or as an experiment to see how they like teaching.
no one wanted to read about them.
these companies have discovered an educational practice that has its roots in the socratic method.
mit could easily misjudge the impact of advanced technologies if we are not prepared.
for more on student evaluations, see the course evaluations at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#illinois.
nearly two-thirds of phoenix students attend online.
these new entrants would likely be characterized by the use of information technology to help deliver learning experiences were learners want them, when they want them, and at a cost they find acceptable.
what extra value are you going to need to offer to bring the students of the future to your college?
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents online biology: email message from brad stith from: brad stith from the june 1 issue of educom update: "*free monthly electronic newsletter.
and a student who has learned to thoughtfully discuss  the causes of the american revolution from both the british and american  perspectives doesn’t even think to question how the germans viewed world  war ii.
output effects" at http://www.cba.uiuc.edu/~larvan/alnessays/aln1.html , the lead quote reads as follows (emphasis added): many of us early adopters of aln contend that "it works," --- students do better under aln than in the traditional approach.
the study was limited to research of web-based instruction (i.e., eliminating studies of video- and audio-based telecourses or stand-alone, computer-based instruction).
- increased faculty attention: in most online classes, the faculty’s role is focused on mentoring students and fostering discussion.
in order to receive "free" tuition, the e&y students must remain with the firm for three years.
lanny arvan l-arvan@uiuc.edu scale, phone: 217-333-7054, fax: 217-333-7427 department of economics, phone: 217-333-4587, fax: 217-244-6678 an example course description is noted below: intermediate microeconomics:
we have all had frustrations with bad referees, including acceptances of our weaker output and rejections of our best work.
seriously, however, when i am in the midst of concentrating on one thing, i have a bit of the same problem with student communications on other issues.
include copies of this correspondence in your performance reports.
that institutions granting diplomas and  degrees will crumble and fall as households become linked to the web around the  world.
>1000 to 5000 undergraduate students ___ >
even at 4am there can be lively interchanges among six students using the site.
typically, the students are focusing on the scenario  that the word problem describes (its surface structure) instead of on the  mathematics required to solve it (its deep structure).
it could not have existed five years ago -- but it will be pervasive five years from now.
we can be virtual strangers face-to-face and close friends over a network.
all universities must ensure that students are meeting program outcomes and learning what they need for their jobs.
now there are serious social and education muds.
an expansion in bandwidth, expected to see the most revolutionary change in the next decade, will allow such things as the delivery of multimedia directly to the home.
professionals cited the variety and depth of course offerings while corporate leaders cited cost savings and relevance of courses to business goals.
this concept is taken to the limit in traditional universities where students belong to a university community--they live in the dorms, they eat together at the cafeteria, they join various student organizatons, and most importantly, they learn together.
as network education opportunities increase, traditional universities will  have to add more course choices to curricula in order to keep pace with their  old and newer competitors.
while i was in athens on november 12, denny invited me to sit in on a session in which the program faculty discussed such things as heavy messaging that often results from delivering courses asynchronously.
today is the last day in an awesome week at bar harbor maine in acadia and bristol rhode island in colt state park.
they may travel to university and find there are 30-40 students in a tutorial.
the father, especially, wasn't sure how to take this, telling corbett that he wanted a son, not a daughter.
i believe the reason that the recent study elicited so little commentary is due to the fact that it flies in the face of the biases held by some across the higher education landscape.
there is evidence in the literature (viz., studies by guernsey [8] and larson [18]) that support the opinion identified in this study of the need by some students for face-to-face interaction.
adam honea, the provost, said the findings from the standardized assessment of information literacy skills test, developed at kent state university, were important to the institution since "information literacy is a goal of ours.
"in the us, user-pays universities have already arrived," freeman says.
[13] found that students felt the university should provide financial assistance to offset the associated costs of going online.
but i could be mistaken.
in many instances, course materials used by faculty are shared freely with the world without intranet restrictions.
staff have to discourage students from calling by phone and private e-mail, instead of logging on to the site.
hundreds of examples exist of domain names that seem purposely designed to be misleading...
many have already used these devices and made the information available.
or even doing the whole book in this way.
this study is qualitative and confined to university of illinois at chicago graduate and undergraduate students.
"how we nurture from the beginning has an effect."
an individual assignment is to investigate and give an assessment of a domestic and international securities regulators web site, and present the results to a discussion forum.
[smoore@vudesign.ca.gov] update in april 1999 california virtual university will cease operations as an independent distance-education institution, following reluctance on the part of the ventures partnersthe states three public-college systems and the association of independent collegesto put up $1 million a year for the next three years to cover operating costs.
the collaboration award was given for an online course that is now offered to a class comprised of five students from each of six universities in the united states, japan, switzerland, spain, and hong kong.
the article cited below is one of many articles and speeches from leading educators who consider diplomas and degrees obsolete: a seamless, cradle -to-grave educational system is within our reach, if we muster the courage and will to create it.
one criticism is that distant students do not have access to as much information, but librarians are now able to put entire works, full texts of books, journals, references, newspapers, as well as web searches and internet access on the internet.
what motivates boys, the argument goes, is different from what motivates girls, and society should adjust accordingly.
now librarians use information technology to develop online, virtual libraries.
katie greene raises other concerns and discusses the challenges of giving distance learners the same access to libraries as the access available to resident students.
these are very presitigious programs.
the scale  experiments collected a lot of data pointing to more intense communications  with instructors and more efficient use of student’s time that is often  wasted in going to classes.
in an effort to  avoid burn out, much of the learning effectiveness is lost.
i agree with peter and ron to a point.
for example, suppose you read these two sentences: “after years of pressure from the film and television industry, the president has filed a formal complaint with china over what u.s. firms say is copyright infringement.
six instructors team teach the program and they collaborate on every project.
hence the distance  education paradox.
the success of the casb program, however, is a bit biased as is the success of the adept masters of engineering distance education program in electrical engineering at stanford university.
in on the horizon, july/august 1997, d.p. snyder lists the following business strategies that loom on the horizon for higher education following the lead of postindustrial enterprises: - insourcing and outsourcing - collaborative in-house initiatives and teamwork - intrapreneurship and extrapreneurship - distribution channeling he suggests that these will be translated to the following education strategies: - modular core curriculum packaging - licensing certified franchising - distributed teams - distance learning - virtual classroms - collegial colloborations colleges and universities have been slow to adopt business strategies that are fueling the postindustrial revolution.
obtaining your masters degree from one of these programs provides you with an exceptional opportunity to begin your career with a competitive edge.
"this is really good information for us to really improve our institution."
while all messages are read, we may not respond to or forward your message.
their skepticism, however, may be for the wrong reasons.
an example of software components and a discussion of possible problems is given at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/255light.htm#technologysoftware a good example of an entire online degree program that is heavily a sln program is the duke university global executive mba (gemba) program described at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/255wp.htm#themyth bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents will higher education adopt business strategies?
but a central component of the effect is what the authors call the “asynchronous audio feedback” aspect of the comments: that students can listen to previously recorded audio while they’re reading what it is referring to.
while i share this sentiment whole heartedly, i believe that we confront two inescapable realities in 21st century education.
re the cpa exam, our program should cover the requisite accounting material, but cpa review is e&y/the participants responsibilities, not ours.
she considered the course to have a heavy workload "u. of phoenix reports on its students' academic achievement, " by goldie blumenstyk,chronicle of higher education, june 5, 2008 --- http://chronicle.com/daily/2008/06/3115n.htm?utm_source=at&utm_medium=en the 2006 national survey of student engagement, released november 13, 2006, for the first time offers a close look at distance education, offering provocative new data suggesting that e-learners report higher levels of engagement, satisfaction and academic challenge than their on-campus peers --- http://nsse.iub.edu/nsse_2006_annual_report/index.cfm "the engaged e-learner," by elizabeth redden, inside higher ed , november 13, 2006 --- http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2006/11/13/nsse august 27, 2009 reply from patricia walters [patricia@disclosureanalytics.com] this email actually has a lot of related but seemingly unrelated questions.
there may, however, be a shift in emphasis from the awarding of traditional degrees to the awarding of education and training certifications across disciplines.
robert bjork states: it has now been demonstrated in a variety of ways, and with a variety of motor, verbal, and problem-solving tasks, that introducing variation and/or unpredictability in the training environment causes difficulty for the learner but enhances long-term performance --- particularly the ability to transfer training to novel but related task environments.
hi folks thought this article from the business review weekly http://www.brw.com.au may be of interest.
drawing on neuroscience research done by others, gurian argues that boy brains and girl brains are fundamentally dissimilar.
cvu will retain its searchable web site , which lists available courses at more than 100 participating colleges and universities.
one difference of note is that sdl usually depicts a self-paced learner struggling alone with the learning materials and occasional messaging with a trainer or instructor.
the book, which is based on zogby international polls and other studies, also touches on public attitudes toward politics, consumer habits, spirituality, and international affairs, and on what men and women really do want from each other.
technology therefore has a role to play through supporting improved social thinking (e.g. providing systems to mediate decision making and collective reasoning) and also through providing tools to help individuals externalize their thinking and so to shape their own social worlds" (p. 15).
the following year, raising cain, by dan kindlon, an adjunct lecturer in harvard's school of public health, and michael thompson, a psychologist in private practice, was published and was later made into a two-hour pbs documentary.
it was also found that different types of students (eager beavers versus drones versus sluggos) need different types of aln pedagogy.
also, it takes longer for groups to reach consensus in brain-storming and problem-solving situations online.[10] peoples feelings can be hurt easily, so more time and effort are put into explaining meanings and supplying detailed contextual background to enhance mutual understanding.
much has been written about technological efficiency and the potential of the internet as an educational medium to save time and money or increase productivity.
indeed, neither seniority nor tenure status held a significant bearing on whether a professor had ever developed or taught an online course.
proficiency in using technology is now for all practical purposes a required competency in the workforce; it is becoming another basic skill.
a backlash was inevitable.
they have not and cannot take much of an official position without action by the faculty.
as regards large group f2f teaching, i am much less sanguine.
managing the global workforce 626 implementing change university of texas at austin, ic2 institute 621 corporate entrepreneurship sylvan learning systems, inc., at http://www.educate.com/learningcenters/aboutsylvan.html is a leading provider of global education services to families, schools and industry.
the rate at which new technologies are penetrating business and the home can be expected to increase.
unfortunately, most would-be authors cling to the myth that if they  just put in enough effort, people will automatically want to read what they  write.
r. h. heterick, jr., j. r. mingle, and c. a. twigg
every student participates in class.
"the magnitude of the change is in the eye of the beholder," he said.
this is no better than telling students that information is in the library and "go get it".
complex information needs to be multiply encoded in semantic and/or situational associations.
secondly, distance education will bring about "greater collaboration among institutions".
many students in their professional lives are already feeling the effect of corporate law reform, and have strong opinions.
in the trouble with boys, a former newsweek reporter, peg tyre, takes him to task for arguing that female brains are active even when they're bored, while male brains tend to "shut down" (a conclusion that ruben gur, director of the brain behavior laboratory at the university of pennsylvania, tells tyre isn't supported by the evidence).
robert a. bjork "memory and metamemory considerations in the training of human beings," metacognition: knowing about knowing edited by janet metcalfe and arthru p. shimaura the mit press, cambridge, massachusetts isbn: 0262132982, 1994, page 189 click here to view working paper 265 on metacognition concerns in designs and evaluations of computer aided education and training: are we misleading ourselves about measures of success?
since none of the students taking the q-sort had ever taken an online course, they were unaware of the opportunities provided by technology [8,10] to potentially increase individual attention from instructors above that normal in face-to-face course offerings.
my comments have been added in red to your message.
in any case, as the market for aln courses expands (as it is doing) traditional universities will have to upgrade their curriculum to aln in order to remain competitive.
boys weren't the story.
- constant access: the internet is open 24/7, so students can share ideas and “sit in class” whenever they have time or when an idea strikes -- whether it be the dead of night or during lunch.
students would become frustrated, angered, and seek to somehow short circuit their effort if there was not enough time each week to cover five similar aln courses.
"sel-directed learning: the quiet revolution sam advanced management journal summer 1997, p. 13 this type of sdl was not undertaken with the instruction labor intensity of the aln experiments on university campuses under sloan foundation grants.
hence the distance education paradox.
aln typically makes use of more recent collaborative technologies ofchat lines, listservs, and webcasting.
the reason was not likely to be that online sections were easier.
i will organize my discussion around the four criteria the case research journal uses for evaluating cases: (1) case focus, (2) case data, (3) case organization, and (4) writing style.
a highlight for me at the november 6-7, 1998 aicpa accounting educators conference was a presentation by sharon lightner from san diego state university and linard nadig from switzerland.
also, online formats can be fertile ground for professors who lack not only the desire to 'teach' but the ability and thus become mere administrators versus teachers.
this contrasts with the bricks-and-mortar, campus-centric university of today; it even goes beyond the paradigm of the virtual university, which remains modeled on individual institutions.
jensen comment attrition rates are high because online students are often adults with heavy commitments to family and jobs.
there can be no instructor-option subjective factors when  assigning grades, which means no changes in grade for effort and interpersonal  relationships.
let’s explore this in depth by looking at a particular kind of critical thinking that has been studied extensively: problem solving.
i think this misunderstanding leads many to underestimate the value of other sources in the education process other than themselves.
the success of the casb program, however, is a bit biased as is the success  of the adept masters of engineering distance education program in electrical  engineering at stanford university.
communicating in the tower of wwweb-ble by judith v. boettcher syllabus, october 1997, p. 44
comment from bob jensen:
community is a key concept for the learning process, and enables students to gain support from each other.
projects entailing how to account for financial instruments derivatives entail learning what those financing contracts are and how they are used in hedging stragegies.
barbara brown discusses the myth of asynchronous learning impersonality: another myth one frequently encounters about computer-mediated instruction is that of impersonality.
refereeing is a little like democracy --- it aint perfect, but until a better system comes along it beats the alternatives over the long haul.
- audiotape --- this is still cheaper than storage and transmission of high volumes of digitized audio, although random access, searching, and freezing on frames are huge limitations.
to that end, universities  should be better able to demonstrate -- quantitatively and qualitatively -- the  employability and success of their students and graduates.
- try to avoid getting the image of being a computer hacker more interested in the machines per se than what they can do for your teaching and research.
a few of the mathematically inclined students who elect to delve into such models learn more about value at risk than students who go down other avenues on their projects.
growth in online learning is also driven by specialization in course offerings.
or, on the other hand, we might overlook the opportunity to capitalize on mit's name recognition to market education programs for the large number of students who are qualified for mit but whom we cannot admit for lack of space.
- networked learning combines fun and education for students as they surf the internet in teams or on their own.
"this doesn't embarrass me," he said.
beforehand, the same thoughts may not have surfaced in our offices that surface in the middle of a class.
all three groups of students, representing the three opinion types, shared a belief in the importance of being able to work at home.
for example, i am inclined to make it easier for students to find answers or get leads each course topic.
the major five-year, multimillion dollar study that first caught my eye was the scale experiments on the campus of the university of illinois where 30 courses from various disciplines were examined over a five year experiment.
yes the scale experiments showed that some students got higher grades  online, notably b students who became a students and c students who became a  students.
accrediting groups are scrambling to keep up, and congress and government officials continue to scrutinize the high student-loan default rates and aggressive recruiting tactics of some for-profit, mostly online colleges.
jo ann davy continues in the article, writing that usluel recommends holding a physical event to help relationships, before connecting online.
are there partial boys?
freeman admits to having the usual failures of a pioneer.
but when it does, i'll find other work to do because there's little joy for me as a cyber-prof. peter kenyon
there may, however, be a shift in emphasis from the  awarding of traditional degrees to the awarding of education and training  certifications across disciplines.
but then maybe i am just "listening" to peter and ron without "hearing."
very few retail corporations openly respond to more than a small fraction of email messages.
one way to judge good aln workload balance is to keep track of teaching evaluations.
p.j. guglielmino and r.g. murdick
how is it  that students will be able to answer one problem, but not the next, even though  mathematically both word problems are the same, that is, they rely on the same  mathematical knowledge?
> >large university ___ mid-size univeristy ___ > >small university or college ___
two problems stem from this: first, there is no way for the typical user to know whether the actual location of an internet site is in, say, pittsburgh or reykjavik.
she considered the course to have a heavy workload i must be psychic, because i've been saying this all along --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm so has amy dunbar --- http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/002cpe/dunbar2002.htm "the medium is not the message," by jonathan kaplan, inside higher ed, august 11, 2009 --- http://www.insidehighered.com/views/2009/08/11/kaplan also see http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#introduction a few weeks ago, the u.s. department of education released a report that looked at 12 years' worth of education studies, and found that online learning has clear advantages over face-to-face instruction.
fathom's unique architecture will provide a powerful "search and explore capability" that will allow users to follow their interests, independently or with expert guidance, across the widest possible range of subjects.
freshmen at the university of phoenix enter with reading, writing, and mathematical skills that are, on average, below those of other college students, but according to data from standardized tests, phoenix students appear to improve in those skills at a greater rate than do students at other colleges.
sally johnstone and dennis jones report in (on the horizon, november/december 1997) that faculty reward structures at wgu will place great emphasis on curriculum design and learning materials development.
1-356; fax: 334-983-6322; web: http://www.thejeo.com/ .
girls were drowning in the "sea of western culture," according to carol gilligan.
students do meet face-to-face on some weekends (monthly?) for some live  classes --- case studies and examinations.. one other competency-based distance education program that has been booming  in recent years is western governors university in the u.s. --- http://www.wgu.edu/ most other distance education programs allow instructors more latitude in  assigning grades.
i now feature a multimedia workshop module of the university of virginia bam aln program.
in the 1900s it was common for students to take tests in the presence of the village vicar who then certified that all conditions placed upon taking an examination were followed.
to some extent this is a simple pricing issue.
much of the focus so far has been on boys falling behind academically, paired with the notion that school is not conducive to the way boys learn.
i praise students who find errors or confusing wording.
a rapidly growing student population is becoming older and increasingly diverse.
(listen to dan stone's audio and download his powerpoint presentation).
the mooville pedagogy has become exceedingly popular with university of florida faculty and students.
even in the case of private univeristies, private industry is benefitting from the tax exempt status of the university delivering the customized program for the firm's employees.
it is much easier to simply tick off the refereed hits (for when the binary scorer comes to write against your name, he writes only ones or zeros, to him the unread articles are all the same).
this year 10,500 students, nearly half the uts student population of 23,000, are using it.
until then what do we do?
there is financial pressure too: colleges and universities must control and even reduce costs, as well as manage new competitive dynamics, while responding to growing demands.
over the past three years, ernst & young llp has been the fastest growing of the largest multinational professional services firms.
however, the cost of "faculty" may not be significantly reduced for reasons discussed in this paper.
it is not clear that bam will work so well on lesser mortals.
companies can keep their employees working hard and earning the profits while training them to make them more efficient at their job.
this is already happening in many institutions in an ad hoc incremental manner thatadds value to the institutions core programs.
geeks hack or crack their way into systems on every college campus.
networked courses are cheaper than traditional courses due to virtual elimination of needs for physical classrooms, building maintenance, and expensive on-site faculty.
then i had a long fight" with the editor over whether i can keep a "live" and ever-changing version of the essence of that paper at my web site.
the journal of educators online (jeo)
it’s time for us to stop categorizing higher education by the medium of delivery and start focusing on its impact and outcomes.
results indicated that while some faculty and staff did have a disinterest in technology, more often the problem was their frustration with it.
and like plenty of such squabbles, the outcome hinges on the numbers you decide to use.
" -- learning communities "[s]trong feelings of community may not only increase persistence in courses, but may also increase the flow of information among all learners, availability of support, commitment to group goals, cooperation among members and satisfaction with group efforts.
total graduate credit hours =
but i am certain there is more to it than that.
"there's a sense that those who define the standard haven't caught on yet," he said.
- you must ultimately adopt new learning technologies in your courses and program curricula..
duke university forged ahead with its new and very expensive global executive mba (gemba) networked, prestigious, and high tuition program described athttp://www.fuqua.duke.edu/programs/gemba/index.htm.
30 non-accounting majors will also receive 10 undergraduate credits for the readiness program financial accounting (4.5 credits)
the chronicle of higher education has extensively studied  performance of distance education one such study was conducted by senior  editor blumenstyk the chronicle's goldie blumenstyk has covered  distance education for more than a decade, and during that time she's written  stories about the economics of for-profit education, the ways that online  institutions market themselves, and the demise of the 50-percent rule.
he loves trains, fire trucks, tools of all kinds, throwing balls, catching balls, spinning until he falls down, chasing cats, tackling dogs, emptying the kitchen drawers of their contents, riding a tricycle, riding a carousel, pretending to be a farmer, pretending to be a cow, dancing, drumming, digging, hiding, seeking, jumping, shouting, and collapsing exhausted into a thomas the tank engine bed wearing thomas the tank engine pajamas after reading a thomas the tank engine book.
anyone know what type of compensation schools like the university of phoenix offer to their instructors?
the authors wondered whether there was an association between the opinion set held by the student and his or her learning style.
making centuries of literature available on networks is cost prohibitive to digitize for and deliver from web servers.
entering students arrive on campus "network savvy" and graduates move into a world increasingly reliant on networked communications.
students expect staff to respond seven days a week, and mark faster.
managerial accounting (2.0 credits) auditing (2.0 credits) taxation (1.5 credits)
students who are motivated but find they cannot keep up the pace, may  be able to slow down and take longer to complete a degree, and not just drop  out in frustration.
those two things resulted in email messages from various educators, including messages from notre dame faculty members tom frecka and kevin mislewicz.
these critical aspects of online education are worth particular mention: - greater student engagement: in an online classroom, there is no back row and nowhere for students to hide.
aplu's online newsletter, august 31, 2009 http://www.aplu.org/netcommunity/page.aspx?pid=1347 inside higher ed, august 31, 2009 http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2009/08/31/survey "professors embrace online courses despite qualms about quality" the chronicle of higher education, august 31, 2009 http://chronicle.com/article/professors-embrace-online/48235/ ...................................................................... future of scholarly publishing
find out more about our program.
phoenix for years has been extensively measuring and monitoring student progress for internal purposes, using the data to change the content and design of its courses or to reshape its approach to remedial education.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about making education and training too hard all courses at trinity university are three-credit courses.
the study notes that this blended learning often includes additional learning time because students can proceed at their own pace and lets them repeat material they find difficult.
corbett, however, doesn't think hans's interest in his penis is about sex, but rather about becoming bigger, in developing beyond the half-finished sketch of boyhood.
"sel-directed learning: the quiet revolution sam advanced management journal summer 1997, p. 10 comparisons of sdl with traditional training is always risky.
an article he wrote in the inaugural issue of the journal, "has anyone seen the boy?: the fate of the boy in becoming a man," is a sort of call to arms for boyhood-studies scholars.
it is based on reviews of research and data on trends in higher education, interviews with experts who are shaping the future of colleges, and the results of a poll of members of a chronicle research services panel of admissions officials.
in normal work, cheating is a serious problem, now that vast amounts of material can be cut and pasted into assignments or lifted from "cheat sites" on the web.
our program is not comprised of more accounting courses than competing programs.
online content is just one of  many alternative sources.
while younger professors seem to have an easier time teaching online than older ones, more than half of respondents from the youngest faculty group agreed it was more time-consuming.
“…it’s more difficult, but the students get more contact.”
there is strong empirical support for online learning, especially the enlightening scale experiments at the university of illinois --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#illinois august 11, 2009 reply from steve markoff
when and why is complex,5  but two factors are especially relevant for educators: familiarity with a  problem’s deep structure and the knowledge that one should look for a  deep structure.
last year uts brought in experimentally a special on-line teacher-student pack called topclass for messages and conferences, involving 1000 students.
on-line, students will be guided by · faculty and each other in their exploration of the content of this · course.
also, without instructional labor intensity, sdl may not be as effective with college students as it is with highly motivated adult employees seeking promotions and job performance evaluations.
forms and models of learning have evolved quickly and in fundamentally new directions.
but learning doesn’t just occur in the visual realm.
asynchronous learning networks: drexel's experience http://www.thejournal.com/past/oct/510andriole.html
" brown also co-wrote packaging girlhood.
on the faculty evaluation forms one of the questions reads: "how would you rate the workload of this course?"
however, content pales in comparison with scholarly works found in libraries that contain vast resources that either are not or cannot be digitized.
learning resources that were once only available through education institutions will appear in retail stores in the form of multimedia software and other computer-based courseware.
in fact, it constitutes a minority of total  facilitated information flow in a college classroom.
>5000 to 10000 undergraduate students ___ >
in fact, it was turned down by 25 houses before finally being purchased by tarcher/putnam for a modest sum.
although the barriers mentioned above by dr. rebaza are serious, in my viewpoint they tend to be excuses rather than reasons in many instances.
these include: thedevelopment of customized executive educational programs, the creation of customized degree programs, the formation of a learning partner consortium and finally, in some cases, actual accreditation of the corporate university.
recently, we examined the successes of walden graduates who are teachers in the tacoma, wash., public school system, and found that students in walden teachers’ classes tested with higher literacy rates than did students taught by teachers who earned their master’s from other universities.
key amongst them is the idea that we engender in our students, that they can go to a sage and receive knowledge in some structured fashion.
in a subsequent semester, conferencing software was made available to the class, in addition to the website.
you can get course information which is not password protected by following this link course information.
faculty themselves must be dedicated to a long-term aln pedagogy.
dr. conlon concludes the following: to those who say that a subject as complicated as writing cannot be taught with computers, we say that it definitely can, especially when the computer becomes the gateway to an environment that draws students in and excites them about expressing themselves through writing.
on the whole, respondents to the faculty survey rated public universities “below average” in seven of eight categories related to online education, including support for online course development and delivery, protection of intellectual property, incentives for developing and delivering online courses, and consideration of online teaching activity in promotion and tenure decisions.
the study was "designed to illuminate how public institutions develop and implement the key organizational strategies, processes, and procedures that contribute to successful and robust online learning initiatives."
b.m. brown "digital classrooms: some myths about developing new educational programs using the internet," t.h.e. journal, december 98, p. 57
aln courses bridge key gaps in the core program.
there are many  opportunities where aln may contribute to another outcome: lowering the cost of  education, e.g., by naturally introducing new values for old measures such as  student-faculty ratios.
"what neuroscientists will tell you is that nature and nurture are bonded," says pollack.
alfred p. sloan foundation's program in learning outside the classroom at http://w3.scale.uiuc.edu/scale/ another study that i love to point to was funded by the chronicle of higher education.
in essence, we have entered the age of "just-in-time learning."
in that book, the disease was easier to diagnose, what with the disney princess phenomenon and sexy clothes being marketed to pre-adolescent girls.
university, san antonio, tx 78212-7200 voice: 210-736-7347 fax: 210-736-8134 bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about attrition and drop out rates from online courses august 31, 2007 message from carolyn kotlas [kotlas@email.unc.edu] reducing attrition in online classes "attrition rates for classes taught through distance education are 10- 20% higher than classes taught in a face-to-face setting. . . .
http://www.aplu.org/netcommunity/document.doc?id=1877 volume ii: "the paradox of faculty voices: views and experiences with online learning" reports on the results of a survey of over 10,700 faculty respondents which included a mix of tenure and non-tenure track, full- and part-time, and those who have and those who have not taught online.
chronicle of higher  education, june 11, 2008 (audio) ---   http://chronicle.com/media/audio/v54/i40/cyber_classroom/ ·         all course  materials (including textbooks) online; no additional textbooks to purchase ·         $1,600 fee for  the course and materials ·         woman instructor  with respectable academic credentials and experience in course content ·         instructor had  good communications with students and between students ·         total of 14 quite  dedicated online students in course, most of whom were mature with full-time  day jobs ·         30% of grade from  team projects ·         many unassigned  online helper tutorials that were not fully utilized by goldie ·         goldie earned a  92 (a-) ·         she gave a  positive evaluation to the course and would gladly take other courses if she  had the time ·
although still young, aln is helping companies such asciticorp, nynex corp., and sandoz to become more cost efficient in training their employees.
if your book or journal editor objects to having your working documents published at your web site, remember who your master is at all times.
there are many reasons for this, including the fact that more people than you can imagine stumble on your web documents while using a search engine on the web.
at this site, my favorite demonstration service is the mathematica surface modelling utilitiy at http://www.tisny.com/vrml/math.html - studio classrooms --- these were pioneered by rensselaer polytechnic institute's jack wilson at http://www.rpi.edu/dept/science/www/interactive_learning/classrooms.html large lecture halls are replaced by "studios" where pairs or small groups of students learn interactively on computers.
- because the courses are developed in the western world
until the peer evaluation culture is changed, web publishing will not count heavily toward promotion, tenure, or take home pay.
other firms may have to join this band wagon just to compete for top students.
they get more feedback from students.
actually i usually do not assign pages to read, but in the process of studying assigned topics, my graduate students dig out a huge amount of material that they themselves feel they must study.
will more private firms like ernst & young (e&y) and pricewaterhouse coopers (pwc) partner with one or more traditional universities and fund a customized program in which the firms are a heavy players in calendar, work load, and student admission decisions?
one of my students, katie greene, addresses this problem at http://www.resnet.trinity.edu/users/kgreene/distanceno.htm in the above document, katie provides links and references to literature on looming issues and "new roles for librarians."
if you live in western canada, you obtain your ca designation by enrolling  in the ca school of business.
for packaging boyhood, the authors interviewed more than 600 boys and found that models of manhood were turning up in some unexpected places, like the discovery channel's man vs. wild, in which the star is dropped into the harsh wilderness and forced to forage.
usually there are synchronous elements that possibly include classroom lectures and case discussions.
, western views are spread to all parts of the globe, which may inhibit the cultural growth of other societies, thus creating a unified, undiverse world.
the employees could remain working for the company, continue working on their projects and fulfill their educational requirements after work, before work, on their days off, or on the weekends.
most respected universities are understandably reluctant to take the cheap shot approach.
the faculty learned, however, that every time a new technology was added, it experienced an increase in the level of effort necessary to support the student.
organizational and technological changes have forced companies to re-examine the way employees learn and what they learn.
she considered the course to have a heavy workload
(74% of the students who had high factor loadings on factor one were also classified as independent learners.
i sometimes think my "former" students know be better, via email, after graduation than while they were my students.
freeman predicted six months ago that many universities would become user-pays systems where for $1000, for example, students could use a bare minimum of the facilities, and pay $100 each for a menu of add-ons such as on-line self-study material, videos and discussion groups.
from accounting education news, june 9, 2005 --- http://accountingeducation.com/news/news6250.html
she considered the course to have a heavy workload august 11, 2009 reply from steve markoff
the role of the · olcc organizing committee and the ccce is limited to assistance in · organizing and administering electronic aspects of the course.
when and why is complex,5 but two factors are especially relevant for educators: familiarity with a problem’s deep structure and the knowledge that one should look for a deep structure.
the customized online program is designed as a three-year course of study to be completed in parallel with the participants' full-time job responsibilities.
that will be a major bite not anticipated my many applicants.
the most successful use of aln thus presents itself as a combination of online courses and real classroom interaction.
what does "all boy" mean?
(actually i still publish hard copy to maintain respectability, but i personally am far more proud of my "living" web research documents than my annual refereed "dead" hits over the past few years).
you can read about it at http://www.cba.uga.edu/mba/home/deanbio.html two universities are participating in the e&y customized program.
we might find ourselves competing on price with other universities in courses like our freshman subjects.
i have featured the bam program at uva in a document athttp://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/265wp.htm .
in many instances their instructor, me, is not sufficiently up on the particulars of each topic to bail them out.
old hounds like me can opt for more tail wagging, but young pups need more nourishment shoved into the other end.
recent research indicates the entire online professional education industry may experience similar growth in 2005:
"the future of learning institutions in a digital age," by jane park,creative commons, june 26th, 2009 --- http://creativecommons.org/weblog/entry/15522 hastac (humanities, arts, science, and technology advanced collaboratory) announced a new report called,“the future of learning institutions in a digital age,” now available at mit press.
readers interested in asynchronous learning experiments may want to track the aln experiments at the university of illinois (under a $2.1 million sloan aln grant for 25 classes in varying disciplines as described athttp://ftp.cs.uiuc.edu/cs_info_server/alumni_info/newsletter/v1n6/sloan.html).
be cost effective, dramatically reducing the two biggest costs of the current system: faculty and physical plant.
i can offer you a wagging tail and small pay raises if you rely entirely on web publishing as evidence of scholarship.
am dear prof. jensen andy bailey just sent an e-mail alerting me to your site.
he states that a "good" aln will have the following: jack m. wilson "just-in-time training: distance learning on the desktop" syllabus, september 1997, p. 52
there are no easy solutions to the problem that aln learning is absolutely dependent on reliability of computers and networking systems.
the components of a sln course include servers, cameras attached to each client compujter, real audio software, real video software, and software for chat lines, file transfers, etc.
- internet and the world wide web - email and the internet comprise the core technologies of aln communications.
we know that online  learning requires devout attention on the part of both the professor and the  student -- and a collaboration between the two -- in a different way from that  of a face-to-face classroom.
it takes away the part of my job i like best (classroom interaction) and substituted mass quantities of gizmo tweaking (gt).
a funny thing happened to a campus event designed to bring our faculty together to exchange information and demonstrations of technology in the classroom.
university teachers failing to get average grades of "highly satisfactory" would be sacked, since students would no longer tolerate mediocrity and would take their "business" elsewhere.
the online version of the syllabus article is not yet posted, but will eventually be available athttp://www.syllabus.com/
i have not had a chance to read it, yet, but some might find "building learning communities in cyberspace," (palloff and pratt) to be informative.
many of them had considerable potential but were poorly developed.
all students in the program take this graduate degree program online while continuing to work for pwc (mainly in the consulting division).
faculty or teaching assistants must be online to evaluate student written and oral communications.
in total, more than 1,600 courses are available.
for more  information, contact:  national humanities alliance, 21 dupont circle nw,  suite 800, washington, dc 20036 usa; tel: 202-296-4994; fax: 202-872-0884; web:  http://www.nhalliance.org/ "reinventing academic publishing online.
i assume that if they are terminated by e&y, their debt for the masters degree is waived.
i was impressed by the quality of this degree program and the tough standards of the program.
experiments at the university of illinois are discussed at http://w3.scale.uiuc.edu/scale/ from: lanny arvan [smtp:l-arvan@uiuc.edu] sent: sunday, february 15, 1998 10:20
few, if any, differences remain between sdl and aln.
online content is just one of many alternative sources.
a few courses are now sln via the internet.
this is part of what prospective students read about in their proposed "master plans": ernst & young llp your master plan information for prospective candidates interested in ernst & youngs master of science in accountancy program make this program part of your master plan leader winner visionary standard-setter bold willing to take risks do these words describe you?
- you can play a greater part in developing and sharing learning materials with professors and students in foreign nations, notably underdeveloped nations.
this is not a new request -- nor is the fact that it takes longer to develop and administer a college course online a new revelation.
the syllabus web site is at http://www.
for a discussion of the history and applications of mushes, see "the mush manual" by lydia leong at http://galaxy.neca.com/~soruk/manual.html.
those efforts include the university's recent creation of a research center on adult learners (for which mr. callan is an unpaid adviser).
some early studies of aln at other universities indicate that aln is more effective than traditional pedagogy.
they must study your web materials and make their own judgments regarding quality and relevance.
- other advantages are remote delivery of cost-efficient and conveniently distributed "virtual" courses.
i cannot even find a web site discussing the pwc mba program at the pwc web site.
if they leave, they will need to reimburse e&y for the pro-rated cost of the program.
thinking tends to focus on a problem’s “surface structure” to understand why the surface structure of a problem is so distracting and, as a result, why it’s so hard to apply familiar solutions to problems that appear new, let’s first consider how you understand what’s being asked when you are given a problem.
other examples of these ranging alternatives are provided in the appendix of this paper.
and i always thought little boys were built out of "snakes and snails."
later there is a coming-out session at the university where the students show their real identities, often to surprise and applause.
much of what we expound in lectures comes from long-term memory that is triggered by something (patterns of association) in the midst of class.
but this process is more anecdotal than the genuine blind refereeing process.
i teach one section in the fall, and occasionally i have an overload for a ftf phd seminar.
much depends upon the dedication to case writing and case writing organizations ecch --- http://www.ecch.com/ my hero in this regard in marilyn taylor who got me involved in a number of nacra teaching workshops (my job was only to make presentations on education technology).
advantages include the following and are elaborated for computer aided learning (cal) athttp://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/245ch02.htm#advantages4: - the main advantages of asynchronous cal are that student learning is self-paced and interactive.
this presentation followed a ceremony presenting professors lightner and nadig with the $1,000 aicpa collaboration award prize.
[10] described flexibility and convenience as both reasons students enrolled in online courses and as the perception of students once enrolled.
at the other extreme we have the dregs of the tenured faculty assigned to the distance education division.
educators have long noted that school attendance and even academic success are  no guarantee that a student will graduate an effective thinker in all  situations.
links to academic resources - gpa grade calculator - raise your gpa calculator bob jensen's threads on tools and tricks of the trade --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/thetools.htm bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents
creating a learning organization project management total quality management transnational negotiation skills strategic management of information systems for particular training specialties, many corporations now use asynchronous "self paced professional training" network courses from the university of phoenix athttp://www.uophx.edu/. these include many management topics and selected fasb standards.
it is anticipated that a · national electronic evaluation will be administered.
that curriculum is a much more traditional master of accountancy curriculum than the above notre dame curriculum.
recently, president obama remarked, “i think there’s a possibility that online education can provide, especially for people who are already in the workforce and want to retrain, the chance to upgrade their skills without having to quit their job.”
sherri moore sent me the following message: july 22, 1998 please consider adding a link from your web site to the california virtual university athttp://www.california.edu the cvu integrates into one site on the internet the online and technology-mediated classes of 92 accredited california colleges and universities, including stanford, ucla, uc berkeley and usc.
however, this may also spread technician talent so thin across the campus that the risk of poor performance in some divisions may be increased.
studies have shown that messaging explodes exponentially if asynchronous network courses are to maximize learning effectiveness.
the chronicle of higher education has extensively studied performance of distance education one such study was conducted by senior editor blumenstyk
downloadings of large audio/video files can be very time consuming and require computer capacity to handle the storage.
not everyone buys the boy talk.
these firms assert that the chinese government sets stringent trade restrictions for u.s. entertainment products, even as it turns a blind eye to chinese companies that copy american movies and television shows and sell them on the black market.”
i teach four sections of acct 5571, taxation for business entities.
since you only offer 10 undergraduate credts of undergradutate accounting content, i do not see how it will be possible for graduates of your program to meet the requirements to take the cpa examination in states like texas.
"i think there was some hesitancy for scholars to take up the topic, to show that they're paying attention to guys when we should be paying attention to girls," says groth.
the university's leaders say the findings show that its educational model is effective in helping students succeed in college, especially those who are underprepared.
ernst & young (e&y) has a funded customized program leading to an masters of accounting degree from the the university of notre dame or the university of virginia.
that doesn't make him unusual; in fact, in many ways, he couldn't be more typical.
“i think it’s a call to action,” said jack wilson, president of the university of massachusetts and chair of the sloan online learning commission.
an "intranet" is any network that has some type of restricted access to materials (web pages, images, audio files, video files, animation files, databases, etc) on the internet.
the economic strength of mit could be seriously undercut by competition as a result.
for your information, the server that houses these essays is at http://www.cba.uiuc.edu/~larvan/alnessays/aln1.html
computer-aided training may either enhance or detract from long-term performance.
to stem the flood, typical options currently available at most corporate web sites are only to fill out standardized forms (that computers can process) and/or to limit email messaging to webmasters with suggestions for improving the web site.
i am sorry to say that i often must ask erika to repeat both that question and the her comments preceding the question.
the responses that you get from around the world set "your tail wagging."
many universities will probably take on some form of the first scenario on page 30 that reads as follows (emphasis added): a traditional institution (college or university) can move selectively to offer online versions of existing courses and degree programs.
it decided to develop and publish this report—distinct from the financial reports that its parent company, the $2.6-billion apollo group inc., regularly provides—as "a good-faith attempt on our part" to show the university's commitment to growing public demand for more accountability by institutions of higher education, said mr. pepicello.
an example of a student's experience at taking an online course is provided bycyberschool at http://cyberschool.4j.lane.edu/about/csclass/csclass.html.
he handles one of the 3 scheduled nights of office hours, works on the homework sets (either he writes them and i review them or vice versa), and he grades the three excel projects after i run them through a grading macro.
the report of the study, "the future of scholarly journals publishing  among social science and humanities associations," is available at   http://www.nhalliance.org/bm~doc/hssreport.pdf founded in 1981, the national humanities alliance is a non-profit  organization to "advance national humanities policy in the areas of  research, education, preservation and public programs."
the online pedagogy tended to have no effect on d and f students ---   http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#illinois listen to dan stone’s audio about the scale experiments ---   http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/000cpe/00start.htm but keep in mind that in the scale experiments, the same instructor of a  course was grading both the online and onsite sections of the same course.
=  asynchronous learning we are particularly interested in new outcomes  that may be possible through aln.
if taking the cpa is important to such a graduate and passing it is important for career advancement in e&y, the non-accounting graduate from notre dame will have to take more accounting courses just to sit for the cpa examination unless he or she can sit for the examination in some state that has less explicit application requirements than texas.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents a comment regarding intranet versus internet courses before closing this document, i would like to make a comment about internet courses.
i use gizmos to support traditional instruction, but i have no desire to give up the classroom.
yes but the e&y funded masters degree is a fringe benefit not being offered by any other firm as part of the plan to recruit undergraduate students.
the number of companies using online learning to train employees will grow by 50 percent in 2005, according to bersin and associates.
he contends that aln approaches should differ for each type of student.
this will increase to 95 percent by the year 2000.
it is terribly frustrating for faculty and students to repeatedly encounter hardware and software failures.
she shares tales from the cy ber-classroom -- and her final grade -- in a podcast with paul fain, a chronicle reporter.
advanced technology course (to be developed jointly by nd, uva and e&y)
one example where asynchronous learning appears to achieve a good balance is the business activity model (bam) in intermediate accounting at themcintire school of commerce at the university of virginia.
their book ends with seven recommendations for dealing with boys, including "recognize and accept the high activity level of boys and given them safe boy places to express it."
the messages about boys, however, were easier to miss, in part because they're so ubiquitous.
sometimes students have to wait outside our offices, and being human, they conclude that they have better things to do with their time --- such as seeking out a teaching assistant or another student in the class.
yet how we teach, where we teach, who teaches, and who administers and serves have changed only around the edges.
replies within 24 hours would be guaranteed seven days a week, with a ceiling of ten sessions per subject and $100 per chat thereafter.
- videotape --- this is still cheaper than storage and transmission of high volumes of digitized video, although random access, searching, and freezing on frames are huge limitations.
networks and networked information will lead to disintermediation, disaggregation, diffusion, and differentiation.
some examples include: viva the virtual library of virginia - electronic collections of books, journals, newspapers , as well as internet searches.
although no virtual library is going to contain the text of all books and journals in a major academic library due to copyright and impracticalities of digitizing trillions of pages of text and graphics, there are some collaborative efforts being made by various universities to aid students taking virutal courses off campus.
the debate is also a permanent and expandable record useful for future students.
now, just as an example of a colleague who has made some interesting advances in using networked technologies to move from pedagogy more towards androgogy here is a write-up on mark freeman at university of technology, sydney that was recently posted to ateach-l by andrew priest.
over the last four years in my capacity as the associate editor of the case research journal i have reviewed numerous cases.
my interest in the e&y masters degree programs is focused mainly upon the combination of student recruitment, curriculum design, and the way that program at first seemed to me to be doing something that is impossible.
nearly 70 percent of all professors cited the extra effort necessary to develop web courses as a crucial barrier to teaching online.
in one 2007 poll of more 5,000 adults, zogby international found that 30 percent of respondents were taking or had taken an online course, and another 50 percent said they would consider taking one.
studies have shown that messaging explodes  exponentially if asynchronous network courses are to maximize learning  effectiveness.
the danger today is that asynchronous learning-along with other forms of "distance education"-will remain in the labs and in the hands of techno-educators-who seldom represent mainstream faculty interests.
this will not eliminate discourse and other messaging costs, but it may take some of the drudgery out of messaging.
i was impressed by the quality of this degree program and the tough  standards of the program.
keywords online collaborative learning, cscl, group learning, group work, free riders "better learning with sites and sound," by andy guess, inside higher ed, december 3, 2008 ---
one problem with web publishing is that if you submit your stuff to a top journal, the editor wants you to hide your research from the world until the journal gets around to publishing your work (which in a recent case took five years "in press" for an accepted jensen and sandlin article to finally get published).
given the extra work, more than 60 percent of faculty see inadequate compensation as a barrier to the further development of online courses.
so we are interested in what impact aln will have on outcomes such as time-to-degree and student retention.
and, as indicated by our record growth in 1998, our momentum continues to accelerate.
one of freemans examples of "new learning" is an on-line role-playing exercise this year for post-graduate students of securities markets law.
and our best students are probably going to get a grades  under any pedagogy ---  http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/assess.htm#assessmentissues
regards andrew priest mass lectures, often repeated, are the usual way that university business courses cope with cost pressures and student loads.
demand for online courses will almost double in 2005, as professionals and companies realize e-learning's distinct advantages, according to officials at redvector.com, a tampa-based company that offers online courses to professionals involved in the design and construction industries.
(6) there will be no undergraduate accounting material covered in the 30 credit hour degree program.
with deep knowledge, thinking can penetrate beyond surface structure
from lanny arvan in the department of economics at http://www.cba.uiuc.edu/~larvan/alnessays/aln1.html
in other words, it's not genuine concern for boys that's energizing the movement but rather fear of girls surpassing them.
"now i think there's less of that worry.
the number one thing that leads to great cases is access to information inside a corporation or not-for-profit organization.
more colleges are looking inward, conducting their own self-examinations into what works and what doesn't.
networked courses may thus be synchronous and asynchronous, although the technical learning components are largely asynchronous.
examples of the types of specialties are listed later on in this paper.
yet as technology practice  creates, technology theory is if anything becoming even more conforming and  less relevant.
the gemba program at duke university stresses increased rather than decreased communications between faculty and students and between students themselves via newer technologies for global online communication.
i apologize for jumping to the conclusion that you were trying to offer a curriculum that enables students to sit for the cpa examination in virtually all states.
the main drawback of email is that responding to email communication is labor intensive (humans still answer the messages) and there are no volume controls other than refusals to answer all or certain types of email messaging.
however, i cannot imagine business majors having only one or two basic accounting courses entering that uva curriculum without taking intermediate accounting and some other prerequisite accounting modules.
see http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/book00q1.htm#032200 robert cavalier now has an article entitled "cases, narratives, and interactive multimedia," insyllabus, may 2000.
we are delighted to extend this ability to include a corporation with the integrity and strong international reputation of john deere.''
as barry rice says, the traditional classroom may be a dinosaur in need of extinction.
some critics, in particular the american association of university women, contend that much of what passes for research about boyhood only reinforces stereotypes and arrives at simplistic conclusions: boys are competitive!
the report is in response to our changing times, and addresses what traditional educational institutions must know to keep up.
indeed many of them are mainly synchronous learning network (sln) courses with small amounts of asynchronous aln material.
http://www.aplu.org/netcommunity/document.doc?id=1879 the association of public and land-grant universities (aplu), formerly the national association of state universities and land-grant colleges (nasulgc), was founded in 1887 and represents 186 public research universities in the united states.
those infamous "fraternity files" have never been so rich as they will become with speech recognition technologies.
in another test, involving a smaller pool of students, the phoenix students' "information literacy" skills for such tasks as evaluating sources and understanding economic, legal, and social issues were also comparable to or significantly higher than the mean scores in several categories.
it might be noted that unlike the e&y and pwc programs, all universities have a chance of receiving funding for the new kpmg program that funds a masters of taxation degree for employess in the tax division.
without presuming that my experience can be generalized to others, i've made the following observations.
the problem may have nothing whatsoever to do with online versus onsite education ---ergo misconstrued causality.
some years back i was one of the outside reviewers brought in to examine  casb.
metacognition table of contents my own experience is with a three-semester experiment of a non-majors "survey" course.
i’m sure that if the u.s. department of education had published a report showing that students in online learning environments performedworse, there would have been a major outcry in higher education with calls to shut down distance-learning programs and close virtual campuses.
a portion of one of my recent email messages is quoted below: the mere fact that many aln courses are shown to improve grades and/or the rate at which learning takes place does not imply that long-term performance has been enhanced.
however, i would argue that electronic communications are sometimes "closer."
it is these first globals, he writes, who are shaping what he says is nothing short of a "fundamental reorientation of the american character away from wanton consumption and toward a new global citizenry in an age of limited resources.
if we consider thinking as both individual (internal) and social (external), as rupert wegerif (2000) suggests, then "[t]echnology, in various forms from language to the internet, carries the external form of thinking.
the user is put on hold while audio or video files are being downloaded.
i think this  misunderstanding leads many to underestimate the value of other sources in the  education process other than themselves.
the · american chemical society will neither provide credit nor assess any · fees.
mark freeman, a senior lecturer in finance at the university of technology, sydney (uts), and a specialist in teaching methods, thinks he has found a better way: using the internet.
for example, see "at&t learning network hosts wgu content," t.h.e. journal, february 1999, 14-16.
the main reason will be the need to fill gaps in curricula with more courses than can be feasibly developed and delivered by resident faculty.
...................................................................... recommended reading "recommended reading" lists items that have been recommended to me or that infobits readers have found particularly interesting and/or useful, including books, articles, and websites published by infobits subscribers.
this report was made possible by a grant from the john d. and catherine t. macarthur foundation in connection with its grant making initiative on digital media and learning.”
[issn 1547-500x ]is an online, double-blind, refereed journal by and for instructors, administrators, policy-makers, staff, students, and those interested in the development, delivery, and management of online courses in the arts, business, education, engineering, medicine, and sciences.
rjensen -----original message----- from: ron [mailto:rrtidd@mtu.edu] ent: friday, november 19, 1999 6:55 am to: aecm@vax.loyola.edu ubject:
components of sln (synchronous learning networks)
i generally go online at various times besides the scheduled office hours, which run from 7 to 10 three nights a week, with the deal that if anyone is online needing help we stay online to help.
inon the horizon, may/june 1997,  james morrison contends that by the year 1004 leading-edge educational  institutions will use competency-based certification multimedia learning  modules and virual learning environments.
one wonders how top programs such as the duke university global executive mba program and the ohio university online mba without boundries program manage to provide library resources to students.
to my knowledge, other universities were not even given a chance to bid on this program.
aplu's online newsletter, august 31, 2009 http://www.aplu.org/netcommunity/page.aspx?pid=1347
the story correctly notes that online learning enables more “learning by doing,” which many students find more engaging and useful.
it is not clear whether better performance arises from a confounding of added sweat with alns.
if the first round of books was focused on the classroom, the second round observes the boy in his natural habitat.
i covered a little less material than in the traditional course.
for example, a motivated student could progress more rapidly toward a  degree.
we have used firstclass to have the written homework submitted and graded electronically.
http://www.aplu.org/netcommunity/document.doc?id=1877 volume ii: "the paradox of faculty voices: views  and experiences with online learning" reports on the results of a survey  of over 10,700 faculty respondents which included a mix of tenure and  non-tenure track, full- and part-time, and those who have and those who have  not taught online.
i do not use the student names, but as the semester goes on they try to figure out what will get captured in the summary of the week.
“knowing that one should think critically is not the same  as being able to do so.
i just finished reading a couple archive articles on online teaching from the chronicle of higher education, one write who hated online teaching and another who loved it.
there is also a sense that we are innovators and early adopters who "crossed over" early in the technology transfer and diffusion process.[11] in the fielding culture, this pioneer experience has come to be known as riding the waves, or embracing the "turbulence" of rough seas - a metaphor for global and organizational unrest as well.
however, if high quality pedagogy is to be maintained, there are some significant costs that are being discovered in early experiences with asynchronous networked learning (aln).
continued in article html slide shows on the tools of aln technologies are provided at the university of illinois web site http://talon.extramural.uiuc.edu/ws97/intro/tsld033.htm and http://talon.extramural.uiuc.edu/ws97/intro/sld033.htm a power point presentation is available at http://www.online.uillinois.edu/oakley/presentations/cacubo_links.html
the challenge -- and extraordinary opportunity -- is to develop an integrated global learning infrastructure to meet the educational needs of the 21st century.
ways to avoid the disadvantages of asynchronous modules and courses are listed below for computer aided learning (cal) and elaborated upon in greater detail athttp://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/245ch02.htm#ways2 - try to resist temptations to dehumanize some courses by eliminating face-to-face encounters.
the masters in accounting degree is free in the sense that e&y pays a salary plus providing funding for all tuition, fees, room, board, and travel costs.
at the time the survey was administered, there were more professors with at least 20 years’ experience teaching an online course than professors with five years’ experience or less.
" pollack's book, like gurian's, was an enormous success.
that calendar reads as follows: mar-april (preparing): cd-rom review course on introductory accounting may-june (home&ey): readiness program for non-accounting majors (10 credits) june-aug (university): core program on campus (9 credits)
for more information, contact: aplu, 1307 new york avenue, nw, suite 400, washington, dc 20005-4722 usa; tel: 202-478-6040; fax: 202-478-6046;
" in "strategies to engage online students and reduce attrition rates" (the journal of educators online, vol.
their research identified four major strategies: -- student integration and engagement includes "faculty-initiated contact via phone calls, pre-course orientations, informal online chats, and online student services.
bob jensen's threads on universities that have similar contracts with other universities are given at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/crossborder.htm bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents tools and innovations in aln technologies
in a new book by mr. zogby released today, he said that polls show a sharp increase in acceptance of online education in the past year.
constant access: the internet is open 24/7, so students can share  ideas and “sit in class” whenever they have time or when an idea  strikes -- whether it be the dead of night or during lunch.
the real promise of online education is providing learning experiences that are more tailored to individual students than is possible in classrooms.
thank you for considering this request moore, sherri
we are no longer just in the business of debits and credits.
there are of course many options as to scale and magnitude of effort.
also there are opportunities to cheat (ill lavishly praise your work if you will adore mine in a succession of email messages), but most scholars have more integrity than to organize that sort of conspiracy.
the 93-page report, entitled an evaluation of evidence-based practices in online learning: a meta-analysis and review of online learning studies, was conducted by sri international.
study skills tip sheets - learning styles (pdf) - memory & concentration (pdf) - note-taking (pdf) - reading (pdf) - time management (pdf) - test preparation (pdf) - test taking (pdf)
his title is editor in chief!
most likely, the cost of an imported course will be less than cranking up a traditional or aln course on campus.
not all of them send you nice messages, but a message recently received by me last week from a total stranger is reproduced be low: =
what do you believe are the best resources available for learning how to write a good accounting case?
few, if any, campuses have budgets to provide backup systems for disruptions of service.
the program is very selective and students pay a hefty fee.
assessment was very difficult.
the results show that in reading, critical thinking, and writing, its freshmen scored below those of the population over all, but the difference between those scores and those of its seniors was greater than for the population at large.
14, no. 8, august 3, 2009 http://www.uic.edu/htbin/cgiwrap/bin/ojs/index.php/fm/article/viewarticle/2609/2248 "while current computing practice abounds with innovations like online auctions, blogs, wikis, twitter, social networks and online social games, few if any genuinely new theories have taken root in the corresponding 'top' academic journals.
this is a highly competitive program and we expect to recruit the best business school candidates.
here i must be psychic, because i've been saying this all along ---   http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm so has amy dunbar ---   http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/002cpe/dunbar2002.htm "the medium is not the message,"  by jonathan kaplan, inside higher ed, august 11, 2009 --- http://www.insidehighered.com/views/2009/08/11/kaplan a few weeks ago, the u.s. department of education released a report that  looked at 12 years' worth of education studies, and found that online learning  has clear advantages over face-to-face instruction.
firstly, students admitted to these  programs were top undergraduate students majoring in very difficult  concentrations.
degerhan usleul, the chief operating officer of interactive learning international corporation (ilinc), is quoted as saying: the importance of an instructor's physical presence, complete with body language, as well as the rapport one builds with classmates, are not easily replaced.
as with changing perceptions about other cultural phenomena, "these paradigm shifts really are moving at lightning speed.
increased faculty attention: in most online classes, the  faculty’s role is focused on mentoring students and fostering discussion.
as someone who spends much of her "free" time learning her avocations in workshops and off-line classes (even though youtube has good knitting videos), this is a whole new world for me.
inon the horizon, may/june 1997, james morrison contends that by the year 1004 leading-edge educational institutions will use competency-based certification multimedia learning modules and virual learning environments.
once these courses are networked on a given campus, it becomes profitable to distribute aln courses to other universities.
there are gaps in the curriculum of literally every university, and the gaps are more serious in smaller universities that try to live up to coverage across multiple disciplines implied by the term "university."
idc predicts a 30 percent increase in yearly e-learning spending worldwide through 2008.
in this regard, i have provided a checklist of things to consider when designing aln learning materials.
one of its profit centers is the arthur d. little (adl) school of management described below: since 1964, more than 3,200 professionals from over 115 countries have participated in the school of management's (som) programs.
their time would be freed up to give extremely valuable one-on-one teaching.
some years back i was one of the outside reviewers brought in to examine casb.
why should you apply?
print is not even vaguely ill.
the chronicle's goldie blumenstyk has covered distance education for more than a decade, and during that time she's written stories about the economics of for-profit education, the ways that online institutions market themselves, and the demise of the 50-percent rule.
cowart was to see if learning outcomes for case studies could be enhanced  with the use of interactive multimedia.
distribution was achieved by using student scores on previous exams plus their  verbal sat scores.
however, the cost of "faculty"  may not be significantly reduced for reasons discussed in this paper.
technology drives us toward disaggregation, information products and services being broken apart and repackaged to cater to consumer's desires, which in turn enables mass customization.
i believe  the reason that the recent study elicited so little commentary is due to the  fact that it flies in the face of the biases held by some across the higher  education landscape.
robert c. heterick, jr. the three rs fathom users will have the opportunity to interact and collaborate with the leading experts in their field.
in an effort to avoid burn out, much of the learning effectiveness is lost.
about 150 students are enrolled in the kelley direct online mba program today.
after the success of the program,metlife, another insurancecompany decided to form a similar partnership with drexel university.
first globals, he says, are more socially tolerant and internationally aware.
for example, see textbook listing at cybertext publishing (http://www.cybertext.com/ ).
still, more than a third of the faculty respondents had developed and taught an online course.
the internet is predicted to grow: conservative estimates put the number of today's internet users at around 50 million; predictions are for over 1 billion users before the end of the decade.
i’m sure that if the u.s. department of education had published a report  showing that students in online learning environments performedworse,  there would have been a major outcry in higher education with calls to shut  down distance-learning programs and close virtual campuses.
an example of the network learning features of mooville is by conlon as follows: when an instructor assigned a short play for students to read, instead of discussing it by talking face to face with each other, each group of students would go to its workspace in mooville and conduct their discussions online.
the major five-year,  multimillion dollar study that first caught my eye was the scale experiments on  the campus of the university of illinois where 30 courses from various  disciplines were examined over a five year experiment.
the storage time of an individual's knowledge from acquisition to use has shrunk because employees must use the latest knowledge available to keep companies at the edge of the competition.
faculty clinging to traditional lectures and classroom case discussions may not even be aware that whatever went on in their classrooms is now available at hidden sites on the web at either a public or a private web site.
judy luther provides a paper entitled "distance learning and the digital library: what happens when the virtural student needs to use the virtual library in a virtual university," educom review, july/august 1998, 23-26.
the brief answer is: thought processes are intertwined with what is  being thought about.
teaching assistants had to be hired to assist faculty in dealing with the huge and somewhat unexpected volume of student messaging.
virtually all universities contend that the majority of their students are eager beavers rather than drones and sluggos.
differences are more noteworthy weaker students or students who tend to drop courses, but there is a huge instructor effect that is difficult to factor out of such studies.
...................................................................... recommended reading "recommended reading" lists items that have been recommended to  me or that infobits readers have found particularly interesting and/or useful,  including books, articles, and websites published by infobits subscribers.
hawthorne effects become major problems in experimental designs.
most certainly i cannot imagine such students being mixed in with former accounting majors in many of the listed uva graduate accounting courses.
some mexico city students claim that they can save over five hours a day in commuting time, which is time made free for studying (jim parnell, texas a&m, in partnership with monterrey tech, deliver an aln web mba program in mexico city) ---http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/0000start.htm
it is the responsibility of each local faculty · member to assign grades to their students.
sdl existed before computer networking whereas aln implicitly assumes computer networking and/or cd-romhypertext andhypermedia.
is this compensation similar to adjunct compensation at most regular universities?
since no post-enrollment q-sorts were administered, there was no way to tell whether students continued to hold that opinion, or whether that opinion has changed.
thomas ___________________________________________________________ thomas g. calderon, ph.d. phone (330) 972-6099 associate professor fax (330) 972-8597 g. w. daverio school of accountancy mailto:tcalderon@uakron.edu college of business administration the university of akron akron, oh 44325-4802 some of the top universities experimenting with network delivery of courses are finding that networking can be a victim of its own success.
however, skepticism regarding labor intensity and need for high faculty dedication to aln are well grounded.
chronicle of higher education, june 11, 2008 (audio) --- http://chronicle.com/media/audio/v54/i40/cyber_classroom/ · all course materials (including textbooks) online; no additional textbooks to purchase · $1,600 fee for the course and materials · woman instructor with respectable academic credentials and experience in course content · instructor had good communications with students and between students · total of 14 quite dedicated online students in course, most of whom were mature with full-time day jobs · 30% of grade from team projects ·
some of the courses might be described, for example, as "web-light," while other courses are truly "web courses" in that they are delivered fully on the web and are accessible anytime and anywhere.
no text books are required or recommended.
sdl has become a "quiet revolution" in corporate training according to guglielmino and murdick: there has been a "quiet revolution" going on in the training departments of some of corporate america's most prestigious companies.
university, also in philadelphia to create a master's program for information systems.
withthe chronicle show that the 32-year-old, open-access institution is fulfilling its goals.
potential advantages of aln in existing courses are so monumental that most campuses are experimenting with aln at the moment and contemplating more widespread deployment for existing courses.
"it's the way we've always done things" must be changed to recognize that the educational process must focus less on the adult lecturer and more on the student learner.
"it's still a man's world.
a statement about why the scale experiments were funded aln
typically, the students are focusing on the scenario that the word problem describes (its surface structure) instead of on the mathematics required to solve it (its deep structure).
in fact, it constitutes a minority of total facilitated information flow in a college classroom.
have you ever discussed this with the administration?
asynchronous learning we are particularly interested in new outcomes that may be possible through aln.
but dont let the tail wag the dog or you will wind up in the dog house.
of course, organizations with less brand recognition may offer selected aln courses of outstanding quality.
the students in the experiment were full time on campus students, such that the confounding problems of having adult part-time students was not a factor in the scale experiments of online, asynchronous learning.
there are also some concerns at are mentioned below at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/255wp.htm#corporate bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents the controversial ernst&young and pricewaterhouse coopers funded masters degree programs will this become the masters degree in accounting model for all top accounting firms and large business firms in the future?
the internet expands learning opportunities.
but the push for accountability isn't coming just from outside.
at the university of north texas where students can sometimes choose between an onsite or an online section of a course, some student just preferred to be able to take a course in their pajamas ---http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#northtexas some off-campus students prefer to avoid the hassle and time consumed driving to campus and spending a huge amount of time searching for parking.
it is aimed at employees who probably were not even business majors.
unhappily, i have discovered several instances where my students lifted parts of their work (in two cases the entire paper) from sources that were not cited.
"when you look at the programs that had more than 20 people sit for the exam, baylor leads the pack with a combined average 65.3% pass rate across the test sections," said terry maness, dean of baylor's hankamer school of business.
technology enables us to disaggregate the place, the content, the delivery, and judgments about the quality of education.
the mcgraw-hill giant publishing conglomerate has launched its online mcgraw-hill world university described at http://www.mhcec.com/. before long mhwu intends to network fully accredited degree programs in higher education.
labor costs are enormous for having humans read and respond to email messages.
a factor in aln use is hardware, software, and instructor abilities to handle aln.
the results of the students' performance were put through  statistical analysis and the null hypothesis was rejected for the cd/film and  cd/text groups.
yet we consistently ignore such evidence.
the summary highlights and links can be found at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/255light.htm the course has some highly innovative features including the online participation of accounting standard setting bodies in the various countries mentioned above.
student reaction was strong and about equally divided between those who loved it and those who hated it.
we especially need to add elective courses in specialized areas.
in a situation such as that at stanford, where classes are taught live and are also televised, asynchronous delivery is a direct cost overlay.
conversion of normal conversations greatly facilitates storage, search, and random access retrieval of all or portions of such conversations.
“as a faculty member, when you’re teaching online, suddenly you have to be teaching 24/7,” said samuel smith, president emeritus of washington state university.
the report of the study, "the future of scholarly journals publishing among social science and humanities associations," is available at http://www.nhalliance.org/bm~doc/hssreport.pdf founded in 1981, the national humanities alliance is a non-profit organization to "advance national humanities policy in the areas of research, education, preservation and public programs."
for more information, contact: national humanities alliance, 21 dupont circle nw, suite 800, washington, dc 20036 usa; tel: 202-296-4994; fax: 202-872-0884;
except for one article, on this web site, you  probably didn’t hear about it -- and neither did anyone else.
in team debates, groups take positions on issues such as corporate law reform, and hone their responses in private conferences before posting them on the internet.
i also have boards that are dedicated to the content modules, the homework (quizzes), projects, and exams.
the verbal and writing-intensive nature of the text-based forum network also forces one to make ones thoughts very explicit whenever possible; there is little room for subtlety.
- cross-cultural and cross-functional teams of students can be formed in virtual education and research.
>all students will be expected to have access to e-mail and the >world wide web. > >
when the military develops icbt, the material contains artificial intelligence utilities that adapt to the background, aptitude, and motivation of the learner.
the authors of today's aplu study conclude by recommending that public universities not only institute policies that “acknowledge and recognize” professors’ online education efforts, but also work develop “mechanisms that effectively incorporate online learning into the fabric and missions of the institutions.”
in particular, he and his colleagues attempted a method in which professors record comments on students’ written assignments, which students can then listen to as they read along at corresponding points in the text.
from the announcement, “cathy n. davidson and david theo goldberg in an abridged version of their book-in-progress, the future of thinking: learning institutions in a digital age, argue that traditional institutions must adapt or risk a growing mismatch between how they teach and how this new generation learns.
- you may discover that new technology can lead to more cross-discipline research and applications.
- you will find funding sources for technology research and application increasing at a much faster rate in the future.
if institutions own the software, however, students can listen to the audio (and record their own additions) on the free and commonly used acrobat reader.
instead it will be in the form of largely asynchronous networked courses on the internet or intranets.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about effectiveness of learning technologies in large classes email messages from roger debreceny and andrew priest i do not doubt for a minute that small group, f2f teaching can be highly effective.
student frustrations center around not having enough lab computers, wasting time on lab computers that fail, having their own computers crash during the semester, and encountering network crashes or delays due to clogged bandwidth.
that familiarity can come from long-term, repeated experience with one problem, or with various manifestations of one type of problem (i.e., many problems that have different surface structures, but the same deep structure).
services might include "assessments, educational counseling, administrative process such as registration, technical support, study skills assistance, career counseling, library services, students' rights and responsibilities, and governance."
groth, a psychology professor at wagner college, is editor of thymos: journal of boyhood studies, founded in 2007.
this seems to be less of a problem with email, and when it happens i just send out correction/addendum messages.
i think it’s very rewarding to look at grading in formal studies  using the same full-time faculty teaching sections of online versus onsite  students.
- text to audio conversion software --- this is the flip side of speech recognition.
according to the distance education and training council, more than 500 companies and organizations now offer online courses focusing on specific industries and professions.
some internet courses may be given by television networks who face a shrinking market as viewers move to the web.
the program is designed to meet aacsb accreditation standards and 150 laws that limit the amount of accounting included in such programs.
the virtual university gazette, for distance learning professionals, covers new online learning programs, innovative corporate/university initiatives, the business of distance ed, tips and techniques for teaching online, and jobs and business opportunities.
this site is password protected.
i also appreciate your discussion of some of my in-house papers on aln.
students were not allowed to address each other verbally.
while the web-based collaboration tools are free, ice’s method makes use of embedded audio features in adobe acrobat pro.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents types of aln contracting costs of development of a virtual university are discussed by murray turhoff athttp://eies.njit.edu/~turoff/papers/cbdevu.html
one of these is the "digital future" quoted below: digital future society's higher education requirements are undergoing a fundamental transformation.
i liked the material, but weekly quizzes and examinations plus 50-90 pages of reading per class along with other classes is too much.
adding new faculty and course coverage in an array of varied specialties is not deemed an option in the foreseeable future.
she has threatened to learn about computers just to communicate with me.
as the intellectual excitement of these conversations grows, so does the amount of interactivity in the virtual community.[see rafaeli, sheizaf and fay sudweeks (1998), "interactivity in the nets," innetwork & net play: virtual groups on the internet, menlo park, ca: aaai press/the mit press] i estimate this mode of instruction requires roughly 40% to 50% more work on the teachers part in comparison with conventional classroom delivery.
comment from bob jensen: when i posted my earlier concerns, i thought you were constrained by the requirement in many states that students have 30 or more hours of accounting to sit for the cpa examination and particular accounting, auditing, tax, and systems courses.
they also had higher levels of satisfaction.
as a result, corporations either do not provide any email addresses at their web sites or they restrict the types of messages that will be answered.
the following quotation is representative of class concerns: the work load was very heavy and put a strain on my other classes.
a rising number of these corporate universities already have brand recognition like general electric, motorola, at&t, etc.
anyone know what the normal course load would be for an on-line instructor?
you can read more about audio conversion at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/245glosf.htm#text2 .
steve hi john and pat and others, i would not say that out loud to amy dunbar or denny beresford that they’re easy graders --- http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/002cpe/02start.htm i would not say that out loud to the graduates of two principles of accountingweed out courses year after year at brigham young university where classes meet on relatively rare occasion for inspiration about accountancy but not technical learning --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/thetools.htm#byuvideo try to tell the graduates of stanford university’s adept masters of electrical engineering program that they had an easier time of it because the entire program was online.
for years, groth says, academics didn't really discuss boys.
there are clearlysome benefits to such large group teaching (mostly sociological) but not many.
they take the identity of people such as john howard, allan fels, or securities regulators, with their real identities staying secret until the program ends.
therefore, at the request of the north american case research association, the purpose of this paper is to discuss some of the guidelines i use when reviewing cases.
web: http://www.nhalliance.org/ see also: "reinventing academic publishing online.
students on campus have tremendous comparative advantages if they can use arteries and avoid the capillaries to households outside the campus.
matters of promotion and tenure are pretty well decided all along the way (departmental faculty, chair, dean, and p&t faculty) with rare administrative reversals of recommendations.
for example, adding an array of aln business technology courses would add value to our existing core programs in business administration at trinity university.
leading journals will one day offer refereeing services for web publishing and may, in fact, do away with their hard copy editions.
it's a statement that sounds reasonable enough until you think about it.
"what happened to nerf?
the university of georgia designs and delivers the courses with full-time faculty.
it also appears to be an outstanding curriculum for non-accounting majors since there does not appear to be all that much accounting in the program, at least not to the point where prerequisites in intermediate accounting, income taxes, auditing, and managerial accounting are necessary.
second, students are going to become increasingly comfortable with online social interaction and communities.
new york university's school of continuing education also participates in online learning, and just recently formed a partnership with ibm to offer information systems courses for their professionals, on a global scale.
anything you hear or read is automatically interpreted in light of what you already know about similar subjects.
carrie-full-text electronic library.
there is less staff administrative work because the web is used for announcements, such as where to lodge assignments, errors in a text, changes to deadlines, and guides to marking.
in my technology workshops i rate notre dame's business school faculty and building among the most advanced programs i know of in technology applications.
in terms of new courses at a university, the most expensive option is probably on-campus development of either a traditional or an aln course internally.
in u.s. department of defense courses, the distinction lies in computer based training (cbt) versus intelligent computer based training (icbt).
if done  poorly, the culprit is most likely the tendency to assign part-time or  otherwise non-tenured instructors to the distance education courses.
in november 1997, educom sponsored a conference that is reported at http://www.educom.edu/program/nlii/keydocs/policy.html
yes the scale experiments showed that some students got higher grades online, notably b students who became a students and c students who became a students.
course content is centered around the business knowledge, technical skills, and behavioral competencies for deere's future leaders to use in responding to challenges facing the company.
i recently had another paper accepted for publication.
there is a type of intimacy achievable between teachers and students in this medium that is quite extraordinary, reminiscent of what sproull and keisler refer to as "second-level" social effects of the technology.
an example is the new online western governors university at http://www.wgu.edu/ .
"perishing without publishing" inside higher ed, august 12, 2009 http://www.insidehighered.com/advice/instant_mentor/weir11 "as one who has served (and is serving) as an associate editor for  actual paper journals, let me share some bad practice observations that could  sandbag your career -- and this advice almost all applies to any online  peer-reviewed journal too.
the course is also innovative in that students in class and in team projects see and hear one another over the internet in a manner much like they would see and hear each other if they were all in the same classroom.
competitors will not just come from traditional colleges and universities.
synchronous education in a scheduled sequence of classes will face serious new competition of asynchronous education distributed on networks where students learn and communicate most any day and most any time of day and study at their own paces.
for an analysis of these issues, please click onhttp://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/245ch02.htm#tablebig experiments at the university of illinois are discussed at http://w3.scale.uiuc.edu/scale/
bob jensen's threads on assessment --- also in this year's report: - strategies for teaching and doing research online - members of the u.s. military are taking online courses while serving in afghanistan - community colleges are using online technology to keep an eye on at-risk students and help them understand their own learning style - the push to determine what students learn online, not just how much time they spend in class - presidents' views on e-learning bob jensen's threads on online course and degree programs --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/crossborder.htm one of my students, joshua miller, lists the following concerns: - may require students to have "technological literacy" (i think this a good thing but some of the sites i visited said otherwise) - content may become subservient to the technology - poses new difficulties for program evaluation and accreditation - could alienate academics - may encounter language barriers/translation problems - can be obstructed by time zones - requires forms of institutional support to be projected to distant students - is complex in relation to copyright issues - often requires establishment of regional centers - can be costly for students to obtain equipment bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2
words are everything."
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents bridging the gaps at a recent department of business administration faculty meeting considering how to add more technology courses, i suggested that we look into contracting for aln courses emerging in other universities, business corporations, and public accounting firms.
by  competency-based i mean that instructors have inputs in designing examinations  for all students in the program, but at the same time, have no input in grading  individual students.
based upon our interviews with scores of corporate university deans and deans of graduate business schools as well as continuing education, we have identified four types of corporate/college partnerships as best practice examples.
excess rigor supports the demands of appointment, grant and promotion committees, but is drying up the wells of academic inspiration."
heavily featured in the gemba program are networked cases and chat lines between students who reside in virtually all parts of the globe.
the problem of cost is problematic.
he and other university leaders fully expect some challenges to the findings, but they say the institution, by publishing the report, is showing its willingness to confront scrutiny of its educational record from within academe.
the most effective teaching method blended face-to-face learning with online learning.
i appreciate all the mention of scale's work.
perhaps more significantly, the study found that they were “more likely to explain more complex concepts using a combination of text and non-text based materials.
in many states, especially texas, the graduates would not meet the requirements, in my judgment, to apply to sit for the cpa examination.
the companies are also using what they have learned throughdrexel university to eventually have all training in the company done through aln, in all departments.
ice co-authored a study, currently under review, that examines how listening to spoken words while also reading at the same time can improve students’ learning experiences.
the emphasis is on adult, professional, and university-level education in each issue.
many unassigned online helper tutorials that were not fully utilized by goldie · goldie earned a 92 (a-) · she gave a positive evaluation to the course and would gladly take other courses if she had the time ·
by the way, thanks again for your contribution to ohio aaa.
boys outperform girls by more than 30 points on the mathematics section of the sat and a scant four points on the verbal sections (girls best boys by 13 points on the recently added writing section).
most of the comparative studies were done in colleges and adult continuing-education programs of various kinds, including medical training, higher education and corporate training.
bob jensen's threads on assessment --- also in this year's report: - strategies for teaching and doing research online - members of the u.s. military are taking online courses while serving in afghanistan - community colleges are using online technology to keep an eye on at-risk students and help them understand their own learning style - the push to determine what students learn online, not just how much time they spend in class - presidents' views on e-learning bob jensen's threads on online course and degree programs --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/crossborder.htm "seven problems of online group learning (and their solutions) ," by tim s. roberts and joanne m. mcinnerney, faculty of business and informatics, central queensland university, australia --- http://www.ifets.info/journals/10_4/22.pdf roberts, t. s., & mcinnerney, j. m. (2007).
further information can >also be obtained by contacting the course coordinator: > · dr. lindy harrison · department of chemistry · york college of pennsylvania · york, pa 17405-7199 · 717-846-7788 x1210 ·aharriso@eagle.ycp.edu those interested in participating in this olcc-3 course during the >fall of 1998 should complete the pre-registration form and send >it to the olcc-3 registration coordinator, dr. james beard, e-mail: >jbeard@catawba.edu. >
as network education opportunities increase, traditional universities will have to add more course choices to curricula in order to keep pace with their old and newer competitors.
a difficult challenge when the participants come from two generations that define connecting and community in such different ways.
at the  other extreme we have the dregs of the tenured faculty assigned to the distance  education division.
my interests in the ernst & young partnerships with notre dame and the university of virginia are somewhat different than my interest in the pwc mba partnership.
the closest i've come to on-line teaching is collaborative review sessions for my exec students.
they can also record their own responses and continue back and forth in a sort of audio conversation.
a new vision: a global learning infrastructure we envisage a global learning infrastructure -- a student-centric, virtual, global web of educational services -- as the foundation for achieving society's learning goals.
and our best students are probably going to get a grades under any pedagogy --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/assess.htm#assessmentissues the failing of distance education lies more in the instructors than the students.
i really enjoy playing with technology, so teaching online gives me a chance to explore new ways of providing learning tools.
small group discussions can be carried on in chat lines or some type of email setup such as a listserv.
after repeated exposure to either or both, the subject simply perceives the deep structure as part of the problem description.
i taught in five universities over the years and encountered a few, surprisingly few, professors who have great face-to-face encounters with students outside the classroom.
at the time a am writing this paper, judy luther's article is not yet available online, however, eventually it will be online at http://www.educom.edu/web/pubs/review/dateindex.html .
to skip to this appendix, click onappendix: links to some key web sites.
equal distribution was achieved by using student scores on previous exams plus their verbal sat scores.
there are at least two possible interpretations of this phenomenon: one is that it reflects the way students compensate for the lack of face-to-face interaction.
yet another reason for distributing networked aln courses is they appear to be more effective than traditional pedagogy if they are developed and administered properly.
the tax implications should be mentioned in the e&y application for the program.
email addresses, unlike telephone numbers, of departments and divisions of major corporations are closely guarded secrets.
preliminary data using the canfield learning styles inventory [27] show that the factor one group--time and structure in learning--exhibited a much higher than expected proportion of independent learners.
thanks, [name of the trinity university faculty member deleted]
recently, sylvan formed a noteworthy joint subsidiary company with mci called caliber learning network that is distributed with latest high quality technology.
two of the ten required courses are distance education courses delivered in remote e&y offices while students are working full time.
they definitely describe ernst & young and its focus on the entrepreneurial spirit.
jensen jesse h. jones distinguished professor of business trinity university, san antonio, tx 78212 voice: (210) 999-7347 fax: (210) 999-8134 email: rjensen@trinity.eduhttp://www.trinity.edu/
example links to free shareware are shown below: http://wwwhost.cc.utexas.edu:80/world/lecture/ http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/ http://viking.som.yale.edu/will/finman540/classnotes/notes.html http://viking.som.yale.edu/will/cases/casebk2.html http://finance.wat.ch/cbt/options/ http://www.cob.ohio-state.edu http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/bookbob.htm#top1 once again it is stressed that aln courses my have online learning materials that make a course heavily asynchronous, but the "complete" course will most likely be improved with some synchronous components such as traditional classroom meetings, distance learning "classrooms" such as with interactive tv connections, audio conferencing, video conferening, chat lines, etc.
a good web site for remote control technolgies is at http://www.networkcomputing.com/909/909r2.html - speech recognition software --- new technologies in this area allow for digitization of "normal" speech.
- interactive graphics on the networks --- this includes vrml allowing for 3-d images to be manipulated (resized, turned, scrolled, etc.) over the internet.
"new book by pollster john zogby says online education is rapidly gaining acceptance," chronicle of higher education, august 12, 23008 --- http://chronicle.com/wiredcampus/index.php?id=3236&utm_source=wc&utm_medium=en john zogby, president & ceo of the polling company zogby international, says that american students are quickly warming up to the idea of taking classes online, just as consumers have taken to the idea of renting movies via netflix and buying microbrewed beer.
to find out more about computer ethics you can visit: computer ethics - cyberethics: http://www.siu.edu/departments/coba/mgmt/iswnet/isethics/index.htm ieee code of ethics: http://www.ieee.org/committee/ethics
a different kind of outcome for learners who are  juggling work and family responsibilities, would be to be able to earn a degree  or certification at home.
however, for non-accounting majors there is a major drawback relative to virtually all masters of accounting programs in the u.s.
the two-part report, "online learning as a strategic asset," published by the association of public and land-grant universities (aplu) and the alfred p. sloan foundation, summarizes the results of the aplu-sloan national commission on online learning benchmarking study conducted in 2008 and 2009 that surveyed 45 public institutions across the u.s.
metacognition table of contents concerns about misleading and fraudulent web sites an emerging area of interest to me is the rate at which marginal and fraudulent asynchronous courses and programs are emerging.
i think goldie’s audio report of her experience is still available from thechronicle of higher education.
students all study the same materials and can help each other in many lecture courses.
however, a large majority of faculty cited student needs as a primary motivator for teaching online, most commonly citing 'meet student needs for flexible access' or the 'best way to reach particular students' as the reason they choose to teach online courses."
because their are no constraints on location, libraries from all over can work together to create collections of works and pool their resources.
i discovered that someone had wiped out both the internet explorer and the netscape communicator web browsers on the first three lab computers that i logged into.
from lanny arvan in the department of economics http://www.cba.uiuc.edu/system/faculty/profiles/arvan.html i must be psychic, because i've been saying this all along --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm so has amy dunbar --- http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/002cpe/dunbar2002.htm "the medium is not the message," by jonathan kaplan, inside higher ed, august 11, 2009 --- http://www.insidehighered.com/views/2009/08/11/kaplan a few weeks ago, the u.s. department of education released a report that looked at 12 years' worth of education studies, and found that online learning has clear advantages over face-to-face instruction.
the university model of teaching and learning relies on a hierarchy of expertise, disciplinary divides, restricted admission to those considered worthy, and a focused, solitary area of expertise.
jesse h. jones distinguished professor of business administration trinity.
the article cited below is one  of many articles and speeches from leading educators who consider diplomas and  degrees obsolete: a seamless, cradle -to-grave educational system is within our reach, if we  muster the courage and will to create it.
reasons why students often prefer online courses may have little or nothing to do with actual learning.
here the miniature guide to critical thinking concepts & tools ---  click  here "critical thinking:  why it's so hard to teach," by  daniel t. willingham --- http://www.aft.org/pubs-reports/american_educator/issues/summer07/crit_thinking.pdf also see simorleon sense ---   http://www.simoleonsense.com/critical-thinking-why-is-it-so-hard-to-teach/ “critical thinking is not a set of skills that can be  deployed at any time, in any context.
to me, that means having a community that fulfills all participants' needs to connect, while achieving academic objectives.
i lecture to a group of 750 students (!!)
- avoid requiring rote memorization of cal online material.
and a student who has learned to thoughtfully discuss the causes of the american revolution from both the british and american perspectives doesn’t even think to question how the germans viewed world war ii.
http://www.columbia.edu/cu/news/00/04/fathom.html for more about knowledge portals, go tohttp://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/portals.htm eight years ago the accounting faculty at baylor university tore down the stovepipes between traditional accounting core classes (financial accounting, managerial accounting, taxation, accounting information systems, and auditing) to achieve integrated coverage across a three-semester sequence.
somewhat of a substitute for hard core refereeing is a record of correspondence that is received from scholars and students who use your web documents.
the casb program is flexible, combining the successful completion of a series of online modules with a three-year term of professional experience.
it is too soon to predict when and how fast accredited programs will be online, but traditional colleges and universities are not waiting for the business world to take over market shares.
for more on the relation between communications and pedagogy, see http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/slide01.htm.
university, san antonio, tx 78212-7200 voice: 210-736-7347 fax: 210-736-8134 original message----- from: benjamin plummer [smtp:bplummer@trinity.edu] sent: wednesday, march 04, 1998 9:43 am to: rjensen subject: on-line course: pharmaceuticals, their discovery, regulation and bob, another interesting development from our professional society for on-line learning.
pollack concedes, as mead and others point out, that poor performance in school is also tied to factors like race and class, but he insists that boys as a group—including white, middle-class boys—are sinking, pointing to studies that suggest they are less likely to do their homework and more likely to drop out of high school.
whether or not the "labor" (faculty, graduate  students, or hired guns) will be provided by the "vendor" (say mit)  or the "customer" (say trinity university) is a matter of conjecture.
the book is partially about interacting with boys on their own terms, but it also encourages adults to help them develop "emotional literacy" and to counter the "culture of cruelty" among older boys.
for some, that might mean that their online work should figure into tenure and promotion decisions.
his polling also points to other challenges that colleges will face as they race to serve a worldwise generation of 18-to-29-year-olds that mr. zogby calls "first globals."
"for higher education, it is a positive and useful and constructive approach," mr. callan said.
will higher education adopt business strategies?
except for one article, on this web site, you probably didn’t hear about it -- and neither did anyone else.
however, sdl applications have moved quickly to computer networks and cd-roms with hypertext and hypermedia.
from: "dr. jim beard" (jbeard@catawba.edu) >organization: catawba college >to:cur-l@mcs.anl.gov >date: tue, 3 mar 1998 08:39:21 est5edt >mime-version: 1.0 >subject: on-line course: pharmaceuticals, their discovery, regulation and >priority: normal >sender: owner-cur-l@mcs.anl.gov >precedence: bulk > · pharmaceuticals, their discovery, regulation and manufacture · olcc-3 > ·
“knowing that one should think critically is not the same as being able to do so.
boys are more likely than girls to be diagnosed with attention-deficit disorder, but girls are more likely to be diagnosed with depression.
it is often the case that distance education courses are taught by non-tenured instructors, and non-tenured instructors may be easier with respect to grading than tenured faculty because they are even more in need of strong teaching evaluations --- so as to not lose their jobs.
however, their explosive growth in the networking technology paradigm shift is a new phenomenon that makes it possible for traditional universities to bridge curricula gaps.
(2) students will continue to consider employment at other firms.
enrolling in the e&y masters program is the first step.
what web browser do you use? > >
this can lead to much better case writing if you’ve got a tough skin for constructive criticism.
although live classes will continue into the foreseeable future, on-line synchronous delivery could supplant television should the quality of the two methods become comparable.
the message came from tom frecka director, m.s. in accountancy programs, university of notre dame february 15, 1999 bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents deere contracts with indiana university for online mba degrees in finance "deere & company turns to indiana university's kelley school of business for online mba degrees in finance," yahoo press release, october 8, 2001 ---http://biz.yahoo.com/prnews/011008/cgm034_1.html
by separating instruction from assessment, teaching from degree granting, content development from content delivery, and even service from compliance on the part of the government, traditional roles are redefined and new ones emerge.
"what seems to most resonate with teachers and parents is not as much the empirical evidence but this sense of boys being unmoored or purposeless in a vaguely defined way," mead says in an interview.
close on gurian's heels was real boys, by william pollack.
(slade) librarians will now be communicating with students in remote locations via e-mail, video conferencing, chat lines, or audio conferencing.
perhaps the biggest advantage we have at uconn is that we have tas for our msa courses.
we all know that all the evidence points to the inability of humans to concentrate in such environments for more than a few minutes at a time.
on-campus courses will be available for certifications across a wide  variety of educational accomplishments.
" bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents
improved tools will reduce the need for gt, but i don't see how we maintain interesting human interaction.
newer technologies include text, audio, and video conferencing via computer networks.
boyhood studies—virtually unheard of a few years ago—has taken off, with a shelf full of books already published, more on the way, and a new journal devoted to the subject.
more recent applications are summarized in "teaching on the web and the studio classroom," syllabus, april 1998, 37-39.
this starts early with toddler t-shirts emblazoned with "future all-star" or "little champion."
newer technologies such as retinal scanners are emerging to verifiy that the student taking the examination is truly the student who is authorized to take the examination.
- obtain student feedback on cal modules.
there could be a $500 premium service involving time with experts face-to-face, on-line or in video-conference.
some students at other universities became irate when freeman failed to respond to their queries.
first, distributed education (whether distance or proximity) is going to become a more prominent feature of the academic landscape.
or part-timers might visit reserved sections of the library, only to find that desperate students have torn out the pages of a book or stolen it altogether.
introduction before reading this, you should read about asynchronous learning at   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/asynchronous_learning some futurists predict that our physical campuses will decay and crumble as  higher education alternatives explode on the web.
read about when one of the chronicle’s senior editors took a governmental accounting course at the university of  phoenix during which the instructor of the course had not idea thatgoldie  blumenstyk was assessing how difficult or how easy the course was for students  in general.
let’s explore this in depth by looking at a  particular kind of critical thinking that has been studied extensively: problem  solving.
continued in article jensen's helpers for case writers august 28, 2009 message from patricia walters [patricia@disclosureanalytics.com] here's an apropos question given recent threads.
"the puzzle of boys: scholars and others debate what it means to grow up male in america," by thomas bartlett, chronicle of higher education's chronicle review, november 22, 2009 --- http://chronicle.com/article/the-puzzle-of-boys/49193/ my son just turned 3.
everybody expects high-prestige "vendor" universities and corporations to invest in aln courses and market them based upon vendor name recognition (e.g., mit or at&t).
brown thinks boys are more complicated, and less single-minded, than adults give them credit for.
most of our  campuses will thrive and prosperif we learn how to bridge our curriculum  gaps with the web and still maintain some of the best of what we traditionally  accomplish in classes and other face-to-face encounters with our students.
but kaplan above ignores some of the dark side aspects of distance  education and education technology in general ---  http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/theworry.htm the biggest hurdle, in  my opinion, is that if distance education is done correctly with intensive  online communications, instructors soon become burned out.
some large and small business organizations have delayed extending 800-number type services to web services due to the anticipation of being swamped with use of the web services and the added messaging that will accompany the web services.
by "pricey" the article means that the tuition alone is $82,500 for this online combination of synchronous and aln modules.
the conclusion: “students who took all or part of their class online performed better, on average, than those taking the same course through traditional face-to-face instruction.”
the university of phoenix has been good at attracting some top  professionals.
the only time they actually met offline was for a two day orientation at the drexell campus and after that it was totally online.
aln implicitly assumes computer networking and/or cd-rom hypertext and hypermedia.
[pbk1@axe.humboldt.edu ] the most frequent refrain that i hear from my wife is: "did you hear what i just said?"
boys, he says, tend to communicate through action.
steve hi john and pat and others, i would not say that out loud to amy dunbar or denny beresford that  they’re easy graders --- http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/002cpe/02start.htm i would not say that out loud to the graduates of two principles of  accountingweed out courses year after year at brigham young university where  classes meet on relatively rare occasion for inspiration about accountancy but  not technical learning ---   http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/thetools.htm#byuvideo try to tell the graduates of stanford university’s adept masters of  electrical engineering program that they had an easier time of it because the  entire program was online.
" -- rob weir "how to generate reader interest in what you write" by philip yaffe ubiquity, june 23 - 29, 2009 http://www.acm.org/ubiquity/volume_10/v10i7_yaffe.html "
it is suggested that students receive three semester hours of · credit for the course.
the course is very interactive.
the mba program curriculum will consist of twenty courses structured to meld individual student goals with the organizational needs of deere & company.
asynchronous computer networks have the  potential to improve contact with faculty, perhaps  making self-paced learning a realizable goal for some off- and on-campus  students.
what does intrigue me, however, is how an entire year of intermediate accounting (typically very tough courses requiring memorization of lots of accounting rules and procedures) is now being taught at the university of virginia totally without lectures by the two professors ( croll and catanach) who, up until 1996, lectured (quite brilliantly) in virtually every class.
(chronicle of higher education 2 apr 99) ideally, faculty or other expert help is available online to both help students and evaluate student work and ideas.
be that as it may, there are repeated reports of successes of sdl in both reduced cost and improved performance in training.
results show that network (distributed education) courses will be labor intensive in terms of dealing with student messaging and evaluation of student work.
fedex is one of the rare exceptions to offer to personally respond to public messaging athttp://www.fedex.com/email-form.html.
to help online students cope with this burden, a blog sponsored by western governors university offers survival tips.
- chat lines --- these are actually technologies for supplementing asynchronous messaging (like email and the internet) with synchronous messaging where students and faculty are assembled at the same point in time from various parts of the world to have synchronized communications.
hence, students are not all studying the same materials, and it becomes more difficult to lean on each other for help crossing troubled waters.
nevertheless it does suffer from some of the controversies such as the role it plays in admission of students, its role in setting workloads of employees who are working while taking the customized program, and the use of faculty and facilities that are heavily subsidized by taxpayers if the participating university is state supported.
(taken fromdangers of global education) - students loose out by not actually reading published books.
although not yet available for network distribution, adl may one day make it possible for trinity university students to take some of its courses in specialty areas such as the selected courses shown below that are in the present adl school of management curriculum: management information systems multinational management simulation national strategies and the global economy industry and competitive analysis
about the only time saved is the logistical time waster of commuting to and from a classroom site.
the scale experiments collected a lot of data pointing to more intense communications with instructors and more efficient use of student’s time that is often wasted in going to classes.
corbett, an assistant professor of psychology at new york university, wants to remind us not how boys are different from girls but how they're different from one another.
sdl is an older term that evolved from continuing (adult) education, correspondence courses, and corporate training.
the average cost per hour for delivering the traditional classroom instruction was $13.34, while the average for delivering the self-directed material was $7.76.it is interesting to note that the results of the learning indicate the self-direct approach proved as good as, or better than, the traditional learning method.
so how could the boys-in-trouble crowd have gotten it so wrong?
comment from bob jensen: i have never questioned the quality or integrity of the university of notre dame or uva.
business consulting course advanced finance course (still being developed)
those two courses are synchronous rather than asynchronous on the web.
projects and case studies are used to link relational topics in each of the five subject areas.
the entire program is a collaborative effort between students and faculty that is supported by a powerful web-enabled gdss tool.
corporate university programs will increasingly compete with traditional universities for entire degree programs.
athttp://www.resnet.trinity.edu/users/eeudy/aln.htm she writes the following: although it is too far fetched to say that we will turn into cold, heartless robots as a result of aln and that our society has become irrevocably orwellian, the lack of face-to-face social interaction could potentially do more harm than good in our education.
with its emphasis on creativity and competition, this marketplace will enable a wide range of players -- universities, media, publishers, content specialists, technology companies -- to market, sell, and deliver educational services online.
in our case, it was important for us to have a curriculum that was exactly consistent with the requirements for our existing m.s.in accountancy degree program.
an online version of the review article temporarily available at http://www.thejournal.com/magazine/current/news.asp i suggest that you download the above file before it disappears from the web.
other references are provided later on in this document under the section entitled "fostering deeper learning: risks of teaching more than you know." .
one of the most innovative web sites in the world is thebell labs web site that allow you to type in text and then choose how you want it read back.
significant statistical difference was demonstrated in  favor of interactive multimedia.
interestingly, many faculty members choose to teach online because they want more student interaction.
it is calledself-directed learning.
august 28, 2009 reply from bob jensen one of the most successful distance education programs in the world, in my viewpoint, is the masters degree program headquartered in vancouver called the chartered accountancy school of business ---http://www.casb.com/
or, it may be that this medium disinhibits student communication, thereby stimulating the message exchange process.
the rest of us have to do the best we can.
and in a comparison of students who enter college with "risk factors" that often contribute to their dropping out, phoenix's rates of completion for a bachelor's degree were substantially higher than for institutions over all.
students are apt to be more attentive to newer technologies simply because they are "new" curiosities.
industries are looking to higher education institutions to provide the necessary education and training.
the program is often specialized calendar, courses, and mode of delivery.
students will be more likely to select educational institutions based on offerings, convenience, and price than on geography.
it is designed to create value for our enterprise and allow us to attract and retain high-quality employees,'' said nate jones, chief financial officer at deere & company.
if done poorly, the culprit is most likely the tendency to assign part-time or otherwise non-tenured instructors to the distance education courses.
" -- philip yaffe bob jensen's threads on the dark side are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/theworry.htm my threads on education technology in general are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/0000start.htm
his background is in clinical psychoanalysis, feminism, and queer studies—in other words, as he points out in the introduction, "not your father's psychoanalysis."
a message from tom frecka director, m.s. in accountancy programs, university of notre dame bob jensen's reply comments are in red.
we surveyed our faculty to find out why attendance had declined at our on-campus technology conference (scheduled during a day when classes were not in session).
- you can become a part of a world wide movement of researchers experimenting with new and creative ways to utilize modern technology in education.
- both better student performance and higher evaluations of instructors can result.
“it’s now a factual statement that online learning is woven into the fabric of higher education,” wilson said.
in double blind studies of the impact of technologies upon learning, hawthorne effects are particularly troublesome.
several faculty at drexel university who participated in a sloan aln grant warn that: institutions as a whole must also be committed to aln-based education and training.
i am less close with colleagues that i "see" in our hallways than with many of you with whom i correspond regularly.
visitors to the cvu web site can register to be notified by e-mail when new courses are added by accredited california campuses.
"i used to get 40 calls on my voice-mail before i even started work.
i think it’s very rewarding to look at grading in formal studies using the same full-time faculty teaching sections of online versus onsite students.
since most new hires hope to stay with a large public accounting firm for at least three years, the three year indenture is no big deal.
(explain> > >public institution ___
in defining the  word 'teaching', i think many people overemphasize the last transition that i  mentioned, thinking that the primary movement of information is from them(the  teacher) to the students.
but this spring she finally took the plunge, and now she has  completed a class in government and nonprofit accounting through the university  of phoenix.
bob jensen the one thing to keep in mind is that there is no one pedagogy that is best  in all circumstances.
how easy it becomes to beat the speaker in putting that speaker's presentation into printed text.
in fact, my penchant for listening without hearing has become somewhat of a joke between us.
eight years ago the accounting faculty at baylor university tore down the stovepipes between traditional accounting core classes (financial accounting, managerial accounting, taxation, accounting information systems, and auditing) to achieve integrated coverage across a three-semester sequence.
and is this relative aware of my son's fondness for hello kitty and tea sets?
pat august 27, 2009 message from amy dunbar
project management of technology strategy implementation systems thinking simulation business process reengineering (bpr)
according to the study, professors are open to teaching online courses (defined in the study as courses where at least 80 percent of the course is administered on the web), but do not believe they are receiving adequate support from their bosses.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about faculty efficiency and burnout online education is now part of "fabric" of public universities, a new study finds.
the internet lowers the threshold of entry to the higher education marketplace for new commercial and nonprofit educational providers by eliminating many barriers.
in the book, mr. zogby also highlights the emerging influence of the first globals, whom his book calls "the most outward-looking and accepting generation in american history."
in the end, i concluded their was little for me to like about this mode of instruction.
“it has grown faster over the last six years than any other sector of higher education … and it will keep growing.”
yet as technology practice creates, technology theory is if anything becoming even more conforming and less relevant.
some conditions are easily met with existing technologies such as timing the examination and webcams and microphones that allow the examiners to view and hear the student from most any distance around the world.
we know that online learning requires devout attention on the part of both the professor and the student -- and a collaboration between the two -- in a different way from that of a face-to-face classroom.
what happened to lego?
``graduates of this program will learn skills that help them better meet the challenges of improving business performance and delivering value to shareholders.''
- bulletin board system (bbs) - the electronic version of a cork board with tacked messages.
in the october 20, 1997 issue of business week article on gemba, the title of the article is "the hottest campus on the internet:
corporate universities are not a new idea.
my introduction to ethics class  was divided into three groups:  text, film, and cd-rom.
i even like the messages that signal items to be corrected --- at least those users found my stuff worth correcting.
the wonder of boys has since sold more than a half-million copies, and gurian, who has a master's degree in writing and has worked as a family counselor, has become a prominent speaker and consultant on boys' issues.
the change in mental process has been brought about because "(1) information is freely available, and therefore interdisciplinary ideas and cross-cultural communication are widely accessible; (2) time is compressed, and therefore reflection is condensed and decision-making is compacted; (3) individuals are empowered, and therefore private choice and reach are strengthened and one person can have the presence of an institution" (sec: concluding remarks).
although dell corporation has over $2 million in sales per day from web site order forms, a message sent to the only email address provided at the dell web site reads as follows: please note, the webmaster@dell.com address is for communications regarding this website only.
for example, the business administration program at trinity university needs to introduce curriculum coverage of newer business technology courses that are not feasible to develop and administer with existing faculty.
" -- learner-centered approach faculty "need to get to know their students and assess each student's pre-existing knowledge, cultural perspectives, and comfort level with technology.
thus, the opportunity was added for social learning.
one question that comes to mind is how this fringe will be taxed by the irs?
each of the eight collaborating associations selected a representative journal for detailed review.
to provide the opportunity for students to gain an understanding of · the general procedures for drug testing, its limitations, analysis, · use and regulation > · 3.
aln appears to be  more like the old days where great teachers spent a lot of time with students  outside of class.
results show that network (distributed education) courses will be labor  intensive in terms of dealing with student messaging and evaluation of student  work.
chartered in 1971, som received accreditation in 1971 from the new england association of schools and colleges, inc., and is currently a pre-candidate for accreditation from the american assembly of collegiate schools of business (aacsb).
about the only thing she  hadn't done, it seemed, was to take a course from an online university.
and while it may be true that microbrews and zipcars, at least, are still very much niche products, mr. zogby says they are signs of transcendent change—just like the distance-education courses that are being offered by more and more institutions across the country.
bill graves discusses various "micro market" scenarios in "adapting to the emergence of educational micro markets" in the september/october 1997 issue ofeducom review (pp.
this is unfortunate because even though there is no standard formula for writing effective cases there are certain guidelines which i believe consistently lead to better cases.
i presume that many students will not want to incur this liability.
some advocates of aln having great successes with aln on campus may not have the same success with modem users.
cost, efficiency and ease of use have no equals to email and the internet.
if organizations regard the technology as a fad or as something in which they must become involved because of perceived competition, then they will not sustain alns as part of the primary delivery processes.
also see http://www.convergemag.com/workforce/47240132.html our compassless colleges --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/higheredcontroversies.htm#berkowitz professor arvan provides an online essay entitled "economics of aln: 1.
"technology in teaching can operate like an unguided missile unless the goals are well specified, such as changing student understanding," he says.
what seemed impossible to me were the following points that i concluded immediately after reading the packet of materials being sent to universities to distribute to undergraduate students and the information at the e&y web site on "the master plan" athttp://www.ey.com/careers/masters/default.asp the fact that the masters degrees are designated as accounting degrees and that the capstone course is the cpa review course, leads students and people like me into believing that these degrees enable graduates from the e&y program to sit for the cpa examination.
there are people that i hate to interrupt with a telephone call, but i am rarely embarrassed to send them email messages.
that was way more than you wanted to know, but i get carried away when i talk about online teaching.
now i realize that your program is not intended to make students elgible to sit for the cpa examination in many states.
they argue that this line of thinking miscasts boys as victims and ignores the very real problems faced by girls.
another powerpoint slide on the same pageshows substantial increases in communication between a student and the instructor(s) and other students .
however, with participatory learning and digital media, these conventional modes of authority break down.”
there are risks of copyright violations due to uncertainties in education fair use laws covering new technologies.
in the report, some of those outcomes look better than others.
all universities must ensure that students are meeting program  outcomes and learning what they need for their jobs.
see my photograph and commentary on this way of learning to write poetry --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/tidbits/2007/tidbits070905.htm the top case writers from harvard, stanford, and wharton are not likely to be active in nacra, active people in nacra are more apt to come from babson, bentley, northeastern, and state universities like south carolina.
since each student researches a unique situation, cheating is difficult.
kaplan also ignores some of the strong empirical support for online learning, especially the enlightening scale experiments at the university of illinois --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#illinois so much learning now takes place online, including faculty office hours, study groups, and lectures.
i am one who loves online teaching, but i miss being the “sage on the stage” on occasion.
*********************************************************** · pharmaceuticals, their discovery, regulation and manufacture > · fall 1998 > · on-line course registration form > >respondents are asked to expand spaces as necessary to answer >questions.
kaplan also ignores some of the strong empirical support for online learning, especially the enlightening scale experiments at the university of illinois --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#illinois august 28, 2009 reply from bob jensen one of the most successful distance education programs in the world, in my viewpoint, is the masters degree program headquartered in vancouver called the chartered accountancy school of business ---http://www.casb.com/
by competency-based i mean that instructors have inputs in designing examinations for all students in the program, but at the same time, have no input in grading individual students.
in 2008 the american association of university women issued a report, "where the girls are: the facts about gender equity in education," arguing not only that the alleged academic disparity between boys and girls had been exaggerated, but also that the entire crisis was a myth.
the brief answer is: thought processes are intertwined with what is being thought about.
whether college for them is a traditional complex of buildings or an interactive online message board, said mr. zogby, "there is a different student on campus." bob jensen's threads on distance education are at the following sites: "the great debate: effectiveness of technology in education ," by patricia deubel,t.h.e. journal, november 2007 --- http://www.thejournal.com/articles/21544
what follows is a set of assumptions about the digital future: the communications, computing, and information industries are converging in the digital environment.
note that corporations can limit 800-number phone messaging by simply setting the capacity for incoming telephone calls such that, when all lines are busy, the public must wait for an open phone line.
click here to view more discussion of the bam pedagogy at the university of virginia concerns in designs and evaluations of computer aided education and training: are we misleading ourselves about measures of success?
alfred p. sloan foundation's program in learning outside the classroom at http://w3.scale.uiuc.edu/scale/ it may well be that some of our universities will decide that their comparative advantage lies in operating highly personal, mediated, residential teaching experiences.
positive results on learning impacts may not be sustaining, however, after the novelty and curiosity factors decline with repeated use of the technology over time.
this does not necessarily mean
examples of real audio application in courses along with the use of other aln tools can be found in the power point slides at http://www.online.uillinois.edu/oakley/presentations/uiuc_als_links.html you can download a version of realplayer from http://www.real.com/ as an illustration, paul krause's streaming video accounting information systems lectures are linked and explained at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/ideasmes.htm#krause one of the more innovative applications of real audio online is in beth ingram's macro economics course at the university of iowa.
as quoted from the long range recommendations at http://www-evat.mit.edu/report/long.html in the executive summary of that same evat committee report it is stated that of all the possible futures for mit, the most disturbing is the one in which others find out how to offer distance education using advanced technologies, and mit either does not learn how, or elects not to offer it.
public broadcasting service (pbs) television networking of adult education and degree programs is now moving to the web (see http://www.pbs.org/learn/).
a recent survey of redvector.com clients indicates professionals and corporate leaders had different reasons for adopting online education.
there’s an interesting article entitled how researchers misconstrue causality: like elaborately plumed birds … we preen and strut and display our t-values.”
sept-aug (home&ey): distance learning (3 credits, one night per week) jan-april (home&ey): distance learning (3 credits, one night per week) june-aug (university): core program on campus (15 credits)
however, it is possible that the mickey mouse activities contribute significantly to long-term memory.
"we expect a certain amount of teasing, bullying, spoofing about being tough enough, even in animated films for the littlest boys," brown says.
[amy.dunbar@business.uconn.edu] hi pat, i can respond to a couple of your questions: >
for example, a motivated student could progress more rapidly toward a degree.
"the groundswell of student interest in web-based learning is like no other phenomenon i have seen in educational innovation," he says, after tests involving more than 2000 students.
but kaplan above ignores some of the dark side aspects of distance education and education technology in general --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/theworry.htm the biggest hurdle, in my opinion, is that if distance education is done correctly with intensive online communications, instructors soon become burned out.
thus, writers get to know one another intimately over time while computer-mediated conversations - both formal and informal - unfold.
"diplomas and degrees  are obsolete," d.n. langenberg, the chancellor of the university system of  maryland,the chronicle of higher education, september 12, 1997, page a64.
one of my students, elizabeth eudy, wrote the following at http://www.resnet.trinity.edu/users/eeudy/aln.htm i may be mistaken in the specific case, but the person in reykjavik, iceland who owns the domain name carnegiemellon.com seems well positioned to offer services in a way that just might be confused with services offered by a well known u.s. university.
it goes beyond academic performance, dealing with issues like suicide, bullying, and romance.
i have not yet achieved the correct balance.
an "internet" course is any course that makes use of the internet (usually by means of http protocols on the world wide web).
"these results demonstrate the quality of our program," said dr. charles davis, chair of the accounting & business law department.
the university of phoenix has been good at attracting some top professionals.
"the college of 2020: students," the chronicle of higher education, june 2009 --- http://research.chronicle.com/asset/thecollegeof2020executivesummary.pdf?utm_source=at&utm_medium=en this is the first chronicle research services report in a three-part series on what higher education will look like in the year 2020.
ok, we do have research tutorials (e.g. at the aaa annual meeting), but they are relatively rare.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents why top universities will be aln course "vendors" before reading this section, you may want to take a brief look at the web of asynchronous learning networks.
marilyn is a management professor (university of missouri in kansas city) who has been very active in the north american case research association.
i videotaped the presentation by professor lightner and nadig and will now share my summary of the highlights of this innovative international accounting course.
in addition, asynchronous courses may schedule synchronous virtual online meetings of subsets of students or entire classes of students.
institution: > >mailing address: > >city: > >state: > >primary course instructor: > >email address: > >business phone: > >fax number: > >home phone (optional>:> >
there are many public policy implications of networked learning and other emerging technologies.
in 1995, 1,920 learning plans were completed, resulting in 4,080 self-study hours, or 40% of the total course offerings.
one reason is that educational institutions have thrived on regional monopolies and/or the halo of hallowed tradition.
the two-part report, "online learning as a strategic asset,"  published by the association of public and land-grant universities (aplu) and  the alfred p. sloan foundation, summarizes the results of the aplu-sloan  national commission on online learning benchmarking study conducted in 2008 and 2009 that surveyed 45 public institutions across the u.s.
at their workstations, students had to type in their ideas for other group members to read and respond to; they also had to respond in return.
companies such as motorola, disney, aetna, xerox, u.s. west, levi strauss, owens-corning, and american airlines have all been implementing sdl in their long-term training and development strategies.
ifobits in may 1998 made the following announcement about a new cyberpsychology journal: cyberpsychology & behavior is a new, peer-reviewed journal for the mental health community devoted to the "impact of the internet, multimedia and virtual reality on behavior and society."
there are many problems, however, with both small group and large group f2f teaching and learning processes.
two companies that have enabled this technology are helping to reduce costs in their post graduate business training programs.
according to robert kuhn (2000), an expert in brain research, few people understand the complexity of that change.
the third scenario is to become a "mega" university aggressively marketing world wide online degree programs.
"education and training alternatives."
this was the case even in an "asynchronous" environment where i had the flexibility to conduct electronic office hours in my bathrobe over morning coffee or post feedback in the dead of night.
research is much, much more like the real work world that our graduates will experience than the f2f classroom.
these days, he said, students are much more likely to have experienced other cultures firsthand, either as tourists or because they have immigrated from someplace else.
in the first week the students describe their roles; then crises are provided, such as a currency slump, bank failure or misleading prospectus for a privatisation.
i would appreciate it if you would correct the erroneous impressions conveyed by your article.
the cambridge handbook of thinking and reasoning --- click here the miniature guide to critical thinking concepts & tools --- click here i must be psychic, because i've been saying this all along --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm so has amy dunbar --- http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/002cpe/dunbar2002.htm "the medium is not the message," by jonathan kaplan, inside higher ed, august 11, 2009 --- http://www.insidehighered.com/views/2009/08/11/kaplan a few weeks ago, the u.s. department of education released a report that looked at 12 years' worth of education studies, and found that online learning has clear advantages over face-to-face instruction.
asynchronous courses are also more demanding on materials development.
we met as a class once at the beginning of the semester and once again at the final exam.
two graders were trained and achieved more than 90 percent in grader  variabilility.
walmart, for example, naively installed a customer email answering service only to discover that the flow of message become a roaring stream that was overwhelming.
but without conscious, concerted effort, the results will be a continuation of today's inadequate, piecemeal solutions.
i think goldie’s audio report of her experience is still  available from thechronicle of higher education.
what seems to be more of a problem with asynchronous courses seems to be faculty burn out that, in large measure, is caused by increased communications with students.
spending on online continuing education passed the $9 billion mark in 2003, according to idc research, and grew to between $12 and 14 billion in 2004, according to bersin and associates.
thursdays are my toughest days because i am frequently on until 11 or 11:30.
"our grads have consistently earned the distinction of being in the list of top ten scorers on the cpa exam historically.
however, the sloan foundation experiments suggest that faculty/student and student/student communications increase with asynchronous courses.
when she does find the time, however, i'm in for big trouble.
that was edward leamer’s uncharitable description of his profession in 1983.
for example, i consider it shame when someone other than a major university uses a domain name of that university.
belatedly, it now appears to me that graduates from the e&y program will not be allowed to sit for the cpa examination in texas and some other states unless they take nearly an extra year of accounting coursework before or after completing the masters in accounting degree program funded by e&y.
the university of pheonix uses similar intranets for course material access athttp://www.uophx.edu/online/.
the majority of participants ... expressed the view that it was easier to express themselves at a higher cognitive level when they could present material using multiple media sources.”
he has urged colleges to be open in their reporting on themselves.
- research on effectiveness of cal is often futile due to the pace of technological change, the variation in learning ingredients, and hawthorne effects.
or so publishers thought.
the purpose of our evaluation of a right to die?
my students meet at least once a week in a group chat session, and they post the chats on the group boards (or forums as some instructors call them)..
he catches flak for supposedly overinterpreting neuroscience data to comport with his theories about boys.
some companies like wal-mart for a short time encouraged their web site users to send in messages and, soon thereafter, drowned in a sea of messages.
some universities have programs dedicated to particular firms such as the ernst and young's employee masters degree programs (university of virginia and notre dame) and pwc's employee mba program at the university of georgia.
excess rigor supports the demands of appointment, grant and promotion  committees, but is drying up the wells of academic inspiration."
virtually all of my students are full-time students who are taking at least five courses each semester.
further comment from baylor in our full news item.
problem 2: students, especially undergraduate students, cannot have a complete learning experience without being physically present on a campus.
return this form to ( jbeard@catawba.edu>.
many of those networked courses will have such prestige "brand names" of stanford university, mit, harvard university, princeton university, northwestern university, university of michigan, university of texas, university of illinois, etc.
the problem may have  nothing whatsoever to do with online versus onsite education ---ergo  misconstrued causality.
- due to the large number of students taking aln courses and their tendency to contact professors frequently, more professors or teaching assistants are required to adequately teach a cyber course.
however, local · faculty are encouraged to provide an evaluative process also.
the following quotation from a high-level massachusetts institute of technology evat committee report says it all in terms of why top universities will offer networked courses and programs.
there could be many reasons for this, but, especially in light of the u.s. department of education study, it seems that online learning has contributed meaningfully to their becoming better teachers.
rob friedman first monday, vol.
business students make up 30% of the enrolment at uts but their courses get only 15% of total uts funding.
seven problems of online group learning (and their solutions).educational technology & society, 10 (4), 257-268.
some academics misuse the medium by merely posting their lectures on the web, he says.
at my web site, i have section for my "big ones that got away."
where networked technology can assist us is to change the teaching and learning model from sage/pupil towards research leader/co-researcher.
faculty or teaching assistants must be online to evaluate student written  and oral communications.
in reviving ophelia, mary pipher bemoaned a "girl-poisoning" culture that emphasized sexiness above all else.
microsoft corporation provides a recent online article by dees stallings entitled "applying taylor's efficiencies in cyberspace."
the texas requirements include30 credits beyond basic accounting courses that cover the following:: intermediate accounting advanced accounting auditing, internal accounting control and evaluation financial statement analysis accounting theory not-for profit accounting six credits of income tax accounting systems accounting report writing other recommended courses and areas are suggested in the law
im interested in doing a book-length project that has web links to my own set of materials and exercises.
so we are interested in what impact aln will have on  outcomes such as time-to-degree and student retention.
there have been some studies (one was reported in playboy) showing that husbands and wives that see each other every day have a surprisingly small amount of genuine communication except at certain peak moments such as when they are in a car together on a long trip or awaiting a meal by candlelight in a slow-service restaurant.
the pricewaterhouse coopers (pwc) mba program is not quite as controversial as the e&y master plan.
ultimately, the university made available a course management system, which significantly streamlined the effort on the part of faculty to make course materials available to the student.
- real and psuedo audio/video --- these are huge innovations for aln.
unfortunately, online formats do allow certain professors to hide behind  the electronic cloak and politely excuse themselves from the equation, which  greatly hurts the student.
``our faculty's talent in educational innovation enables us to create close relationships with the corporate community and construct programs according to their specific criteria.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about the explosion of aln in education concerns about residency living & learning on campus
results of some experiments in virtual learning at texas christian university are reported at http://zeta.is.tcu.edu/~blobert/vle/project.html.
pat august 28, 2009 reply from bob jensen hi pat, becoming a case writer might entail a career shift in your “case.”
imagine a seventh-grade math class immersed in word problems.
early application of technology merely supplied a web site on which were posted syllabus, readings and assignments.
you can read more about speech recognition technologies at http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/245glosf.htm#speech1 .
it has been available since 1999 to qualified working professionals who continue their employment while earning their degrees.
this essay is intended to provide an economics framework for explaining what is going on here, across disciplines, to suggest future directions for validating our contention, and to aid instructors in thinking about how to use aln in their course.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about corporate influences on traditional missions there are two types of partnerings between business firms and universities.
they might study a certain subset of boys, but boys per se were off the table.
it’s more apparent when a student is falling behind and needs special attention.
my assumption is that full-time faculty compensation is comparable regardless of whether they teach on- or "off-" line
nacra reminds me of the annual poet critiquing conference that meets for a couple of weeks every summer down the road from where i live --- in the robert frost farmhouse museum.
it’s time for us to stop categorizing higher education by  the medium of delivery and start focusing on its impact and outcomes.
i appreciate your prompt response.
real audio/video commences to playback immediately without having to wait, and psuedo audio/video commences when only a portion (e.g., 10%) of a file has been downloaded.
the goal, according to milken, is to use computers and networking technologies to make education and training available virtually anywhere in the world.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents the myth of lower faculty cost: network bridges may be cheap shots or very costly to deliver i indicated above that my colleagues are skeptical about contracting for any networked aln courses even though some courses would greatly improve the curriculum at trinity university.
traditional distance learning formats are said to be plagued with this problem.[9] not so, in my experience with the interactive digital classroom.
among reasons for why they were not using technology in their work, they cited lack of the following: training, support, space, equipment, and knowledge of what was available and how items could be obtained.
(i should have checked bob's website first!)
now all western states are part of wgu and some states east of the mississippi river (e.g., indiana) are investigating how to join up.
admittedly, i jumped to some erroneous conclusions prior to learning more about the e&y master plan curriculum.
for example, there are times when i feel a bit intimidated myself in the presence of some people that i communicate freely with by email.
they will need to change in three different ways.
but that’s because of my wants, not because i think it is a more effective way to teach.
mead wrote a paper in 2006 that argued, much like the later aauw report, that the boys' crisis was bunk.
in the sloan foundation funded aln courses, it was discovered that students normally reluctant to communicate in traditional classrooms and faculty offices suddenly want to write vast amounts in writing assignments and other messages in the illinois aln experimental courses.
many conceal email addresses of employees.
faculty members occasionally miss class due to illness or scheduling conflicts, but faculty miss class much less often than computers crash on most campuses.
in many ways, i know my online students better and many stay in touch.
i’ll address each in turn.
read the new report, "the college of 2020: students," from chronicle research services.
producing good aln materials entails significant training of faculty and reconsideration of reward structures for learning materials development of college faculty.
for others, “acknowledgment” might equate to some extra cash in their paycheck.
an enormous problem for universities who engage more and more in aln courses that rely daily upon networking systems is to keep those systems efficient and reliable for students.
in addition, nearly 64 percent of faculty said it takes  'somewhat more' or 'a lot more' effort to teach online compared to a  face-to-face course.
for further information about previous on-line courses like this, see >the web pages for olcc-1 at http://www.py.iup.edu/college/chemistry/chem-course/webpage.html and additional information and evaluations of olcc-1 at http://www.clarkson.edu/~rosen2/olcc.html.
our experience shows that the production and delivery costs of adequate quality multimedia content are high.
educators have long noted that school attendance and even academic success are no guarantee that a student will graduate an effective thinker in all situations.
so if teaching an online course is a ton of work and support from administrators is lacking, why bother doing it?
students are already exercising their consumer rights and demanding "just-in-time" learning, rather than conforming to university teaching schedules.
in the three years since the conference was launched, we have had steadily fewer faculty attending.
4, no. 2, july 2007), the authors provide a review of the literature to determine methods for "engaging students with the goals of enhancing the learning process and reducing attrition rates."
yet this study confirms what those of us working in distance education have witnessed for years: good teaching helps students achieve, and good teaching comes in many forms.
the study,  "an evaluation of evidence-based practices in online learning: a  meta-analysis and review of online learning studies," stated that  “students who took all or part of their class online performed better, on  average, than those taking the same course through traditional face-to-face  instruction.”
along with this cooperation, though, "the supplying of library services will become highly competitive, and libraries may choose to outsource the provision of services to other institutions" (cavanagh).
the first type is where the university's faculty deliver a specialized degree program to employess of a business firm.
this semester we will also be using the web software "mallard" for having the students do quizzes online.
electronic communications, of course, are not as satisfactory in many respects as face-to-face encounters.
perhaps it is because they learn to appreciate my work more after they have graduated.
i do not charge any textbook fee because my modules are personal, incorporating pictures of grandchildren on occasion, and certainly humor here and there.
kelley's senior faculty designed the program specifically for john deere, with input from the deere finance division's senior management team.
my role in the classroom is making it easier for information to move from one place to another - from point a to point b. this could be from textbook to student, it could be from the outside world to the student, from another student to the student, from the student him or herself to that same student and from teacher to student (me to them).
it deals with the costs and effort required to set up a first class academic program for 2000 students that is made up of students and faculty scattered around the world.
however, for many organizations (such a microsoft, dell, etc.) cannot handle email traffic, so that sometimes the only way to transmit facsimiles is via fax, postal services, or other express mail services.
"people were hungry for it," he says.
re communication/speech courses, our program includes a required negotiations/communication course and a required consulting course.
students do meet face-to-face on some weekends (monthly?) for some live classes --- case studies and examinations.. one other competency-based distance education program that has been booming in recent years is western governors university in the u.s. --- http://www.wgu.edu/ most other distance education programs allow instructors more latitude in assigning grades.
in the 21st century, however, networking technologies will gnaw away at traditional comparative advantages.
pricewaterhouse coopers (pwc) has a custom mba program leading to an mba degree from the university of georgia's terry college of business with the following attributes: 1.
an excellent review of this trend is given by jeanne c. meister in a book entitledcorporate universities (mcgraw hill companies, 1998).
corbett disputes the idea that boys as a group are in peril.
there is an odd tendency for rigorous thinking to cling to particular examples or types of problems.
equipping divisions (e.g., a college of business within the university) with their own servers, labs, and computing maintenance centers reduces the risks of university-wide computer system failure, but the cost becomes enormous in terms of hardware and personnel costs.
the news isn't good here, either.
alfred p. sloan foundation's program in learning outside the  classroom at http://w3.scale.uiuc.edu/scale/ another study that i love to point to was funded by the chronicle of  higher education.
for example, where i might put approximately 36 hours of work per week routinely into a regular course load with a total of 120 students in four traditional class sections at a large public university, online instruction at fielding required 50 hours or more per week - with only 24 students in just three sections of my digital classes.
the factor that will close that "enthusiasm gap" is the growing use of distance education by well-respected universities, mr. zogby predicts in the book,the way we'll be: the zogby report on the transformation of the american dream(random house).
that requires domain knowledge and practice.”
however, be reasonable about the time expected for network learning outside of class.
with online courses, companies no longer have to pay travel and hotel costs and employees can be more productive since they aren't spending time traveling.
as the u.s. department of education study concluded, online education can do that and much more.
in theory, then, collaborations using web-based editing tools can potentially boost understanding, at least visually.
the program helps the companies to eliminate the some costs and uncertainties of trying to hire full-qualified employees from major universities and also the time lost when employees have to go to these classes during normal working hours.
among the study's findings was that "a shift to an entirely new funding model in the pure form of open access (author/producer pays) in which the costs of publishing research articles in journals are paid for by authors or a funding agency, and readers have access free online, is not currently a sustainable option for any of this group of journals based on the costs provided."
economics has been a driving force behind growth in online professional education.
this is an invitation to register your school for the on-line chemistry course for upper division chemistry students (prerequisite - one year of organic chemistry) to be held during the fall term of 1998.
introductory statement at http://www.arthurdlittle.com/default.htm
it was created in collaboration with the kelley school's corporate executive education clients, who voiced a need for mba skills throughout their work forces.
the alfred p. sloan foundation's program in learning outside the classroom has issued a number of asynchronous learning network (aln ) grants including a $500,000 grant to the new virtual western governors university and similar (larger and smaller) grants to brown university, cornell university, virginia tech, university of minnesota, penn state, nyu, uc berkeley, stanford university, and many others listed at http://www.sloan.org/education/aln.new.html#grants.
there’s an interesting article entitled how researchers misconstrue causality: like elaborately plumed birds … we preen and strut and display  our t-values.”
the second scenario, according to dr. graves, is to become a "meta" university like the university of utah that is retaining its traditional market niche while exporting several networked courses to the new online western governors university.
ask a representative of the aauw about a pitfall that appears to disproportionately affect boys, like attention-deficit disorder, and the representative will counter that the disparity is overplayed or that girls deal with equally troubling issues.
she states: librarians must change their role if they want to keep up with the changes in education.
also, some of our traditional courses perhaps should no longer meet in  regularly scheduled class periods even if these courses are only made available  to resident students.
thus, in a debate on effectiveness or on implementation of a particular tool, we must also consider the potential for creativity, innovation, volatility, and turbulence that kuhn (2000) indicates.
what concerned me more than any other thing in all of this was a claim made (in the student application form and at the e&y web site) that reads as follows: "we worked with the universities to ensure that the master's program offers you the best education through a schedule which also allows you to develop skills and knowledge to prepare you to excel at ernst & young."
but mr. zogby writes that polling by his organization shows that attitudes about online education are changing fast.
my ta was one of my top students, and he applied to become my ta after he earned his msa.
at the end of his address, in response to a question from the audience, he did raise two very serious concerns (that i paraphrased below from my videotape of his remarks): problem 1: one day a "university" may only be left with onsite faculty and programs that distributed education vendors are not willing to "pay for."
junk bond king michael milken is putting together a virtual education training empire known as knowledge universe.
in one large (ok, its enormous!) lecture theatre.
even once-benign toys like legos and nerf have assumed a more hostile profile with lego exo-force assault tigers and the nerf n-strike raider rapid fire cs-35 dart blaster.
thus, we seek professionals who are committed to becoming the top business advisors in the ever-changing global marketplace.
bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about academic standards and student ethics one of my students, sophia mena, at http://www.resnet.trinity.edu/users/smena/learning.htm wrote the following: the first thing that came to mind when i first started researching the virtual classroom is how professors monitor if students are doing their own work.
the program is an employment fringe benefit and even provides income ($1,000 per month) in addition to tuition, fees, room, board, and books.
the most time consuming thing that i do is read the chats which sometimes go on for several hours, depending on how lengthy the homework quizzes are.
this makes it almost impossible to write down down complete lectures for asynchronous courses having no lectures.
mike also discusses the issue that you raised in your message to me.
in 2006, the national humanities alliance (nha) created a task force  to assist in "exploring issues related to scholarly journal publishing in  [u.s.] humanities and social science (hss) associations."
the "prime minister" can even negotiate privately with the "stock exchange chairman", as occurs in the real world.
for more on this, go tohttp://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/assess.htm "the chronicle's special report on online learning explores how calls for quality control and assessment are reshaping online learning, " (not free),chronicle of higher education, november 2011 --- https://www.chronicle-store.com/store/productdetails.aspx?co=cq&id=78602&cid=ol_nlb_wc the chronicle's special report on online learning explores how calls for quality control and assessment are reshaping online learning.
national surveys show that a majority of americans think online universities offer a lower quality of education than do traditional institutions.
(4) distance learning courses will be taught by faculty at nd and uva.
future of scholarly publishing
to subscribe, send the word sunscribe tovug@oaknetpub.com.
goldie came away from the course exhausted.
recently, president obama remarked, “i think there’s a possibility  that online education can provide, especially for people who are already in the  workforce and want to retrain, the chance to upgrade their skills without  having to quit their job.”
bob jensen's threads on controversies of education technology and online learning are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/0000start.htm bob jensen's threads on online training and education alternatives are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/crossborder.htm bob jensen's threads on higher education controversies are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/higheredcontroversies.htm
these firms assert that the chinese government sets  stringent trade restrictions for u.s. entertainment products, even as it turns  a blind eye to chinese companies that copy american movies and television shows  and sell them on the black market.”
the study, "an evaluation of evidence-based practices in online learning: a meta-analysis and review of online learning studies," stated that “students who took all or part of their class online performed better, on average, than those taking the same course through traditional face-to-face instruction.”
at uic, this insight had direct application to the evolution of course materials.
so even though students  have been taught how to solve a particular type of word problem, when the  teacher or textbook changes the scenario, students still struggle to apply the  solution because they don’t recognize that the problems are  mathematically the same.
there is an enormous problem of assuming that students who wrote high evaluations of any course actually learned more than high performing students who hated the course.
using asynchronous network courses to bridge gaps in the teeth of a university curriculum with imported gold: bridgework may be optimally effective only by incurring high labor expenses bob jensen at trinity university last revised on october 31, 2000 before reading this, you should read about asynchronous learning at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/asynchronous_learning introductory quotations: we are particularly interested in new outcomes that may be possible through aln.
the on-line activities will be scheduled for september 14 to november 25, 1998.
- facsimile or fax - with advances in email that allow for graphics, audio, and other file attachments, fax technologies are losing out to modern email.
the alternative option is to contract for selected aln courses from other developers (vendors).
far more serious are the lack of credit given to technology innovations in promotion, pay-raise, publication, and tenure decisions.
i have published many papers and several books (a sign of my advanced age), but i have never had the "action" following hard copy publication that i get from web publication.
the failing of distance education lies more in the instructors than the  students.
this lacks the anonymity of the refereeing process.
if they cleverly use the technologies, phrases can be easily modified so it becomes more difficult to discover that the passage was first lifted and then modified so as to escape detection.
when i made a presentation at the university of georgia on november 13, 1998 my afternoon audience was comprised of faculty members in college of business (including former fasb chairman denny beresford) who are teaching in the online mba program resulting from a partnering of the university of georgia and pricewaterhouse coopers (pwc).
question is, does one receive academic credit for producing work on the internet?
kevin informed me that the e&y master plan's curriculum differs only slightly fromm.s. in accountancy curriculum that notre dame offers to students in its regular program.
this latter is a special focus for us.
later reports in this series will look at college technology and facilities in 2020, and the faculty of the future.
people don't see it as a reactionary movement."
although us news and world report and money magazine have both given trinity university the distinction of being number 1 in its classification (western region), there are gaps in the teeth of its curriculum.
development of clinically useable drugs including optimization of · novel lead structures and assessment of pharmacodynamics, safety and · efficacy of promising drug candidates > · 3.
managing office technology : cleveland.
in addition, there are disruptions due to necessary maintenance and updating of computer systems.
in some instances the price of importing a course may not be significant (e.g., when the course is developed using state funds with the proviso that other institutions in the state are to share in the results).
private institution ___ >
at walden university, where i am president, we have been holding ourselves  accountable for years, as have many other online universities, regarding  assessment.
risks and opportunities.
it is tempting to contemplate adding courses by  contracting for networked courses developed by and possibly distributed from  other universities.
another reason universities may one day be vendors of networked courses is that grants have been provided to a significant number of universities to develop asynchronous networked courses.
ceo stanley chodorow said in a mid-march e-mail message that "we just did not have enough fuel to get up to takeoff speed."
however, they may also be intent upon bringing down the system or parts thereof.
the three opinion types identified through this study, however, correlate closely with results reported in the literature.
he says the numbers might skew a little high because this poll was conducted online and the definition of an online course was broad, including certificate programs or training modules offered by employers.
a good example of this cooperation, is western governors university, which is a university made by the governors of the western states.
the bam asynchronous courses at the university of virginia have heavy workloads, but professors croll and catanach manage to pull these courses off with some of the highest instructor evaluations in the mcintire school of commerce.
although the study had a small sample size, ice suggested in an interview that the “multiple forms of sensory input” such as charts, links and graphics not only make the information more understandable to the reader “but apparently ... students are learning more from that process as well"; a process that’s not too different from the wiki editing experience.
they can be virtually paperless and administered with little or no contact between faculty and students.
approximately 50% of the associates selected a self-study course to learn what they needed.
judith boettcher describes the range of "web-light" to "web courses" possibilities as follows: i think it is useful to describe some of the characteristics for courses using these new technologies.
the cvu is a tremendous resource for anyone seeking education online.
to date, knowledge universe has invested multimillions of dollars to acquire and build an online educational empire that will challenge schools ranging from local elementary schools to ivy league universities.
at walden university, where i am president, we have been holding ourselves accountable for years, as have many other online universities, regarding assessment.
i hope to provide my students with more time to study what they find and less time trying to find what they study.
advantages and disadvantages of doing so are discussed in http://www.trinity.edu/~rjensen/245ch02.htm#asynchronous1.
a mixed report card
the readiness program and eight graduate courses meet in traditional classroom settings while students are in residence on the university campuses.
- you can experiment with paperless courses.
here the miniature guide to critical thinking concepts & tools ---  click
course materials may be accessed directly from the worldwide web.
education will no longer take place within the silos of individual institutions (or even their virtual equivalents).instead education will occur within a dynamic global marketplace of customers and suppliers.
another type of partnering is where the business firms deliver courses for the university degree programs.
muds are multi-user dimensions or multiple user dungeon, or multiple user dialogue.
a more respected way to lower messaging costs is to investigate why students need to have such frequent messaging with the course instructor or teaching assistants.
of course the prestigious schools also have professional case writing experts who work alongside faculty, such that professors who really want to write successful cases also have an edge when being on the faculty of prestigious universities like harvard, wharton, and stanford.
- delete as well as add material with each revision (or create optional rather than required links to material of less importance in the course).
- colleges are expanding their markets with cal in lifelong learning programs.
read about when one of the chronicle’s senior editors took a governmental accounting course at the university of phoenix during which the instructor of the course had not idea thatgoldie blumenstyk was assessing how difficult or how easy the course was for students in general.
probably the best place to start is with the journal of asynchronous learning --- http://www.sloan-c.org/publications/jaln/index.asp for example, one of the archived articles is entitled “"identifying student attitudes and learning styles in distance education" in the september 2001 edition --- http://www.sloan-c.org/publications/jaln/v5n2/v5n2_valenta.asp three opinion types were identified in this study:
large group lectures lead, in my view, to the "i attend, therefore i learn" syndrome.
happiness and learning are two different things.
at the moment, microsoft corporation is leading the way in installing technologies at stanford university that will put every business administration course on a network server.
college isn't the only relevant benchmark.
for example, intechnological horizons in education the ( http://www.thejournal.com), march 1997, pp. 66-68, the director of information resources (michael conlon) at the university of florida reports on the mooville writing workshop for over 2,500 students per semester at the university of florida.
as the u.s. department of education study  concluded, online education can do that and much more.
i view it as taking the mickey mouse drudgeries of finding things that consume time.
completing a masters degree while working at ernst & young offers you that opportunity.
yet this study confirms what those of us working in  distance education have witnessed for years: good teaching helps students  achieve, and good teaching comes in many forms.
volume i: "a resource for campus leaders" reports the  results of 231 interviews conducted with administrators, faculty, and  students on online learning programs and initiatives.
there can be no instructor-option subjective factors when assigning grades, which means no changes in grade for effort and interpersonal relationships.
if done well, distance education tends to burn out instructors and takes an extraordinary amount of time relative to teaching onsite.
in the september through april period, students can live at home, take two distance education courses while earning a full-time e&y salary that is not limited to $1,000 per month.
the course notification system can be personalized to match specific interest areas.
she shares tales from the cy ber-classroom -- and her final grade -- in a podcast with paul fain, achronicle reporter.
title: baylor cpa exam scores beat out other texas schools
this explosion offers all sorts of non-traditional career paths for educators, especially educators interested in development of learning materials for online courses.
no opportunity existed for conferencing; thus, there existed no opportunity for social learning.
the researchers said they were surprised to find so few rigorous studies of k-12 students, so the report urges caution when applying the results to younger students.
culprits do not even have to type the text.
online learning  occurs on the student’s time, making it more accessible, convenient, and  attainable.
the first way would be that "librarians will take on a more proactive role in the classroom and will work more collaboratively with the teaching faculty to develop assignments that are feasible in the off-campus/ distance environment."
this is a concern since it is pretty easy to disguise garbage as treasure at a web site.
before reading this you may want to visit the tools site at http://www.uwex.edu/disted/interactive.html also see tools and tricks of the trade at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/000aaa/thetools.htm "the chronicle's special report on online learning explores how calls for quality control and assessment are reshaping online learning, " (not free),chronicle of higher education, november 2011 --- https://www.chronicle-store.com/store/productdetails.aspx?co=cq&id=78602&cid=ol_nlb_wc the chronicle's special report on online learning explores how calls for quality control and assessment are reshaping online learning.
treating boys as problems to be solved, rather than subjects to be studied, is a mistake, he says, and much of the writing on boys "doesn't illuminate the experience of being a boy, but it does illuminate the space between a boy and a parent."
pwc pays the tuition and other fees.
the agreement gives both schools complete control over the curriculum.
the global learning infrastructure draws its capabilities from digital technology and the internet.
pollack, an associate clinical professor of psychology at harvard medical school and director of the centers for men and young men, writes that behind their facade of toughness, boys are vulnerable and desperate for emotional connection.
if distance education becomes well understood by other universities but not us, we are at risk of losing our reputation as leaders in education.
the listservs and webboards will be used for the · discussion of concepts and processes.
these sessions were actually more work for me than calling them into the classroom because all of the "lecture slides" had to be prepared "in good form" in advance.
my assumption is that full-time faculty compensation is comparable regardless of whether they teach on- or
the transmitted materials may be selected materials or entire courses.
(phoenix did not track the progress of individual students, but mapp officials said the university's pool of freshmen and seniors taking the test was large enough and random enough to justify its using different groups of students for comparisons.)
this article describes some ways to improve efficiencies of asynchronous courses.
in reality, the e&y master plan is one of the largest fringe benefits in the history of public accounting firms.
email messaging cannot be controlled with "busy signals."
chances are that many of the messages arise because of deficiencies in the provided aln materials.
he was extremely positive about opportunities for aln networking and bridging of curriculum gaps with web courses that in many instances will become much higher in quality than a single university will normally be able to develop only for its own campus.
rapid shift in attitude yet in another national poll in december 2007, conducted for excelsior college, 45 percent of the 1,004 adults surveyed believed "an online class carries the same value as a traditional-classroom class," and 43 percent of 1,545 chief executives and small-business owners agreed that a degree earned by distance learning "is as credible" as one from a traditional campus-based program.
clearly, expansion into corporate education and training expands the market alternatives for colleges facing a shrinking and increasingly competitive environment for traditional students and traditional continuing education students.
to provide an environment in which students will interact · locally and at a distance to do brain-storming, data-gathering, data · analysis and problem-solving > · 5.
capitalize on market forces to achieve these goals and provide the flexibility to respond to evolving requirements.
a message about an online course from the harvard law school is provided in appendix 2.
one type of intranet is formed when a textbook publisher restricts access to only users who have paid for the right to open an online textbook.
i also can figure out where students are having trouble when more than one group is struggling with an issue, and i can respond by revising the content module.
i sure hope so, because like many of the people on this list, i have devoted many hours of my life to the pursuit of better f2f small group teaching! .
but that does not mean, according to sommers, that they "need to be rescued from their masculinity."
perhaps the most provocative book of the bunch is the war against boys: how misguided feminism is harming our young men, by christina hoff sommers.
everyone was worried about how girls were being portrayed in the mass media and what that was doing to their self-esteem.
click here to view working paper 290 on course authoring history and future of course authoring technologies http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/290wp/290wp.htm bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents introduction before reading this, you should read about asynchronous learning at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/asynchronous_learning some futurists predict that our physical campuses will decay and crumble as higher education alternatives explode on the web.
the story notes that until fairly recently, online education amounted to little more than electronic versions of the old-line correspondence courses.
in the above essay, professor arvan discusses aln in terms of students classified as "eager beavers" versus "drones"versus "sluggos."
gurian counters that his work has been misrepresented and that the success of his programs backs up his scientific claims.
digital technology will continue its rapid ascent as analog technologies continue to decline.
- remember the kiss (keep it simple stupid) rule.
it is often the case that distance education courses are taught by  non-tenured instructors, and non-tenured instructors may be easier with respect  to grading than tenured faculty because they are even more in need of strong  teaching evaluations --- so as to not lose their jobs.
http://www.aplu.org/netcommunity/document.doc?id=1879 the association of public and land-grant universities (aplu), formerly the  national association of state universities and land-grant colleges (nasulgc),  was founded in 1887 and represents 186 public research universities in the  united states.
when one is very familiar with  a problem’s deep-structure, knowledge about how to solve it transfers  well.
http://www.cs.trinity.edu/~rjensen/000cpe/00start.htm evaluation of aln programs at the university of north texas evaluation of aln experiments at the new jersey institute of technology evaluation of audit education in nyu's virtual college conclusion advice to new faculty and bob jensen's letter to the wall street journal fostering deeper learning: risks of teaching more than you know appendix 1: links to some key web sites appendix 2: messages about aln courses an online course from the harvard law school an aln online course sponsored by the american chemical society online biology at the university of colorado at denver
in some ways investigating suspected plagiarism is easier on the web.
the report has an answer for that: "many people remain uncomfortable with the educational and professional advances of girls and women, especially when they threaten to outdistance their peers."
ernst & young has established programs with two top tier schools; the university of notre dame and the university of virginia.
"that kind of surprised us," says one of the book's three authors, lyn mikel brown, a professor of education and human development at colby college.
they have troubles, sure, but so do other people.
>over 10000 undergraduate students ___ >
sylvan also has partnerships in distributed learning with the following organizations: the national geographic society johns hopkins university educational testing service the national association of secondary school principals children and adults with attention disorder deficits one of the best known global internet education systems with the latest technologies is uclas the home education network (then) at http://www.then.com/. current online programs include the following: award in general business studies (9 course program) cross-cultural language and academic development (clad) program (5 courses)
for example, the pricewaterhouse coopers mba program at the university of georgia has a customized calendar, customized courses, and all courses are delivered asynchronously on the web.
consumers will be able to purchase learning products independently and learn at their convenience, collectively spending millions of dollars on education each year.
why are students able to think critically in one situation, but not in  another?
currently, 65 percent of all workers use some type of information technology in their jobs.
kaplan also ignores some of the strong empirical support for online  learning, especially the enlightening scale experiments at the university of  illinois --- http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#illinois august 28, 2009 reply from bob jensen one of the most successful distance education programs in the world, in my  viewpoint, is the masters degree program headquartered in vancouver called the  chartered accountancy school of business ---http://www.casb.com/
will graduates of aln degree programs be left wondering how they will cope in an actual job interview?
"its no longer a prediction." andrew priest, school of accounting, edith cowan university mailto:a.priest@cowan.edu.au mailto:apriest@imstressed.com http://www.bs.ac.cowan.edu.au/acctinfoplus/ "early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese"- stevewright bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents concerns about faculty resistance to change probably the major stumbling block to education change is faculty unwillingness to venture into technology and new learning experiments.
teaching tools will include discussion and debate forums, on-line testing, audio streaming and video streaming, simulations, and time-revealed scenarios for case-based learning.
do you recall the praise that i lavished on the ethics website of a  carnegie-mellon university philosophy professor named robert cavalier in my  march 22, 000 edition ofnew bookmarks?  see  http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/book00q1.htm#032200 robert cavalier now has an article entitled "cases, narratives, and  interactive multimedia," insyllabus, may 2000.
“cause and effect: instrumental variable help to isolate causal relationships, but they can be taken too far,”the economist , august 15-21, 20098 page 68.
most of our campuses will thrive and prosperif we learn how to bridge our curriculum gaps with the web and still maintain some of the best of what we traditionally accomplish in classes and other face-to-face encounters with our students.
it was mentioned above that after experimenting with aln courses at the university of illinois, professor arvan discusses aln in terms of students classified as "eager beavers" versus "drones" versus "sluggos."
the paper is at http://w3.scale.uiuc.edu/scale/links/library/geoghegan/wpi.html bob jensen professor robert e. jensen (bob) http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen
their anecdotal claims for the "bam" non-lecture approach are that students are doing markedly better on in course examinations, the cpa examination, and on the job (which they can monitor since all students have internships with firms).
the online student survival guide, a program that kicked off in may, is meant to give online students tips on adjusting to online learning and staying motivated throughout the courses, while balancing life and school.
girls are more likely to report suicide attempts, but boys are more likely to actually kill themselves (according to the centers for disease control and prevention, 83 percent of suicides between the ages of 10 and 24 are male).
at this stage in the evolution of internet educational technology, we are all learners.
deliver high quality, self-paced, customized, world-class content and pedagogy.
how is it that students will be able to answer one problem, but not the next, even though mathematically both word problems are the same, that is, they rely on the same mathematical knowledge?
it is a two-year, lock step program that is 100% project oriented.
most sln courses in the past and present are taught with interactive television.
there are increasing risks of security failures on campus computers.
http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2008/12/03/audio students in four graduate courses at west virginia university worked on and submitted group projects in two different ways, alternating for each assignment: using microsoft word to save, track changes, add comments and send files back and forth as e-mail attachments; and sharing files and editing them online using buzzword.
would some us learn more about our spouses and kids if we communicated anonymously or openly with them via email and chat rooms?
messages like the above message "keep my tail wagging."
comments from bob jensen: this is both a strength and a weakness.
"the public policy implications of a global learning infastructure" http://www.educom.edu/program/nlii/keydocs/policy.html bob jensen's other documents glossaries education chapter 2 metacognition table of contents appendix 7 michael zatrocky powerpoint file on trends and issues for the 21st century trends and issues for the 21st century michael zastrocky, researchdirector gartner group presented at the consortium of liberal arts colleges (clac) annual meeting june 26, 1998 appendix 8 university of phoenix "u. of phoenix reports on its students' academic achievement, " by goldie blumenstyk,chronicle of higher education, june 5, 2008 --- http://chronicle.com/daily/2008/06/3115n.htm?utm_source=at&utm_medium=en the university of phoenix is often derided by traditional academics for caring more about its bottom line than about academic quality, and every year, the annual report issued by its parent company focuses more on profits than student performance.
cigna corporation, an insurance company located in philadelphia has formed a partnership withdrexell
"diplomas and degrees are obsolete," d.n. langenberg, the chancellor of the university system of maryland,the chronicle of higher education, september 12, 1997, page a64.
thanks, bob at rjensen@trinity.edu professor robert e. jensen http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen
we also have complete control over admission decisions and students are expected to follow all of the notre dame rules.
to show how boys can be difficult to define, corbett tells the story of hans, a 5-year-old patient of sigmund freud, who had a fear of being castrated by, of all things, a horse.
the benefits of online collaborative learning, sometimes referred to as cscl (computer-supported collaborative learning) are compelling, but many instructors are loath to experiment with non-conventional methods of teaching and learning because of the perceived problems.
three sections are in the summer and have between 85 and 105 students total.
they have to combine jobs, house chores, family life and, on top of all that, do some actual studying.
i'm very proud of them.
undoubtedly, individual institutions will exploit these technologies to advance their programs.
"it lets us, in a public forum, talk to our colleagues about what we do and how well we do it," said mr. pepicello.
these critical aspects of online education are  worth particular mention: greater student engagement: in an online classroom, there is no  back row and nowhere for students to hide.
in the first place, an e&y partnership does not entail networked learning in a heavy way.
the case of dax cowart was to see if learning outcomes for case studies could be enhanced with the use of interactive multimedia.
as mentioned above, there is an expectation that asynchronously delivered courses will be less costly than synchronously delivered ones.
the studies of richards and ridley [9] and hiltz
people assume that in the absence of face-to-face interaction, relations automatically become more distant and impersonal.
my trouble, and i suspect that mike kearl has the same problem, is that web publishing is addictive.
freeman began internet-based teaching in 1996 with 800 students on a basic internet system.
for example, in the process of studying risk exposures of derivatives contracts they encounter mathematically complexvalue at risk time series models.
the global learning infrastructure will encompass a flourishing marketplace of educational services where millions of students interact with a vast array of individual and institutional suppliers.
- educators can experiment in creative ways using unique and intriguing www sites.
articles in its inaugural issue include "the gender gap in internet use," "internet addiction on campus," "the relationship between depression and internet addiction," and "a review of virtual reality as a psychotherapeutic tool." cyberpsychology & behavior [issn: 1094-9313] is published quarterly by mary ann liebert, inc., 2 madison avenue, larchmont, ny 10538; tel: 914-834-3100; fax: 914-834-3582; email: info@liebertpub.com; web: http://www.liebertpub.com/ click here to view working paper 265 on metacognition concerns in designs and evaluations of computer aided education and training: are we misleading ourselves about measures of success?
the nature and advantages of this method of learning as well as successful applications will be presented in the following sections.
shy people are not argued down, rhetorical flourishes cant be used, and non-english students cope better with the language."
most likely, the cost of an imported course will be less than cranking up a  traditional or aln course on campus.
i sent my first message about the e&y master plan to the aecm list serve and expressed some of my off-the-wall concerns in my web document at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm#ernstandyoung .
according to the study, the students “were more likely to use graphics, charts, links, etc. in buzzword because of the ease of inclusion” than in word, possibly as a function of the interface’s comparative ease of use.
in our case, we have a great deal of experience with distance learning, particularly in our executive programs.
students who identified with issues of time and structure in learning, social interaction in learning, and convenience in learning.
- there are risks of obvious and not-so-obvious copyright violations even in uncontrolled distributions on cds, intranets, and the www.
and he has a hunch about why some refuse to acknowledge it: "people look at the adult world and say, 'men are still in charge.'
patrick m. callan, president of the national center for public policy and higher education, said that although he had not yet seen phoenix's data, its decision to publish such a report was "a very positive development."
this despite the fact that developing and teaching a course online is more taxing than doing the same in a classroom -- according to the survey respondents, teaching online isn’t easy.
the forthcoming paper found that students in the audio study were at least three times more likely to take professors’ comments into account in their final assignments if they were in audio form as opposed to written.
one of the best web sites for vrml is at the san diego super computing center athttp://www.sdsc.edu/vrml/
the paper, written by lorraine m. angelino, frankie keels williams, and deborah natvig, is available at http://www.thejeo.com/volume4number2/angelino final.pdf.
as the subtitle suggests, sommers believes that she's found the villain in this story, making the case that it's boys, not girls, who are being shortchanged and that they need significant help if they're going to close the distance academically.
aln vs self-directed learning (sdl) a comment regarding intranet versus internet courses concerns about the explosion of aln in education concerns about residency living & learning on campus concerns about impersonality and becoming irrevocably orwellian concerns about making aln learning
as a result they are great writers who seldom appear in tar, jar, or jae.
but imagine for a moment that the report came to the opposite conclusion.
" continued in article bob jensen's threads on asynchronous learning are at http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/255wp.htm keep in mind that the university of phoenix has a combination of onsite and online degree programs.
executive summary of the final report on sloan foundation grant no. 94-12-7, march 4, 1997http://pocari.stanford.edu/history/index.html it should be noted that newer technology is now being installed at stanford university that will improve upon both aln and traditional courses.