previous studies estimated that a quarter of arthritis sufferers met those  guidelines, but the study revealed that fewer than one in seven men, and only  one in 12 women actually did meet them.
the findings, published in the arthritis & rheumatism, suggest this is a huge untouched market for fitness professionals.
share / bookmark tags: exercise, physical activity, arthritis and exercise, fitness « back to articles please wait while tweets load...
researchers asked more than 1,000 people, aged 49 to 84, with radiographic knee osteoarthritis to wear an accelerometer – a small device that measures physical activity – for one week.
arthritis sufferers are not engaging in enough physical activity wed, 31 aug 2011 | category: fitness news ﻿physical activity is one of the best ways people with arthritis  can improve function and reduce pain, yet many are not achieving the  recommended levels according to a new study.
previous studies estimated that a quarter of arthritis sufferers met those guidelines, but the study revealed that fewer than one in seven men, and only one in 12 women actually did meet them.
the great outdoors workout latest news!
researchers asked more than 1,000 people, aged 49 to 84, with radiographic  knee osteoarthritis to wear an accelerometer – a small device that  measures physical activity – for one week.
michelle bridges' top 10 tips to better health and fitness the chicken (burger) or the egg (yolk)?
category: fitness news physical activity is one of the best ways people with arthritis can improve function and reduce pain, yet many are not achieving the recommended levels according to a new study.
australian guidelines recommend that all adults participate in 30 minutes  of moderate-intensity activity most days, but preferably every day.
share / bookmark tags: exercise,  physical activity,  arthritis and  exercise,  fitness related articles lift for longevity: weight may help kidney patients go fish the chicken (burger) or the egg (yolk)?
ppca fee hike overturned!
australian guidelines recommend that all adults participate in 30 minutes of moderate-intensity activity most days, but preferably every day.
the study at northwestern university feinberg school of medicine in chicago found that more than half of women and 40% of men with arthritis are practically sedentary and not engaging in the physical activity that is vital to their health.
what is even more alarming is that 40% of men and 56% of women didn’t  even sustain 10 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous activity over the course of the  week, putting them in the ‘inactive’ category.
the findings, published in the arthritis & rheumatism, suggest  this is a huge untouched market for fitness professionals.
301 jobs online australia's #1 fitness careers siteecampus login
what is even more alarming is that 40% of men and 56% of women didn’t even sustain 10 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous activity over the course of the week, putting them in the ‘inactive’ category.
past research had relied on surveys to account for exercise and activity.
past research had relied on  surveys to account for exercise and activity.
the study at northwestern university feinberg school of medicine in chicago  found that more than half of women and 40% of men with arthritis are  practically sedentary and not engaging in the physical activity that is vital  to their health.