as the food absorbs the heat it also takes  in the flavor of the smoke.
a part of the new york times company.
by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: how to grill charcoal versus gas question: which produces better  tasting food?
not to say that some things taste worse, just some things don't taste any different.
not to say that some  things taste worse, just some things don't taste any different.
however people could tell the difference with a steak.
to be honest it doesn't do a lot for the flavor of the things you  grill.
manufacturers will tell you that their patented vaporization barriers produce smoke from dripping grease, but do you really want the flavor of burning grease in your food?
this seems to be an age old question and to be honest there might not be a  definitive answer.
free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
you can add smoker chips in a box to produce smoke but to pass that flavor to the food you need to bath it in smoke.
commercial charcoals with special additives for easy  lighting and cheap charcoal made from a little sawdust and a lot of glue  doesn't exactly have the best flavor producing smoke.
- about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling barbecues & grilling search free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
build-ups of ashes, burned up grease and other stuff will make the smoke produced leave a strange flavor on foods.
answer: though a few people might debate it, charcoal  produces better tasting grilled foods most the time.
you can add smoker chips in a box to produce smoke but to pass that flavor  to the food you need to bath it in smoke.
as the food absorbs the heat it also takes in the flavor of the smoke.
by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: - how to grill - charcoal versus gas question: which produces better tasting food?
the kind of smoke that improves the flavor of food is the kind you get from smoke.
you want to use a good charcoal or mix your charcoal with chunks of good hardwood or you can buy lump charcoal that is actually make from really pieces of wood and not just sawdust.
to be honest it doesn't do a lot for the flavor of the things you grill.
build-ups of ashes, burned up  grease and other stuff will make the smoke produced leave a strange flavor on  foods.
there is however from strong evidence to point you in the  right direction.
the kind of smoke that improves the flavor of food is the kind you get  from smoke.
sign up discuss in my forum which produces better tasting food?
suggested reading related articles - charcoal vs gas - about grills - how to grill - making smoke - add an authentic smoke flavor to your grilling - how do i get a smoky flavor into food when using a gas grill?
so in this light if you are going to use cheap self-lighting charcoal in  a dirty, rusted grill then i'd suggest going with gas.
derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches skinless chicken breasts good housekeeping magazine blind taste test smoker chips good housekeeping open flame explore barbecues & grilling must reads most popular - bbq recipes - best gas grill - barbecue & grilling recipe of the week - best smokers - bbq & grilling faq see more about: - top 10 bbq sauces - top 10 rub recipes - top 10 steak recipes - kansas city rib rub - buy a gas grill
their conclusion was that the longer you grilled something the more the flavor of the fire gets into the food.
answer: though a few people might debate it, charcoal produces better tasting grilled foods most the time.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
however you also need to make sure that the smoke you are getting from the charcoal is good smoke.
there is however from strong evidence to point you in the right direction.
manufacturers will tell you that their patented vaporization barriers produce  smoke from dripping grease, but do you really want the flavor of burning grease  in your food?
- twocan custom smoker/grill - reader submissions: show off your custom bbq s... - jim bob smoker - reader submissions: show off your custom bbq smoker - what's the best charcoal to use in my smoker?
charcoal, even though it is just smoldering, produces smoke.
so if you really like the flavor of foods, particularly things like a good steak, cooked over an open flame then you want to use charcoal.
since charcoal produces some smoke and heat the too are mixed together.
so if you really like the flavor of foods,  particularly things like a good steak, cooked over an open flame then you want  to use charcoal.
however you also need to make sure that the smoke you are getting from the  charcoal is good smoke.
also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
the mechanism involved here is the smoke.
this seems to be an age old question and to be honest there might not be a definitive answer.
commercial charcoals with special additives for easy lighting and cheap charcoal made from a little sawdust and a lot of glue doesn't exactly have the best flavor producing smoke.
since charcoal produces some smoke  and heat the too are mixed together.
gas grills use a nice clean fuel that doesn't really produce smoke.
their conclusion was that the longer you grilled something the more the flavor  of the fire gets into the food.
so in this light if you are going to use cheap self-lighting charcoal in a dirty, rusted grill then i'd suggest going with gas.
if however you are serious about the flavor of grilled foods and are willing to put the effort into the process then a good charcoal grill might just be what you need.
you want to use a good  charcoal or mix your charcoal with chunks of good hardwood or you can buy lump  charcoal that is actually make from really pieces of wood and not just sawdust.
"good  housekeeping" magazine did a blind taste test and found that people could  not tell the difference between hamburgers or skinless chicken breasts cooked  over gas or charcoal.
sign up - barbecues & grilling - grills/smokers - grilling - barbecue/smoking discuss in my forum which produces better tasting food?
"good housekeeping" magazine did a blind taste test and found that people could not tell the difference between hamburgers or skinless chicken breasts cooked over gas or charcoal.
if however you are  serious about the flavor of grilled foods and are willing to put the effort  into the process then a good charcoal grill might just be what you need.
which produces better tasting food?
you should also always keep a good clean grill.
by category - how to grill - charcoal versus gas - beef - fish and seafood - fruit and vegetables - grilling help - grills - lamb - meals and menus - more recipes - organizations - pork - poultry - sauces & marinades - smokers - smoking help - spices & seasonings barbecues & grilling - about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling - grilling help - grilling faq - which produces better tasting food?