"but you don't get a lot of grease because most  burns up on the flavor grids", he said, "especially if you do a burn  off after each use".
click here for analytics, stats, demographics, and advertising options.
i don't care how much you spent on your  grill, the bi-metal dial thermometer that came with it is probably cheap and  unreliable and likely to be off by as much as 50°f.
the good news is you get a lot for what you pay.
amazon also offers fast delivery (often  free), no sales tax (in most states), gift wrapping (on many items), and  painless refund policies.
amazon also offers fast delivery (often free), no sales tax (in most states), gift wrapping (on many items), and painless refund policies.
these are the basic configurations: a660i: 75,000 btus primary, 19,000 backburner a540i: 60,000 btus primary, 19,000 backburner a530i: 60,000 btus primary, 16,000 backburner a430i: 50,000 btus primary, 16,000 backburner electric ignition and digital thermometer are battery operated.
you absolutely cannot rely on them because they are often off by 50°f or more and the most important thing a good cook needs is a relaible thermometer and a watch.
this baby has btus galore: the primary burners put out 60,000 btu, there is a 12,000 btu flush-mounted side burner, a 10,600 btu sear burner, a 10,600 btu infrared rear-mounted rotisserie burner, and they have added a dedicated 6,800 btu burner for the smoker box.
excellent in design and construction,  beautiful to behold and priced accordingly.
the whole shootin' match folds up, attaches to a trailer hitch,  and has a built-in hoist that lifts it up so you can haul it anywhere.
this small discrepancy is due to  affinity’s frame design which blocks small portions of the stainless  steel rod cooking grates.
a long, stainless steel wood chip drawer is incorporated in the control panel with its own dedicated 3,000 btu burner.
ducane affinity 4100 (shown above) has four burners for  48,000 btus and 508 square inches of actual grilling surface, less than the 526  square inches of stainless steel rod cooking grate.
all affinity models have stainless steel burners that line up left to right the way we like them, battery powered electric ignition, grease catch pan, two locking casters and two swivel casters.
this makes the right shelf available for workspace and makes2-zone or indirect cooking much easier.
the grease drip pans are easy  to access from the front, not the back as with many other grills.
they have four models, 2', 3', 4' and 6' wide  cooking surfaces.
their unique cooking system  begins with stainless steel burners.
if the knobs are on the front, that's usually a good sign that the burners line up from side to side.
all have inverted v shaped "flavorizer" bars that cover the burners and protect them while vaporizing drips and turning them into flavor that gets back up into the meat.
"ducane has weber dna," they replied, "it's a great brand that offers value to people who aren't in the price range of the genesis line".
then, please tell me everything i need to know to answer your question.
it can easily be adapted from  propane to natural gas with a kit sold separately.
their hoods all have chimneys to draw air  up through the oven area enhancing circulation.
the side burner has a dome lid
moral of the story... buy from the company that manufactures the product not the no service, price jacking middle man, jenn-air!" -
it consists of an a430i on one side and a matching charcoal grill on the other.
all affinity models have stainless steel burners that line up left to right  the way we like them, battery powered electric ignition, grease catch pan, two  locking casters and two swivel casters.
i was floored by seamless welds and  attention to detail from top to bottom.
they also come with table extensions.
the party starter adds a 12,000 btu cast brass side burner on the right wing.
weber gas grills are simply the gold standard as well as winner of meatheads gold medal.
were they concerned that ducane simply cannibalizes weber sales?
a word of caution: in 2009 the manufacturer issued a voluntary safety notice.
all can be purchased as propane or natural gas fitted.
their website does not display their grills and they are  not available in amazon.
removable  warming racks can be stored on brackets behind the hood.
a830i is a combo gas and charcoal side by side grill only offered as a drop-in.
the e and s versions come standard with  porcelain-enamel coated cast iron cooking grates, a fine system, and  porcelain-enamel coated flavorizer bars.
when the company went up for sale around 2004, weber-stephens swooped in and grabbed it.
meathead one of the most clever designs i've seen.
a good gas grill must have a minimum of two burners is a must for 2-zone or indirect cooking, the most important technique you need to learn for successful outdoor cooking.
they have smaller vents in the hood than most gassers which means they retain more heat than grills with more btus.
if you have problems posting with internet explorer, please read this.
manufacturers: click here forpermission to use these medals in ads and on packaging (there is  no charge) and for info on how to get a high resolution version.
practically everything is made from heavy 304 stainless.
how to buy a smoker overview charcoal smokers egg, kamado,
this also features folding side tables and a single door cart.
small battery boxes easily pop out from the sides of the control panel.
all have inverted v shaped "flavorizer" bars that cover the  burners and protect them while vaporizing drips and turning them into flavor  that gets back up into the meat.
the stainless on the hood is lightweight and is hard  to clean.
the e-420 and s-420 have four burners lined up side to  side, a 48,000 btu spread over a 538 square inch grate, and a 12,000 btu side  burner.
the rotisserie motor, spit, and brackets are not included and they cost more than $100.
warranty for various components then drops to 15 years for brass valves and backburner and manifold assemblies all the way down to 1 year for electric systems.
the e-420 and s-420 have four burners lined up side to side, a 48,000 btu spread over a 538 square inch grate, and a 12,000 btu side burner.
they are decked  out with blue led backlit control knobs and a flame icon on the knob changes  from blue to red when turned on.
click here for more  info and pricing:brinkmann. -
the flame's intensity grows brighter on high and dimmer on low.
you  also get a 13,000 btu cast iron griddle and two 12,000 btu stove top burners.
don't ask me why, but the e models are available only in black.
when the top chef professional winner and multiple james beard  award winner cooks outdoors as he often does, it's on a kalamazoo.
she wrote down my questions to present to the right person, but she wouldn't let me talk to that person.
the  grill module has four cast iron burners (!), an ir sear burner and ir  rotisserie burner for a total of 70,000 btus.
two stainless steel burners on the gas side, enameled cast iron grates all around with 700 square inches cooking area.
the heat distribution plates are very large, covering most of the area beneath the cooking grates and it’s easy to see why weber chose not to refer to them as "flavorizer bars" as they do on the weber line.
this helps insulate the cooking space, amping up the heat.
click here to read more.
2 burner grill is great for an apartment, balcony or small  deck.
the sink module mirrors the grill in size and  look with the same combo of stainless and brown coated metal.
3/11/2012 - max good cast iron gas grills, four burners, and griddle.
the e-210 has 350 square inches of primary cooking surface  and a 108 square inch removable warming rack for 458 total square inches,  enough for small family grilling.
they make commercial grills, pedestal grills, and cart mounted units.
all of them have stainless steel flavorizer bars, serious 3/8 inch (9 mm)  diameter stainless steel rod cooking grates, a double layer of steel under the  hood for extra insulation, and 12,000 btu flush-mounted side burners.
the grills use long lasting brass burners, cool blue lights above the knobs, halogen grill surface light, a lid lift assist system that uses a seesaw-like balance, stainless steel grilling grates,, wood chip box.
below the porcelain coated cast iron grates, there is a dark parabolic non-stick bowl.
they include a retractable tool and paper towel holder, dual storage doors with six inch handles and heavy-duty swivel wheels.
it consists of an a430i on one side and a matching charcoal grill on  the other.
the natural gas model comes in any color  you want, so long as it is black.
if you can find a home depot that is giving one away (i heard of stupid deals like mark downs from $399 to $79), you may want take a chance.
the lightish hood is  made of porcelain-enameled steel and the handles on the magnetically-held lower  doors are plastic, as is the handle on the hood.
weber weber gas grills are simply the gold standard as well as winner of  meatheads gold medal.
these are low end inexpensive  two burner convection units.
it has no casters, but slides in and out  of the counter system.
we have researched this product from afar by gathering info from the  manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources, with our bs meters on high.
the party starter adds a 12,000 btu cast brass side burner  on the right wing.
the grills use long lasting brass burners, cool blue lights  above the knobs, halogen grill surface light, a lid lift assist system that  uses a seesaw-like balance, stainless steel grilling grates,, wood chip box.
the side burner on mine came with a cast aluminum griddle that fits on the  side burner.
and of course the obligatory cheap built-in lid thermometers which you will want to ignore anduse a more accurate digital thermometer.
removable warming racks can be stored on brackets behind the hood.
the sear burner is smallish, accommodating perhaps two modest size steaks.
you have to be certain to mount the motor upside down or when the lid goes down it won't close.
lookit those  super wide grates and that huge, roomy hood.
they are tricky and prone to rotating and failing to rotate the meat.
there is no  natural gas conversion kit available.
all three  are virtually identical in construction and appearance: black  porcelain-enameled steel body with cast aluminum sides and stainless steel  control panel and side tables.
the e-620 and s-620 has 6 main burners upping the power to  60,000 btu spread out over 693 square inches, and a 145 square inch warming  rack.
how would i have known what a great company nexgrill is.
alfresco grills artisan outdoor grills blue ember grills all their grills have stainless steel burners, a smoke box, a rear access  grease pan, and most important, a bottle opener.
char-broil recently has  announced some techniques for cleaning them that may work but they came too  late for me.
stainless steel body and grate with a 217 square inch cooking surface.
this model produces 50,000 btu for 493 square inches.
alas, i don't have much faith inthe accuracy of these gauges.
4 burner stainless steel looks pretty in the picture and  on the showroom floor, but remember: even high quality stainless steel needs to  be maintained to keep that fabulous shine.
double  wall lids and double door enclosed cart.
still, even if they are off, they should give you guidance relative to each other.
echelons also include your own personalized nameplate.
stainless steel rod cooking  grates.
like a musician, you must master your instrument to make great food.
some burners line up side to side and others line up front to back.
the rest of the master  forge gas grill line includes battery powered electronic ignition and lid  thermometers.
4 burner grill has 4 stainless steel burners for 48,000  btus, porcelain-coated cast iron grates with 480 square inches of primary  cooking surface and 188 square inch on the warming rack.
some premium models come  with halogen lights inside the hood and a digital propane tank gauge.
the  genesis models also have a second layer of metal under the hood with an air gap  between for extra insulation.
price is an important factor.
fire magic designs are elegant and engineered for customization.
about links on this site.
one owner  likened the intensity to "a sea of fire".
they are decked out with blue led backlit control knobs and a flame icon on the knob changes from blue to red when turned on.
i'll tell you one to avoid: manufacturing gas  grills.
they make a wide range of sizes, all stainless steel, designed to burn propane, natural gas, or lump charcoal with an optional charcoal tray.
meathead sold only at lowe's, master forge offers a lot of grill for little money by using inexpensive materials, construction, and components.
they come in a variety of sizes, both pedestal mounted, cart mounted, and built-in solaire grills all have an impressive list of standard features including removable stainless steel main burners, stainless steel bodies with welded seams and no screws or rivets, inner linings on hoods, covers are included, and can be converted to natural gas.
nominee: 2010 world food media awards member: international association of culinary professionals member: kansas city barbeque society member:
currently, master forge is manufactured by sagittarius sporting goods headquartered in taiwan.
the best reasons to buy fromamazon are low prices, fast often free delivery, fair return policies, and often there is no sales tax.
meathead vidalia grills one of the most clever designs i've seen.
when i bought the  rotisserie unit (it is not included in the 580), the left bracket scraped  against the lid of the side burner so i had to mount it to the inside of the  cooking chamber.
the e series has porcelain-enameled cooking grates and the s series features 7 mm diameter stainless steel cooking grates.
porcelain-coated cast iron grates for 535  square inches of primary cooking and 168 square inches on the warming rack.
the  plates have small holes below them allowing combustion gases up and some  drippings down, both good for flavor.
these are the basic configurations: e1060i: 115,000 btus primary, 2 - 11,000 btu backburners e790i: 99,000 btus primary, 13,000 backburner e660i: 78,000 btus primary, 11,000 backburner all echelon models need to be hooked up to 110 volt power.
the 2' unit is 21 1/2" deep, all the rest are 2' deep.
the e-330, ep 320, and s-330 has a fourth burner on the left that adds another 10,000 btu to boost the heat on that side for searing.
tecs have removable interior trim panels for easier cleaning.
meat temp fridge magnet the prize for best bbq tool at the 2012 the national barbecue association conference went to a simple inexpensive fridge magnet by meathead.
it includes the latest usda recommendations as well as chef recommendations (and they often differ) as well as color photos of the different stages of doneness for red meats.
on the ducanes they are porcelain-enamel  coated steel trays with slits cut through them.
if they do, weber is known for great customer service and for carrying an inventory of parts on models from years gone by.
the e-310, ep-310, and s-310 have 507 square inches on the primary surface and 130 on the upper rack.
best in bbq medals best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are given only  to products that we highly recommend based on price.
and now they have the amazingribs.com imprimatur.
i have a char-broil quantum commercial 4-burner.
so they rust and corrode easily, and the holes are too small
so they rust and corrode easily, and the holes are  too small
awards are based on  features, quality, and value.
then there is a large drip pan that sits under the food and radiates heat to  the stainless steel cooking surface.
heat zone separators slide in and out between each e-burner to isolate cooking zones.
retractable tool and paper towel holders.
for outdoor kitchen installations, anything in the vast fire magic catalog may be incorporated.
kalamazoo has taken the concept of the outdoor kitchen to the next level.
the main burners generate 62,500 btu under the 651 square inches of grates.
your amazon purchase supports this site when a product is available on amazon.com, we often provide a direct link.
designed intelligently with attention to details and  built to last, they look good, work beautifully, and almost never break down.
the smoker has a small burner that may not be enough for smoking in the snow, the water pan is very shallow and will need frequent refilling, the bowl for wood chips is also small, there are two adjustable shelves, and a nice door gasket.
of course there is an under mount sink with bar  faucet, two drawers and one door that presumably encloses stored beverages.
the only color available is  black.
two 110v electrical outlets with heavy-duty extension cord.
inside is a  13,000 btu rotisserie burner back by the warming tray, two halogen lid-lights  and leds above each control knob.
one side houses three stainless steel burners at 12,000 btus each and the other  houses a 13,000 btu sear burner.
the a830i has dial lid thermometers instead of digital (sigh).
some owners complained about this so keep it in mind during assembly.
who would want or need such a large grill you ask?
natural gas conversion kit available.
in fact,  when you consider the fact that some cheap grills fall apart after 3 years or  so, webers might be considered a bargain.
there are side tables, so there is  no side burner or hidden rotisserie.
if you cover this grill and polish it periodically, it will still be prone to discoloration and corrosion.
please please read and heed.
there are side tables, so there is no side burner or hidden rotisserie.
so you get this reflective bowl heating another bowl that  radiates heat to the grates nice and even.
some actually even come with the  kitchen sink attached.
all tecs have natural gas adapter kits available.
stands on a pedestal or it is available as a portable tabletop grill.
they are good values.
craftsmanship is  even more stunning than the aurora series.
click here for more info and pricing: tec. -
three burner: 522 square inches, 32,000 btu.
both have 6 tool hooks.
both have 6  tool hooks.
so i get a referral fee.
this igniter is piezoelectric.
the following day she sent an email that said nothing of value and answered none of my questions.
some  models feature a bi-metallic temperature gauge located above each control knob  purportedly measuring the temp above each burner.
some models feature a bi-metallic temperature gauge located above each control knob purportedly measuring the temp above each burner.
their hoods all have chimneys to draw air up through the oven area enhancing circulation.
construction is black porcelain-coated steel with double wall  lid, cast aluminum end caps and a single door enclosed cart.
tecs have removable interior trim panels for  easier cleaning.
read mybuyer's guides and the buying checklists and follow the links.
some owners complained about this so keep it in mind during  assembly.
the primary cooking area is 468 square  inches, and the warming rack is 112 square inches.
of course, in order to do this, you absolutely positively must have a gooddigital oven thermometer.
with the grillgrates, i consider this a superior grill capable of high enough heat for crisping steaks.
stainless steel grates for 684 square inches of primary cooking and 264 square inches of warming rack.
they began making gas grills around 1975  with the slogan, "buy your last grill first" and developed a  respectable following.
they also sell side burners, warming drawers,  refrigerators, beer taps, ice machines, beverage dispensers, patio heaters, and  beverage stations.
two burner: 360 square inches of primary  grilling surface (primary), 32,000 btu.
rotisserie and 16,000 btu backburner are optional.
some options are: "magic view window" to check food without lifting the hood; motorized hood; solar panels; remote receiver to check temperature readings up to 50 feet away from the grill.
the two-burner model has two burners and 300 square inches of cooking surface, 21,300 btu primary burners, lightweight porcelain coated cast iron grates, and lightweight fold up shelves on the side.
as with most brinkmanns, the grease tray is  removed from the back side.
of course there is an under mount sink with bar faucet, two drawers and one door that presumably encloses stored beverages.
flaw #1: the metal grates are not the highest grade stainless
the stainless steel  grates are just above the glass.
apparently the hose of the gas tank can get too close to the firebox and be exposed to heat when the propane cylinder or grease tray is not installed properly, posing a fire hazard.
it is 34" wide, 31" deep, and 49.5" tall.
as  you move up the line you can get a rotisserie, and sear burners.
it is cheaply built but it  is cheaply priced.
the model consumer reports rated "very good" has 5 stainless steel burners for 60,000 btus, one 12,000 btu sear burner, one 12,000 btu side burner, 576 square inches of primary cooking on stainless steel grates and 211 square inch warming tray.
weber. -  meathead be my
we have hands-on experience testing this product.
click here for more info and pricing: char-broil. -
on the other hand, many master forge owners love their grills and are  eager to post praise.
4 burner green gas grill (right) has a neat look with its hunter green and black porcelain and powder-coated steel body and split lid.
if you like all the info we give you for free and would like to help us stay free, please copy the link below and save it.
a natural gas conversion kit and custom cover are included at no extra charge.
practically everything is high quality 304 stainless, and built in their columbia, sc, plant.
at eight feet long, with three doors and two pull out drawers, this unit is mighty big.
amazon pays amazingribs inc.
we purchase many products we review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
let's see if we can sort them out for you.
all models  are available with or without the rotisserie and the backburner raised above  the cooking grate for rotisserie cooking.
nonetheless, overall quality was in line with other low cost grills.
the smoker has a small burner that may not be enough for smoking in the  snow, the water pan is very shallow and will need frequent refilling, the bowl  for wood chips is also small, there are two adjustable shelves, and a nice door  gasket.
they are good  values.
it would be nice if they would go digital in the digital age.
i cannot pick the right cooker for you any more than i could pick the right car or spouse for you.
we purchase many products we  review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
the sink includes a granite splash guard with a  ìbarî on top.
everything with the master forge name on it is low cost.
there is  a 10,600 btu rear-mounted burner just for the rotisserie.
grates are porcelain-coated cast  iron with a 346 square inch of primary cooking area and 109 square inches on  the warming rack.
meathead twin eagles vermont castings they have one base design that comes with 3, 4, or 5 stainless steel  burners.
about product reviews and best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are highly recommended products.
these brackets also  hold the rotisserie spit.
the inner bowl is highly polished chrome for more heat.
a must for gas grills.
it is capable of high enough heats for searing steaks, and can smoke meats easily by tossing food grade wood chips, sawdust, or pellets between the grates, right below the food or off to the side.
for outdoor kitchen installations, anything in the vast fire magic  catalog may be incorporated.
all either come with a rotisserie or you  canorder one as a factory accessory, though one thing must be said about the  weber rotisseries: they are skewer, not basket, type.
get smoke signals, my free eletter with tips and recipes.
bright, angled halogen hood lights provide ample illumination after dark.
meathead viking sells a nice range of cart mounted and built-in stainless steel grills.
there is also a smoker box with  its own burner on the right.
according to blue ember, they also had to discontinue their pioneering thermostat controlled grill because the electronics were not reliable.
so it is impossible for me to  review them all.
to the astonishment of both men, parts were still available  and the unit was put back in service.
13,000 btu, estimated cooking surface 384 square inches.
they  have enameled heat deflectors
i had to have my local auto body shop weld the two parts together to keep them from coming loose.
one owner likened the intensity to "a sea of fire".
they are now available  on the home depot website at full price for online orders only.
on the other hand, they pack a lot of  features and bells and whistles into them, and they are very capable for the  price.
so it is impossible for me to review them all.
amazingribs.com does not make or sell anything, but we love toys and we are happy to share our opinions of them.
meanwhile, the abc125 is identical except it has stainless steel grates, and it  is sold only at ace hardware.
they produce not only free standing gas, coal and electric grills on carts and pedestals, but drop in grills and components for outdoor kitchens, including an array of add-ons like side burners, doors, drawers, sinks, refrigerators, kegerators, timers, lights and more.
618 square inches of stainless  steel primary cooking grates on a large cart with three stainless steel doors  and brown coated metal cabinet.
solaire grills are mostly infrared radiation, but a few offer both infrared and convection.
in june 2010 the jenn-air 720-0709, with five burners, got the top ranking  from consumer reports for large grills.
they have four models, 2', 3', 4' and 6' wide cooking surfaces.
the ep models have stainless steel cooking grates and stainless steel flavorizer bars, and there are two additional colors, brick red and steel gray.
meathead these are the grills dreams are made of.
all carts are made of 304 stainless steel.
char-broil quickset grills.
the outdoor chef has three burners producing 45,000 btu  under a 500 square inch porcelain coated cast iron grate.
heritage 4-burner (shown at right).
the temperatures are the same for both indoor and outdoor cooks.
as one opens and closes and fiddles with knobs, it's easy to believe the ducane reputation for basic, functional and durable grills remains intact.
the manufacturer claims that their hot surface ignition system is unaffected by moisture and designed to perform even in harsh environments.
i prefer basket type which they used to sell.
this line of grills is entirely  innovative and it is sold mostly through home depot.
the left wind has a recessed bowl for ice, condiments, or  even trash.
the rotisserie motor, spit, and brackets are not included and they  cost more than $100.
since we cook on the grates, though, it's always better to bring your own digital grill thermometer and place a probe there.
there are too many models to describe here, so let's just drool over the  top of the line,the 900gs.
stainless steel  hood.
this is a great concept, a capacious gas grill and a charcoal grill side by side, all in one unit, and you can add an optional offset firebox to make it a smoker, too.
i was floored by seamless welds and attention to detail from top to bottom.
their website does not display their grills and they are not available in amazon.
the sear station is a dedicated area which weber claims can reach 700 to  800°f.
additionally, consumer reports 2012 buying guide gives  the master forge 5-burner grill a "very good" rating and top pick for  large model gas grills.
he warns new owners to reduce  cooking times, "it's like getting behind the wheel of a ferrari when  you're used to driving a taurus".
the light and outlet are also optional.
the s  version is stainless steel.
they are not the best system for even  distribution of heat, and grease buildup on them occasionally flares up, but i  like the flavor they produce.
these  luxury grills exude elegance and quality.
we have always been transparent about when we are reviewing a product sample, even beforethe federal trade commission required it in 2009.
be sure to position this grill to allow the propane  tank to stand upright.
when i bought the rotisserie unit (it is not included in the 580), the left bracket scraped against the lid of the side burner so i had to mount it to the inside of the cooking chamber.
two p-shaped  stainless steel burners produce 30,000 btus.
ducane affinity 3100 features three burners generating 36,000 btus and a grilling area of 407 square inch, slightly less than the 418 square inches claimed in ducane's brochure.
the cabinets have  adjustable wire shelves.
flaw #2:  rotisserie cooking seems to be an afterthought on this unit.
the two-burner model has two burners and 300 square inches  of cooking surface, 21,300 btu primary burners, lightweight porcelain coated  cast iron grates, and lightweight fold up shelves on the side.
the e-320 is the same as the 310, but includes a 12,000  btu side burner hidden in the left side table.
if this is the way they handle media  inquiries from the world's most popular barbecue and grilling website, i  shudder to think what customer service is like.
sometimes i think  they have some of the models on the website at high prices because they are  similar to models sold in the big box stores at much lower prices so people  researching grills will think they are getting a real bargain in the hardware  stores.
but clicking on that link before you shop helps me devote more time and money to you.
if you are looking for a gas grill there are more options and bells and whistles to chose from than digital cameras.
the only problem is that it is not easy to set up for 2-zone cooking, but the entire grill is really indirect cooking, so you can cook low and slow, and then crank the heat at the end for crisping.
all grills are shipped with conversion kits that facilitate propane or natural gas should your preference change.
you can also put meat in the indirect zone for holding.
when i called to inquire about the problem, i was instructed to call nexgrill [because] they manufactured the product for jenn-air (didn't mention that in the warranty)...
the grills  or "heads" can be purchased for drop in installations or mounted on  carts and pedestals.
but i have tried to include the most widely distributed units as well as those i think are especially interesting.
the grill module has four cast iron burners (!), an ir sear burner and ir rotisserie burner for a total of 70,000 btus.
both have granite counter tops.
and they come with electronic ignitions.
"ducane has weber dna," they replied, "it's a great brand  that offers value to people who aren't in the price range of the genesis  line".
however, if you're looking for economy and are considering  other low cost grills, master forge may sweeten the deal with all the extras.
there is no sear burner or  built-in rotisserie as on the 470.
also includes an 11,000 btu side burner, side shelf handle, attached condiment boxes, tool holder and a bottle opener!
if you would like us to link to your website, click here to readour links policy first.
the bigger the cooking surface, the more flexibility  you have.
practically everything is high quality 304  stainless, and built in their columbia, sc, plant.
blue ember grills.- meathead brinkmann makes low end grills from lightweight, inexpensive materials.
you absolutely cannot rely on them because they are often off by 50°f  or more and the most important thing a good cook needs is a relaible  thermometer and a watch.
bright, angled halogen hood lights provide ample  illumination after dark.
an internal halogen light and a built in electrical outlet are optional.
the model numbers tell a lot about the model.
master forge offers a variation on this theme that appears identical except the retractable table has a slightly different design.
two stainless steel burners put out 26,000  btu, and the design features well-placed, well-measured vents that let air flow  without the draft snuffing the flames.
meathead sells a nice range of cart mounted and built-in stainless steel grills.
there is no sear burner or built-in rotisserie as on the 470.
thereis a link just below to my buyer's guide to  thermometers.
it has 31,000 btu stainless steel  burners, 580 square inches of enamel coated cast iron grates, built-in grill  lights, a lot of stainless from the hood to the shelves and some other parts,  two storage drawers, and a 13,000 btu sideburner with a hood.
so you can cover the griddle or saucepan if you wish.
two stainless steel burners  on the gas side, enameled cast iron grates all around with 700 square inches  cooking area.
otherwise the s-460 is configured pretty much the same as the s-470 model above.
a natural gas converter is available.
when the sear burner is turned off,  the grate returns to normal cooking area, unlike some grills that have a  special part of the grate that can only be used for searing.
the e-320 and ep-320 (there is no s-320) has a 12,000 btu
they claim that the seamless rain gutter surrounding their doors and  drawers makes them a "weather-tight vault, the only cabinets that will  keep your tools, linens, serving pieces and spices clean and dry no matter what  mother nature throws at them."
heavy-duty locking swivel  casters.
you can throw wood chips in the inner bowl and they smolder nicely.
stok grills although stok grills were a fun idea with matching orange colors, a  different design concept involving various cooking tool inserts and even  branded apparel, home depot stores liquidated everything they had in stock for  lower and lower prices until most stores are sold out.
ever watch chef rick bayless on pbs?
however, if you're looking for economy and are considering other low cost grills, master forge may sweeten the deal with all the extras.
be sure to position this grill to allow the propane tank to stand upright.
in fact the oversize lid is too big to accommodate a rotisserie.
i'll even toss in a small bag of bbq'rs delight wood smoke pellets.
this makes the right shelf  available for workspace and makes2-zone or indirect cooking much easier.
in 1982 rh peterson, pioneers in fabrication of realistic, artificial gas logs, acquired fire magic to complement their outdoor lifestyle line.
a brief discussion of the heating system is useful.
it is the same as the 4100 but it has porcelain-enameled cast iron cooking grates and a flush mounted side burner.
of course you're not just buying reliability and great customer service; you're buying the shining centerpiece of your outdoor realm and a lifetime of enjoyment the versatility and superior performance these elite cooking machines deliver.
bi-metal dial thermometers are often off by as much as 50°f!
the ducane brothers metal fabricating company started in 1946, specializing in manufacture of oil-fired furnaces.
grates are porcelain-coated cast iron with a 346 square inch of primary cooking area and 109 square inches on the warming rack.
other than clearly marked ads, links and recommendations on this site are all products, services, and websites we truly admire, and are never paid endorsements.
in-lid halogens on the grill and led illuminated knobs all around.
lp tabletop grill has a single u-shaped burner generating  12,000 btus, small folding legs, a locking lid for travel and a push button  igniter.
before you make up your mind, make sure to read these articles: mostly built-in units.
rest assured that when we award a medal, it is because we are impressed by it for the price, not because someone has paid us to say so or because the company is an advertiser or sponsor.
much of the rest is painted silver.
char-broil quantum grills.
on the ducanes they are porcelain-enamel coated steel trays with slits cut through them.
blue ember grills.- meathead brinkmann brinkmann makes low end grills from lightweight, inexpensive materials.
with burners lined up from side to side you can then  turn off one side, as in the picture below, and slow roast over the indirect  zone, and then crisp over the direct zone.
- max good a line of several grills in limited distribution that i have never been able to lay eyes or hands on.
my local fire magic dealer clearly took pride in demonstrating his wares, stating the burners have a range of 200°f for slow roasting and smoking all the way up to 1600°f to sear steaks in minutes, just like steakhouses.
with a $30 donation you'll get a 100% cotton brushed twill adjustable low profile cap with the amazingribs patch sewn on.
for example, a grill manufacturer might make their  firebrand grill model abc123 with cast iron grates available only on amazon.
warranty for various components then drops to 15 years for brass  valves and backburner and manifold assemblies all the way down to 1 year for  electric systems.
there were quite a few reviews for this unit at loweís website and  almost all were five stars.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.
flaw #1: the metal grates are not  the highest grade stainless
currently,  master forge is manufactured by sagittarius sporting goods headquartered in  taiwan.
the indirect zone has a water pan under it  (they incorrectly call this a marinade pan, but now i'm nitpicking).
the grill's grates are narrow porcelain coated, the hood has an inner liner, and there is a rotisserie burner on the back wall.
the plates have small holes below them allowing combustion gases up and some drippings down, both good for flavor.
there is a side burner and a rotisserie burner, all with electronic  ignition.
the burners produce 37,500 btu for the 440 square inch porcelain coated cast  iron grates.
on the other hand, many master forge owners love their grills and are eager to post praise.
there is a 10,600 btu rear-mounted burner just for the rotisserie.
there are six tool hooks, and an led light on the handle that shines on  the cooking surface.
there is also a 10,600 btu sear burner in the center.
the steel is thin, and some parts just looked cheap, like the plastic control knobs and the thermometers.
amazingribs.com is published by amazingribs, inc., a florida corporation.
there are four  burners so it is easy to turn off one side and leave the other on for indirect  grilling.
were they concerned that ducane simply cannibalizes weber  sales?
all models can be bought with add-on cabinets that nestle under the side  tables as an option.
the biggest barrier for many folks is price.
thereis a link just below to my buyer's guide to thermometers.
i asked stok  public relations if the line is being discontinued.
this line of stainless steel grills has several clever core features and two glaring flaws.
it has a nifty rack in the door for sauce and spices, and a towel rack.
the lid on the enamel is heavy, and this is good.
they even claim you can cook with charcoal or wood by putting briquets or logs on the flavor bars and igniting them with the gas burners.
there is a 5 burner 50,000 btu grill with 554 square inches of primary cooking space as well as a 12,000 btu sideburner, and in the cabinet below is a complete enclosed small cabinet gas smoker.
i ended up talking  to someone in public relations.
craftsmanship is even more stunning than the aurora series.
smoke your ribs, grill burgers, bake cookies, and fry a turkey, all in one portable unit.
my 15-year old genesis and i know from experience.
i phoned customer service (nexgrill) explained my issues, i was asked to take pictures... and email the photos to them.
you also get a 13,000 btu cast iron griddle and two 12,000 btu stove top burners.
no rotisserie available.
as always, we strongly recommend you not rely on dial thermometers, and that you purchase agood digital thermometer to get accurate oven temp readings.
thankfully a natural gas conversion kit is also included as well as a custom cover.
if this is the way they handle media inquiries from the world's most popular barbecue and grilling website, i shudder to think what customer service is like.
they have excellent  customer service.
4 burner grill has 4 stainless steel burners for 48,000 btus, porcelain-coated cast iron grates with 480 square inches of primary cooking surface and 188 square inch on the warming rack.
if you can find a home depot that is giving one away  (i heard of stupid deals like mark downs from $399 to $79), you may want take a  chance.
click here for more info and pricing: holland grills. .
the ep models have stainless steel  cooking grates and stainless steel flavorizer bars, and there are two  additional colors, brick red and steel gray.
cart mounted, looks business-like (that's it at right), there is a wood tray for smoke.
the genesis was totally redesigned for 2011 by moving the gas control knobs from the side to the front, and with them the three burners now line up from side to side running front to rear rather than lining up front to rear and running left to right as they did in the past.
so you can cover the griddle or  saucepan if you wish.
within four days i was the owner of a brand new grill plus the latest model available with a letter stating concern over the problem.
unless otherwise noted, all text, recipes, photos, and code are owned by amazingribs, inc. and fully protected by us copyrightâ law.
if you are not using a good digital you have no idea what the temp really is so i can't help you.
i have tested it andi review it in detail on the page devoted to portable grills.
under no circumstances are we liable for any damages that result from use of the site (so you can't sue us if you don't like a recipe or if you burn your tongue on hot ribs, ok?).
instead of a small grate, the removable warming rack is different than  most, which are standard wire racks.
the spirit line is weber's entry level and the least expensive in the catalog.
it is divided in two, a direct heat zone and an indirect heat zone.
the left and right side tables fold down for easy storage.
this is a great concept, a capacious gas grill and a charcoal grill side by  side, all in one unit, and you can add an optional offset firebox to make it a  smoker, too.
the stove in my home had problems after six months of use, the same bull [bleep] and tap dance as the grill...
there was no master forge product manager.
weber spirit grills the spirit line is weber's entry level and the least expensive in the  catalog.
these are basic, no-frills, value grills  backed by weber's good name and their stellar customer support.- max good dyna glo dyna-glo dual fuel lp gas and charcoal grill.
normally mygold awards are reserved for products that are a balance  of quality and price, and nobody will ever call kalamazoo grills bargains, but  the get the prize on quality features alone.
manufacturers: click here forpermission to use these medals in ads and on packaging (there is no charge) and for info on how to get a high resolution version.
both side tables have aluminum endcaps.
after one year, rather than fuss with them, i replaced the factory grates with another company's product,grillgrates, which operate on the same principle, only better.
click here for more details ofour privacy promise.
brinkmann pro series 4 burner gas grill.
rest assured that when we award a medal, it is because we  are impressed by it for the price, not because someone has paid us to say so or  because the company is an advertiser or sponsor.
a830i is a combo gas and charcoal side by side grill only offered as a  drop-in.
it takes you to amazon.com and tags things you buy with the amazingribs code so we get that referral fee.
if problems persist,send me a note.
you can boil water on the grates.
all either come with a rotisserie or you canorder one as a factory accessory, though one thing must be said about the weber rotisseries: they are skewer, not basket, type.
mine easily goes over  600°f on the grate surface.
meanwhile, the abc125 is identical except it has stainless steel grates, and it is sold only at ace hardware.
meathead kenmore is the sears house brand, and the nameplate seems to be on other manufacturer's products.
they also sell side burners, warming drawers, refrigerators, beer taps, ice machines, beverage dispensers, patio heaters, and beverage stations.
these are among the finest grills made.
char-broil is an innovator with clever designs and mid-range prices, currently emphasizing radiant "infrared" heat.
just above the burners is a solid layer of special glass that absorbs and distributes the heat evenly.
invite the whole neighborhood when you fire up this beast: five stainless steel burners, two side by side brass burners, a "sear top with warming station" and one ir sear burner for a total of 115,500 btus.
solidly built, it is a fine backyard setup, and it is the best rig i've ever seen for tailgating or camping.
amazingribs.com is one of the 100 most popular food websites in the us according tocomscore, alexa, and quantcast.
we have also gathered  info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
if you're building an outdoor kitchen or souped-up  patio you should consider fire magic.
solidly built, it is a fine backyard setup, and it is the best rig i've  ever seen for tailgating or camping.
of course, in order to do this, you absolutely positively must  have a gooddigital oven thermometer.
this has a hand cranked, adjustable tray that moves the coal up and down for good heat control and a 12,000 btu stainless steel charcoal ignition burner to get the party started.
the left wind has a recessed bowl for ice, condiments, or even trash.
fire magic aurora these are the basic configurations: a660i: 75,000 btus primary, 19,000 backburner a540i: 60,000 btus  primary, 19,000 backburner a530i: 60,000 btus primary, 16,000 backburner a430i: 50,000 btus primary, 16,000 backburner electric ignition and digital thermometer are battery operated.
when the sear burner is turned off, the grate returns to normal cooking area, unlike some grills that have a special part of the grate that can only be used for searing.
the performer adds a sonar propane monitor that pings the  tank to gauge the contents and a 12,000 btu rotisserie burner on the rear wall.
manufacturers would serve us better by  replacing cheap dial thermometers with bottle openers.
all monitored by the onboard digital thermometers.
with burners lined up from side to side you can then turn off one side, as in the picture below, and slow roast over the indirect zone, and then crisp over the direct zone.
your suggestions are always welcome.
grillgrates are the best new product i have tested in years and the best thing to happen to beef since salt and pepper.
both can be ordered with a  15,000 btu sear burner as an option.
they  produce not only free standing gas, coal and electric grills on carts and  pedestals, but drop in grills and components for outdoor kitchens, including an  array of add-ons like side burners, doors, drawers, sinks, refrigerators,  kegerators, timers, lights and more.
this one has a very thin tip with a tiny thermocouple so it gives an accurate reading in just six seconds.
line up front to back.
backburners include a stainless steel cover for protection when not in use.
a long, stainless steel wood chip drawer is incorporated  in the control panel with its own dedicated 3,000 btu burner.
all 304 stainless steel cart construction with  insulated doors and drawers.
on the other hand, they pack a lot of features and bells and whistles into them, and they are very capable for the price.
many reviews are by meathead, the author of most things on this website.
the compact configuration by necessity brings the heat up close to the grate  for a good sear on your burgers and steaks.
advertising on amazingribs.com is a great way to build your brand or make direct sales.
they are not the best system for even distribution of heat, and grease buildup on them occasionally flares up, but i like the flavor they produce.
heat zone separators slide in and out between each e-burner to  isolate cooking zones.
this highly innovative design is really two discrete cookers in one.
- meathead kenmore kenmore is the sears house brand, and the nameplate seems to be on other  manufacturer's products.
the e-320 is the same as the 310, but includes a 12,000 btu side burner hidden in the left side table.
we have also gathered info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
click here for more info and how to order it.
front to back is better for rotisserie cooking.
they all have a small stainless work shelf on the left, and on the right shelf are the burner controls and tool hooks.
reviewers many reviews are by meathead, the author of most things on this website.
according to blue ember, they also had to discontinue their pioneering  thermostat controlled grill because the electronics were not reliable.
one fire magic dealer recounted a call to fix an installed drop-in grill.
the e-670 and s-670 is the top of the line.
options for stand-alone models are more limited
fire magic builds two gas grill lines, their premier echelon diamond series  and their second tier aurora series.
the extra burner, when fired up in tandem with flanking burners on  high makes restaurant-quality sear marks.
it is 42" wide, 31"  deep, and 49.5" tall.
worse still, it is in  the dome, and the temp down on the grate where the meat sits is much different.
the primary  grate is 624 square inches, and the warming rack is 145 square inches.
lowe's seems to have offered various  grill lines for several years under various names like "perfect  flame" and made by various companies like "bbqtek".
options  include a 15,000 side burner, a 1500 btu sear burner, lighting.
lp tabletop grill has a single u-shaped burner generating 12,000 btus, small folding legs, a locking lid for travel and a push button igniter.
manufacturers would serve us better by replacing cheap dial thermometers with bottle openers.
i have to wonder how the happy master forge owners mentioned above will feel about their grill in a few more years, particularly if lowe's changes their bbq line again.
i have to wonder how the happy master forge owners mentioned above will  feel about their grill in a few more years, particularly if lowe's changes  their bbq line again.
but that's good for us.
for example, a grill manufacturer might make their firebrand grill model abc123 with cast iron grates available only on amazon.
to the astonishment of both men, parts were still available and the unit was put back in service.
there are six tool hooks, and an led light on the handle that shines on the cooking surface.
the s version is stainless steel.
all of them have stainless steel flavorizer bars, serious 3/8 inch (9 mm) diameter stainless steel rod cooking grates, a double layer of steel under the hood for extra insulation, and 12,000 btu flush-mounted side burners.
it is capable of  high enough heats for searing steaks, and can smoke meats easily by tossing  food grade wood chips, sawdust, or pellets between the grates, right below the  food or off to the side.
the lowe's  2011 grill buying guide completes this set with a matching 2.1 cubic foot  outdoor rated refrigerator.
note: some photos of commercial products such as grills were provided by the manufacturers and are under their copyright.
this line of stainless steel grills has several clever core features and two  glaring flaws.
kalamazoo has taken the concept of  the outdoor kitchen to the next level.
a unique feature is the pull-out table that  wants to stay pulled out.
it has a nifty rack in  the door for sauce and spices, and a towel rack.
if you are looking for a gas grill there are more options and bells and  whistles to chose from than digital cameras.
now  that's what i'm talkin' 'bout.
4 burner stainless steel looks pretty in the picture and on the showroom floor, but remember: even high quality stainless steel needs to be maintained to keep that fabulous shine.
char-broil recently has announced some techniques for cleaning them that may work but they came too late for me.
drippings from marinades  hit the glass and vaporize infusing flavor into the food, and wood can be  tossed on the glass for smoke.
current ducane product line consists of three lp gas models: the affinity 3100, 4100 and 4200.
all are built from stainless steel and aluminum, they are available as pedestal or built-in, and all can be either propane or natural gas.
i phoned customer service (nexgrill) explained my  issues, i was asked to take pictures... and email the photos to them.
the e-210 has 350 square inches of primary cooking surface and a 108 square inch removable warming rack for 458 total square inches, enough for small family grilling.
the grill's grates are narrow porcelain coated, the hood has an inner  liner, and there is a rotisserie burner on the back wall.
some premium models come with halogen lights inside the hood and a digital propane tank gauge.
the master forge gas grill line is extensive, from a small tabletop all the  way up to an 8' long, 115,500 btu, 8 burner, stainless steel deck barge that  costs less than a weber 4 burner summit.
indeed, when speaking with fire magic employees their genuine enthusiasm is palpable.
the performer adds a sonar propane monitor that pings the tank to gauge the contents and a 12,000 btu rotisserie burner on the rear wall.
if you're in the market for the best, you should consider fire magic.
there is a side burner and a rotisserie burner, all with electronic ignition.
it is cheaply built but it is cheaply priced.
flaw #2: rotisserie cooking seems to be an afterthought on this unit.
if you have a weber kettle, you need the amazing smokenator and hovergrill.
the sink includes a granite splash guard with a ìbarî on top.
all their burners are quality stainless steel, have a long life expectancy, and they come with electronic ignitions.
funny aprons, hats, t-shirts, tschotschkes meathead's  favorite ingredients photography gear how we review products we do not accept ads from products we review.
the stainless steel grates have a plate of stainless steel below them so  they get very hot and radiate the heat very evenly across the surface.
mostly porcelain  coated steel with cast aluminum on the sides of the hood.
ducane affinity 4100 (shown above) has four burners for 48,000 btus and 508 square inches of actual grilling surface, less than the 526 square inches of stainless steel rod cooking grate.
meathead kalamazoo these are the grills dreams are made of.
these are among the finest grills  made.
webers are not cheap, but when you consider that they last decades, the price is easy to justify.
a few reviews have been contributed by scot murphy and gordon hubbell.
sometimes i think they have some of the models on the website at high prices because they are similar to models sold in the big box stores at much lower prices so people researching grills will think they are getting a real bargain in the hardware stores.
meathead char-griller 5050
i wish i had one of these fabulous grills.
in june 2010 the jenn-air 720-0709, with five burners, got the top ranking from consumer reports for large grills.
the top of the line webers come in several different configurations, the 420, 470, 620, 660, and 670.
reds have a double layer on the hood, providing more insulation and heat  retention.
otherwise, sit back and let the ash settle.
control knob leds, in-lid halogen lights, slide out tank tray and trash bag holder complete the package.
ever watch chef rick  bayless on pbs?
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price  you pay.http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs seasoning and calibrating your grill or smoker with dry runs
if you're in the market for the best, you  should consider fire magic.
when asked about its age  the homeowner replied, "i bought this place 30 years ago and it was  already here".
echelon and aurora both have drip collection systems that consist of a tapered firebox bottom draining into a small drawer accessed from the front control panel and equipped with a disposable aluminum tray.
it will improve your cooking overnight and pay for itself in a hurry.
specializes in cast aluminum grills with stainless steel grates and ceramic "briquets".
natural  gas conversion kit available.
the stainless steel grates are just above the glass.
and you get features out the wazoo:  side burners, sear burners, warming/steaming stations, led illuminated knobs,  halogen lights in the lid, towel racks, fold-out tables; one model even has a  built-in bottle opener!
of course the prices can differ.
they promised to get back with an answer, but have not.
all stainless steel construction with a  double wall hood and quick disconnect side burners.
we have seen this product up close and we have also gathered info from the  manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
there are many producers, most of them listed below, and each makes several models, some make a bewildering array of models, and producers are constantly tweaking their designs.
undoubtedly you want yours to last.
it must be easy to make and emphasize fresh seasonal products with a minimum of processed ingredients.
fire magic also makes most everything you need for a outdoor kitchen  including smokers, a wide range or attachments and accessories, several  different side burners, refrigerators, keg coolers and tappers, rotisserie  baskets, ventilation hoods, griddles, pots and pans, tongs and spatulas, and  even the kitchen sink.
if you are looking for info, please use the table of contents or the search box, at the top of every page.
above the burners they place ceramic briquets, a  system popular several decades ago, but abandoned by many manufacturers because  the briquets occasionally need replacing.
all their burners are quality stainless steel, have a long life expectancy,
the four burner model has four burners, an auto cleaning feature that allows you to leave it on when you are done cooking to burn off juices and residue, and it shuts itself off.
the more burners, the better.
there  are two smoke trays, and you can order a pretty nifty looking cabinet style  offset smoker box with shelves for charcoal, and water.
fold down side shelf with polished edges and handles.
for the s or stand-alone models add one 15,000 btu side burner and one fold-out side table.
both have granite  counter tops.
the extra burner, when fired up in tandem with flanking burners on high makes restaurant-quality sear marks.
duo gas-and-charcoal grill
you can boil water on the  grates.
lynx lynx is big in the outdoor kitchen concept with a line of five base units  available as cabinet mounted and built-in models from 685 to 1110 inches of  primary cooking services.
they come in a variety of sizes, both pedestal mounted, cart  mounted, and built-in solaire grills all have an impressive list of standard  features including removable stainless steel main burners, stainless steel  bodies with welded seams and no screws or rivets, inner linings on hoods,  covers are included, and can be converted to natural gas.
that might be a problem,  but in general, the closer to the cooking surface, the hotter the surface and  the better searing.
the four burner stanless model is another four burner that is mostly stainless and comes with everything that the other has but is amped up with with 42,000 btu, 620 square inches of porcelain coated cast iron grates, rotisserie is included, so is a cast aluminum griddle for the sideburner, and there is a digital display for the tank gauge, timer, and meat temperature probe.
these luxury grills exude elegance and quality.
lifetime ownership is a fire magic mantra.
regardless of quality and performance, stok looks destined for the boneyard.
it is a four burner gas  grill with a serious side burner, and a built-in cabinet-style smoker/oven.
nexgrill a small number of grills that i have never seen and a website that offers  little info.
after one year, rather than fuss with them, i replaced the factory  grates with another company's product,grillgrates, which operate on the same  principle, only better.
all models have electric  ignition, built-in digital thermometers and meat probes, 12" deep firebox  (mighty nice for rotisserie) and double wall spring assisted hoods.
apparently the hose of the gas  tank can get too close to the firebox and be exposed to heat when the propane  cylinder or grease tray is not installed properly, posing a fire hazard.
prices are competitive.
available in cart mounted only.
available in cart mounted and built-in.
weber gas grills come in three basic flavors, spirit, genesis, and summit,  each with several configurations.
16 guage stainless steel flavor grids blanket the burners for even heat distribution and the cast stainless steel e-burners, actually shaped more like an h, are super heavy duty and designed to spread flame throughout the firebox.
amazon often has the best prices anywhere, even better than many manufacturers'  websites because manufacturers know that if they undercut retailers like  amazon, they may drop the products.
made of bare and black coated stainless steel with one 12,000 btu  side burner, one side table and a built in bottle opener. - max good fire magic fire magic grills have been manufactured in california since 1937.
access to burners is easy for cleaning, smoking, or setting up a  rotisserie.
the charcoal grill features a hand cranked adjustable height  charcoal pan for easy heat control, easy access front door to add charcoal or  wood and a 26,000 btu charcoal igniter.
manufacturers often make slight variations to their basic model exclusively for certain merchants.
there are too many models to describe here, so let's just drool over the top of the line,the 900gs.
and it is inexpensive.
of course you're not just  buying reliability and great customer service; you're buying the shining  centerpiece of your outdoor realm and a lifetime of enjoyment the versatility  and superior performance these elite cooking machines deliver.
want to start a new business?
master forge offers  a variation on this theme that appears identical except the retractable table  has a slightly different design.
they make high performance gas grills and hybrid grills that can also burn charcoal or wood.
in august 2010 a reader wrote to say "i purchased the largest model  offered, after a few months of use the grill started rusting around the doors  and lid.
all premium quality and made in america.
the charcoal grill features a hand cranked adjustable height charcoal pan for easy heat control, easy access front door to add charcoal or wood and a 26,000 btu charcoal igniter.
it takes you to amazon.com  and tags things you buy with the amazingribs code so we get that referral fee.
as always, we strongly recommend you not  rely on dial thermometers, and that you purchase agood digital thermometer to  get accurate oven temp readings.
at eight feet long, with three doors and two pull  out drawers, this unit is mighty big.
it has 31,000 btu stainless steel burners, 580 square inches of enamel coated cast iron grates, built-in grill lights, a lot of stainless from the hood to the shelves and some other parts, two storage drawers, and a 13,000 btu sideburner with a hood.
our philosophy about food is simple.
http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs this link takes you to amazon and tags anything you buy with a code
i believe this company will stand behind,  in front of and on top of their products.
these junky dials have ruined more meals and caused more tummy aches than spoiled meat.
the information on this website is for educational purposes only.
it would be nice if  they would go digital in the digital age.
cabinet mounted or it can be mounted on a  pedestal or post, or built-in.
three burner: 522 square inches, 32,000  btu.
awards are based on features, quality, and value.
they began making gas grills around 1975 with the slogan, "buy your last grill first" and developed a respectable following.
one of the problems in shopping for brinkmanns is that they have so many different models, and not all of them are on their website.
a small number of grills that i have never seen and a website that offers little info.
the e-320 and ep-320 (there is no s-320) has a 12,000 btu flush mounted side burner on the right.
[because] they manufactured the product for jenn-air (didn't mention  that in the warranty)...
there are many producers, most of them listed below, and  each makes several models, some make a bewildering array of models, and  producers are constantly tweaking their designs.
stands on a pedestal or it is available as a  portable tabletop grill.
the most important feature a good gas grill must have a minimum of two burners is a must for 2-zone or  indirect cooking, the most important technique you need to learn for successful  outdoor cooking.
rarely will a $400 gold medal be in the same league as an $800 gold medal, so it is important that you read the reviews.
i had to have  my local auto body shop weld the two parts together to keep them from coming  loose.
the smallest model, a430s, can be mounted  on a post or pedestal instead of a cart.
most drippings, hit the plates and  incinerate, adding more flavor to the meat.
click here for more info and pricing: vidalia grills. -
2 burner grill is great for an apartment, balcony or small deck.
we have seen this product up close and we have also gathered info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
when i called to inquire about the problem, i was instructed to call  nexgrill
even top end gas grill manufacturers tend to buy heat indicators (i refuse to call them thermometers) from the lowest bidder.
the smokenator turns your grill into a first class smoker, and the hovergrill can add capacity or be used to create steakhouse steaks.
the sear station is a dedicated area which weber claims can reach 700 to 800°f.
if you like all the info we give you for free and would like to help us
it is a four burner gas grill with a serious side burner, and a built-in cabinet-style smoker/oven.
some owners reported igniter and  regulator malfunctions.
the lid has an inner double layer to help keep in heat.
fire magic also makes most everything you need for a outdoor kitchen including smokers, a wide range or attachments and accessories, several different side burners, refrigerators, keg coolers and tappers, rotisserie baskets, ventilation hoods, griddles, pots and pans, tongs and spatulas, and even the kitchen sink.
pedestal mounted, with polypropylene side  tables, cast aluminum hood, a grease bucket right out in the open for the dog  to enjoy, and "one temperature setting eliminates guesswork."
i collapsed the table and tried to latch it shut with  no success.
she'd get back to me with answers.
it spreads 38,000 btu among three  burners.
stay free, please copy the link below and save it.
heavy-duty locking swivel casters.
front to back is better for  rotisserie cooking.
the bargain price may not be such a bargain in that light.
the primary cooking area is 468 square inches, and the warming rack is 112 square inches.
rotisserie and 16,000 btu backburner  are optional.
before you make up your mind, make sure to read these articles: how to buy a grill how gas grills work & the best setups charcoal grills vs. gas grills thermodynamics of cooking 2-zone and indirect cooking thermometer buying guide below i have listed several popular or noteworthy grills alphabetically.
click here tosee our review on the charcoal grill review page.
one side houses three stainless steel burners at 12,000 btus each and the other houses a 13,000 btu sear burner.
the genesis models also have a second layer of metal under the hood with an air gap between for extra insulation.
they make high performance gas grills  and hybrid grills that can also burn charcoal or wood.
when the company went up for sale around 2004, weber-stephens swooped in  and grabbed it.
all grills are  shipped with conversion kits that facilitate propane or natural gas should your  preference change.
this operation is managed by  a division of lowe's named lg sourcing.
the whole shootin' match folds up, attaches to a trailer hitch, and has a built-in hoist that lifts it up so you can haul it anywhere.
this is my second go around with jenn-air.
features include wok  adapter, easy cleaning, and the meat is only two inches from the flames.
one user griped online claiming the heat distribution plates are too close to the cooking grate and so large they catch all the drippings thus exacerbating flare-ups.
an extra handle light has been added to illuminate all this real estate.
worse still, it is in the dome, and the temp down on the grate where the meat sits is much different.
reds have a double layer on the hood, providing more insulation and heat retention.
all are made with high quality 304 cast  stainless steel burners, cooking grates and housings that carry a lifetime  warranty.
the cart is preassembled and  folded so putting this one together is fairly easy.
all models  hold the propane tank inside the enclosed cart, and all can be adapted for  natural gas.
brinkmann 5-burner smoke 'n grill professional smoker.
for the s or stand-alone models add one 15,000 btu side burner and one  fold-out side table.
there is no natural gas conversion kit available.
an internal halogen  light and a built in electrical outlet are optional.
they make outdoor refrigerators, freezers, wine chillers, keg tappers, ice makers, weather-tight cabinets, wok-ready cooktops, a lobster boil pit, warming drawers, and an awesome pizza oven.
throw in two stainless steel side shelves and a double walled stainless steel hood.
all about gas grills, with gas grill reviews and ratings want to start a new business?
webers are not cheap, but when  you consider that they last decades, the price is easy to justify.
my only complaint: all webers have the obligatory bi-metal dial thermometer in the hood that gives you a ballpark reading of what the temperature is high above the meat.
you've got gas burners on one side and charcoal on the other.
the e-310 has three burners rated at 36,000 btus, 424 square inches of primary cooking area and 112 on the warming rack, giving you a total of 536 square cooking inches.
highly regarded well made expensive gas grills under the bull brand label, both cart mounted, and built-ins.
- max  good gogalley gogalley is unlike any other grill in the world.
the burners line up from side to side, the best alignment for indirect cooking, and they are very close to the grates for high heat.
the e-620 and s-620 has 6 main burners upping the power to 60,000 btu spread out over 693 square inches, and a 145 square inch warming rack.
one user griped online claiming the  heat distribution plates are too close to the cooking grate and so large they  catch all the drippings thus exacerbating flare-ups.
indeed, when speaking with fire magic  employees their genuine enthusiasm is palpable.
solaire solaire grills are mostly infrared radiation, but a few offer both infrared  and convection.
it also catches drips and is easy to clean.
these are low end inexpensive two burner convection units.
ignition is battery operated electric.
the first thing to do after you assemble your new grill or smoker is to  season it and calibrate it by doing a few dry runs without food.
most drippings, hit the plates and incinerate, adding more flavor to the meat.
the grease  tray pulls out the back as with most brinkmanns.
one of the problems in shopping for brinkmanns is that they have so many  different models, and not all of them are on their website.
a660s:  a=aurora, 660=660 square inch primary cooking surface, s=stand-alone or mounted  on a cart.
construction is black porcelain-coated steel with double wall lid, cast aluminum end caps and a single door enclosed cart.
there are four burners so it is easy to turn off one side and leave the other on for indirect grilling.
outdoor kitchens are significant home  improvement projects.
i believe the latch has a very narrow tolerance.
all models can be bought with add-on cabinets that nestle under the side tables as an option.
the side burner is optional on the built-in version.
the flavor bars over the heating elements can be lifted out as a unit and the water pan can slide over the heat to steam or boil.
the s-460 and s-660 (there is no e-660) is the model designed to be built into outdoor kitchens.
one fire magic dealer  recounted a call to fix an installed drop-in grill.
my only complaint: all webers have the obligatory bi-metal dial thermometer  in the hood that gives you a ballpark reading of what the temperature is high  above the meat.
the e-470 and s-470 have a cleverly designed built-in  rotisserie with a motor that drops down into the side shelf and hides.
pedestal mounted, with polypropylene side tables, cast aluminum hood, a grease bucket right out in the open for the dog to enjoy, and "one temperature setting eliminates guesswork."
in fact the oversize lid is too big to  accommodate a rotisserie.
if the knobs are on the front, that's usually a good sign  that the burners line up from side to side.
click here for more info and pricing:brinkmann. - meathead
my 15-year old genesis and i  know from experience.
then ask yourself how long do you think it will last?
i asked the folks at weber what the acquisition brought to  their business.
a660s: a=aurora, 660=660 square inch primary cooking surface, s=stand-alone or mounted on a cart.
remember, i am not a mind reader.
it is the  same as the 4100 but it has porcelain-enameled cast iron cooking grates and a  flush mounted side burner.
the compact configuration by necessity brings the heat up close to the grate for a good sear on your burgers and steaks.
char-broil char-broil is an innovator with clever designs and mid-range prices,  currently emphasizing radiant "infrared" heat.
the stainless model and enamel model have  three burners, 550 square inches of porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates  with 34,500 btu burners, and a 13,000 btu sideburner that lies flush with the  shelf.
all models have electric ignition, built-in digital thermometers and meat probes, 12" deep firebox (mighty nice for rotisserie) and double wall spring assisted hoods.
618 square inches of stainless steel primary cooking grates on a large cart with three stainless steel doors and brown coated metal cabinet.
click here for more aboutthermometers.
manufacturing was immediately shifted from north carolina to china, where  weber makes their entry level spirit series.
nothing wobbles on webers.
3/11/2012 - max good sunshine grill cast iron gas grills, four burners, and griddle.
- max good gogalley is unlike any other grill in the world.
it spreads 38,000 btu among three burners.
both can be ordered with a 15,000 btu sear burner as an option.
we think that people need to know why as well as how, so we spend a lot of time explaining things, and we believe that there are no rules in the bedroom or dining room.
the casters are sturdy and lock solid.
everything looks and feels solid.
they have enameled heat deflectors the stainless steel grates have a plate of stainless steel below them so they get very hot and radiate the heat very evenly across the surface.
sturdy, easy to clean, and excellent at transferring heat from your fire to the meat for good grill marks.
heavy is a word that came to mind throughout my  inspection.
cabinet mounted or it can be mounted on a pedestal or post, or built-in.
if you're building an outdoor kitchen or souped-up patio you should consider fire magic.
they have smaller vents in the hood than most gassers which means  they retain more heat than grills with more btus.
lookit those super wide grates and that huge, roomy hood.
for example, a  master forge rotisserie kit is $35 compared to the weber genesis kit for $80.
about model numbers manufacturers often make slight variations to their basic model exclusively  for certain merchants.
alas the hinges on the dome are pretty flimsy.
i compiled a list of questions and called loweís to speak with a  product manager.
i compiled a list of questions and called loweís to speak with a product manager.
invite the whole neighborhood when you  fire up this beast: five stainless steel burners, two side by side brass  burners, a "sear top with warming station" and one ir sear burner for  a total of 115,500 btus.
rarely will a $400  gold medal be in the same league as an $800 gold medal, so it is important that  you read the reviews.
compare  them to brinkmann.
309 square inches of primary grilling surface and 22,000 btu.
this small discrepancy is due to affinity’s frame design which blocks small portions of the stainless steel rod cooking grates.
i'll tell you one to avoid: manufacturing gas grills.
their cart mounted grills have cast iron burners above which is a deflection plate that spreads the flame and the heat to the edges of the grill.
the stainless on the hood is lightweight and is hard to clean.
it is 42" wide, 31" deep, and 49.5" tall.
stainless steel grates with a total cooking area of 444 square inches of primary cooking area and 125 square inches on the warming rack.
cart mounted, looks business-like (that's it at  right), there is a wood tray for smoke.
you've got gas burners on one side and  charcoal on the other.
they reviewed only 13 models in the large grill category,  but in their rankings it bested kitchenaid, char-broil commercial, and weber  summit among others.
amazingribs, inc. promises to never sell or distribute any info about you individually without your express permission, and we promise not to, ahem, pepper you with email or make you eat spam.
they all have a small stainless work shelf on the left, and on the right  shelf are the burner controls and tool hooks.
if you are still using a dial thermometer, please read this article about thermometers, then buy a good digital, and then, if the problem persists (chances are it won't), hit me with your questions.
the four burner stanless model is another four burner that  is mostly stainless and comes with everything that the other has but is amped  up with with 42,000 btu, 620 square inches of porcelain coated cast iron  grates, rotisserie is included, so is a cast aluminum griddle for the  sideburner, and there is a digital display for the tank gauge, timer, and meat  temperature probe.
will you be replacing it  in 5 years?
they promised to get back  with an answer, but have not.
will you be replacing it in 5 years?
this means you need written permission to republish or distribute anything on this website.
the e models  are available in green, copper, black.
now that's what i'm talkin' 'bout.
there is also a  10,600 btu sear burner in the center.
the casters are  sturdy and lock solid.
all models hold the propane tank inside the enclosed cart, and all can be adapted for natural gas.
i have tested it andi review it in detail  on the page devoted to portable grills.
modular brown 5-burner grill with modular sink/bar.
access to burners is easy for cleaning, smoking, or setting up a rotisserie.
and you get features out the wazoo: side burners, sear burners, warming/steaming stations, led illuminated knobs, halogen lights in the lid, towel racks, fold-out tables; one model even has a built-in bottle opener!
as with most brinkmanns, the grease tray is removed from the back side.
and of course the obligatory cheap  built-in lid thermometers which you will want to ignore anduse a more accurate  digital thermometer.
options for stand-alone models are more limited but you may, for instance, replace an e-burner with an ir sear zone.
models starting with an "e" are  built with weber's sturdy porcelainized enamel coated steel, and those starting  with an "s" are mostly stainless steel.
ducane affinity 4200 is exclusive to lowe's.
available in cart  mounted only.
the genesis was totally redesigned for 2011 by moving the gas control knobs  from the side to the front, and with them the three burners now line up from  side to side running front to rear rather than lining up front to rear and  running left to right as they did in the past.
it has 100,000 btu for the 864 square inch custom cut  stainless steel grates, plus a 22,000 btu rotisserie burner, a 22,000 searing  burner, and a 32,000 wok-ready side burner.
many owners raised concerns about construction, customer service, availability of parts, and the fact that the brand is only a few years old and still unproven in the market.
some options are: "magic view window" to check food without  lifting the hood; motorized hood; solar panels; remote receiver to check  temperature readings up to 50 feet away from the grill.
2) don't ask me any questions that involve temp or time unless you tell me that you are using a digital thermometer!
these are basic, no-frills, value grills backed by weber's good name and their stellar customer support.- max good dyna-glo dual fuel lp gas and charcoal grill.
for example, a master forge rotisserie kit is $35 compared to the weber genesis kit for $80.
two p-shaped stainless steel burners produce 30,000 btus.
thermal engineering corporation (tec) is the company that pioneered the concept of "infrared" grilling.
3) please don't ask me "what grill (or smoker) should i buy?"
all material within comes without warranties of any kind.
i cannot recommend it more highly.
click here for more about grillgrates.
a natural  gas conversion kit and custom cover are included at no extra charge.
copyright © by amazingribs, inc.
an especially nice touch:  the knobs are illuminated and there is an illuminated scale that shows you  about how much fuel is in your propane tank.
this configuration is especially good for rotisserie cooking, but not as convenient for2-zone or indirect cooking as when the burners line up from side to side.
to get reprint rights,click here.
lynx is big in the outdoor kitchen concept with a line of five base units available as cabinet mounted and built-in models from 685 to 1110 inches of primary cooking services.
a natural gas  converter is available.
the heat distribution plates  are very large, covering most of the area beneath the cooking grates and  it’s easy to see why weber chose not to refer to them as "flavorizer  bars" as they do on the weber line.
the smallest model, a430s, can be mounted on a post or pedestal instead of a cart.
the main grates are porcelain-enamel coated.
stand-alone models are available with double or single side burners and  there are many to choose from.
smoke your ribs, grill burgers, bake cookies, and fry a turkey, all in one  portable unit.
brass is a fine burner, and is practically indestructible.
the master forge gas grill line is extensive, from a small tabletop all the way up to an 8' long, 115,500 btu, 8 burner, stainless steel deck barge that costs less than a weber 4 burner summit.
four burner: 702 square inches, 48,000 btu.
ducane affinity 3100 features three burners generating  36,000 btus and a grilling area of 407 square inch, slightly less than the 418  square inches claimed in ducane's brochure.
in fact, when you consider the fact that some cheap grills fall apart after 3 years or so, webers might be considered a bargain.
this  baby has btus galore: the primary burners put out 60,000 btu, there is a 12,000  btu flush-mounted side burner, a 10,600 btu sear burner, a 10,600 btu infrared  rear-mounted rotisserie burner, and they have added a dedicated 6,800 btu  burner for the smoker box.
309 square inches of primary grilling surface and  22,000 btu.
i ended up talking to someone in public relations.
there is no warming rack.
the e and s versions come standard with porcelain-enamel coated cast iron cooking grates, a fine system, and porcelain-enamel coated flavorizer bars.
weber gas grills come in three basic flavors, spirit, genesis, and summit, each with several configurations.
it is divided in two, a direct  heat zone and an indirect heat zone.
steakhouse knives these are the same knives used at the best steakhouses (peter luger, smith & wollensky, morton's and others).
the e-210 has two burners, while the e-310 and e-320 have three  burners, running left to righ and lined up from front to rear.
heavy is a word that came to mind throughout my inspection.
click here for more info and pricing:lynx. -  meathead master forge gas grills sold only at lowe's, master forge offers a lot of grill for little money by  using inexpensive materials, construction, and components.
compare them to brinkmann.
there is a  5 burner 50,000 btu grill with 554 square inches of primary cooking space as  well as a 12,000 btu sideburner, and in the cabinet below is a complete  enclosed small cabinet gas smoker.
the  sear burner is smallish, accommodating perhaps two modest size steaks.
they even claim you can cook with  charcoal or wood by putting briquets or logs on the flavor bars and igniting  them with the gas burners.
it is written, photographed, illustrated, and coded solely bymeathead .
16 guage  stainless steel flavor grids blanket the burners for even heat distribution and  the cast stainless steel e-burners, actually shaped more like an h, are super  heavy duty and designed to spread flame throughout the firebox.
brass is a fine burner, and is  practically indestructible.
options include a 15,000 side burner, a 1500 btu sear burner, lighting.
i've shared just about everything i know.
it can easily be adapted from propane to natural gas with a kit sold separately.
click here for more info and  pricing:kalamazoo. .
bull highly regarded well made expensive gas grills under the bull brand label,  both cart mounted, and built-ins.
that was easy because the mounting holes go through.
capital makes two lines of high-end stainless grills on carts and built-ins.
all are made with high quality 304 cast stainless steel burners, cooking grates and housings that carry a lifetime warranty.
as you move up the line you can get a rotisserie, and sear burners.
click here for more info and pricing: tec. - meathead they have one base design that comes with 3, 4, or 5 stainless steel burners.
for example,  e1060i indicates: e=echelon, 1060=actual or approximate primary cooking surface  (in this case 1056 square inches), i=island or drop-in head for install.
like the type of cooker you are using.
even the wheels are  heavy duty.
i prefer basket type which they  used to sell.
two stainless steel burners put out 26,000 btu, and the design features well-placed, well-measured vents that let air flow without the draft snuffing the flames.
for example, e1060i indicates: e=echelon, 1060=actual or approximate primary cooking surface (in this case 1056 square inches), i=island or drop-in head for install.
- meathead holland grills holland's difference is that they design their grills to cook by  convection.
best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are given only to products that we highly recommend based on price.
indeed many ducane owners seem hooked.
this  configuration is especially good for rotisserie cooking, but not as convenient  for2-zone or indirect cooking as when the burners line up from side to side.
the e series has  porcelain-enameled cooking grates and the s series features 7 mm diameter  stainless steel cooking grates.
if you cover this grill and polish  it periodically, it will still be prone to discoloration and corrosion.
they claim that the seamless rain gutter surrounding their doors and drawers makes them a "weather-tight vault, the only cabinets that will keep your tools, linens, serving pieces and spices clean and dry no matter what mother nature throws at them."
the assembly manuals are of the ikea variety: all illustrations, almost no  words.
but i have tried to include the most widely distributed units  as well as those i think are especially interesting.
national barbecue association represented by: the lisa ekus group promoting a world of culinary talent founding member: operation bbq relief amazingribs.com is all about the zen of barbecue, grilling, and outdoor cooking, with great bbq recipes and techniques: barbecue baby back ribs, spareribs, pulled pork, beef brisket, steak, burgers, chicken, smoked turkey, lamb, barbecue sauces, burgers, steaks, rubs, and side dishes, with the world's best buying guide to barbecue smokers and grills.
the rest of the master forge gas grill line includes battery powered electronic ignition and lid thermometers.
click here for more info and pricing: vermont castings . -
fire magic echelon these are the basic configurations: e1060i: 115,000 btus primary, 2 - 11,000 btu backburners e790i: 99,000  btus primary, 13,000 backburner e660i: 78,000 btus primary, 11,000  backburner all echelon models need to be hooked up to 110 volt power.
porcelain-coated cast iron grates for 535 square inches of primary cooking and 168 square inches on the warming rack.
so you get this reflective bowl heating another bowl that radiates heat to the grates nice and even.
the built-in version has a 15,000 btu rotisserie burner.
as one opens and closes and fiddles with knobs,  it's easy to believe the ducane reputation for basic, functional and durable  grills remains intact.
- meathead holland's difference is that they design their grills to cook by convection.
only time will tell. -  max good modern home products napoleon a line of several grills in limited distribution that i have never been  able to lay eyes or hands on.
designed intelligently with attention to details and built to last, they look good, work beautifully, and almost never break down.
just above the burners is a solid layer of  special glass that absorbs and distributes the heat evenly.
it has four 304 stainless steel burners burning 48,000 btus and one 13,500 btu side burner.
when asked about its age the homeowner replied, "i bought this place 30 years ago and it was already here".
fill the drip pan with water and it becomes a steamer or a water smoker.
all their grills have stainless steel burners, a smoke box, a rear access grease pan, and most important, a bottle opener.
she'd get back to me  with answers.
nonetheless, overall  quality was in line with other low cost grills.
the producers who are most widely distributed are the big three,brinkmann, char-broil, and weber.
mostly porcelain coated steel with cast aluminum on the sides of the hood.
fold  down side shelf with polished edges and handles.
click here for more info and pricing:lynx. -
this  will burn off any manufacturer's grease, and give you a sense for how to set it  up to hit the two important target temps that almost all my recipes use:  225°f and 325°f.
stainless steel rod cooking grates.
additionally, consumer reports 2012 buying guide gives the master forge 5-burner grill a "very good" rating and top pick for large model gas grills.
the cabinets have adjustable wire shelves.
lowe's seems to have offered various grill lines for several years under various names like "perfect flame" and made by various companies like "bbqtek".
the e models are available in green, copper, black.
the grease tray pulls out the back as with most brinkmanns.
this company makes many different models, from small portables to large units with two hoods.
all models are available with or without the rotisserie and the backburner raised above the cooking grate for rotisserie cooking.
while researching products i like to cruise the web and look for comments by owners.
here's a key to our reviews.
that might be a problem, but in general, the closer to the cooking surface, the hotter the surface and the better searing.
fire magic builds two gas grill lines, their premier echelon diamond series and their second tier aurora series.
amazon often has the best prices anywhere, even better than many manufacturers' websites because manufacturers know that if they undercut retailers like amazon, they may drop the products.
click here for more info on these wonderful knives.
within  four days i was the owner of a brand new grill plus the latest model available  with a letter stating concern over the problem.
all are built from stainless steel and aluminum, they are available as pedestal  or built-in, and all can be either propane or natural gas.
the halogen light comes with the cart, but  not the built-in.
my local fire magic dealer clearly took pride in demonstrating his wares,  stating the burners have a range of 200°f for slow roasting and smoking all  the way up to 1600°f to sear steaks in minutes, just like steakhouses.
otherwise the s-460 is configured pretty much the same  as the s-470 model above.
click here for more info and pricing:kalamazoo. .
when a product is available on amazon.com, we often provide a direct link.
char-broil red grills.
kalamazoo claims the bow-ties shaped stainless burners are capable of 800°f guaranteed for life.
if they do, weber is known for great customer service and for carrying an  inventory of parts on models from years gone by.
they make commercial grills, pedestal  grills, and cart mounted units.
this is my second go  around with jenn-air.
above the burners they place ceramic briquets, a system popular several decades ago, but abandoned by many manufacturers because the briquets occasionally need replacing.
surefire they make a wide range of sizes, all stainless steel, designed to burn  propane, natural gas, or lump charcoal with an optional charcoal tray.
the lowe's 2011 grill buying guide completes this set with a matching 2.1 cubic foot outdoor rated refrigerator.
meathead broilking this company makes many different models, from small portables to large  units with two hoods.
the glass blocks air flow so there is strictly radiant heat and minimal drying from convection heat.
control knob leds, in-lid halogen lights, slide out tank tray and trash bag  holder complete the package.
i don't care how much you spent on your grill, the bi-metal dial thermometer that came with it is probably cheap and unreliable and likely to be off by as much as 50°f.
when the top chef professional winner and multiple james beard award winner cooks outdoors as he often does, it's on a kalamazoo.
the burners line up from side to side, the best alignment for  indirect cooking, and they are very close to the grates for high heat.
the primary grate is 624 square inches, and the warming rack is 145 square inches.
machine washable, temper-ground, serrated, high-carbon stainless-steel, full-tang blades with excellent cutting edge retention, beefy hardwood handle, rust and stain resistant, and they stay shiny without polishing.
some actually even come with the kitchen sink attached.
stainless steel grates for  684 square inches of primary cooking and 264 square inches of warming rack.
current ducane product line  consists of three lp gas models:
pay attention to the awards i have given my faves.
"serviceable" is a word that comes to mind.
the assembly manuals are of the ikea variety: all illustrations, almost no words.
excellent in design and construction, beautiful to behold and priced accordingly.
the s-660 is comparable to the s-670 above.
the affinity 3100, 4100 and 4200.
alas, i don't have much faith  inthe accuracy of these gauges.
it is by far the most popular barbecue website in the world and pageviews increase rapidly every year.
we make it clear in our reviews when we are working with a sample.
the e-310 has three burners rated at 36,000 btus, 424  square inches of primary cooking area and 112 on the warming rack, giving you a  total of 536 square cooking inches.
weber genesis grills
ceramic grills/smokers large capacity, restaurant & trailer smokers electric smokers gas smokers pellet grills/smokers stovetop smokers pig roasters wood burning pizza ovens how to buy a grill overview the differences between charcoal & gas grills charcoal grill reviews & ratings egg, kamado, ceramic grills/smokers pellet grills/smokers gas grills tailgate grills & portable grills grills gone wild thermometers & thermostats barbecue accessories kitchen tools the amazingribs.com brazilian steak knife set outdoor kitchen planning cookbooks, magazines, videos barbecue sauces bar necessities corkscrews funny aprons, hats, t-shirts, tschotschkes meathead's favorite ingredients photography gear we do not accept ads from products we review.
normally mygold awards are reserved for products that are a balance of quality and price, and nobody will ever call kalamazoo grills bargains, but the get the prize on quality features alone.
i collapsed the table and tried to latch it shut with no success.
the grill  light is included.
a brief  discussion of the heating system is useful.
they are tricky and prone  to rotating and failing to rotate the meat.
two burner: 360 square inches of primary grilling surface (primary), 32,000 btu.
the burners produce 37,500 btu for the 440 square inch porcelain coated cast iron grates.
this line of grills is entirely innovative and it is sold mostly through home depot.
click the red links for current pricing and more info.
a small referral fee when you purchase from them after clicking on a link on this site, so purchasing from them helps underwrite the cost of operating amazingribs.com.
in august 2010 a reader wrote to say "i purchased the largest model offered, after a few months of use the grill started rusting around the doors and lid.
it has no casters, but slides in and out of the counter system.
if wishes were fire magic, we all would drive.
there is no need for side burners.
click here for more info and pricing:
you can throw wood chips in the  inner bowl and they smolder nicely.
it has 100,000 btu for the 864 square inch custom cut stainless steel grates, plus a 22,000 btu rotisserie burner, a 22,000 searing burner, and a 32,000 wok-ready side burner.
cal flame capital makes two lines of high-end stainless grills on carts and built-ins.
there were quite a few reviews for this unit at loweís website and almost all were five stars.
a word of caution: in 2009 the  manufacturer issued a voluntary safety notice.
the e-210 has two burners, while the e-310 and e-320 have three burners, running left to righ and lined up from front to rear.
check outamazon's gift & wish registry.
weber summit grills the top of the line webers come in several different configurations, the  420, 470, 620, 660, and 670.
an especially nice touch: the knobs are illuminated and there is an illuminated scale that shows you about how much fuel is in your propane tank.
rest assured that when we recommend a product, it is really because we like it, not because someone has paid us to say so because we do not accept advertising from product categories we review.
"but you don't get a lot of grease because most burns up on the flavor grids", he said, "especially if you do a burn off after each use".
stainless steel hood.
there are three basic configurations, the 310, 320, and 330.
ignition is battery operated  electric.
this will burn off any manufacturer's grease, and give you a sense for how to set it up to hit the two important target temps that almost all my recipes use: 225°f and 325°f.
a unique feature is the pull-out table that wants to stay pulled out.
below the porcelain coated  cast iron grates, there is a dark parabolic non-stick bowl.
if wishes were fire magic, we all  would drive.
heavy duty no frills, frumpy, but serious looking stainless steel grills aimed at commercial users.
throw in two  stainless steel side shelves and a double walled stainless steel hood.
the flame's intensity grows brighter on high  and dimmer on low.
the stainless model and enamel model have three burners, 550 square inches of porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates with 34,500 btu burners, and a 13,000 btu sideburner that lies flush with the shelf.
all three are virtually identical in construction and appearance: black porcelain-enameled steel body with cast aluminum sides and stainless steel control panel and side tables.
the producers who are most  widely distributed are the big three,brinkmann, char-broil, and weber.
the side burner on mine came with a cast aluminum griddle that fits on the side burner.
the rod comes in two parts and must be screwed together.
this also features  folding side tables and a single door cart.
i have never seen this model so i  cannot comment on it.
many owners  raised concerns about construction, customer service, availability of parts,  and the fact that the brand is only a few years old and still unproven in the  market.
the natural gas model comes in any color you want, so long as it is black.
no rotisserie  available.
the s-460 and s-660 (there is no e-660) is the model  designed to be built into outdoor kitchens.
moral of the story... buy from the company  that manufactures the product not the no service, price jacking middle man,  jenn-air!" -
lift it out and there is another stainless steel parabolic bowl for it to sit above with the burner in the center.
regardless of quality and performance, stok looks  destined for the boneyard.
there are two smoke trays, and you can order a pretty nifty looking cabinet style offset smoker box with shelves for charcoal, and water.
i have never seen this model so i cannot comment on it.
the side burner is also amped up to 12,000 btu.
a small referral  fee when you purchase from them after clicking on a link on this site, so  purchasing from them helps underwrite the cost of operating amazingribs.com.
crown verity heavy duty no frills, frumpy, but serious looking stainless steel grills  aimed at commercial users.
exhaust  openings are below the grates so smoke must travel across the food.
the inner bowl is highly  polished chrome for more heat.
manufacturing was immediately shifted from north carolina to china, where weber makes their entry level spirit series.
it is 34" wide, 31" deep, and 49.5"  tall.
this operation is managed by a division of lowe's named lg sourcing.
all  monitored by the onboard digital thermometers.
there is also a smoker box with its own burner on the right.
so they need frequent cleaning or they clog.
lowe's, like wal-mart and other big box retailers, carries popular brands  and also has private label products made for them.
the good news is you get a lot for what you  pay.
sturdy, easy to clean, and excellent at  transferring heat from your fire to the meat for good grill marks.
the cart is preassembled and folded so putting this one together is fairly easy.
the indirect zone has a water pan under it (they incorrectly call this a marinade pan, but now i'm nitpicking).
some burners line up side to side and others
you can also put meat in the  indirect zone for holding.
they will not last as long as a weber.
the outdoor chef has three burners producing 45,000 btu under a 500 square inch porcelain coated cast iron grate.
also includes an 11,000 btu side  burner, side shelf handle, attached condiment boxes, tool holder and a bottle  opener!
they reviewed only 13 models in the large grill category, but in their rankings it bested kitchenaid, char-broil commercial, and weber summit among others.
any perfect flame owners out there care to comment?
side to side is better for most cooking.
some owners reported igniter and regulator malfunctions.
advertising on this site.
they make outdoor refrigerators,  freezers, wine chillers, keg tappers, ice makers, weather-tight cabinets,  wok-ready cooktops, a lobster boil pit, warming drawers, and an awesome pizza  oven.
the bigger the cooking surface, the more flexibility you have.
then there is a large drip pan that sits under the food and radiates heat to the stainless steel cooking surface.
in  2012max good joined our staff as director of buyer's guides and more and more  of the reviews come from him.
how would i have known  what a great company nexgrill is.
a good thermometer is why i never serve overcooked or undercooked food.
fill the drip pan with water  and it becomes a steamer or a water smoker.
broilmaster specializes in cast aluminum grills with stainless steel grates and ceramic  "briquets".
our privacy promise.
stainless steel grates with a total cooking area of 444 square inches  of primary cooking area and 125 square inches on the warming rack.
the stainless steel cooking grates are thick and heavy.
they include a  retractable tool and paper towel holder, dual storage doors with six inch  handles and heavy-duty swivel wheels.
the model consumer reports rated  "very good" has 5 stainless steel burners for 60,000 btus, one 12,000  btu sear burner, one 12,000 btu side burner, 576 square inches of primary  cooking on stainless steel grates and 211 square inch warming tray.
we make it clear in our  reviews when we are working with a sample.
this helps insulate the cooking space, amping up  the heat.
i asked stok public relations if the line is being discontinued.
made of bare and black coated stainless steel with one 12,000 btu side burner, one side table and a built in bottle opener. - max good fire magic grills have been manufactured in california since 1937.
lowe's, like wal-mart and other big box retailers, carries popular brands and also has private label products made for them.
the grills or "heads" can be purchased for drop in installations or mounted on carts and pedestals.
outdoor kitchens are significant home improvement projects.
models starting with an "e" are built with weber's sturdy porcelainized enamel coated steel, and those starting with an "s" are mostly stainless steel.
these brackets also hold the rotisserie spit.
still, even if they are off, they should give  you guidance relative to each other.
the lightish hood is made of porcelain-enameled steel and the handles on the magnetically-held lower doors are plastic, as is the handle on the hood.
the grates are thin wire coated with enamel.
instead of a small grate, the removable warming rack is different than most, which are standard wire racks.
features include wok adapter, easy cleaning, and the meat is only two inches from the flames.
we do not accept ads from product categories we review and we keep a strict wall between editorial and advertising, so, for current pricing and availability of prime space, contact my agency, federated media, by clicking the logo at right.
this is an important point.
click here for more info and pricing:weber. - meathead 1)
it has  four 304 stainless steel burners burning 48,000 btus and one 13,500 btu side  burner.
the authors are human and capable of mistakes, omissions, or errors, so we make no guarantees as to the accuracy, completeness, or safety of the information.
don't ask  me why, but the e models are available only in black.
the grease drip pans are easy to access from the front, not the back as with many other grills.
the steel is thin, and some parts just looked cheap, like the plastic  control knobs and the thermometers.
even the wheels are heavy duty.
the sink module mirrors the grill in size and look with the same combo of stainless and brown coated metal.
the only color available is black.
kalamazoo claims the bow-ties  shaped stainless burners are capable of 800°f guaranteed for life.
backburners include a stainless steel cover for  protection when not in use.
small  battery boxes easily pop out from the sides of the control panel.
man, there are a lot of choices out there.
the base superheats, eliminates hot spots, and blocks flareups.
even top end gas grill manufacturers tend to buy heat  indicators (i refuse to call them thermometers) from the lowest bidder.
while researching  products i like to cruise the web and look for comments by owners.
the spirit line is built in china, while the genesis and summit lines are made in il.
a few reviews have been contributed by scot  murphy and gordon hubbell.
i asked the folks at weber what the acquisition brought to their business.
first of all it must taste great.
lift it out and  there is another stainless steel parabolic bowl for it to sit above with the  burner in the center.
this has a hand cranked, adjustable tray that moves the  coal up and down for good heat control and a 12,000 btu stainless steel  charcoal ignition burner to get the party started.
cart mounted or built-in models.
the only problem is that it is not easy to set up  for 2-zone cooking, but the entire grill is really indirect cooking, so you can  cook low and slow, and then crank the heat at the end for crisping.
the e-310, ep-310, and s-310 have 507 square inches on the  primary surface and 130 on the upper rack.
the bad news is you usually get what you pay for.
they are now available on the home depot website at full price for online orders only.
the e-470 and s-470 have a cleverly designed built-in rotisserie with a motor that drops down into the side shelf and hides.
i believe this company will stand behind, in front of and on top of their products.
the e-330, ep 320, and s-330 has a fourth burner on the  left that adds another 10,000 btu to boost the heat on that side for searing.
their cart mounted grills have cast iron burners above which is a  deflection plate that spreads the flame and the heat to the edges of the grill.
the stove in my home had problems after six months of  use, the same bull [bleep] and tap dance as the grill...
we have researched this product from afar by gathering info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources, with our bs meters on high.
the spirit line is built in  china, while the genesis and summit lines are made in il.
he warns new owners to reduce cooking times, "it's like getting behind the wheel of a ferrari when you're used to driving a taurus".
the flavor  bars over the heating elements can be lifted out as a unit and the water pan  can slide over the heat to steam or boil.
inside is a 13,000 btu rotisserie burner back by the warming tray, two halogen lid-lights and leds above each control knob.
their unique cooking system begins with stainless steel burners.
in 2012max good joined our staff as director of buyer's guides and more and more of the reviews come from him.
thankfully a natural gas conversion kit is also  included as well as a custom cover.
in 1982 rh peterson, pioneers in fabrication of realistic, artificial gas  logs, acquired fire magic to complement their outdoor lifestyle line.
the four burner model has four burners, an auto cleaning  feature that allows you to leave it on when you are done cooking to burn off  juices and residue, and it shuts itself off.
exhaust openings are below the grates so smoke must travel across the food.
although stok grills were a fun idea with matching orange colors, a different design concept involving various cooking tool inserts and even branded apparel, home depot stores liquidated everything they had in stock for lower and lower prices until most stores are sold out.
the following day she sent an email that said nothing of value  and answered none of my questions.
4 burner green gas grill (right) has a neat look with its  hunter green and black porcelain and powder-coated steel body and split lid.
she wrote down my questions to present to the  right person, but she wouldn't let me talk to that person.
the  cart version has a 15,000 btu side burner, and 20,000 rear rotisserie burner.
these  junky dials have ruined more meals and caused more tummy aches than spoiled  meat.
click here formore info.
this is the concept behind the expensive new infrared grills.
the halogen light comes with the cart, but not the built-in.
you have  to be certain to mount the motor upside down or when the lid goes down it won't  close.
the manufacturer claims that their hot surface  ignition system is unaffected by moisture and designed to perform even in harsh  environments.
the cart version has a 15,000 btu side burner, and 20,000 rear rotisserie burner.
but you may, for instance, replace an e-burner with an ir sear zone.
drippings from marinades hit the glass and vaporize infusing flavor into the food, and wood can be tossed on the glass for smoke.
mine easily goes over 600°f on the grate surface.
the grill light is included.
echelon and aurora both have drip  collection systems that consist of a tapered firebox bottom draining into a  small drawer accessed from the front control panel and equipped with a  disposable aluminum tray.
delta heat ducane affinity grills the ducane brothers metal fabricating company started in 1946, specializing  in manufacture of oil-fired furnaces.
all stainless steel construction with a double wall hood and quick disconnect side burners.
tec thermal engineering corporation (tec) is the company that pioneered the  concept of "infrared" grilling.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs the first thing to do after you assemble your new grill or smoker is to season it and calibrate it by doing a few dry runs without food.
double wall lids and double door enclosed cart.
the glass blocks air flow so there is strictly  radiant heat and minimal drying from convection heat.
flush mounted side burner on the right.
stand-alone models are available with double or single side burners and there are many to choose from.
all 304 stainless steel cart construction with insulated doors and drawers.
they have excellent customer service.
it's not useful to compare master forge to high end brands like weber.
practically everything is made from  heavy 304 stainless.
advertisement | homepage | table of contents | | weights, measures, conversions | techniques | recipes | buyer's guides | links | ruminations | ingredients | |misc bbq articles | one nation under sauce | meet meathead | newsletter | updates | donations | | privacy promise, code of ethics, other legal terms |advertising and sponsorship opportunities |
with the grillgrates, i consider this a superior grill  capable of high enough heat for crisping steaks.