ash is a fine insulator, so if you don't remove it, it will absorb heat and reduce performance.
if you are considering buying this and the offset firebox for use as a  smoker, please read the article on offset smokers here.
the metal is a little thin, but not any  thinner than some of its big brothers.
other than clearly marked ads, links and recommendations on this site are all products, services, and websites we truly admire, and are never paid endorsements.
this allows you to move the food off the flame into a cooler area where it roasts from convection and indirect heat.
well taken care of, this cooker could last years.
we do not accept ads from product categories we review and we keep a strict wall between editorial and advertising, so, for current pricing and availability of prime space, contact my agency, federated media, by clicking the logo at right.
like meadow creek's other offerings, you'll find this one solid, weighing in at 250 pounds.
meathead i have never seen these up close, but they look good on the web. -
bi-metal dial thermometers are often off by as much as 50°f!
murphy bottom line: i have never worked with a finer charcoal grill.
there's a large, easy to remove, ash pan for rapid cleanup, a large side  door (3) that allows you access to the charcoal during the cook, a removable  heat deflector (5) that goes between the coals and the cooking grates for  better indirect cooking, a removable stainless steel work table that runs the  full length of the front, and vents down low on the sides (3), not on the hood.
it is really a killer  tailgater in disguise.
a small referral  fee when you purchase from them after clicking on a link on this site, so  purchasing from them helps underwrite the cost of operating amazingribs.com.
make sure the damper fits tightly so you  can accurately choke off oxygen when you want to lower the temp.
pr42, pr60, pr72, pr60gt, pr72gt these are pretty much the same design as the pr36 with minor changes.
most were very happy with it.
standing nearly four feet tall and a little over five feet wide,  it’s powder black, features 2 side tables, has 576 square inches of main  cooking surface and 202 on the warming rack.
the three burners within are 12,000 btu each, and it has a side shelf with an embedded 12,000 btu burner.
this helps  the user control air and smoke flow somewhat.
the manufacturers sent me their top of the line, the gourmet model (shown  at right), to test in july 2010.
you’re already dreaming  of getting the steaks done on gas with a quick trip over to the charcoal side  to sear them, arfen't you?
temperature control can be a problem because the metal is thin and doesn’t insulate well, and the lid doesn’t fit tightly.
the large inflatable tires make it fairly easy to roll it on uneven surfaces such as grass, dirt, and even sand.
it looks pretty and promises a lot.
they may be out there, but i've never encountered them.
that gives it the sort of  cooking space you'll need for a big backyard party.
better still, it’s solid.
this means you need written permission to republish or distribute anything on this website.
on  the left of the grill is a shelf with a trap door, under which is the  electronic ignition for the gas grill.
stay free, please copy the link below and save it.
nominee: 2010 world food media awards member: international association of culinary professionals member: kansas city barbeque society member:
it will improve your cooking overnight and pay for itself in a hurry.
that's how most low-cost small grill grates, including the weber's, are plated.
at the base of the four legs is a wire shelf, a good place to stow your bag of charcoal.
you’re paying $180 for that fancy cart.
- meathead cajun microwave
the temperatures are the same for both indoor and outdoor cooks.
the gourmet model has an upper rack for cooking or keeping food warm, and a glass window so you can see your food without lifting the bi-fold door on the fixed hood.
they now come in four sizes, thesmokey joe with a 14.5" diameter grill surface,the 18.5" kettle , the22.5" kettle, the 26.75" kettle , and theweber ranch kettle which is 37.5" diameter.
- scot murphy talk about objects of lust!
click here formore info.
a  13-gauge lid is available as a custom option.
the standard grate is hinged in the center for adding more coals, a big  plus and an extra cost option on the weber.
to have any chance of  cooking great food you must geta good thermometer.
made of painted steel, it feels flimsy.
one popular mod is to use the charcoal tray from the optional firebox as a heat  diffuser on the left gas grill, where some have used other means such as a  soapstone slab or “tuning plates” that can be moved from right to  left a couple inches each to distribute the heat more toward one area or  another.
getting it to move evenly is difficult.
that is one well-though-out grill  and cart combination.
the cooking grate is 15 x 35" for a whopping 525 square inches of  primary cooking surface.
advertisement | homepage | table of contents | | weights, measures, conversions | techniques | recipes | buyer's guides | links | ruminations | ingredients | |misc bbq articles | one nation under sauce | meet meathead | newsletter | updates | donations | | privacy promise, code of ethics, other legal terms |advertising and sponsorship opportunities |
meco aussie swinger an inexpensive enamel painted square grill with a cooking grate that tilts  so you can adjust the distance from the fire.
ceramic grills/smokers large capacity, restaurant & trailer smokers electric smokers gas smokers pellet grills/smokers stovetop smokers pig roasters wood burning pizza ovens how to buy a grill overview the differences between charcoal & gas grills charcoal grill reviews & ratings egg, kamado, ceramic grills/smokers pellet grills/smokers gas grills tailgate grills & portable grills grills gone wild thermometers & thermostats barbecue accessories kitchen tools the amazingribs.com brazilian steak knife set outdoor kitchen planning cookbooks, magazines, videos barbecue sauces bar necessities corkscrews funny aprons, hats, t-shirts, tschotschkes meathead's favorite ingredients photography gear we do not accept ads from products we review.
the 300 has 225 square inches of cooking area, which works for the small apartment patio or balcony.
these grills are hard to make good food with and it is hard to review them and find much nice to say. -
the price is right for do-it-yourselfers who like to modify their cookers.
meanwhile, the abc125 is identical except it has stainless steel grates, and it  is sold only at ace hardware.
there's a thermometer in the lid, but as always, it’s best to bring your own digital grill thermometer.
standing nearly four feet tall and a little over five feet wide, it’s powder black, features 2 side tables, has 576 square inches of main cooking surface and 202 on the warming rack.
it features a spacious 506 square inches of cooking area.
amazon pays amazingribs inc.
amazingribs.com is published by amazingribs, inc., a florida corporation.
the lid is hinged, so you don't  have to put it on the ground and trip on it as with the weber.
best in bbq medals best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are given only  to products that we highly recommend based on price.
there is no shelf on the bottom to put an extra drip pan or your cooking  tools.
but the metal is thin, the lids don’t seal, the thermometers are  cheap and useless, some handles are plastic, the side shelves are small, and  the warming racks can't be removed.
it is pretty much the same as the 22.5" one touch gold (above) but the larger grate equals 508 square inches of cooking surface on a stainless steel hinged cooking grate, a removable ash catcher, lid mounted thermometer, two charcoal baskets for indirect grilling, and a lid holder.
also available is a nifty cradle rotisserie that encloses your  food in a basket rather than placing it on an unbalanced skewer or piercing it  with a heat conducting skewer.
i cannot recommend it more highly.
so make sure you get agood  digital grill thermometer to get the most out of this otherwise fine cooker.
it comes off quickly for easy disposal of ash.
as we suggest often, use your own, moreaccurate digital grill thermometer.
for  example the lower vents are sliders not flaps.
the three legged base is  a bit flimsy, and the grates are thin chrome plated steel.
but so is theweber kettle (described below) at about the same price as the 300, and it has a tight fitting lid, something we think is important for a grill.
the originals were home made wooden boxes for a splayed open pig.
there’s no smokestack.
all it needs for assembly is a flathead screwdriver, a phillips screwdriver, and an adjustable wrench.
there’s a cranking adjustable charcoal grate that is accessed through a front door.
an inexpensive enamel painted square grill with a cooking grate that tilts so you can adjust the distance from the fire.
they are all barrel shaped, painted steel, with a side shelf and a  removable ash pan.
using the weber equivalency, you could get three one-touch silvers and not only have almost 1200 total square inches cooking, you'll have three sturdier grills with better air control that will last a lot longer with less care.
some people have inserted gaskets to improve the seals to produce more even airflow, or have added a metal duct hose inside to bring the exhaust pipe closer to the grates, important on a windy day when it would ordinarily lose a lot of heat.
assembly is  easy, according to folks who’ve built it, and users generally feel  they’ve gotten their money's worth.
the grate surface is 21.5" on all sides or  342 square inches, just fine for indirect cooking.
that's what happens when a smoldering fire, starved of oxygen, suddenly gets a  rush of it.
it moves up and down with a crank allowing me to lower the coal grate, push the coals to the right side, fire them up, start a big hunk of beef like arib roast on the left side of the food grate, then, when i get the meat's interior temp to say 115°f, i can slide it over the coals, crank them up to right below the meat, and brown the exterior as the interior rises to 125°f.
for example, a grill manufacturer might make their  firebrand grill model abc123 with cast iron grates available only on amazon.
meathead char-broil make several charcoal grills in a range of sizes, prices, and qualities.
a side burner puts out 12,000 btus.
but for the cook who strives for great outdoor meals, it leaves a lot to be desired.
-meathead kingsford grills kingsford is a trusted brand for charcoal, so it is natural that they would  want to get mileage out of it by attaching it to charcoal grills, even if they  don't build them.
there is no shelf on the bottom to put an extra drip pan or your cooking tools."
fire magic is the manufacturer of some of the  most beautiful and expensive patio cooking equipment out there.
meathead brinkmann single zone charcoal grill home depot is offering the brinkmann single zone charcoal grill that, it  seems, you can only get from their stores.
to make matters worse,  they are usually located in the lid, well above the food.
while wandering the side streets of florence, italy, in fall 2008, i stumbled acrossgiotti ceramiche, a store selling beautiful ceramics, among them were several magnificent ceramic grills.
this lets it work like a santa maria grill, perfect fortri-tip, or a closed convection roaster perfect for turkey or chicken.
amazon often has the best prices anywhere, even better than many manufacturers' websites because manufacturers know that if they undercut retailers like amazon, they may drop the products.
the grate surface is 21.5" on all sides or 342 square inches, just fine for indirect cooking.
amazon also offers fast delivery (often  free), no sales tax (in most states), gift wrapping (on many items), and  painless refund policies.
the 306 square inch grate is hinged for adding coals, and the oven can be lifted off the cart for cleaning, camping, or tailgating.
meathead portable kitchen (pk) grill an elegant throwback design resurrected from 1952, this rustproof, cast  aluminum charcoal grill has a flat bottom making it easy to push the coals to  one side for smoking and indirect cooking.
we have researched this product from afar by gathering info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources, with our bs meters on high.
the 22.5" weber one-touch silver has about 397 square inches of cooking surface and sells for under $100.
the seriously large dial thermometer in the hood is one of the few i've seen that actually works well.
so far my only criticisms are relatively minor.
like meadow creek's other offerings, you'll find  this one solid, weighing in at 250 pounds.
if you are not using a good digital you have no idea what the temp really is so i can't help you.
others have put water heater blankets on them for insulation,  which is not expensive.
we purchase many products we review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
both come with standard roll-top lids, or an optional "smoker hood".
there is a removable ash pan and two adjustable air intakes in the base on either side but no chimney.
one reviewer accidentally pointed out how tight the seal is when the lid is closed: when opening the lid, the reviewer got a fireball that "singed the hairs on my arms".
like many others, it’s a competitor to the weber  one-touch line.
the cooking grates (4) are angled towards the center, and a v-shaped channel (2) ducts much of the grease to a disposable cup on the outside.
this helps the user control air and smoke flow somewhat.
or, if you wish, coals can be placed right on the bottom of the trough.
dome temp and grate temp can vary significantly.
a tray for charcoal hangs inside the trough 6" below the  grate.
meat temp fridge magnet the prize for best bbq tool at the 2012 the national barbecue association conference went to a simple inexpensive fridge magnet by meathead.
kingsford is a trusted brand for charcoal, so it is natural that they would want to get mileage out of it by attaching it to charcoal grills, even if they don't build them.
in  2012max good joined our staff as director of buyer's guides and more and more  of the reviews come from him.
anything that drips off the warming rack goes right down the lid and onto the ground behind the grill.
it is painted with heat resistant black enamel.
so is the ignition system and the cart worth the $180 more than just the one-touch gold?
i have not tested  the others, so i cannot speak for them.
much better that you use your own meat thermometer and oven thermometer.
we have seen this product up close and we have also gathered info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
i close it only to extinguish the coals after the food is off.
this lets  it work like a santa maria grill, perfect fortri-tip, or a closed convection  roaster perfect for turkey or chicken.
how to buy a smoker overview charcoal smokers egg, kamado,
it’s nice to be able to spend less than $100 and get a grill with 381 square inches of cooking space and a 202 square inch warming rack.
there’s a cranking adjustable charcoal grate that  is accessed through a front door.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.
it is the basic unadorned  low price kettle, and a perfectly fine cooking tool just the same.
to get reprint rights,click here.
overall dimensions are 23" wide x 16" deep x 43" high  and weighs 110 pounds.
but so is theweber kettle (described below) at about the same price as the 300,  and it has a tight fitting lid, something we think is important for a grill.
in  general they are inexpensive, clever designs, but not built to last.
yes, it does leak a lot of smoke, but it  also retains and circulates a lot, so you need very little wood.
this is a smaller version of the gourmet (above).
so is the ignition system and the cart worth the $180 more than just the  one-touch gold?
one owner mentioned how easy the  lighting system is, and says it's great for scooping unlit coals into the  center and relighting them.
there are 289 square  inches of primary cooking area and an upper grate that adds another 215 square  inches.
all models have a 5 year warranty on  workmanship and parts, a 1 year warranty on finish, and a 10 year warranty on  stainless steel components.
large vents are in the back of the lid, and a vent on each side has a front-facing slide with plastic knob.
kingsford charcoal wagon grill guess what, virginia:
there is a deep trough and a tall lid with a sold  strong hinge.
as usual, we strongly recommend that you get aquality digital oven thermometer.
the warming racks are plated wire and protrude out over the left shelf, a shelf which is too small and flimsy for anything other than warming your (small) pot of homemade bbq sauce.
a sheet of  metal was placed on top of the pig and coals poured on top of the metal.
people who've bought it seem to like it, especially the large cooking space.
for the tinker with a tight budget, the char-griller duo can be a bounty of  weekend projects.
you can mound the coals in the charcoal tray and ignite them from below.
they may be  out there, but i've never encountered them.
this is one versatile cooker.
the gourmet  model has an upper rack for cooking or keeping food warm, and a glass window so  you can see your food without lifting the bi-fold door on the fixed hood.
murphy emeril by viking culinary 24-inch outdoor charcoal grill it had to happen.
that’s the reaction a charcoal griller has to have  when seeing the weber 22.5" performer.
just don’t expect it to last very long unless you take good care of it.
maybe this is  just a personal problem?
also there is no easy way to raise the coals so you can deliver more heat to meat surfaces for searing when needed, so i do it on my 22.5" unit by putting the coals on an extra grate i bought on top of some bricks.
funny aprons, hats, t-shirts, tschotschkes meathead's  favorite ingredients photography gear how we review products we do not accept ads from products we review.
there's a crank-adjustable charcoal grate that brings it about an inch or two  under the cooking grate, a foldable shelf with utensil hooks, a front charcoal  door, an easy-to-remove ash pan, and even a bottle opener.
the bottom is 18" away but there is a charcoal tray that allows you to place the coals just below the cooking grate.
reviewers many reviews are by meathead, the author of most things on this website.
about links on this site.
i found this out the hard way after an afternoon of cooking burgers.
the vents on the charcoal  side are spring-loaded to hold them closed and the vents on the floor is huge,  so you're going to be fighting to maintain an even temp all through the cook.
our privacy promise.
the charcoal can be raised and lowered, but because of the v shape, the charcoal grate is narrower than the cooking grate, so much of the surface doesn't have coals beneath it, making for a big time hot spot in the center.
a rule of thumb: the dial thermometers in  grills are worthless and can be off as much as 50°f.
for less than $200, it offers a large 773 total square inches of cooking between the heavy, porcelain-coated cast iron grates and the upper warming rack, two folding side shelves, utensil hooks, crank-adjusting dual charcoal grates, a removable ash pan, and locking casters.
the grates are porcelain-coated cast iron and  each lid has a so-called "thermometer".
pull the pin, turn  the handle and the whole grate flips just like a jukebox turning over a record  (yes, i am that old).
the cooking grates are solid and heat-holding, and the seals, while not airtight, aren’t so loose that you’ll lose noticeable heat.
the coal tray lifts out easily so ash disposal is a snap.
scot murphy the weber 26.75" one-touch gold charcoal grill is my favorite size in the kettle lineup.
click here for more about grillgrates.
this is a pr36 with a large offset firebox on the right, a chimney properly located at the base of the cooker on the left, and a clever duct system with holes that helps move the smoke across the bottom of the smoke chamber, distributing it more evenly.
this package is currently well under $100, and wal-mart says that they will assemble them for free, though that varies from store to store.
they also make some  pretty nifty hybrid cookers that use propane, charcoal, wood, and have  rotisseries, and just about any other feature you might want.
brinkmann makes several cheap round grills.
sq36 this is a pr36 with a large offset firebox on the right, a chimney properly  located at the base of the cooker on the left, and a clever duct system with  holes that helps move the smoke across the bottom of the smoke chamber,  distributing it more evenly.
large vents are in the back of the lid, and a vent on  each side has a front-facing slide with plastic knob.
the grease trap in the middle fills up quick too...
this grill is no bargain.
- scot murphy when you see the brinkmann dual function gas and charcoal grill at home depot (we think it is available only there), you'll be tempted.
- scot murphy meadow creek grills, smokers, & grill/smokers it is a real treat in a disposable world to see products this well built.
as with every grill  that uses a bimetal thermometer, this one is wildly inaccurate according to  benchmark tests i have done with a thermocouple.
they're short thick-gauge wire, designed to sit  low to the ground, better for fitting in the trunk or on the truckbed than  backyard.
meathead weber kettles
while i'm guessing that owner had his vents closed shut, it’s  still a good indication that the seal on the closed lid is nice and tight, good  for cooking, bad for arm hair.
my favorite is by a  third party, thesmokenator, with which you can make your 22.5" weber  kettle into a very capable smoker.
indoors, your oven can be set for a temp and it will stay pretty close to it.
rarely will a $400  gold medal be in the same league as an $800 gold medal, so it is important that  you read the reviews.
you must have a lid to capture heat, and the tighter it fits, the better.
fire magic is the manufacturer of some of the most beautiful and expensive patio cooking equipment out there.
the  thermometers are useless, and only have 100 degree grades.
the  wire shelf on the weber base is not very useful.
there's this thing i call the "ooh factor."
first of all, rest assured, there are no microwaves used in this beauty.
the cooking grate is  porcelain-coated wire.
founded in tulsa, ok, by grant "hasty" hastings in 1948, 15 years before the unfortunately named kids' toy and three years before the weber kettle were invented, the hasty-bake was probably the first home grill with a hood, and it incorporated innovations that are just being rediscovered by other grill makers today.
they don't seal perfectly nor does the lid, but a perfect seal is overrated.
while they report assembly times of 2 to 3 hours as compared to the manufacturer’s estimate of one hour, they rate it highly for being easy to clean, for the adjustable charcoal grate, and for the spacious cooking surface.
ash is swept through the vent holes in the bottom by a lever into an aluminum bowl under the grill by a lever beneath the bowl and it drops into a pan.
the curve makes it hard to move the coals to one side on the two smaller models.
pay attention to the awards i have given my faves.
grillgrates are the best new product i have tested in years and the best thing to happen to beef since salt and pepper.
the cooking grates are solid and heat-holding, and the seals, while not  airtight, aren’t so loose that you’ll lose noticeable heat.
in a  nice touch, the handles are shiny steel.
comes with a  lamp and a unique rotisserie design with a special vertical charcoal hopper at  the rear just for the rotisserie.
it is pretty much the same as the 22.5" one touch gold  (above) but the larger grate equals 508 square inches of cooking surface on a  stainless steel hinged cooking grate, a removable ash catcher, lid mounted  thermometer, two charcoal baskets for indirect grilling, and a lid holder.
yoder yoder is very well respected for tube shaped offset smokers.
if you are still using a dial thermometer, please read this article about thermometers, then buy a good digital, and then, if the problem persists (chances are it won't), hit me with your questions.
here's a key to our reviews.
- scot murphy it is a real treat in a disposable world to see products this well built.
ash is a fine insulator, so if you don't remove it, it will absorb heat and  reduce performance.
and now they have the amazingribs.com imprimatur.
buy the optional trailer hitch connection, and you're  bound to have a winning season even if your team doesn't.
please do not confuse this superb cooker with the easy-bake oven toy for kids!
click the link  for more info about them on my buyers guide to charcoal smokers page. -
the medium is 18" wide x 34" long x 14" deep and will hold a small hog.
but this looks like a winner.
amazingribs, inc. promises to never sell or distribute any info about you individually without your express permission, and we promise not to, ahem, pepper you with email or make you eat spam.
the regal i has a 18 x 30" (540 square inches)  cooking surface.
it is, very simply, a big black box, no lid, no handles, and a stainless steel chicken grate.
in fact, it is almost too good.
there is a  removable ash pan and two adjustable air intakes in the base on either side but  no chimney.
thepr60 has  24 x 58" grates for hogs up to 250 pounds.
the coal tray has a 10 year warranty.
they make a 32" long one for grilling that can also be used for smoking.
all models and sizes are available as cart mounted stand-alone or they can be built into a counter.
unless otherwise noted, all text, recipes, photos, and code are owned by amazingribs, inc. and fully protected by us copyrightâ law.
it does a fine job of circulating smoke.
each side has its own charcoal door, but they’re both smaller than we'd like for easy access.
it can grill, and, because it is long and  narrow, it can be easily set up for indirect cooking and smoke roasting.
they all come with what the parts list calls a "heat indicator," and it may only be useful enough to indicate that there is heat inside.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs the first thing to do after you assemble your new grill or smoker is to season it and calibrate it by doing a few dry runs without food.
there's a temperature gauge that you can ignore.
the gas ignition is piezoelectric.
one reviewer accidentally  pointed out how tight the seal is when the lid is closed: when opening the lid,  the reviewer got a fireball that "singed the hairs on my arms".
meadow creeks are favorites among the competition crowd for quality as well as price.
amazingribs.com is one of the 100 most popular food websites in the us according tocomscore, alexa, and quantcast.
the box metal is 13 gauge steel and the overall dimensions are 22 1/2" high, 55 1/2" long, and 28" wide.
the lids fit tightly so oxygen control, and therefore heat  control, is very good.
copyright © by amazingribs, inc.
if you would like us to link to your website, click here to readour links policy first.
it's got the numbers: 39" high by 55.5" long by 30" wide,  with a 22" by 40" double grate for a healthy 880 square inches of  cooking surface that you can flip all at once with one hand.
ash is swept through the vent holes in the bottom by a lever into an aluminum  bowl under the grill by a lever beneath the bowl and it drops into a pan.
that's what happens when a smoldering fire, starved of oxygen, suddenly gets a rush of it.
read mybuyer's guides and the buying checklists and follow the links.
clearly positioned to compete with the weber one-touch gold, this new  design one-ups the competition with several improvements.
designed for grilling large quantities of chicken, the manufacturer claims that its capacity is more than 40 pounds of cut up birds.
in fact, it is  almost too good.
as always, bring  your own,more accurate digital grill thermometer.
but wait a minute… what if your budget is tight?
the most popular grill in the world by far is the 22.5" weber kettle.
this is a real grownup serious charcoal cooker.
using the weber equivalency, you could get  three one-touch silvers and not only have almost 1200 total square inches  cooking, you'll have three sturdier grills with better air control that will  last a lot longer with less care.
you cannot be a good cook unless you  know your oven temp and can control it.
there is a deep trough and a tall lid with a sold strong hinge.
there is nothing you  can't do with this grill and it deserves a place in the back yard of every  serious outdoor cook.
you can order an optional water pan, rotisserie, and  thermometer.
one buyer on amazon wrote "when the  lids are open, the warming racks go up/back right over the lid.
clearly positioned to compete with the weber one-touch gold, this new design one-ups the competition with several improvements.
the looks are  certainly more contemporary: a porcelain-coated metallic-gray fire box, a  powder-coated "heavy gauge" steel lid, and four fat tubular legs as  opposed to the weber's three legs.
when you see a  device, if your first response is "ooh!"
you can then place the empty coal tray above coals for indirect cooking, or even fill the tray with water for steaming.
the weber 26.75" one-touch gold charcoal grill is my favorite size in  the kettle lineup.
you will need much less wood than you think and if you don't cut back, you could easily oversmoke.
click here for more info and pricing about these meadow creek grills,  smokers, & grill/smokers.
the thermometers are useless, and only have 100 degree grades.
also, there's no way to add charcoal without removing the food.
they come in four sizes.
there don't seem to be any brick & mortar stores carrying the emeril yet, so we have had to gather our info on the internet.
they don't seal perfectly nor does the  lid, but a perfect seal is overrated.
that's  large enough to push the coals to one side and cook indirect on the other.
it features a spacious 506  square inches of cooking area.
the ash removal system looks pretty easy.
click here  for more info and pricing:meco. -
underneath is a storage cabinet, and  inside it an ash catcher.
the grates are porcelain-coated cast iron and each lid has a so-called "thermometer".
it is by far the most popular barbecue website in the world and pageviews increase rapidly every year.
dial vents are on both left and right and on both the base and the  lid.
the gas side on the left produces 40,800 btu with 3 burners.
some people have inserted gaskets to improve the seals to produce more  even airflow, or have added a metal duct hose inside to bring the exhaust pipe  closer to the grates, important on a windy day when it would ordinarily lose a  lot of heat.
its 24" diameter grate with 424 square inches of primary cooking area is larger than the weber's 397 square inches.
then, please tell me everything i need to know to answer your question.
one bad spatula or tong move and your meat will slide right off in any direction!
a side burner  puts out 12,000 btus.
important: you should also check out my reviews of  charcoal smokers because many of them are also good at grilling.
it’s essentially the weber one-touch gold with a really good cart and a  gas ignition system.
as you might expect, their designs are simple, well thought out, their build is solid and the products are long lasting.
push the coals to one side and you  have a fine 2-zone setup and put wood on the coals and you can smoke as well as  any offset smoker.
it does have great features.
there are two rv units, 14" x 14" x  14" to take to the lsu games and big enough for a pork butt, beef roast,  or several chickens.
this package is currently well under $100, and  wal-mart says that they will assemble them for free, though that varies from  store to store.
with an optional offset firebox.
click here for more info and pricing:cajun grills. -
price is an important factor.
a rotisserie is available,  and, get this, the gourmet can run two rotisseries at once!
please get your own, more accurate, digital grill thermometer.
the 600 has  435 square inches primary cooking and 188 inches on the secondary shelf, and  the 800 has 580 square inches primary and 270 square inches secondary.
we have also gathered info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
the  ash catcher might be a little difficult, being recessed into the cabinet, but  shouldn’t be much of a problem.
rarely will a $400 gold medal be in the same league as an $800 gold medal, so it is important that you read the reviews.
that's enough main grill space for a large family dinner.
with a $30 donation you'll get a 100% cotton brushed twill adjustable low profile cap with the amazingribs patch sewn on.
put together properly, you shouldn’t have any stray drafts playing  havoc with temperatures.
yet it’s not a beast, weighing in at only 67.3  pounds.
thepr42 has 20 x 42" grates and will hold a 100 pound hog.
there is a  large stainless steel box wrapped with insulation and boxed in with cyprus.
as always, bring your own,more accurate digital grill thermometer.
the three burners within are 12,000 btu each, and it has a side shelf with  an embedded 12,000 btu burner.
this is a very nice idea for helping you keep temp  under control.
it is important to be able to easily add more charcoal or move the charcoal around without removing the food or opening the lid and losing heat.
the grates are porcelain coated, which is very nice, but it has  two built-in thermometers that aren't actually close to the cooking action.
i has a nice large 540 square inch cooking surface with pre-seasoned cast iron cooking grates, adjustable height charcoal grate, a front door for easy fire tending, two adjustable dampers, removable ash tray, and two handy removable wooden side boards that double as carving and serving boards.
like a musician, you must master your instrument to make great food.
there is no natural gas optional hookup.
there are big front doors for adding charcoal, a large easy to remove ash pan, vents for air exhaust but not for air intake, and one side shelf.
your suggestions are always welcome.
it looks pretty  and promises a lot.
- scot murphy brinkmann dual function gas and charcoal grill
weber 22.5" performer
that’s the reaction a charcoal griller has to have when seeing the weber 22.5" performer.
any  grease that drips down on the propane side in the corners between the bottom  and side pieces of the grill goes right between the two pieces of metal and  drips on the propane tank."
for less than  $200, it offers a large 773 total square inches of cooking between the heavy,  porcelain-coated cast iron grates and the upper warming rack, two folding side  shelves, utensil hooks, crank-adjusting dual charcoal grates, a removable ash  pan, and locking casters.
of course, in order to do this, you absolutely positively must have a gooddigital oven thermometer.
a rotisserie is available, and, get this, the gourmet can run two rotisseries at once!
one owner  reported paint melting off, and one wished it sealed well enough to extinguish  the coals when closed.
please do not confuse this superb cooker with the easy-bake oven toy for  kids!
weber sells a wide range of accessories, many of which are among the best in class.
temperature drops off rapidly as the coals drop down.
you will not need a chimney to start coals.
it’s easy to move because there’s no flex or wobble to it.
that gives it the sort of cooking space you'll need for a big backyard party.
it's like a giant dutch  oven designed to produce tender and juicy food.
it weighs in at 61 pounds and comes with a 2-year defects  warranty.
using it one year will probably give you to the dread upgrade virus, anyway!- scot murphy this is a great concept, a capacious gas and charcoal grill in one unit, and you can add an optional offset charcoal firebox to make it a smoker, too.
as we suggest often, use your own, moreaccurate  digital grill thermometer.
according to one owner, "sometimes grease gathers on the bottom sides and  leaks through the grill.
meathead char-broil american gourmet the char-broil american gourmet is an entry-level barrel shaped charcoal  grill.
thepr60 has 24 x 58" grates for hogs up to 250 pounds.
the handles are plastic.
the ashpan is also flimsier than on the charcoal wagon grill, making for potential messes.
these are pretty much the same design as the pr36 with minor changes.
the most beautiful grills ever?
the charcoal grate is  raised by a wide knob that you turn like a dial, rather than by simple levers.
click here for more info and pricing: cajun microwave. -
beyond these factors, a good charcoal grill must have the same assets as any other grill, including solid construction, etc., as discussed in my articlehow to buy a grill.
fireplace grill inserts
this stainless steel unit has 605 square inches of cooking surface, with an adjustable height charcoal grate that has several positions, not infinitely adjustable.
then you’re halfway on your way to buying it!
meathead the char-broil american gourmet is an entry-level barrel shaped charcoal grill.
temperature control on charcoal grills depends on: a lid, dampers, and the ability to adjust the distance between the coals and the food.
we have hands-on experience testing this product.
the charcoal wagon grill (model #bb02231g), a wal-mart exclusive, is good bang for your buck.
you can also customize it with a pull-out ash tray, a trailer hitch.
the standard grate is hinged in the center for adding more coals, a big plus and an extra cost option on the weber.
great for chicken,  steaks, chops, burgers, and more, caterers fondly call them "chicken  cookers" because there is no better way to cook birds than with their  double sided pivoting grates of expanded stainless steel.
the box metal is 13 gauge steel and the overall dimensions are 22  1/2" high, 55 1/2" long, and 28" wide.
meathead hasty bake continental
comes with a lamp and a unique rotisserie design with a special vertical charcoal hopper at the rear just for the rotisserie.
3) please don't ask me "what grill (or smoker) should i buy?"
murphy kingsford premium charcoal grill made by master-built the kingsford premium charcoal grill (model  #gr1008-015054), a big, attractive hunk of spacious grilling.
a small referral fee when you purchase from them after clicking on a link on this site, so purchasing from them helps underwrite the cost of operating amazingribs.com.
we have always been transparent about when we are reviewing a product sample, even beforethe federal trade commission required it in 2009.
it also features the obligatory hood temperature indicator, which measures the air next to the thermometer, not on the grill.
as with every grill that uses a bimetal thermometer, this one is wildly inaccurate according to benchmark tests i have done with a thermocouple.
make sure the damper fits tightly so you can accurately choke off oxygen when you want to lower the temp.
thepr72 has 24 x 70" grates and can handle a huge 325 pound hog.
the doors and handles are of shining steel that, if you care about such things, you may find yourself forever keeping clean.
the  metal’s pretty thin, and the charcoal bin is even thinner and flimsier.
the lid is hinged, and there are two side trays on some models.
it uses a 60" grill cover, highly recommended.
the bottom is  18" away but there is a charcoal tray that allows you to place the coals  just below the cooking grate.
if you like all the info we give you for free and would like to help us stay free, please copy the link below and save it.
at the base of  the four legs is a wire shelf, a good place to stow your bag of charcoal.
steakhouse knives these are the same knives used at the best steakhouses (peter luger, smith & wollensky, morton's and others).
owners have given it high marks.
the first celebrity-named grill.
we have researched this product from afar by gathering info from the  manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources, with our bs meters on high.
one bad  spatula or tong move and your meat will slide right off in any direction!
there are scores of charcoal grills on the market, and some manufacturers tweak their designs every year or two, so there's no way i can review them all.
onour page about big rigs we discuss their ts tank smoker  series, which includes one suitable for the backyard cook.
overall dimensions are 23" wide x 16" deep x 43" high and weighs 110 pounds.
the regal i has a 18 x 30" (540 square inches) cooking surface.
this is a great concept, a capacious gas and charcoal grill in one unit,  and you can add an optional offset charcoal firebox to make it a smoker, too.
all in all, it looks like the muscle you need to take care of a decent-sized party or to start your catering biz.
my favorite is by a third party, thesmokenator, with which you can make your 22.5" weber kettle into a very capable smoker.
get smoke signals, my free eletter with tips and recipes.
these grills are hard to make good food with  and it is hard to review them and find much nice to say. -
the ash pan is rickety.
it has hooks for utensils on the side shelf, which is handy, but they're a little low for me.
dial vents are on both left and right and on both the base and the lid.
the bbq26s stands waist high on long legs made of pipes with non-locking casters and a vented lid.
some models are available in all stainless, and  some are both stainless and black powder coated.
you will need the optional cover because rain can get in, and you should  also get heavy duty gloves because the knob on the side door gets hot.
we make it clear in our  reviews when we are working with a sample.
it is very easy to set up for2-zone or indirect cooking and smoke roasting or you can just crank it all the way up to sear a steak in a hurry.
that's how the oxygen gets in.
check outamazon's gift & wish registry.
meathead an elegant throwback design resurrected from 1952, this rustproof, cast aluminum charcoal grill has a flat bottom making it easy to push the coals to one side for smoking and indirect cooking.
- scot murphy kingsford has also put its badge on the 23 inch rectangle charcoal grill (model #cbc1132w).
best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are given only to products that we highly recommend based on price.
you can order an optional water pan, rotisserie, and thermometer.
that's right, the heat radiates down from the coals into the enclosed box.
there are two rv units, 14" x 14" x 14" to take to the lsu games and big enough for a pork butt, beef roast, or several chickens.
put together properly, you shouldn’t have any stray drafts playing havoc with temperatures.
of the four reviews we found by  owners, one had problems with it and returned it, and two mentioned that it  needs a large, oblong cover for its odd proportions.
you can mound the coals  in the charcoal tray and ignite them from below.
amazon also offers fast delivery (often free), no sales tax (in most states), gift wrapping (on many items), and painless refund policies.
one popular mod is to use the charcoal tray from the optional firebox as a heat diffuser on the left gas grill, where some have used other means such as a soapstone slab or “tuning plates” that can be moved from right to left a couple inches each to distribute the heat more toward one area or another.
it’s well designed for airflow,  having vents on the left and right of the charcoal chamber as well as on the  hood.
its double sided 16" by 24" cooking grate covers 384 square  inches means that you can load on a mess of food and flip it in all with one  hand.
new in 2011 is the chef emeril  lagasse-badged grill which is clearly aimed at competing with the ubiquitous,  but aging weber kettle design.
i'll even toss in a small bag of bbq'rs delight wood smoke pellets.
when you see the brinkmann dual function gas and charcoal grill at home  depot (we think it is available only there), you'll be tempted.
also, the bi-fold door on the gourmet will knock plates and wine glasses off the front shelf if you're not careful opening and closing it.
- scot  murphy landmann black dog 28 landmann usa manufactures a variety of fire-related products, including  outdoor fireplaces, grills, and smokers.
the first thing to do after you assemble your new grill or smoker is to  season it and calibrate it by doing a few dry runs without food.
bbq-42c also in the bbq line is the bbq42c, a scaled-back version of the bbq42  that's meant to be added to a trailer (or else never be moved).
especially at these prices.
there are six simple flap covered vent holes, two on each side of the bottom, and one on each side of the lid.
click the red links for current pricing and more info.
you control the temperature with the bottom  damper.
the coals have to be in the center to be lit.
designed for grilling large quantities of chicken, the manufacturer claims  that its capacity is more than 40 pounds of cut up birds.
it has 491 square inches cooking surface with porcelain coated grates, and side shelves.
the legs are  lightweight and easily bent, and the bottom rack is useless.
the-gt models are propane gas fired trailer units.
it weighs in at 61 pounds and comes with a 2-year defects warranty.
meat is sandwiched  between two grates that are on a center pivot.
worse still, it is in the dome, and the temp down on the grate where the meat sits is much different.
a 13-gauge lid is available as a custom option.
no, the george foreman electric pseudo-grill doesnot count.
it uses a  60" grill cover, highly recommended.
the  santa fe is in wide distribution.
founded in tulsa, ok, by grant "hasty" hastings in 1948, 15 years  before the unfortunately named kids' toy and three years before the weber  kettle were invented, the hasty-bake was probably the first home grill with a  hood, and it incorporated innovations that are just being rediscovered by other  grill makers today.
the bbq series these babies are designed for fast and hot grilling.
click here for moreinfo on accessories.
the price for the one-touch gold is under $150, but the performer goes for almost $330.
there are three sizes of this heavy duty unit, 468 square inches of cooking  surface, 714", and 1656".
reviews of charcoal grills
meathead char-broil santa fe the cheaper char-broil santa fe is similar in concept, but  not in execution.
if problems persist,send me a note.
the grate is porcelain coated,  something i like.
they market a wide range of cooking tools, some  of which are among the best in their category, and some among the worst.
that's enough main grill space for  a large family dinner.
designed for grilling, close the lid and you can pull  off some small-scale rib, brisket, and pork shoulder smoking, but this is not  the ideal configuration for 2-zone indirect cooking or smoking.
click here for more details ofour privacy promise.
viking has a brand name cachet, but not in barbecue and smoker equipment,  where their expensive smoker has been heavily criticized.
we don't think it will last, and we think it is overpriced.
there's a temperature  gauge that you can ignore.
the barrel on  the right is a charcoal grill, and it boasts 876 square inches in the  "main grill area" and a total of 1,260 including the upper rack.
we don't think it  will last, and we think it is overpriced.
manufacturers: click here forpermission to use these medals in ads and on packaging (there is no charge) and for info on how to get a high resolution version.
this one has 406 square inches of cooking area with a 190  square inch warming rack, a folding side shelf, utensil hooks, an adjustable  charcoal grate, a porcelain-coated wire cooking grate, and it comes with a  2-year defects warranty.
the other way to control temp is by raising and lowering the charcoal.
meathead pitmaker i have never seen these up close, but they look good on the web. -
leave this one alone.
the other way to control temp is by raising and  lowering the charcoal.
the lid is hinged, and there are  two side trays on some models.
then you’re halfway on  your way to buying it!
it has a v shaped trough in which the charcoal grate sits.
for the tinker with a tight budget, the char-griller duo can be a bounty of weekend projects.
under no circumstances are we liable for any damages that result from use of the site (so you can't sue us if you don't like a recipe or if you burn your tongue on hot ribs, ok?).
the metal is thin and not well-fitted.
these may be the most beautiful grills i've ever seen.
- scot murphy fire magic talk about objects of lust!
there is an inverted v shape bar that runs the length of the bottom of the coal tray and it has large holes in it.
many reviews are by meathead, the author of most things on this website.
you'd be pardoned for thinking it is just another portable grill, but you'd be wrong.
we have also gathered  info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
my favorite feature  is the adjustable height charcoal grate (#1 in the illustration below).
if you like all the info we give you for free and would like to help us
the cheaper char-broil santa fe is similar in concept, but not in execution.
you’d do better to pay a few bucks more for the charcoal wagon grill.
the manufacturer includes a  generous 10 year warranty on parts and workmanship.
char-griller replaced the gates in that case.
i have had problems getting  it down under 250°f to 225°f my favorite smoke roasting temp, but with  practice and precise measuring of coals, it can be done.
the authors are human and capable of mistakes, omissions, or errors, so we make no guarantees as to the accuracy, completeness, or safety of the information.
murphy hasty-bake gourmet grill/smoker/oven bottom line: i have never worked with a finer charcoal grill.
the problem i have with kettles, is that the bottom bowl is curved.
it also  features the obligatory hood temperature indicator, which measures the air next  to the thermometer, not on the grill.
the side shelf  won’t hold much weight, and the utensil hooks are molded plastic that  look like the won’t accommodate many utensils.
the prices on the internet are about $200, about $50 more than the weber one-touch gold and about $100 less than the weber performer, which has a work table, charcoal storage bin, and gas ignition.
before you make up your mind, make sure to read these articles: when i look at a charcoal grill, in addition to the features discussed in how to buy a grill, the most important features are: temperature control.
i love to start cooking burgers and many other meats on a low temperature and then at the end, raise the coals and sear the surface to create the deep complex flavors that occur with the maillard effect and caramelization.
one part you can do without is the glue-on rubber feet for the lid: it makes a non-sealing lid worse.
guess what, virginia:
at $299, this is overpriced.
there is nothing you can't do with this grill and it deserves a place in the back yard of every serious outdoor cook.
you'd be pardoned for thinking it  is just another portable grill, but you'd be wrong.
load it up any you can bring coal very close to the food for a quick hot  sear.
my favorite is thechar-broil cb940x (right).
there are complaints about the grates themselves: it’s been reported that the porcelain coating pops off.
viking has a brand name cachet, but not in barbecue and smoker equipment, where their expensive smoker has been heavily criticized.
below we discuss their backyard and tailgate grills, smokers, and grill/smoker combos.
my local depot is selling it for $199.
this one has 406 square inches of cooking area with a 190 square inch warming rack, a folding side shelf, utensil hooks, an adjustable charcoal grate, a porcelain-coated wire cooking grate, and it comes with a 2-year defects warranty.
if they've been good.
my favorite feature is the adjustable height charcoal grate (#1 in the illustration below).
the dual charcoal grates let you cook at different temps, which can be a great plus, though we'd like to see the coals get just a little higher.
but clicking on that link before you shop helps me devote more time and money to you.
anything that  drips off the warming rack goes right down the lid and onto the ground behind  the grill.
the small is 18" x 18" x 14" deep.
it’s got a spacious prep table on the side, a gas ignition system (but the fuel is still charcoal), a holder for the grill lid, hinged grate, a steel frame, an efficient ash-catcher, nice stainless steel hooks for your tools, a tip-out charcoal bin, a thermometer in the dome, and two charcoal holders that are useful for banking your coals.
one drawback, though, is that you can’t  really use the lighting system with the charcoal holders that push the coals to  the side for indirect cooking.
the wire shelf on the weber base is not very useful.
remember the heat diminishes rapidly the further the food is from the coals.
the side shelf is held sturdily with thick screws.
they make two  sizes of all stainless steel charcoal grills starting with the custom i with 18  x 24" (432 square inches) cooking surface and a removable warming rack  above the cooking surface.
to make matters worse, they are usually located in the lid, well above the food.
click here for more info and how to order it.
as always we suggest yousupply your own  digital grill thermometer.
meathead char-broil cb940x char-broil make several charcoal grills in a range of sizes, prices, and  qualities.
you  can even have the wood laser etched with your team logo, company logo, wife's  picture, whatever.
there is an electronic 3-in-one starter, porcelain-enameled cast iron grates, a 5-year burner warranty, and a 1-year warranty on all other parts.
the steel base and frame range from 0.08 to 1.0 mm thick and the lid is 1.2 mm thick.
the large is 22" wide x 46" long x 14" deep, and can hold a  whole arkansas razorback.
the grate is made of electroplated steel wire, which likely means it is nickel coated.
the santa fe is in wide distribution.
click here for more info and pricing:napoleon mirage charcoal grill. -
so i get a referral fee.
but this looks like a  winner.
if you don’t want to mess around with a chimney full of hot coals, this can be a dandy work-saver (not to mention a foot-saver).
we have seen this product up close and we have also gathered info from the  manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
most charcoal grills have at least two dampers, one at the bottom and one on the top.
it’s well designed for airflow, having vents on the left and right of the charcoal chamber as well as on the hood.
and it is inexpensive.
if you want something more architectural, check out this one from the  grillery.
while they  report assembly times of 2 to 3 hours as compared to the manufacturer’s  estimate of one hour, they rate it highly for being easy to clean, for the  adjustable charcoal grate, and for the spacious cooking surface.
texas pit crafters makes high quality side firebox charcoal and wood smokers as well as grills  that have adjustable-height racks (a very useful feature).
there is a front door for access to the charcoal during cooking, and the hood is double lined, a nice feature to help keep heat in.
i close it only to extinguish the coals after the food  is off.
comes with a 5 year, warranty from defects in workmanship and  materials.
that metal will stand up to nature's fury, and as long as you have them covered and keep them clean, you should be handing these down to your kids.
brinkmann is a puzzlement.
the  standard lid is not very tall, so you won't be able to get a turkey on, but an  optional lid is 10" deep.
they market a wide range of cooking tools, some of which are among the best in their category, and some among the worst.
there is a large stainless steel box wrapped with insulation and boxed in with cyprus.
a sheet of metal was placed on top of the pig and coals poured on top of the metal.
the weber one-touch gold (shown at right) is the same basic 22.5" kettle body as the one-touch silver but instead of just slots on the bottom through which ash falls onto an open tray, the gold has an enclosed receptacle attached to the bottom to capture and hold ash so it cannot blow.
the 22.5" weber one-touch silver has about 397 square  inches of cooking surface and sells for under $100.
you control the temperature with the bottom damper.
but for the cook who strives for great outdoor meals, it  leaves a lot to be desired.
also, the bi-fold door on the gourmet will knock plates and wine glasses off  the front shelf if you're not careful opening and closing it.
the lid is hinged, so you don't have to put it on the ground and trip on it as with the weber.
it is really a killer tailgater in disguise.
weber sells a wide range of  accessories, many of which are among the best in class.
there are two storage sections, a tilt-out charcoal bin on the left and storage on the right, and the obligatory built-in thermometer (as always, we recommend you get anaccurate digital grill thermometer).
temperature  control on charcoal grills depends on: a lid, dampers, and the ability to  adjust the distance between the coals and the food.
one can even lay unlit coals in a c or u  shape and put hot coals on one end and it will burn slowly around the bend like  a fuse, ideal for low and slow cooking.
national barbecue association represented by: the lisa ekus group promoting a world of culinary talent founding member: operation bbq relief amazingribs.com is all about the zen of barbecue, grilling, and outdoor cooking, with great bbq recipes and techniques: barbecue baby back ribs, spareribs, pulled pork, beef brisket, steak, burgers, chicken, smoked turkey, lamb, barbecue sauces, burgers, steaks, rubs, and side dishes, with the world's best buying guide to barbecue smokers and grills.
large commercial and trailer mounted units meadow creek has several very nice large professional units that are  discussed on the page devoted to those smokers and grills.
it has some other good features: there are nice  porcelain-coated cast-iron cooking grates, and the warming rack is  porcelain-coated wire.
the lids fit tightly so oxygen control, and therefore heat control, is very good.
click here for more info on these wonderful knives.
it comes with a duplicate second grate that can be  placed above the main grate, doubling you cooking capacity.
when a product is available on amazon.com, we often provide a direct link.
it is the basic unadorned low price kettle, and a perfectly fine cooking tool just the same.
no, the george foreman  electric pseudo-grill doesnot count.
it comes with a duplicate second grate that can be placed above the main grate, doubling you cooking capacity.
i  love to start cooking burgers and many other meats on a low temperature and  then at the end, raise the coals and sear the surface to create the deep  complex flavors that occur with the maillard effect and caramelization.
below we have tried to discuss what we consider the most important models.
one buyer on amazon wrote "when the lids are open, the warming racks go up/back right over the lid.
this is the concept behind the expensive new infrared grills.
it can grill, and, because it is long and narrow, it can be easily set up for indirect cooking and smoke roasting.
the 300 has 225 square inches of  cooking area, which works for the small apartment patio or balcony.
any grease that drips down on the propane side in the corners between the bottom and side pieces of the grill goes right between the two pieces of metal and drips on the propane tank."
it’s still a grill at heart, though.
" at $299, this is overpriced.
there's a thermometer in the lid, but as always, it’s best to bring your  own digital grill thermometer.
all in  all, it looks like the muscle you need to take care of a decent-sized party or  to start your catering biz.
the ash catcher might be a little difficult, being recessed into the cabinet, but shouldn’t be much of a problem.
al  simon's cajon microwaves (he pronounces it with a bayou twangsee moan)  are beautifully made of stainless steel and trimmed with gorgeous louisiana  cypress.
al simon's cajon microwaves (he pronounces it with a bayou twangsee moan) are beautifully made of stainless steel and trimmed with gorgeous louisiana cypress.
the  ashpan is also flimsier than on the charcoal wagon grill, making for potential  messes.
while wandering the side streets of florence, italy, in fall 2008, i  stumbled acrossgiotti ceramiche, a store selling beautiful ceramics, among them  were several magnificent ceramic grills.
its black dog 28 charcoal grill looks  like a sturdy contender for your backyard needs.
sometimes, great bargains do exist.
the improvements al has made over the original are substantial.
there are three models/sizes: 300, 600, and 800.
some grills have a door that allows you to add  charcoal or move it around.
there are complaints about the grates  themselves: it’s been reported that the porcelain coating pops off.
you can even have the wood laser etched with your team logo, company logo, wife's picture, whatever.
a must for gas grills.
they have a front door for loading charcoal into the "unique air-flow charcoal pan", and a crank that allows you to raise and lower the charcoal.
it has the obligatory built-in thermometer that doesn’t work well, too.
great for chicken, steaks, chops, burgers, and more, caterers fondly call them "chicken cookers" because there is no better way to cook birds than with their double sided pivoting grates of expanded stainless steel.
assembly is easy, according to folks who’ve built it, and users generally feel they’ve gotten their money's worth.
click here for more info and pricing:hasty bake. - meathead
note: some photos of commercial products such as grills were provided by the manufacturers and are under their copyright.
the curve makes it hard to move the coals to  one side on the two smaller models.
click the link for more info about them on my buyers guide to charcoal smokers page. -
it has 491 square  inches cooking surface with porcelain coated grates, and side shelves.
underneath is a storage cabinet, and inside it an ash catcher.
it's like a giant dutch oven designed to produce tender and juicy food.
if  they've been good.
if you have a weber kettle, you need the amazing smokenator and hovergrill.
the bbq26 looks like a giant hibachi, with no lid, this boring black box is 32" long by 21" wide by 20.5" tall on heavy wire legs.
ask yourself this: is the "ooh!" worth it?-
it has hooks for utensils on the side shelf, which is handy, but  they're a little low for me.
meathead napoleon mirage charcoal grill
owners praise the tough, spacious prep shelf, though one remarked that its  textured surface and inset screws make it a little tough to clean.
there are big front doors for adding charcoal, a  large easy to remove ash pan, vents for air exhaust but not for air intake, and  one side shelf.
one owner reported paint melting off, and one wished it sealed well enough to extinguish the coals when closed.
yes, it does leak a lot of smoke, but it also retains and circulates a lot, so you need very little wood.
it weighs a substantial 60 pounds.
in 2012max good joined our staff as director of buyer's guides and more and more of the reviews come from him.
the best way to light the coals is with the charcoal tray and the ash tray sticking out the side door, and you will need gloves or a stick to push it back into position.
there are scores of charcoal grills on the market, and some manufacturers  tweak their designs every year or two, so there's no way i can review them all.
powder coated would have been better.
the charcoal can be raised  and lowered, but because of the v shape, the charcoal grate is narrower than  the cooking grate, so much of the surface doesn't have coals beneath it, making  for a big time hot spot in the center.
awards are based on features, quality, and value.
the metal is flimsier than a weber.
this system gives you very good temp control.
rest assured that when we award a medal, it is because we  are impressed by it for the price, not because someone has paid us to say so or  because the company is an advertiser or sponsor.
below i have listed several popular or noteworthy grills alphabetically.
it  has an adjustable charcoal grate, though it’s not well-designed: the  grate, which is of narrow-gauge steel, has a handle on left and right that is  connected by eye-hooks.
the bbq26s stands waist high on long legs made of pipes with non-locking  casters and a vented lid.
one owner mentioned how easy the lighting system is, and says it's great for scooping unlit coals into the center and relighting them.
rest assured that when we award a medal, it is because we are impressed by it for the price, not because someone has paid us to say so or because the company is an advertiser or sponsor.
the grate is made of electroplated steel wire, which likely means it is nickel  coated.
most of the  time you will leave the top damper wide open so smoke and gases can exhaust.
pull the pin, turn the handle and the whole grate flips just like a jukebox turning over a record (yes, i am that old).
designed for grilling, close the lid and you can pull off some small-scale rib, brisket, and pork shoulder smoking, but this is not the ideal configuration for 2-zone indirect cooking or smoking.
the prices on the internet are about $200, about $50 more than the weber  one-touch gold and about $100 less than the weber performer, which has a work  table, charcoal storage bin, and gas ignition.
we purchase many products we  review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
there is a front door for access to the charcoal during cooking,  and the hood is double lined, a nice feature to help keep heat in.
the cart has plenty of storage space, but air  vents on the sides mean that it is not waterproof.
this popular design hasn't made major changes in many years, and with good  reason.
when i look at a charcoal grill, in addition to the features discussed in  how to buy a grill, the most important features are: temperature control.
remember, i am not a mind reader.
the 600 and 800 also feature a folding front shelf (a plus if you’re like me and have the bbq belly) and a swing-away secondary cooking shelf (essentially, a warming rack).
one of the most  important techniques an outdoor cook must learn is how to set up and use a 2-zone or indirect cooking environment.
it is large enough that it can be setup for 2-zone or indirect cooking and for smoking.
while one can set up a2-zone or indirect cooking environment, it is less than ideal because the sides are pushed in.
the best  way to light the coals is with the charcoal tray and the ash tray sticking out  the side door, and you will need gloves or a stick to push it back into  position.
the dual charcoal  grates let you cook at different temps, which can be a great plus, though we'd  like to see the coals get just a little higher.
the looks are certainly more contemporary: a porcelain-coated metallic-gray fire box, a powder-coated "heavy gauge" steel lid, and four fat tubular legs as opposed to the weber's three legs.
you will need the optional cover because rain can get in, and you should also get heavy duty gloves because the knob on the side door gets hot.
to have any chance of cooking great food you must geta good thermometer.
the manufacturer includes a generous 10 year warranty on parts and workmanship.
click here for more  info and pricing:hasty bake. -
it is large enough  that it can be setup for 2-zone or indirect cooking and for smoking.
so a good grill must have space to move the coals to one side.
maybe this is just a personal problem?
meanwhile, the abc125 is identical except it has stainless steel grates, and it is sold only at ace hardware.
the cooking grate is porcelain-coated wire.
the brinkmann dual gas and charcoal grill  will impress you in the store when you see it, but don’t be tempted.-  scot murphy cajun grills
the cover for it is extra, but you really should buy it: this isn’t tough enough to stand up to years of weather.
the metal is a little thin, but not any thinner than some of its big brothers.
the shelf converts into a side gas  burner, too.
- scot murphy landmann usa manufactures a variety of fire-related products, including outdoor fireplaces, grills, and smokers.
all it needs for assembly is a flathead screwdriver, a phillips  screwdriver, and an adjustable wrench.
the weber one-touch gold (shown at right) is the same  basic 22.5" kettle body as the one-touch silver but instead of just slots  on the bottom through which ash falls onto an open tray, the gold has an  enclosed receptacle attached to the bottom to capture and hold ash so it cannot  blow.
the firebox has a flat top that can be used as a sauce and side dish warmer, but it does not open to do double duty as a grill.
if you have problems posting with internet explorer, please read this.
the cooking grates (4) are angled towards the center, and a v-shaped channel  (2) ducts much of the grease to a disposable cup on the outside.
that metal will stand up to nature's fury, and as long as you have them  covered and keep them clean, you should be handing these down to your kids.
at this time it is available only on thechar-broil website. -
for example the lower vents are sliders not flaps.
click here for more info and pricing:portable kitchen (pk) grill. -
its 24" diameter grate with 424 square  inches of primary cooking area is larger than the weber's 397 square inches.
below we discuss their backyard and tailgate grills, smokers, and  grill/smoker combos.
http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs this link takes you to amazon and tags anything you buy with a code
as simple as they are, there are some clever design features.
the warming  racks are plated wire and protrude out over the left shelf, a shelf which is  too small and flimsy for anything other than warming your (small) pot of  homemade bbq sauce.
click here to read more.
advertising on amazingribs.com is a great way to build your brand or make direct sales.
most metal is seriously heavy  13 gauge steel, grates are 304 stainless steel expanded metal mesh, and handles  are stainless steel coils that never get too hot and are easy on the hands.
for example, a grill manufacturer might make their firebrand grill model abc123 with cast iron grates available only on amazon.
the large inflatable tires make it fairly easy to roll it on uneven  surfaces such as grass, dirt, and even sand.
manufacturers often make slight variations to their basic model exclusively for certain merchants.
there is also an optional charcoal pan that can place the coal just inches below the cooking grate.
a few reviews have been contributed by scot  murphy and gordon hubbell.
some models are available in all stainless, and some are both stainless and black powder coated.
it is written, photographed, illustrated, and coded solely bymeathead .
meadow creek says that its will cook up to 15 chickens, needing only 10 to 15 pounds of charcoal.
of course the prices can differ.
as usual, we  strongly recommend that you get aquality digital oven thermometer.
a few reviews have been contributed by scot murphy and gordon hubbell.
it takes you to amazon.com and tags things you buy with the amazingribs code so we get that referral fee.
it must be easy to make and emphasize fresh seasonal products with a minimum of processed ingredients.
you cannot be a good cook unless you know your oven temp and can control it.
the charcoal grate is raised by a wide knob that you turn like a dial, rather than by simple levers.
in general they are inexpensive, clever designs, but not built to last.
also there is no easy way to raise the  coals so you can deliver more heat to meat surfaces for searing when needed, so  i do it on my 22.5" unit by putting the coals on an extra grate i bought  on top of some bricks.
throw in a two-year warranty on manufacturer’s  defects for all parts, and you have a bargain.
the cart has plenty of storage space, but air vents on the sides mean that it is not waterproof.
the base superheats, eliminates hot spots, and blocks flareups.
about product reviews and best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are highly recommended products.
murphy it had to happen.
temp control and airflow are more important.
these babies are designed for fast and hot grilling.
a good thermometer is why i never serve overcooked or undercooked food.
you will need much less wood than you think and if you don't  cut back, you could easily oversmoke.
using it one year will probably give you to the dread upgrade  virus, anyway!- scot murphy char-griller 5050
both come with standard roll-top lids, or an optional  "smoker hood".
it’s got a spacious prep table on the side, a gas  ignition system (but the fuel is still charcoal), a holder for the grill lid,  hinged grate, a steel frame, an efficient ash-catcher, nice stainless steel  hooks for your tools, a tip-out charcoal bin, a thermometer in the dome, and  two charcoal holders that are useful for banking your coals.
it’s nice to be able to spend less than $100 and get a grill with  381 square inches of cooking space and a 202 square inch warming rack.
you can then place the empty coal tray above coals for indirect cooking, or  even fill the tray with water for steaming.
i am told  they are easy to assemble, making grilling the same day you buy it a breeze.
the painted  surfaces carry a 90-day warranty.
a friend calls it the swiss army knife of grills.
first of all it must taste great.
yet it’s not a beast, weighing in at only 67.3 pounds.
the cover for it is extra, but you really  should buy it: this isn’t tough enough to stand up to years of weather.
it has 522.5 square inches of main grate cooking surface, and 283.5 square inches on an upper grate.
it is reviewed on the page with the smoker reviews, here.
there are six simple flap covered vent holes, two on each side of the  bottom, and one on each side of the lid.
crank adjustable charcoal racks mean better heat control and we are fond of them.
click here for more info and  pricing:cajun grills.
amazon often has the best prices anywhere, even better than many manufacturers'  websites because manufacturers know that if they undercut retailers like  amazon, they may drop the products.
meadow creeks are favorites among the competition crowd for quality as well as  price.
throw in a two-year warranty on manufacturer’s defects for all parts, and you have a bargain.
there are three sizes of this heavy duty unit, 468 square inches of cooking surface, 714", and 1656".
weber one-touch 22.5" silver & gold
owners praise the tough, spacious prep shelf, though one remarked that its textured surface and inset screws make it a little tough to clean.
closing the exhaust damper can cause creosote to form on the food and that  gives it a bitter taste.
murphy made by master-built the kingsford premium charcoal grill (model #gr1008-015054), a big, attractive hunk of spacious grilling.
the doors and handles are of shining steel  that, if you care about such things, you may find yourself forever keeping  clean.
the firebox has a flat top that can be used as a  sauce and side dish warmer, but it does not open to do double duty as a grill.
the ash pan is easy to remove but does not have much capacity.
the legs are lightweight and easily bent, and the bottom rack is useless.
i don't care how much you spent on your grill, the bi-metal dial thermometer that came with it is probably cheap and unreliable and likely to be off by as much as 50°f.
the price for the one-touch gold is under $150, but the  performer goes for almost $330.
it has 522.5 square inches of main grate  cooking surface, and 283.5 square inches on an upper grate.
worse still, it is in  the dome, and the temp down on the grate where the meat sits is much different.
they have a front door for loading charcoal into the "unique air-flow  charcoal pan", and a crank that allows you to raise and lower the  charcoal.
the information on this website is for educational purposes only.
the large is 22" wide x 46" long x 14" deep, and can hold a whole arkansas razorback.
the pig roaster series pr36
it has the obligatory built-in thermometer that  doesn’t work well, too.
while i'm guessing that owner had his vents closed shut, it’s still a good indication that the seal on the closed lid is nice and tight, good for cooking, bad for arm hair.
our philosophy about food is simple.
meadow creek says that its will cook up to 15 chickens, needing only 10  to 15 pounds of charcoal.
while  one can set up a2-zone or indirect cooking environment, it is less than ideal  because the sides are pushed in.
your amazon purchase supports this site when a product is available on amazon.com, we often provide a direct link.
indoors, your oven can be set for a  temp and it will stay pretty close to it.
it can be used to divide the charcoal  bed and improve airflow to the embers.
on the left of the grill is a shelf with a trap door, under which is the electronic ignition for the gas grill.
they are all barrel shaped, painted steel, with a side shelf and a removable ash pan.
buy the optional trailer hitch connection, and you're bound to have a winning season even if your team doesn't.
according to one owner, "sometimes grease gathers on the bottom sides and leaks through the grill.
thepr72 has 24  x 70" grates and can handle a huge 325 pound hog.
unfortunately the quality is reflected in their price.
well taken care of, this  cooker could last years.
the clearance between cooking surface and  lid is 19 inches, meaning you should have no problems putting your turkey in  easily, and the charcoal grate can be cranked up and down 12" giving you  good temperature control.
this  will burn off any manufacturer's grease, and give you a sense for how to set it  up to hit the two important target temps that almost all my recipes use:  225°f and 325°f.
there's a three-burner propane gas grill on the left and a charcoal grill on the right, with 403 square inches primary cooking surface and 185 square inches on the warming rack of each barrel.
please get your own, more accurate, digital grill  thermometer.
meathead santa maria grills
you must have a lid to capture heat, and the tighter it fits,  the better.
it's got the numbers: 39" high by 55.5" long by 30" wide, with a 22" by 40" double grate for a healthy 880 square inches of cooking surface that you can flip all at once with one hand.
i have had problems getting it down under 250°f to 225°f my favorite smoke roasting temp, but with practice and precise measuring of coals, it can be done.
it is painted with heat resistant  black enamel.
the side shelf won’t hold much weight, and the utensil hooks are molded plastic that look like the won’t accommodate many utensils.
click here for more aboutthermometers.
this allows you to move the food off  the flame into a cooler area where it roasts from convection and indirect heat.
they're short thick-gauge wire, designed to sit low to the ground, better for fitting in the trunk or on the truckbed than backyard.
this important feature lets you move the heat right below steaks that you wish to sear with high heat or drop it down for low and slow cooking things like ribs.
that means that when you raise or lower it, it can  swing left and right; it also means that to do that, you have to lean over the  grill somewhat.
so make sure you get agood digital grill thermometer to get the most out of this otherwise fine cooker.
the shelf converts into a side gas burner, too.
a rule of thumb: the dial thermometers in grills are worthless and can be off as much as 50°f.
all meadow creek grills, smokers, and grill/smoker combos are made by amish craftsmen in new holland, pa, as they have been since the company was founded in 1980.
they make two sizes of all stainless steel charcoal grills starting with the custom i with 18 x 24" (432 square inches) cooking surface and a removable warming rack above the cooking surface.
that is one well-though-out grill and cart combination.
thepr42 has 20  x 42" grates and will hold a 100 pound hog.
when you see a device, if your first response is "ooh!"
this one has a very thin tip with a tiny thermocouple so it gives an accurate reading in just six seconds.
closing the exhaust damper can cause creosote to form on the food and that gives it a bitter taste.
machine washable, temper-ground, serrated, high-carbon stainless-steel, full-tang blades with excellent cutting edge retention, beefy hardwood handle, rust and stain resistant, and they stay shiny without polishing.
crank adjustable charcoal racks mean better  heat control and we are fond of them.
onour page about big rigs we discuss their ts tank smoker series, which includes one suitable for the backyard cook.
there don't seem to be any brick & mortar  stores carrying the emeril yet, so we have had to gather our info on the  internet.
this popular design hasn't made major changes in many years, and with good reason.
to cook, you place the food in square stainless steel pots  that are lowered into the box, and then there is a stainless tray that holds  the coal that goes on top of the pots of food.
the clearance between cooking surface and lid is 19 inches, meaning you should have no problems putting your turkey in easily, and the charcoal grate can be cranked up and down 12" giving you good temperature control.
each unit comes with a dvd with video instructions and recipes.
all meadow creek grills, smokers, and grill/smoker combos are made by amish  craftsmen in new holland, pa, as they have been since the company was founded  in 1980.
it has some other good features: there are nice porcelain-coated cast-iron cooking grates, and the warming rack is porcelain-coated wire.
meadow creek has several very nice large professional units that are discussed on the page devoted to those smokers and grills.
the barrel on the right is a charcoal grill, and it boasts 876 square inches in the "main grill area" and a total of 1,260 including the upper rack.
but the metal is thin, the lids don’t seal, the thermometers are cheap and useless, some handles are plastic, the side shelves are small, and the warming racks can't be removed.
of course, in order to do this, you absolutely positively must  have a gooddigital oven thermometer.
a tray for charcoal hangs inside the trough 6" below the grate.
the base is sturdy 20 gauge powder-coated steel, and the  galvanized lift and fire box are 18 and 12 gauge.
the handle you use to move it doubles as a towel rack.
as you might expect, their designs are simple, well thought out, their  build is solid and the products are long lasting.
at this time it  is available only on thechar-broil website. -
they all  come with what the parts list calls a "heat indicator," and it may  only be useful enough to indicate that there is heat inside.
the vents on the charcoal side are spring-loaded to hold them closed and the vents on the floor is huge, so you're going to be fighting to maintain an even temp all through the cook.
there is an inverted v shape bar that runs the length of the bottom of the  coal tray and it has large holes in it.
they make a  32" long one for grilling that can also be used for smoking.
it had a 13 gauge bottom tray and 4 side pins; standard options include a charcoal pan, a cover, and a stainless steel flat grate (as opposed to the chicken basket grates).
the one-touch models make ash removal easy.
on the whole, it looks very attractive, but the feel of it is  underwhelming.
the paint is  very hard to chip and it can sit in the rain and snow years on end and be no  worse for the wear.
there is an electronic 3-in-one starter, porcelain-enameled cast iron  grates, a 5-year burner warranty, and a 1-year warranty on all other parts.
there's a large, easy to remove, ash pan for rapid cleanup, a large side door (3) that allows you access to the charcoal during the cook, a removable heat deflector (5) that goes between the coals and the cooking grates for better indirect cooking, a removable stainless steel work table that runs the full length of the front, and vents down low on the sides (3), not on the hood.
click here for more info and pricing: char-broil. -
this will burn off any manufacturer's grease, and give you a sense for how to set it up to hit the two important target temps that almost all my recipes use: 225°f and 325°f.
just don’t expect it to last very long unless you take  good care of it.
most metal is seriously heavy 13 gauge steel, grates are 304 stainless steel expanded metal mesh, and handles are stainless steel coils that never get too hot and are easy on the hands.
like the type of cooker you are using.
all material within comes without warranties of any kind.
its legs are one drawback.
it is nice to have a good ash removal system.
the standard lid is not very tall, so you won't be able to get a turkey on, but an optional lid is 10" deep.
i cannot pick the right cooker for you any more than i could pick the right car or spouse for you.
the base is sturdy 20 gauge powder-coated steel, and the galvanized lift and fire box are 18 and 12 gauge.
the 306 square inch grate is hinged for adding coals,  and the oven can be lifted off the cart for cleaning, camping, or tailgating.
wal-mart will even assemble it for you;  contact your local one for details.
it can be used to divide the charcoal bed and improve airflow to the embers.
the bbq26 looks like a giant hibachi, with no lid, this  boring black box is 32" long by 21" wide by 20.5" tall on heavy  wire legs.
if you are looking for info, please use the table of contents or the search box, at the top of every page.
temp control and airflow are more  important.
although it can handle a small hog, meadow creek's pr36 does much more.
limited lifetime warranty.
manufacturers: click here forpermission to use these medals in ads and on packaging (there is  no charge) and for info on how to get a high resolution version.
also in the bbq line is the bbq42c, a scaled-back version of the bbq42 that's meant to be added to a trailer (or else never be moved).
that's how most low-cost small grill grates, including the weber's, are  plated.
people who've bought it seem to like it, especially the large cooking  space.
the best reasons to buy fromamazon are low prices, fast often free delivery, fair return policies, and often there is no sales tax.
one of the most important techniques an outdoor cook must learn is how to set up and use a 2-zone or indirect cooking environment.
otherwise, fit and finish are very good on the gourmet.
i am told they are easy to assemble, making grilling the same day you buy it a breeze.
it’s essentially the weber one-touch gold with a really good cart and a gas ignition system.
the painted surfaces carry a 90-day warranty.
click here for analytics, stats, demographics, and advertising options.
all models have a 5 year warranty on workmanship and parts, a 1 year warranty on finish, and a 10 year warranty on stainless steel components.
they should have at least put a bumper in the back.
in a nice touch, the handles are shiny steel.
- scot murphy kingsford rectangle charcoal grill kingsford has also put its badge on the 23 inch rectangle charcoal grill  (model #cbc1132w).
duo gas-and-charcoal grill
so a good grill  must have space to move the coals to one side.
on the whole, it looks very attractive, but the feel of it is underwhelming.
temperature control can be a problem because the metal is thin and  doesn’t insulate well, and the lid doesn’t fit tightly.
a nice selection of santa maria style grills with cranks that raise and lower the food into the pit, but no lid.
also available is a nifty cradle rotisserie that encloses your food in a basket rather than placing it on an unbalanced skewer or piercing it with a heat conducting skewer.
i have not tested the others, so i cannot speak for them.
i've shared just about everything i know.
if you don’t want to mess around with a chimney full of hot coals, this  can be a dandy work-saver (not to mention a foot-saver).
it gets merits for being easy to build, but the common complaint is that there are too many air gaps, or pieces being slightly bent before assembly.
beyond these factors, a good charcoal grill  must have the same assets as any other grill, including solid construction,  etc., as discussed in my articlehow to buy a grill.
click here for more info and pricing:meco. -
one drawback, though, is that you can’t really use the lighting system with the charcoal holders that push the coals to the side for indirect cooking.
yoder is very well respected for tube shaped offset smokers.
all  models and sizes are available as cart mounted stand-alone or they can be built  into a counter.
to do this you need to be able to push the coals to one side.
2) don't ask me any questions that involve temp or time unless you tell me that you are using a digital thermometer!
of the four reviews we found by owners, one had problems with it and returned it, and two mentioned that it needs a large, oblong cover for its odd proportions.
it is, very  simply, a big black box, no lid, no handles, and a stainless steel chicken  grate.
the seriously large dial  thermometer in the hood is one of the few i've seen that actually works well.
most of the time you will leave the top damper wide open so smoke and gases can exhaust.
combining this sort of cooking space with the materials and  workmanship to make it inexpensive results in compromises, which is what the  premium charcoal grill feels like: a compromise.
if you want something more architectural, check out this one from the grillery.
to cook, you place the food in square stainless steel pots that are lowered into the box, and then there is a stainless tray that holds the coal that goes on top of the pots of food.
if you have a fireplace, you can use it for grilling all year round with the fireplace insert fromspitjack.
the  medium is 18" wide x 34" long x 14" deep and will hold a small  hog.
the 600 and 800 also feature a folding front shelf (a plus  if you’re like me and have the bbq belly) and a swing-away secondary  cooking shelf (essentially, a warming rack).
it’s only $299, and that means it’s a  good buy.
it has  a v shaped trough in which the charcoal grate sits.
remember the heat diminishes rapidly the further the  food is from the coals.
we make it clear in our reviews when we are working with a sample.
i don't care how much you spent on your  grill, the bi-metal dial thermometer that came with it is probably cheap and  unreliable and likely to be off by as much as 50°f.
there are 289 square inches of primary cooking area and an upper grate that adds another 215 square inches.
before you make up your mind, make sure to read these articles: how to buy a grill thermodynamics of cooking 2-zone and indirect cooking charcoal grills vs. gas grills.
the charcoal  wagon grill (model #bb02231g), a wal-mart exclusive, is good bang for your  buck.
the cooking grate is 15 x 35" for a whopping 525 square inches of primary cooking surface.
its black dog 28 charcoal grill looks like a sturdy contender for your backyard needs.
meat is sandwiched between two grates that are on a center pivot.
rest assured that when we recommend a product, it is really because we like it, not because someone has paid us to say so because we do not accept advertising from product categories we review.
the grates are porcelain coated, which is very nice, but it has two built-in thermometers that aren't actually close to the cooking action.
it includes the latest usda recommendations as well as chef recommendations (and they often differ) as well as color photos of the different stages of doneness for red meats.
makes high quality side firebox charcoal and wood smokers as well as grills that have adjustable-height racks (a very useful feature).
meathead home depot is offering the brinkmann single zone charcoal grill that, it seems, you can only get from their stores.
there are adjustable dampers in the lid and under the fire.
that means that when you raise or lower it, it can swing left and right; it also means that to do that, you have to lean over the grill somewhat.
advertising on this site.
it has an adjustable charcoal grate, though it’s not well-designed: the grate, which is of narrow-gauge steel, has a handle on left and right that is connected by eye-hooks.
the smokenator turns your grill into a first class smoker, and the hovergrill can add capacity or be used to create steakhouse steaks.
it  moves up and down with a crank allowing me to lower the coal grate, push the  coals to the right side, fire them up, start a big hunk of beef like arib roast  on the left side of the food grate, then, when i get the meat's interior temp  to say 115°f, i can slide it over the coals, crank them up to right below  the meat, and brown the exterior as the interior rises to 125°f.
the upper damper, a dial-type with 6 apertures, is not on the top of the lid, as you'd expect, but on the left side.
some grills have a door that allows you to add charcoal or move it around.
brinkmann charcoal grills brinkmann is a puzzlement.
it’s only $299, and that means it’s a good buy.
i has  a nice large 540 square inch cooking surface with pre-seasoned cast iron  cooking grates, adjustable height charcoal grate, a front door for easy fire  tending, two adjustable dampers, removable ash tray, and two handy removable  wooden side boards that double as carving and serving boards.
the steel base and frame range from 0.08 to 1.0  mm thick and the lid is 1.2 mm thick.
you’d do better to pay a few bucks more for  the charcoal wagon grill.
a nice selection of santa maria style grills with cranks that raise and  lower the food into the pit, but no lid.
combining this sort of cooking space with the materials and workmanship to make it inexpensive results in compromises, which is what the premium charcoal grill feels like: a compromise.
we think that people need to know why as well as how, so we spend a lot of time explaining things, and we believe that there are no rules in the bedroom or dining room.
amazingribs.com does not make or sell anything, but we love toys and we are happy to share our opinions of them.
the american gourmet series is also a good choice if your budget is really  tight, or if you are a tinkerer who wants to spend time modifying it to make it  perform better.
the grate is porcelain coated, something i like.
it has a good warranty: 2 years on the cooking grate, 5 years on the steel parts, and 5 years on all the plastic handles and parts.
the manufacturers sent me their top of the line, the gourmet model (shown at right), to test in july 2010.
there's a crank-adjustable charcoal grate that brings it about an inch or two under the cooking grate, a foldable shelf with utensil hooks, a front charcoal door, an easy-to-remove ash pan, and even a bottle opener.
my local depot is selling it for  $199.
the upper damper, a dial-type with 6 apertures,  is not on the top of the lid, as you'd expect, but on the left side.
they also make some pretty nifty hybrid cookers that use propane, charcoal, wood, and have rotisseries, and just about any other feature you might want.
the paint is very hard to chip and it can sit in the rain and snow years on end and be no worse for the wear.
click here for more info and pricing about these meadow creek grills, smokers, & grill/smokers.
that's large enough to push the coals to one side and cook indirect on the other.
the ash removal system looks  pretty easy.
the smoke exits from under the lid.
one part you can do without is the  glue-on rubber feet for the lid: it makes a non-sealing lid worse.
2-zone or indirect cooking capability.
the brinkmann dual gas and charcoal grill will impress you in the store when you see it, but don’t be tempted.- scot murphy
there are no bumpers around the grilling perimeter.
this one is a mixed bag.
there are three models/sizes: 300, 600,  and 800.
as always we suggest yousupply your own digital grill thermometer.
push the coals to one side and you have a fine 2-zone setup and put wood on the coals and you can smoke as well as any offset smoker.
the charcoal grates are adjustable with clumsy pull-up handles.
wal-mart will even assemble it for you; contact your local one for details.
if you are considering buying this and the offset firebox for use as a smoker, please read the article on offset smokers here.
this stainless steel unit has 605 square inches of cooking surface, with an  adjustable height charcoal grate that has several positions, not infinitely  adjustable.
it takes you to amazon.com  and tags things you buy with the amazingribs code so we get that referral fee.
most charcoal grills have at least two dampers, one at  the bottom and one on the top.
there is also an  optional charcoal pan that can place the coal just inches below the cooking  grate.
its double sided 16" by 24" cooking grate covers 384 square inches means that you can load on a mess of food and flip it in all with one hand.
like many others, it’s a competitor to the weber one-touch line.
they offer  a chicken pot that is a clever improvement on the beercan chicken concept, a  turkey pot, a side shelf, a grill that can be placed on top of the coals, or a  solid griddle with a grease trap, a rotisserie, a firepit attachment, and it  can even be converted into an ice chest.
in addition to fine searing and indirect convection cooking, the hasty-bake is a good smoker.
each side has its own charcoal  door, but they’re both smaller than we'd like for easy access.
they offer a chicken pot that is a clever improvement on the beercan chicken concept, a turkey pot, a side shelf, a grill that can be placed on top of the coals, or a solid griddle with a grease trap, a rotisserie, a firepit attachment, and it can even be converted into an ice chest.
the joints aren't tight.
the 600 has 435 square inches primary cooking and 188 inches on the secondary shelf, and the 800 has 580 square inches primary and 270 square inches secondary.
load it up any you can bring coal very close to the food for a quick hot sear.
about model numbers manufacturers often make slight variations to their basic model exclusively  for certain merchants.
the metal’s pretty thin, and the charcoal bin is even thinner and flimsier.
it has a good warranty: 2 years on the cooking grate, 5 years on the  steel parts, and 5 years on all the plastic handles and parts.
they  should have at least put a bumper in the back.
awards are based on  features, quality, and value.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price  you pay.http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs seasoning and calibrating your grill or smoker with dry runs
the three legged base is a bit flimsy, and the grates are thin chrome plated steel.
these may be the most beautiful grills
there's a three-burner propane gas grill on the left and a  charcoal grill on the right, with 403 square inches primary cooking surface and  185 square inches on the warming rack of each barrel.
comes with a 5 year, warranty from defects in workmanship and materials.
new in 2011 is the chef emeril lagasse-badged grill which is clearly aimed at competing with the ubiquitous, but aging weber kettle design.
you’re already dreaming of getting the steaks done on gas with a quick trip over to the charcoal side to sear them, arfen't you?
it gets merits for being easy to build, but the common complaint is that  there are too many air gaps, or pieces being slightly bent before assembly.
this important feature lets you move the heat right below steaks that  you wish to sear with high heat or drop it down for low and slow cooking things  like ribs.
there are two storage sections, a tilt-out charcoal  bin on the left and storage on the right, and the obligatory built-in  thermometer (as always, we recommend you get anaccurate digital grill  thermometer).
one can even lay unlit coals in a c or u shape and put hot coals on one end and it will burn slowly around the bend like a fuse, ideal for low and slow cooking.
the american gourmet series is also a good choice if your budget is really tight, or if you are a tinkerer who wants to spend time modifying it to make it perform better.
others have put water heater blankets on them for insulation, which is not expensive.
scot  murphy weber 26.75" one-touch gold charcoal grill
it had a 13 gauge bottom  tray and 4 side pins; standard options include a charcoal pan, a cover, and a  stainless steel flat grate (as opposed to the chicken basket grates).
in addition to fine searing and indirect convection cooking, the hasty-bake  is a good smoker.
it is important to be able to easily  add more charcoal or move the charcoal around without removing the food or  opening the lid and losing heat.
there are adjustable dampers in the  lid and under the fire.
if you have a fireplace, you can use it for grilling all year round with  the fireplace insert fromspitjack.
this is a very nice idea for helping you keep temp under control.
brinkmann  makes several cheap round grills.
it is very easy to set up for2-zone or  indirect cooking and smoke roasting or you can just crank it all the way up to  sear a steak in a hurry.