gas log fireplaces come in two varieties: vented and vent-free.
a fancy gas unit with multiple burners is not only efficient it will really stick out at family gatherings!
however, in today's  modern homes, which come equipped with a central furnace for heat, their appeal  is mostly aesthetic and nostalgic (for looks) rather than practical (for  warming a large living area).
once again, these come in many different shapes, sizes, and price ranges, depending on how large an area you want to heat.
propane is inexpensive, convenient, and safe as long as you take the right  safety precautions.
once rust sets in, there's not much you  can do to rescue a cheap grill.
others may simply like the idea of using traditional charcoal for cooking.
like so many other types of products, there  are many choices.
almost always, the intent is to produce flame and heat for warmth; but bear in mind, most of the heat is going up the chimney, sofireplaces of this type are not particularly energy-efficient.
with any of these units, consider the beauty and durability of copper it makes a huge difference.
what kind of fuel  will you use, charcoal or gas?
fireplaces of this type frequently are surrounded  by an exterior mantle, which can be made of wood, marble, metal, brick, stone,  or some other material.
others may simply like  the idea of using traditional charcoal for cooking.
mostly they burn wood for fuel, but some can also burn coal, peat, and other materials.
wood stoves some people love their fireplaces so much that they almost regret the arrival of summer.
some people like them just to look at and to fill  up a blank space in a wall, but rarely use them because of the work involved in  acquiring fuel and keeping them clean.
but the idea of having a large canister of compressed  flammable gas on the premises makes some people nervous.
the heat provided by these units can make autumn evenings out of doors much more cozy and enjoyable.
other models are called firepits and are simpler in design but still provide much enjoyment.
indoors traditional fireplaces the most familiar type of indoor fireplace is the typical  "wall-mounted" model found in dens, living rooms, even bedrooms  (though in some structures, such as large contemporary homes and ski lodges, it  may be free-standing and centrally located in the room, with openings on two or  more sides).
with any of these units, consider the beauty and durability of  copper it makes a huge difference.
when it comes to feeding even a moderate-sized crowd, bigger is better.
this means the heat is being sent into the room, not up the chimney.
however, in today's modern homes, which come equipped with a central furnace for heat, their appeal is mostly aesthetic and nostalgic (for looks) rather than practical (for warming a large living area).
with  some kinds offireplaces, it is possible to use them for cooking, which actually  was the norm right up until the 20th century.
as its name implies, and at its most basic, a fireplace is simply "a  place for fire," literally.
however, if the work of gathering and splitting wood or cleaning out ash does not excite you, there is a nice alternative to consider: gas logs!
remember, a typical backyard grill is constantly exposed to massive heat and extremes of weather.
however, if the work of gathering and splitting wood or cleaning out ash  does not excite you, there is a nice alternative to consider: gas logs!
mostly they burn wood for fuel, but some can also  burn coal, peat, and other materials.
a relatively new product line that should appeal  particularly to those individuals is the outdoorfireplace, which can be used  for both atmosphere and heating/cooking in the spring, summer, and fall.
traditional fireplaces the most familiar type of indoor fireplace is the typical "wall-mounted" model found in dens, living rooms, even bedrooms (though in some structures, such as large contemporary homes and ski lodges, it may be free-standing and centrally located in the room, with openings on two or more sides).
there will be afireplace grate for holding  the wood off the ground.
some people like them just to look at and to fill up a blank space in a wall, but rarely use them because of the work involved in acquiring fuel and keeping them clean.
a relatively new product line that should appeal particularly to those individuals is the outdoorfireplace, which can be used for both atmosphere and heating/cooking in the spring, summer, and fall.
consider stainless steel when purchasing either type of grill (gas or  charcoal).
these  come in many shapes and sizes, all meeting different decorative and practical  needs.
but always the goal is to control the  fire and to tame it to your purposes which is, most likely, to produce heat for  warmth and perhaps cooking, and also to create an ambiance of cozy comfort.
the black grills work fine but tend to get beat up pretty quickly, in my opinion.
this means the heat is being sent into the  room, not up the chimney.
just get the highest quality you can afford it will pay for itself many times over.
these  look incredibly realistic, and can even be operated by remote control.
similarly, patio heaters are stand-alone units with dome tops that radiate  heat well in all directions, taking the chill out of spring and fall evenings  if you sit close enough to them.
for pool and patio some people love their fireplaces so much that they almost regret the  arrival of summer.
the opening will usually be covered with a  glass or metal screen of some sort.
as its name implies, and at its most basic, a fireplace is simply "a place for fire," literally.
once again, these come in many different  shapes, sizes, and price ranges, depending on how large an area you want to  heat.
the opening will usually be covered with a glass or metal screen of some sort.
when measuring the interior of yourfireplace for either one of these types of gas-logs, make sure you leave a minimum space of 3 " on each side of the unit.
like so many other types of products, there are many choices.
by contrast, vent-free gas logs lower heating costs in two ways: they require about half the fuel, and they operate with the damper closed.
so a little extra money goes a long way toward  ensuring quality and durability.
these look incredibly realistic, and can even be operated by remote control.
vented gas logs will need that chimney you may have decided you no longer want to use just make sure the chimney is free of creosote buildup and clear of obstructions such as bird's nests.
while vented log sets give off a large flame, most of the heat is going up the chimney, as in the case of a woodburningfireplace.
wood stoves some people love their fireplaces so much that they almost regret the  arrival of summer.
both have their advantages and disadvantages.
these come in many shapes and sizes, all meeting different decorative and practical needs.
similarly, patio heaters are stand-alone units with dome tops that radiate heat well in all directions, taking the chill out of spring and fall evenings if you sit close enough to them.
lets start off with the operation of the grill itself.
while vented log sets give off a large flame, most of the heat is going up  the chimney, as in the case of a woodburningfireplace.
needless to say, cooking outdoors is not only practical when the thermometer is pushing 90, it's also fun.
almost always, the intent is to produce  flame and heat for warmth; but bear in mind, most of the heat is going up the  chimney, sofireplaces of this type are not particularly energy-efficient.
these logs can cost slightly more and produce smaller flames than vented units.
just as the hearth can be a wonderfully enjoyable focal point in the winter months, the grill area can be the social highlight in the months of june, july, and august.
the most critical  question is: how many people are you cooking for?
mantle styles can range from simple to elegant to rococo to whimsical and, because of their prominence, often set the decorative tone for the entire room.
but what kind of grill is right for you?
left to its own devices, fire can be like a  hungry, ravening beast devouring anything in its path that will burn, from a  wisp of straw to an entire city.
in my own personal  experience, many times i wish i owned a larger grill.
which fuel you use is actually not too important.
table-top models cost from $150 to $250, while larger units will set you back around $300 to $500.
it may be made of brick, stone, cement, or ceramic, or some combination of these materials.
once rust sets in, there's not much you can do to rescue a cheap grill.
with some kinds offireplaces, it is possible to use them for cooking, which actually was the norm right up until the 20th century.
there will be afireplace grate for holding the wood off the ground.
what kind of fuel will you use, charcoal or gas?
vented gas logs will  need that chimney you may have decided you no longer want to use just make sure  the chimney is free of creosote buildup and clear of obstructions such as  bird's nests.
consider stainless steel when purchasing either type of grill (gas or charcoal).
fire al fresco what's summer without a barbecue?
left to its own devices, fire can be like a hungry, ravening beast devouring anything in its path that will burn, from a wisp of straw to an entire city.
old world fireplaces like this have been used for hundreds of years in the  americas, and in europe since earliest medieval times.
types of fireplaces what is a fireplace?
propane is inexpensive, convenient, and safe as long as you take the right safety precautions.
these logs can cost slightly more and produce smaller  flames than vented units.
the most critical question is: how many people are you cooking for?
afireplace can be indoors or outdoors, enclosed or open, simple or elaborate.
the heat provided by these units can make  autumn evenings out of doors much more cozy and enjoyable.
fireplaces of this type frequently are surrounded by an exterior mantle, which can be made of wood, marble, metal, brick, stone, or some other material.
it may be made of brick, stone, cement, or ceramic, or some  combination of these materials.
afireplace can be indoors or outdoors,  enclosed or open, simple or elaborate.
so a little extra money goes a long way toward ensuring quality and durability.
fireplace essentials :: 5093 route 9 n :: corinth, ny 12822 call toll-free 1-888-320-4786 :: hours: mon-fri 9:00-5:00, sat 9:00-12:00 lynx
needless to say, cooking  outdoors is not only practical when the thermometer is pushing 90, it's also  fun.
in my own personal experience, many times i wish i owned a larger grill.
for pool and patio some people love their fireplaces so much that they almost regret the arrival of summer.
old world fireplaces like this have been used for hundreds of years in the americas, and in europe since earliest medieval times.
the chiminea is basically a circular drum with a short chimney on top.
when measuring the interior of yourfireplace for  either one of these types of gas-logs, make sure you leave a minimum space of 3 " on each side of the unit.
the black grills work fine but tend to get beat up pretty quickly,  in my opinion.
remember, a typical backyard grill is constantly exposed to  massive heat and extremes of weather.
just as the hearth can be a wonderfully  enjoyable focal point in the winter months, the grill area can be the social  highlight in the months of june, july, and august.
fireplace essentials :: 5093 route 9 n :: corinth, ny 12822 call  toll-free 1-888-320-4786 :: hours: mon-fri 9:00-5:00, sat 9:00-12:00 lynx fireplace accessories | chimney brushes | chimney caps | chimney dampers |  chimney supplies | firewood racks ecommerce solutions by  mountain media
table-top models cost from $150 to $250, while larger units will set you  back around $300 to $500.
but the idea of having a large canister of compressed flammable gas on the premises makes some people nervous.
mantle styles can range from simple to elegant to  rococo to whimsical and, because of their prominence, often set the decorative  tone for the entire room.
but always the goal is to control the fire and to tame it to your purposes which is, most likely, to produce heat for warmth and perhaps cooking, and also to create an ambiance of cozy comfort.
just get the highest quality you can afford it will pay for  itself many times over.
when it comes to feeding  even a moderate-sized crowd, bigger is better.
other models are called firepits and are simpler in design but still provide  much enjoyment.
a fancy gas unit with multiple  burners is not only efficient it will really stick out at family gatherings!
by contrast, vent-free  gas logs lower heating costs in two ways: they require about half the fuel, and  they operate with the damper closed.