begin by placing the tip of the rod on a table and hold it vertical, perpindicular to the table.
they will not be too salty.
5) now hold the thigh and cut through the skin that connects it to the body.
chefs who cook sous-vide (the ultimate low and slow cooking) know this.
it will also help season the outer layers and denature the proteins so they hold water better.
remove the breasts and the thick part of the wings at 160 to 165°f and the dark meat at 170°f.
prizes to be announced, but they will be good.
you can pop them out with your fingers.
the wet rub goes under the skin so they can be in intimate contact with the muscle tissue and don't have to fight their way through fatty skin.
bi-metal dial thermometers are often off by as much as 50°f!
they can run fast, too.
if you rely on it you will be eating balsa wood.
if your guests are into wine and prefers them bone dry, and if your meal is more savory than sweet: sauvignon blanc and semillon.
nowadays finding a bird that has not been salted is almost a mission  impossible.
refreshing, tart, complex, with just a hint of sweetness.
if you don't want to bother making it (you really should have a bottle on hand at all times), just use a simple blend of herbs, perhaps 1.5 tablespoons finely chopped or powdered sage (fresh or dried) and1.5 tablespoons thyme leaves (fresh or dried).
in chicago, i occasionally drive to john's live poultry and egg market where i can pick a live bird, have it weighed, slaughtered, and dressed on the spot.
as proof of its goodness, when you chill the leftovers it will solidify into a jelly.
confusion abounds over the proper temperature to which you must heat turkey for safety and for max tenderness and juiciness.
a few of us may have lasagna or prime rib, but most of us, across the vastness of the nation, across all age groups, across politics and religion, share a menu of turkey with dressing made from bread, the humblest and noblest of foods; potatoes, the most earthy peasant food; cranberries, a bauble sweet and sour like life itself; something green because it is good for us; and all-american apple pie.
since most grocery store turkeys have already been injected with brine at the slaughterhouse, there is no need to soak it in brine or inject salt at home.
recently i have  been seeing more and more recipes for cooking turkey at high temps, like  500°f.
first time out of  the gate, follow my recipe closely until you get the concept.
you won't need the built-in water pan.
if you use a bag of ice from the store, make sure it is tight so the ice won't melt and dilute the brine.
you'll take the foil off after an hour, so the skin will brown and crisp.
this means you need written permission to republish or distribute anything on this website.
dark meat is best at about 175°f, but if you tie the drums together you pin the thighs tight against the body of the bird and they'll take longer to cook.
nominee: 2010 world food media awards member: international association of culinary professionals member: kansas city barbeque society member:
chef purviance knows more about grilling than anybody.
charcoal grill setup.
as the exterior passes the heat along, it loses heat so the bucket brigade prevents the surface from zooming up to 325°f.
this 8.5" x 5.5" magnetic card can be attached to your fridge or grill, or both!
in a 325°f oven, the surface of the meat will slowly warm.
it acts as a heat sink, absorbing energy and moderating fluctuations.
if you click here and look at the picture of thefinished bird up close you can see the sage leaves under the skin.
research for amazingribs.com by dr. greg blonder is fascinating.
click here formore info.
all of us is a descendant of an immigrant, even "native" americans came here from somewhere else.
that's because the joints bones have not had a chance to properly harden.
as the surface warms it conducts its heat slowly inward to the cooler cells beneath, passing it along like a bucket brigade.
let the bird swim in the brine for up to 12 hours in a refrigerator or other cool place.
this gravy/drip pan should have at least 3.5 quart capacity and must be large enough to fit under the entire bird.
narragansett and bourbon red are two of several heritage turkeys that are making a comeback, but they are still hard to find.
these aromatics will release aromas and they will penetrate the meat from the inside of the cavity, along with the smoke.
a real cambro is an insulated storage box popular with caterers.
i vsualize them standing 5' away drooling, as am  i as i write this.
that's a bit more time than needed, but hey, when you want to catch a train, you get to the station before the train does, right?
it will go in the gravy, but i would  rather have it in the muscles where it belongs.
it sounds to me as if franklin, known for his wit, was exercising it well: "for my own part i wish the bald eagle had not been chosen the representative of our country.
if you are diabetic, you can skip the sugar, although truth be told, very little actually gets into the meat.
the injection of a brine adds liquid helping to keep the meat  moist.
as with other animals (hogs for instance) and vegetables (tomatoes for instance), farmers are rediscovering abandoned "heritage" breeds and seeds.
just letting the thighs free so hot air can surround them will do the job just fine, thank you.
below i will describe the process of carving a turkey (btw, carving is much  easier if you butterfly the bird or break it down into parts before you even  cook it).
a disposable aluminum pan will not hold the rack and a bird without  collapsing, so if you use a disposable pan, it must go under the grill grate  and the bird must go on top of the grill grate.
please resist the temptation to thicken this gravy with flour or cornstarch.
smokin in colorado submitted four nice sharp pix showing all  sides of a perfect bird that practically glows.
my methods differ drastically from tradition, but if you follow my guidelines you can make this flightless bird soar above the flock.
the fat rises in the thermos, so  i can just pour some off before serving, or shake it up to mix it in.
readers know that i love  low and slow and many of my recipes recommend a 225°f setting.
so an 8 ounce portion of turkey,  a pretty nice serving, will contain 520 mg.
salt is a great flavor amplifier if you  don't overdo it.
you never want to put the bird in liquid on on the bottom of a  roasting pan.
by entering you  solemnly swear that you have adhered to these rules, and you agree to let me  use your photo as i see fit on this website or to promote this website.
if you  have a grill, you need to set it up for 2 zones.
digest these logical concepts and you will never again have a dry, stringy, cardboardy, boring bird.
as the surface warms it conducts its heat slowly inward to the cooler cells  beneath, passing it along like a bucket brigade.
dean made a smart move with two small birds.
i love these wines, especially sauvignon blanc from new zealand and white wines from bordeaux, but they are usually bone dry, and are not great matches to all the sweet stuff.
all that will do is retard the browning and crisping of the skin.
repeat the process on the other side of the  blade.
repeat with the other thigh.
that means no basting.
this lets them brown properly and you will have potato chip crunchy skin on your wings.
put the packet as close to the  flame as possible.
clean storebought bags of ice thoroughly with soap and water and rinse them completely.
he cooked his on a ceramic cooker that looks like a big green egg judging  by his other pix.
cover the tops of the wings and drumsticks with the foil.
from the front cavity, either remove the wishbone for the kids or cut through it with your shears.
occasionally as good as the best german rieslings, austrian rieslings are good values, and the best new yorkers and washingtonians, although not cheap, can be shockingly good.
research shows that about 2/3 of modern poultry has been contaminated by the time you get it home.
because there are so many different grill designs i can't go through all the options, so grasp the science and adapt it to your own rig.
you can use something like a large stainless steel pot, but the ice will melt quickly if it doesn't fit in the fridge and you'll need to add more ice.
salt is a great flavor amplifier if you don't overdo it.
then whack off the wing tips at the first joint and toss them in the pool.
alas there might have been more prizes if folks held their cameras a little steadier, used a higher iso, or a tripod.
you'll have plenty of flavor without them, especially from the gravy.
his notes on the preparation:  "last year i cooked my bird on my 22" weber kettle, this year i did  it on my newly purchase rotisserie, can i add, this is my first cook with the  roto.
one technique is to baste the exterior, but that keeps the skin wet and soft, and we want it dry and crisp.
it came at the end of my second  year of working full time on this website, and i had a lot to be thankful for.
thursday add water to gravy pan  if necessary 4 p.m. thursday remove gravy, strain, skim fat, taste 4:30  p.m.
because the evaporation of water from the surface cools the liquid in the same way sweat cools us on a hot day, the temp of the gravy may never get above 175°f.
if you use a dull knife or  a serrated knife, the skin will move around.
you'll need good pair of poultry shears.
while  you're under the hood, if you are using charcoal add another 15 to 20 chunks  every hour.
in 2011, for the first time, usda gave a nod to the concept that time and temp work together to make food safe when it revised the recommended temp for pork.
cover the tops of the wings and  drumsticks with the foil.
if you don't have a thermometer on a wire already in the breast, spot check  the temperature with a good digital instant read thermometer by inserting the  probe into the deepest part of the breast.
the best solution, pun intended, is to buy an empty spray bottle at the drug store and fill it with a dilute solution of water and household bleach.
some people believe hens are slightly more tender than toms, but because most turkeys are slaughtered when young, usually 4 to 5 months old, there is no noticeable difference according to taste tests by cook's illustrated magazine.
chef  purviance knows more about grilling than anybody.
they put cut up turkey parts in plastic bags, vacuum seal them, and place them in water baths at 150 to 160°f for 2 to 3 hours and the results are incredibly tender, tasty, and safe.
some rotisseries come with counterweights that you put on the handle to balance the whole gizmo, like the weights you put on tires to balance them.
usda recommends a solution of one tablespoon of good old fashioned 5% unscented, liquid chlorine bleach per gallon of water.
they were designed for pulling pork, but they can do double duty as lifters.
you may have seen him perch'd on some dead tree near the river, where, too lazy to fish for himself, he watches the labour of the fishing hawk; and when that diligent bird has at length taken a fish, and is bearing it to his nest for the support of his mate and young ones, the bald eagle pursues him and takes it from him.
i get to keep the head and feet too.
well, the temp in the dome can be a lot different than the temp at the grate.
that's a bit more time than needed, but hey, when you want to  catch a train, you get to the station before the train does, right?
when setting up for 2-zone cooking, i normally recommend you put a water pan under the meat.
rinse off any dark brown organ parts and discard them, and throw the backbone in the drip pan.
if you are not using a good digital you have no idea what the temp really is so i can't help you.
you're setting a high bar for your kids.
if you stuff the bird, the temp in the center of the stuffing must be at least 165°f to be safe because juices from the bird get into the stuffing.
we purchase many products we review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
another good source is a community supported agriculture (csa) organization which you can find throughlocalharvest.org.
my thin gravy will soak into the meat and add much more flavor.
just don't let it drop below 150°f.
one of the problems is that usda changed the recommended minimum temperature for cooked poultry in 2006.
if you don't feel obligated by tradition to serve a whole bird, then consider cutting it into parts.
a honing  steel is a rod that has a sandpaper like surface.
resting allows the pressure that has built up inside the meat to ease off a bit so the juices don't come gushing out.
you can use one from your grill, or  even one from your indoor oven.
click here to read about thezen of herbs and spices.
savor them for a job well  done.
stuffing sticks to the ribs of the turkey.
neither can you trust the bi-metal "instant read" dial thermometer in your kitchen drawer.
try  to avoid leaving behind large clumps.
then pour in salt, any salt, until the water line reaches 2 cups.
i have a nice messermeister meridian elite 5 knife set but, don't tell my professional chef friends, the knife i reach for most is my cheap rapala soft-grip 7.5".
for more on the subject, read my article onthe zen of injecting.
lay each breast skin side up on a cutting board and slice it across the  grain in slices at least 1/4".
besides, it's not  fair because the person who gets the first slice gets most of the skin!
if you don't want to bother making it (you  really should have a bottle on hand at all times), just use a simple blend of  herbs, perhaps 1.5 tablespoons finely chopped or powdered sage (fresh or dried)
there is a good chance that it has salmonella, campylobacter, or some other pathogenic bacteria in it.
my guests continually raved about how juicy and incredible the turkey tasted.
it was especially thrilling as the first  pictures started rolling in.
pathogens are in the soil and in the air.
the meat goes in the indirect zone and roasts by convection airflow  circulating all around the bird rather than by direct radiation from the flame.
usda inspectors allow up to 2°f tolerance when testing birds in commerce, so a "fresh" turkey can be held as low as 24°f.
the hot outer parts continue to pass their heat inward and in 15 to 30 minutes  after coming out of the oven, the center of the muscle can rise another  5°f.
allow 24 hours in the fridge for every 4 pounds.
even though the oven was 325°f, the liquid never reached boiling temp in the time it took to cook a turkey.
it is absorbing heat from all sides, the outer surfaces are hottest  and the heat is passed to the center by conduction.
to get a bird that is not pumped, you need to special order it, go  to a specialty store like whole foods, or buy it directly from a farmer.
4) put the onion (remember to quarter it), garlic, orange peel, and fresh  herbs into the cavity.
the meat goes in the indirect zone and roasts by convection airflow circulating all around the bird rather than by direct radiation from the flame.
to enter, post your picture below in the comments section.
that's why turkey backs are so often as flabby as an  elephant's.
people often walk on them in the delivery truck.
your inquiries really helped me fine tune my recipe to anticipate future questions and as a result i have completely rewritten it.
a  lot of books say you should put a foil tent on the bird.
are adult beverages in play?
yes, your grill or smoker is really an oven.
a knife will work, but shears will work better.
bet on a good thermometer.
do this 1) after the bird has thawed, open the bag it  came in and pour the juices into the pan in which it was sitting.
now you can open the bird up and squish it flat.
there  are faster ways to defrost a bird discussed in my article on thawing.
what you need to know about turkeys before you go shopping today's grocery store turkeys are the result of decades of selective  breeding.
what are the side dishes and how many?
you simply cannot trust the cheap bimetal dial thermometer that the manufacturer installed in your cooker, shown on the right.
if we're not careful the skin will slip slide  around and you won't get neat slices with skin with each slice of meat.
i love the lighting, but i wish you had found a better place  to put the bird
inject or brine, watch the temp like a hawk circling a flock of turkeys.
use the same tools and methods above to inject the butter deep into the meat, focusing on the breasts.
we do not want our meat to go above 165°f so that 20°f difference is the difference between succulent and sucky.
so very  nice to not be messing with the old gasser!!
they're plucked and cleaned by hand and are largely free of pinfeathers.
start the thighs and breasts first and keep the rest aside for about 20 minutes.
they come in three forms, a double breast cut off the bird with bone in, a single boneless breast (above), or two breasts de-boned and rolled together and held tight with a mesh.
this should take no more than 20 minutes or so, but watch things, because without that buffer of water, you can burn the back in a hurry.
you want to begin by preheating the oven about 5 hours before your  guests are ready to sit down.
if you use kosher salt, double the quantity.
they don't need much oxygen so they have much less of the pink myoglobin leaving the meat white when cooked.
so as to not confuse, i shall be technically incorrect in this article and refer to each pectoral muscle as a separate breast.
" honorable mentions.
pretty bird contest 2010 first prize.
"with all this injustice, he is never in good case but like those among men who live by sharping & robbing he is generally poor and often very lousy.
slowly the heat marches towards the center.
usda wants to keep things simple for us in order to keep us safe.
this should take no more than 20  minutes or so, but watch things, because without that buffer of water, you can  burn the back in a hurry.
it is a recipe for skin as pale as a seattle sunbather on the bottom and sides, and undercooked dark meat.
do not  cram them in so tightly that hot air and smoke can't circulate inside.
now it is time to move the bird to the cutting board or a platter.
the bag usually contains the heart (looks like a heart), the gizzard (two marbles connected in the middle), and the liver (it is the floppy, shiny thing).
if you put it in liquid, you will boil the back and end up with  soggy flavorless meat and inedible skin.
this gravy is a thin, flavorful broth that penetrates the meat, making it incredibly moist and tasty.
our privacy promise.
also recommended, my articles on the zen of brines and the zen of injecting.
while is positano italy this summer we ordered a ceramic table which was to be cut from solid volcanic rock in a single slab and then decorated with hand painted ceramics.
often reminiscent of tropical fruits.
place it on the center of the breast  near its handle.
week-old grease and gunk the cooking grates will not add the kind of complexity you want in your gravy.
taste again and add salt  only at the last minute.
put the drip pan on top of the big deflector plate under the cooking grate and put the bird on the cooking grate.
tryoxo good grips professional poultry shears, above.
browning is the result of a process called themaillard reaction and it really kicks in at about 310°f when amino acids and sugars form scores of scrumptuous new compounds.
see my  article onthe best setup for a charcoal grill.
from his comments: "thank you for one of the best turkeys i've had for  thanksgiving.
slow pitches are easier to hit  than fastballs.
the bird sits on a wire rack above the drip pan filled with a flavorful gravy, and the drip pan sits right on the flame deflector bars.
you'll need something to lift the hot turkey out of the cooker.
ingredients for the wet rub 4 tablespoons of simon & garfunkel rub 4 tablespoons of vegetable  oil or olive oil 1 tablespoon table salt about the rub.
as you can see from the illustration, if the bird is below the lip of the pan and about 2" above the gravy, the bottom of the bird is in 240°f high humidity air, 85°f cooler than the top of the bird which is chugging away nicely in dry heat.
here's how far the salt penetrated: 30 minutes: 0.16" (3-4 mm) 1 hour: 0.24" (5-6 mm) 2 hours: 0.28" (7 mm) 4 hours: 0.39" (10 mm) 8 hours: 0.51" (13 mm) 24 hours: 0.67" (17 mm)
don't worry about the fat, you can skim  it later.
i love the color of the bird  and the platter and the place settings, devoid of people whom i can guess he  had to shoo away for the shot.
the garlic and pepper will not dissolve.
that's why they put it in swimming pools.
you can cook right away, but if you let the meat rest for an hour or more, even overnight, the injection will disperse more evenly through the meat.
if you don't have one, don't blame me if your guests get tummy aches (or worse), if you keep your guests waiting, or if you serve shoe leather.
you need elbow room, you don't need adoration or the heckling, and you certainly don't need to ruin the tablecloth.
tucker submitted two shots, this facy fella ready to go out on the town dressed in spats, and another sitting on the beat up old weber genesis that has clearly served him well.
remember that we loosened the skin so it is no  longer attached to the meat?
if there is a gizmo holding the  tops of the drumsticks together, remove it.
there were about 100 entries (i stopped  counting) and more on my facebook page.
if the back isn't 160°f, remove the gravy pan and put  the bird over direct heat to firm it up.
he now runs this website and does most  of the photography.
the advantage of a vertical roaster is that you get much better airflow up into the cavity than when the bird is reclining and that means better smoke penetration from the inside as well as more even and faster cooking.
thin it if you wish or cook it down to make it more concentrated.
when you have the meat cut, re-assemble it into a breast shaped presentation in order to keep the meat warm.
if you put it in a dry pan, it will  stick and the dripping oils will fry the back, usually overcooking it.
just follow the same basic concept as for the whole bird.
the problem is that, when an animal dies the muscles can't get the blood  laden oxygen they expect so they get stiff.
then i drop the cubes into a zipper bag and label it with the date.
the bird was excellent, only thing we goofed on was not having a big enough platter!
you can put your hand in a 325°f oven, but don't put it in 325°f oil.
and where would these juices come from?
freeze it in a zipper bag and save it along with other chicken and duck livers until you have enough to make a nice pâté, or toss it in a pan with some oil, cook it, and feed it to the dog.
put everything except the liver in the gravy pan.
4) while the skin is soft and elastic, insert your fingers carefully between the skin and the meat and loosen it all around so later you can put the wet rub in there.
3) taste it before you add anything.
but if you get a bird that has not been injected, i recommend that you do it.
see my article onthe best setup for a charcoal grill.
visualize an upside down turkey.
you need to be able to pull it back gently and see how the temps vary throughout the meat.
i've been smoking my birds for nearly 20 years, and brining for the last few.
excessive salt consumption can be hazardous, but not  moderate consumption.
as with salt, oil amplifies flavors.
pay attention to the awards i have given my faves.
a sharp knife has a razor thin edge,  and with use that edge can bend.
this should make the traditionalists very happy because this smoky, enriched stock will make a better gravy than any they ever had.
the only  rules are: you must have cooked the bird outdoors sometime in the calendar year  using this recipe as a guide.
dark meat is best at about 175°f, but if you tie the drums together you  pin the thighs tight against the body of the bird and they'll take longer to  cook.
some other chefs tell you to put ice bags on the breasts before cooking in  order to chill them so that the thighs will have a head start.
thanks for the  excellent website, you taught me everything i know about bbq."
click here for more on what are ideal meat temps.
they taste great and look kewl.
and now they have the amazingribs.com imprimatur.
while the meat is resting, carefully remove the gravy pan from the cooker.
my simon & garfunkel rub has no salt.
but if you're going to the trouble, why not cook the whole bird and savor the leftovers in sandwiches, salads, pot pies... ?
i recommend you cook whole turkey at 325°f.
finishing it this way is fine.
if you can't fit it in the fridge toss in a gallon zipper bag filled with ice.
unless otherwise noted, all text, recipes, photos, and code are owned by amazingribs, inc. and fully protected by us copyrightâ law.
your method produced a  very moist and extremely flavorful bird.
from his comments: "thank you for one of the best turkeys i've had for thanksgiving.
try to avoid leaving behind large clumps.
amazingribs.com is one of the 100 most popular food websites in the us according tocomscore, alexa, and quantcast.
if you are using a bullet shaped  water smoker like a weber smokey mountain, you can use the built-in water pan  for the drip pan.
when overcooked, as it often is, the dry meat is neutral and unexciting.
for more about salt and how important it is to your health, read my article  on thezen of salt.
you can buy specialized turkey lifters, but they are mono-taskers.
do not measure the temp using the cheap thermometer in the lid unless you plan to eat the lid.
the second thing to do is to reach for the best carving knife you own.
do not let the onions and  other solids in the pan burn!
flour tastes better than cornstarch if you do this properly.
this just  makes the skin soggy.
read mybuyer's guides and the buying checklists and follow the links.
i use it to make the gravy forturkey pot pies with the  leftovers.
just leave the neck and giblets in the pan.
7) place the bird on the cooking rack, breast side up, close the lid and don't open it for an hour.
for my favorite stuffing and muffing recipe, see chapter x. want some tips on how to amp up your stuffing?
and we need to allow enough time for the heat to travel to the  center.
so you must handle raw poultry like kryptonite.
14) now pour a little gravy over the top of the meat in the platter, enough to moisten it but not drown it.
but if you let their freak flag fly, heat will  infiltrate them from all sides and, because they are thinner than the breasts,  they will be at 170°f when the breasts hit 160°f.
according to the usda "the color of cooked meat and poultry is not always a sure sign of its degree of doneness.
a sharp knife has a razor thin edge, and with use that edge can bend.
i like to concentrate it and freeze it in ice cube trays.
if the meat is thin, the heat builds up rapidly.
david's bird (above) was not only perfect looking, he took time to garnish it with lettuce and grapes, and frame it perfectly with his centerpiece in the background.
it is absorbing heat from all sides, the outer surfaces are hottest and the heat is passed to the center by conduction.
the world would be a better place if the turkey lobby was as effective as the pork lobby.
" honorable mention by b tucker (left).
in fact they are sometimes used as fabric dyes.
long ago you should have done dry runs sans food with your grill so that by  now you can hit two target temps: 325 and 225°f.
that's because air is a lousy conductor  of heat.
i know you've see tv chefs  hone knives by crossing the steel and knife in front of them and zip zop,  they're done.
high enough to benefit from the maillard reaction on the skin and to melt some of the fat, hot enough to gelatinize connective tissues, but not flamethrower hot, not risking a badly overheated outside of the meat before the center is cooked.
don't add cold water or you can cool off the cooking chamber.
boldt will also get a copy of the hamburger: a history by josh ozersky.
i give thanks to you for such a wonderful and informative site.
if you do not  plan to submerge the bird in a brine, sprinkle the skin with salt.
if you use the carcass to  make stock the next day, which you absolutely should do, the bread in the  stuffing will make the stock unappetizingly cloudy.
pat the skin dry, take off your superbowl ring, and gently push the herbs and oil under the skin.
rest the part of the knife closest to your hand against the top of the steel and tilt it to a 45° angle.
overcook, and you have attic insulation.
they will cook faster and be more tender and  juicy.
that's why they make boats out of it.
these wines are very refreshing and delightful.
it is by far the most popular barbecue website in the world and pageviews increase rapidly every year.
that's a great temperature for gently melting tough collagen-based connective tissues without getting their protein panties in a bunch and squeezing out moisture (see my article onmeat science).
my dogs both hate, and love you by the way...they were begging by the time i was done...the smell was driving them nuts.
4) now pull out those pieces of stiff cartilage with your fingers.
then, please tell me everything i need to know to answer your question.
from his comments: "my first ever smoked turkey did not  disappoint.
it will remain potent for months.
i would rather have a bird that was flash frozen right  after slaughter than a so-called "fresh" bird that has been chilled  to 26°f and is really only partially frozen, or a truly fresh bird chilled  to 34°f that has been sitting around in the fridge for a couple of weeks.
they left england to seek religious freedom, and they gave thanks for their first harvest by sharing a feast with the wampanoag tribe.
all the pregame activities are over.
past winners are not eligible to win but are encouraged to submit pix.
with  your method i'm pretty confident i improved on my dad's.
be forewarned, the pan it will get smoky and need serious  scrubbing.
pour some in an ovenproof bowl,  add somecaramelized onions, float a toasted crouton on it, put some muenster  cheese on top, stick it under the broiler, and you've got a killer french onion  soup.
most turkey  disasters i hear about are because the bird has not defrosted properly.
onenew york  times expert whom i normally worship even use ace bandages to hold the  icebags in place so the poor turkey looks like was up all night drinking wild  turkey.
chunks smolder slowly, but if you do not have chunks, you can use chips or pellets.
i was a little skeptical that it could be better than fried turkey, but this was by far the best turkey i've ever had!
with a $30 donation you'll get a 100% cotton brushed twill adjustable low profile cap with the amazingribs patch sewn on.
when it is dull i hone it and when it no longer holds a razor edge, i  chuck it and get a new one.
when you subtract bones, giblets, and shrinkage, you will lose about 20%.
then pick the boiled meat off the carcass and add it to the other leftover meat.
your suggestions are always welcome.
by the time they  are done, thinner parts are overcooked, and the outer parts of the breasts are  dry.
i like thicker slices, especially if the  meat is tender.
while the meat is resting, carefully remove the gravy pan from  the cooker.
now grabbing a wing, bend it back to locate the shoulder joint and cut through the tendons holding together the ball and socket.
if you don't stuff you can put herbs and other aromatics in the cavity to amp up the flavor.
press the plunger slowly and ease the needle out.
pretty bird contest 2011 thanksgiving 2011 was most profound for me.
but turkey breasts are much thicker than most steaks and we need to allow enough time for the heat to travel to the center.
i have used a disposable aluminum pan and noticed no off flavors, but i now have a stainless steel roasting pan that i use just for outdoor cooking because i got tired of sleeeping on the couch.
how do so many birds get so yucky?
that's what happens to melted collagens, they turn to gelatin,  and collagens bring flavor and texture to the table.
if you are going over the river and through the woods with your bird, or if  your bird finishes early, read about how to keep it hot with afaux cambro.
but if there are hardened traditionalists in the house, in the sidebar i  have included instructions on how to satisfy them.
on the fron the knife will slide along the wishbone.
the problem is that you need to truss the bird up tight on a spit or else the wings and drums go flopping around and get burned.
at that temp a turkey breast is more particle board than party.
it does render quite well at that temperature i've found, without it getting scorched on sides near the firebox.
steer away from california pinot gris.
because most people don't own a quality digital thermometer, and, as a result, they overcook their turkeys, most manufacturers inject a liquid brine, about 2% salt, into their turkeys.
pick a platter with a lip that contain the copious juices.
lay each breast skin side up on a cutting board and slice it across the grain in slices at least 1/4".
the device you want is a wire armature that supports the bird like thespanek vertical roaster (at right).
alsace pinot gris and oregon pinot gris.
turkey, fresh pork, ground beef, or veal can remain pink even after cooking to temperatures of 160°f and higher.
if you have a small grill,  the water pan can actually sit between the flame and the meat, casting a heat  shadow above it so the meat doesn't overheat.
the browning cooks the flour and kills the pasty flavor.
but remember, when you cook the bird outdoors, you not only get great flavor, you free up the indoor oven for sweet potatoes, stuffing, green beans, and pie.
some folks prefer an electric knife, but i prefer a good carving knife.
3) please don't ask me "what grill (or smoker) should i buy?"
if time permits, place the bird on a rack in the refrigerator for 3 hours or more so the skin will dry.
for more on how time and temp work together in the process of pasteurizing meat, read my article onfood, knife, and grill safety.
by holding the thighs and drums tight to the body, it prevents them from cooking properly and keeps the skin in the bird's crotch from darkening and crisping.
to see all the different sizes available,click here.
they were big fans of the grilled apple salad too!"
if you want to use your own favorite rub, use something without salt if the  bird has been salted at the factory or you have salted it with a brine or  injection.
the problem with wet brining is that it can take a long time to get the salt water deep into the meat.
on a charcoal grill or smoker, you may not need to add wood at all.
i have occasionally added mushrooms (fresh or dried) to the gravy, too.
i recommend you use my simon & garfunkel poultry rub blend.
keep the brine under 40°f, adding more ice when necessary.
as the exterior passes the heat along, it loses heat so the bucket brigade  prevents the surface from zooming up to 325°f.
there are faster ways to defrost a bird discussed in my article on thawing.
that means the feast we are sharing with friends and family has been shared like this for almost 400 years, far longer a national celebration than independence day.
for in truth, the turky is in comparison a much more respectable bird, and withal a true original native of america...
the notion comes froma letter he wrote to his daughter, sarah franklin bache (1768-1807), on january 26, 1784.
amish farmers don't use electricity so the birds  aren't processed on fast moving disassembly lines and they aren't up late  surfing the net and doing things that get them overexcited.
amish farmers don't use electricity so the birds aren't processed on fast moving disassembly lines and they aren't up late surfing the net and doing things that get them overexcited.
undercook, and turkey is slimy and after dinner everyone is praying to the porcelain god.
pour the gravy through a strainer into a large pot or saucepan.
those are sage leaves under the skin.
on the left is a disposable aluminum loaf pan with apple wood chips sitting on the hottest burner.
you should not need to add salt and pepper.
then add the sugar, garlic, and black pepper.
steakhouse knives these are the same knives used at the best steakhouses (peter luger, smith & wollensky, morton's and others).
the best choices are stainless steel, ceramic, or corningware.
i love the color of the bird and the platter and the place settings, devoid of people whom i can guess he had to shoo away for the shot.
long ago you should have done dry runs sans food with your grill so that by now you can hit two target temps: 325 and 225°f.
his presentation is not overly formal or prissy, but achievable.
click here for more on meat science and the thermodynamics of cooking.
some chefs tell you to put a wagnerian breast plate made of foil on the  white meat in order to reflect heat so the thighs can get ahead of them.
so nice to put the bird on at 9:30am this year as opposed to 5:30am for so many years!!
bullet smoker setup.
now grabbing a wing, bend it back to locate the shoulder joint and cut  through the tendons holding together the ball and socket.
the meat freezes  well if wrapped tightly in plastic wrap or a zipper bag.
look at the picture above.
the old saw that turkeys are so stupid that they will look up in a rainstorm and drown is a myth.
for the brine 1 cup [56 ml] hot water in a 2 cup measuring cup 1 pound [454 gm] salt (any salt will do) 1 cup [56 ml] white sugar 8 tablespoons of garlic powder (not garlic salt) 6 tablespoons ground black pepper 2 gallons [7.6 l] cold water about the salt.
and most cookbooks tell you to tie them up if  they didn't come that way.
1 turkey, any size 1 medium onion, cut in quarters, skin on 3 cloves of garlic, coarsely chopped 2 large sprigs of fresh sage or thyme, about 3 to 4" long peel of one orange or lemon 4 ounces [113 gm] or so of hardwood or fruitwood chips if you wish, you can do this a day in advance.
let's hear it for focus!
a thin layer of foil is not going to reflect much heat nor is it going to be much of an insulator.
my definition of an amateur is anyone who has not been paid for a photograph in the past year.
another option is to paint them with a teriyaki or yakitori sauce.
then sprinkle salt on the skin to help it crisp.
you never want to put the bird in liquid on on the bottom of a roasting pan.
using them in making stocks is an old chef trick.
today's grocery store turkeys are the result of decades of selective breeding.
to supply this oxygen they have more myoglobin and fat in them.
if the cooler is large, you may need to scale up the brine recipe to make sure the bird is submerged.
you have made me my family's 'grill master'!!
i'll even toss in a small bag of bbq'rs delight wood smoke pellets.
get sturdy stainless blades so you can cut through the ribs.
selecting winners was not easy and took  me a whole day.
a water pan also puts humidity in the atmosphere to reduce  evaporative cooling and helps keep the meat moist.
now check temps all over,  especially the back which can be a bit soggy or even undercooked if it is very  close to the water.
the amount of time at which the meat is properly cooked in the center  is short, and in short order it is overdone.
you can become a turkey zen master on any old backyard grill, or even in your indoor oven with these techniques.
on the big day i made the decision to stay by my computer until the last  possible minute fielding questions like the butterball hotline.
both are attached to cables that run from the probes to the outside of the grill so i can monitor the temperature of both the meat and the oven at any time without opening the lid.
this cheapo blade has a thin flexible dangerously sharp  blade, a wicked sharp tip, and it's only about $16.
put the drip pan on the  bottom of the cooking chamber under the cooking grate.
the ideal setup is to place the bird on a  rack 2 to 3" above the pan so heat and smoke can travel between them.
this is no ordinary turkey preparation, pilgrims.
put the neck in the pan.
click here fortips on food photography.
then pick the boiled meat off the  carcass and add it to the other leftover meat.
flip the carcass over so the backbone is facing up.
but he nailed this one and first prize in the process!
"my  wife wanted me to smoke a turkey for christmas day, so i decided to do two 10  pound turkeys rather than one 20 pound turkey.
i have a nice messermeister meridian elite 5 knife set but, don't tell my  professional chef friends, the knife i reach for most is my cheap rapala  soft-grip 7.5".
click here for more details ofour privacy promise.
melt 1 stick of butter (4 ounces) over a low heat.
digital thermometers are inexpensive, fast, and accurate.
the good news is that you don't need a smoker, although having one helps.
but ice crystals will still have formed.
the table arrived just three days before christmas.
1) once the guests are gone (or the next day if you're beat), wash your  hands well, and begin pulling all the remaining meat off the carcass.
then the meat won't overcook while waiting for the stuffing to heat up.
the plunger that pops up is anchored in metal that melts at 185°f.
you don't want a beer can type arrangement or anything with solid sides because the metal blocks airflow to the cavity and impedes smoke and heat.
to make matters worse, some grocers allow turkeys to thaw a bit so theyfeel fresh.
see my article onthe best setup for a weber smokey mountain.
on second thought, play it safe and use a spatula.
that's the deep center and the last  part to thaw, so removing them will help insure that the interior is melted.
also recommended, my articles on the zen of brines and the  zen of injecting.
another option is to fill a quart juice or soda bottle with water and freeze it.
the bird was excellent,  only thing we goofed on was not having a big enough platter!
if you do add wood, you can toss it right on the coals.
starches are large molecules and they can't penetrate the tiny pores  in the meat.
let's hear  it for focus!
it doesn't matter if you have table salt, kosher salt, or sea salt.
had a bit of a scare when the bird was done a full 90 minutes early, but dialed back the grill, and in spite of coming off at 175 deg, the meat was still very tender and juicy!
the first time you try this recipe i beg  you to go easy on the smoke wood.
if you have a good cooler, it should stay safe for up to 3 hours.
as instructed, i let the bird get up to 160 at the thickest part of the breast (multi-probe digital thermometer...one probe for the grill temp, one for the meat) and then pulled it out, set it in my cooler and let it work its way up to 165 and stay there for awhile stewing in its juices while i prepared the "gravy," which was freaking amazing.
the prizes will be awarded solely on the merits of the photo and the  judge is a man with a masters in fine arts and who has in the past made his  living as a professional photographer.
you may decide after tasting it that you want more on your next cook, but don't ruin the first one with too much smoke.
the herb rub added a lot to the flavor as well (just sage and thyme).
the authors are human and capable of mistakes, omissions, or errors, so we make no guarantees as to the accuracy, completeness, or safety of the information.
and doing so has the added bonus of letting the  crotch area brown.
the bags should be tight so that when the ice melts it doesn't dilute the brine.
the method we use to mix the brine doesn't care what type of salt you use becuse we are going by weight not volume.
sometimes you can buy truly fresh turkeys with no ice crystals and no purge from a farmer or specialty butcher who has chilled them to between 32°f and 38°.
now catch this: if a bird has had salt and water injected, the law still  allows it to be labeled "natural" because salt and water are natural  ingredients!
if you can't get your bird above the pan, you should start it breast side  down and turn it over after an hour.
move the bird around and get the air bubble out of the cavity.
here's a schedule you can follow for a 6 p.m. dinner.
put it into a deep  pot, cover with water, and toss in 2 chopped carrots, 2 chopped onions (skins  and all), a few celery leaves, a bay leaf, and some herbs.
it doesn't have much more of this essential amino acid than other meats.
you can serve the drumstick whole for the cavemen like me, or you can  stand it on the meaty end and slice downward, removing the meat.
i will discuss each concept in detail, below.
they will cook faster and be more tender and juicy.
i've never cooked a turkey on a grill, so i supposed i violated one of your [tenets] above by doing it for the first time for the big day, but apart from a few other minor deviations i stuck to the plan and it came out moist and tasty.
now put the drip pan and all  the gravy fixins onto the cooker at least 2 to 3" below the bird if  possible.
when it is dull i hone it and when it no longer holds a razor edge, i chuck it and get a new one.
turkey poses several problems that we can solve by thinking scientifically.
benchmarks °f °c dark meat has about 9% fat, 33% more than white meat, so it tastes and feels best at about 175°f.
2) cut off the wing tips and toss them in the drip pan, too.
do this 1) after the bird has thawed, open the bag it came in and pour the juices into the pan in which it was sitting.
at that point it is pretty hard  (remember, freezing temp of water is 32°f), but not rock solid because of  the proteins and other compounds in the liquids, not to mention the injected  salt, prevent it from freezing completely.
the trick is to get  the center to the target temp without overcooking the exterior.
they will pay for themselves in one steak dinner or one trip to the doctor.
most turkeys are grown by "independent" farmers who work under contract to big brand marketers like butterball and perdue.
the broad breasted white used by butterball, perdue, smithfield,  jennie-o, and most other major brands has been bred smaller to fit modern  family sizes, with larger breasts to satisfy the demand for white meat, with a  metabolism that lets them grow to market size rapidly, and with all white  feathers because dark feathers make black spots on the skin.
this is called a mediumroux.
here's how: in the middle of the two lobes is the breast bone, sometimes called the keel bone.
because processors are allowed to inject up to 8% of the weight of the  bird, this also adds to their profit.
even though the oven was 325°f, the liquid never reached boiling temp  in the time it took to cook a turkey.
they lowered it to 145°ffor 3 minutes.
but most of us don't have expensive calibrated sous-vide water bath cookers, and even then, if you aren't careful, there is risk.
then roll your wrist so it is halfway  between 45° and the steel, about 22.5°.
that's just a fact of life nowadays.
oxidized white wine is fine; in fact i think it adds depth.
click here for more info and how to order it.
tucker submitted two  shots, this facy fella ready to go out on the town dressed in spats, and  another sitting on the beat up old weber genesis that has clearly served him  well.
pour the slurry into a very clean container large enough to hold the meat and 2 gallons of water.
the old fashioned method has you cuttingwith the grain, and slices cut with the grain is always chewier than slices cutacross the grain.
but there is a trick to slicing it properly (i'll bet you're  not surprised to hear that).
they put cut up turkey parts in plastic bags, vacuum seal them, and place  them in water baths at 150 to 160°f for 2 to 3 hours and the results are  incredibly tender, tasty, and safe.
he is besides, though a little vain & silly, a bird of courage, and would not hesitate to attack a grenadier of the british guards who should presume to invade his farm yard with a red coat on.
the skin will still be brown because the maillard reaction can still take place at lower temps, but at a much slower pace.
by the time the heat penetrates that far, the breast will be overcooked and  void of moisture.
please resist the temptation to thicken this gravy with flour or  cornstarch.
go ahead and parade the whole bird around  the room and take a few bows, but do the carving in the kitchen, not on the  dining table.
this  gravy/drip pan should have at least 3.5 quart capacity and must be large enough  to fit under the entire bird.
as instructed, i let the bird get up to 160 at the thickest  part of the breast (multi-probe digital thermometer...one probe for the grill  temp, one for the meat) and then pulled it out, set it in my cooler and let it  work its way up to 165 and stay there for awhile stewing in its juices while i  prepared the "gravy," which was freaking amazing.
if you do add  wood, you can toss it right on the coals.
i know this whole approach may sound a little goofy, but trust me: this nectar is a show stopper.
it makes a killer soup base or stock for cooking rice, risotto, couscous, or whenever a recipe calls for stock.
run your fingers along the sides of the backbone and near the joints where the wings were attached, right under the shoulder blades, you'll find tender, juicy blobs of meat, each about the size and shape of the meat from a large oyster, hence the nickname, turkey oysters.
followed your recipe for the most part and it was the juiciest turkey any of us had ever had.
dr. greg blonder, is a physicist, entrepreneur, former chief technical  advisor at the legendary bell labs, food lover, and the amazingribs.com science  advisor and mythbuster.
usda inspectors allow up to 2°f tolerance when testing birds in  commerce, so a "fresh" turkey can be held as low as 24°f.
stop blaming the tryptophan.
and most cookbooks tell you to tie them up if they didn't come that way.
you can  substitute a small handful of celery leaves for the celery stalk.
german riesling kabinett.
the problem is that, when an animal dies the muscles can't get the blood laden oxygen they expect so they get stiff.
that's the deep center and the last part to thaw, so removing them will help insure that the interior is melted.
another technique is to cook low and slow.
thanksgiving 2011 was most profound for me.
and then close the lid before all the heat escapes.
the breast is maybe 3" thick at most.
2) slowly pour 1 cup [56 ml] of the smoked gravy into the roux, whisking it over medium heat as you pour, and keep whisking until it thickens and all lumps are gone.
these "slow-twitch" muscles fire slowly and fatigue slowly, so they need more oxygen for fuel.
you will need a  cutting board with gutters to catch the ample juices, and a serving platter or  2.
thursday remove bird, rest, heat gravy 5 p.m. thursday carve,  splash with gravy, and serve 5:30 p.m. thursday take a bow 6:00 p.m.  thursday
turkey is unforgiving and your guests are unforgetting.
a mature male is a tom, a female is a hen, an immature male is a jake, an immature female is a jenny.
i would rather have a bird that was flash frozen right after slaughter than a so-called "fresh" bird that has been chilled to 26°f and is really only partially frozen, or a truly fresh bird chilled to 34°f that has been sitting around in the fridge for a couple of weeks.
simmer just below the boiling point for at least 2 to 6 hours.
then we'll put some rub on top of the skin to flavor everybody's favorite part and because oil helps crisp the skin.
national barbecue association represented by: the lisa ekus group promoting a world of culinary talent founding member: operation bbq relief amazingribs.com is all about the zen of barbecue, grilling, and outdoor cooking, with great bbq recipes and techniques: barbecue baby back ribs, spareribs, pulled pork, beef brisket, steak, burgers, chicken, smoked turkey, lamb, barbecue sauces, burgers, steaks, rubs, and side dishes, with the world's best buying guide to barbecue smokers and grills.
as much as it pains me to tell you this, you can cook a frozen turkey, but expect the exterior to be overcooked by the time the center is cooked to a safe temp, so make sure you have gravy.
i've included complete instructions for wet brining and injecting in  the sidebar at right.
click here for more info on these wonderful knives.
they are  also much more expensive.
grill thermometers are not only inaccurate, but they are mounted in the lid, waaaay above the cooking surface.
i like  to concentrate it and freeze it in ice cube trays.
but think about this: we are a nation of immigrants.
this is the concept behind the expensive new infrared grills.
tell us what you cooked on, especially if you did something fun and creative.
the first thing to do is look at the bird and remember who is winning this  contest and remind yourself that you are smarter than a dead turkey.
i've been smoking my birds  for nearly 20 years, and brining for the last few.
the first time you try this recipe i beg you to go easy on the smoke wood.
but turkey doesn't have the same composition as pork ribs or beef brisket, so we don't need to worry about melting tough collagens.
and if grandma insists on the thick glop, there is more than enough of my gravy to mix with flour to make her happy.
in fact, you can even follow these concepts and techniques and make it indoors, too.
on the big day i made the decision to stay by my computer until the last possible minute fielding questions like the butterball hotline.
you may be able to find truly fresh turkeys raised on  amish-owned family farms.
as a rule of thumb, 1 to 1.5 pounds raw weight per person usually will be more than enough.
whisk the flour until the mixture is smooth, and keep whisking until it starts to turn pale amber, about 3 minutes.
you absolutely, positively do not want the bird sitting directly above the flame or coals unless you have always secretly wanted to run avian crematorium.
there is plenty of meat left and plenty of  flavor inside those bones.
a must for gas grills.
it came at the end of my second year of working full time on this website, and i had a lot to be thankful for.
worse, many celebrity cooks seem never to have gotten the word and it is common to hear them tell us to desiccate our birds by overcooking them to 180°f.
incidentally, this is similar to the way i  try to present my turkey, but it rarely comes out looking so nice.
you can always add it later, but you can't take it out.
setting up your grill or smoker you absolutely, positively do not want the bird sitting directly above the  flame or coals unless you have always secretly wanted to run avian crematorium.
if none of these works for you, try to raise the bird up by placing it on  an oven rack sitting on top of severalempty tall beer cans (don't  write to me if you don't know how to empty them).
pick a  platter with a lip that contain the copious juices.
if you use the carcass to make stock the next day, which you absolutely should do, the bread in the stuffing will make the stock unappetizingly cloudy.
please click here for a in depthbuying guide to thermometers.
this gravy is not the thick and pasty stuff made with flour that sits on top of the meat and forms pudding skin.
if you have a weber kettle, you need the amazing smokenator and hovergrill.
if you don't want to do a whole bird, you can get turkey breasts.
the sensitive areas of a dial thermometer are too big to be accurate.
it's not accurate and it's a good way to add your bodily fluids to the gravy.
and1.5 tablespoons thyme leaves (fresh or dried).
it makes a  killer soup base or stock for cooking rice, risotto, couscous, or whenever a  recipe calls for stock.
so i didn't have to crop out the faucet...
now catch this: if a bird has had salt and water injected, the law still allows it to be labeled "natural" because salt and water are natural ingredients!
because of the speed with which commercial turkey farms grow their birds, it is not uncommon for there to be red or pink juices in the thigh joints even if the meat is properly cooked to 165°f.
they account for  99% of all turkeys on the market.
there is plenty of heat in the meat that it will not go  cold in 15 minutes or longer.
for this recipe, we replace the water in the pan with the fixins for our special gravy and it will collect dripping further enriching the gravy.
heat continues to be passed towards the center, even though it is sitting at room temp, and some of the heat is escaping into the surrounding air.
preparing the wet rub and the bird
if you haven'tcalibrated your system, click the link and practice long before you try to cook anything.
to me thanksgiving is every bit as meaningful and profound as the fourth of july.
if you only have an aluminum pot, line it with a food safe plastic bag such as the ziploc xl.
in one gentle steady  stroke, with slight downward pressure, draw the knife toward yourself across  the skin, cutting down through it and into the meat.
see my article on the best setup for a gas grill.
treat all raw fowl with great care.
you can do this occasionally as needed.
click here tosee an excellent step by step slideshow of the process.
an empty cavity allows smoke and flavor to enter the meat from the inside as well as the outside.
this chemical reaction is responsible for the rich flavors in toasted bread, coffee beans, and dark beer.
i usually plan on 2 pounds per person so those who want leftovers can take some home (make sure you have plenty of aluminum foil or zipper bags on hand).
you can work from both the front and rear, and reach down to the thighs and wings.
also, moisture on the  surface evaporates cooling the surface in the same way sweat cools you off on a  hot day.
place the thumb and forefinger of your free hand on either  side of the knife pressing down on the skin gently.
french rhone whites, american viognier, american rousanne, and american marsanne.
if you have a small grill, the water pan can actually sit between the flame and the meat, casting a heat shadow above it so the meat doesn't overheat.
insert the needle about every 1.5" apart and leave behind about 1 ounce per pound.
because processors are allowed to inject up to 8% of the weight of the bird, this also adds to their profit.
the tricky part is arranging everything.
there are several things  wrong with this approach.
there can be a great difference between the grate temp and the lid temp.
this page was revised 12/18/2011 1)
steve navarre took great stills and made a  fun 2 minute movie that shows the whole process of smoking a bird with a mix of  video and stills.
good carving knives should be  professionally sharpened every year or so depending on how often you use them.
but the best tool by far is an insulated plastic cooler.
it takes time because the meat is a combination of water, fat, and protein, and they are good insulators.
that dial thermometer is off by 50°f.
this is a good way to get rid of them.
excited molecules get their neighbors excited by bouncing off them like billiard balls.
i felt like a proud grandfather as his children  sent in pictures of the grandkids.
he  did experiments with a shallow pan and got similar results.
put it in the fridge.
if  you click here and look at the picture of thefinished bird up close you can see  the sage leaves under the skin.
turkey can handle higher temps, and higher temps are needed to render the fats in the skin in order to crisp it.
he does not get his living honestly.
pat the skin dry,  take off your superbowl ring, and gently push the herbs and oil under the skin.
remember, this is a country where congress once decided to classify pizza as a vegetable!
in a wide bowl it is hard to get the holes below the water line and you then need to unscrew the top, pour it into the syringe, spill it everywhere, screw on the top, inject, and repeat.
turkeys are notoriously unpredictable in the wild and only slightly less so in  the oven.
i get to keep the head and feet  too.
click here to read more.
advertising on amazingribs.com is a great way to build your brand or make direct sales.
this just risks incinerating the skin and flies in the face of  physics as shown in the illustration here.
drippings from the meat will have salt, so wait until you taste the final gravy and add salt at the end if you think it needs more.
put the drip pan on the bottom of the cooking chamber under the cooking grate.
there were about 100 entries (i stopped counting) and more on my facebook page.
i love the way  he presented the bird by reconstructing it although i am left wondering what he  did with the thigh meat (i think there's a piece of it peaking out between the  breasts so maybe it is underneath).
buy a truly fresh turkey only if you are certain it has been killed within a week of the date you will consume it.
it does render quite  well at that temperature i've found, without it getting scorched on sides near  the firebox.
remember, don't wet brine a bird that has been pre-salted at the factory.
at my house i usually take the meat up to 160°f and let it rise 5°f by carryover.
2) when it is hot, clean the grate you will cook the bird on before you put the drip pan in.
ok, at your house you might skip the cranberries or prefer pumpkin pie, but the thought that so many of us are sharing this feast, this similar menu, this celebration, this unique national cultural touchstone, is enough to make me weep, all the more because food, my great love, is at the center of the action, even more so when i realize that thousands of you are eating my recipes.
i know from first hand experience, and my wife won't let me forget it.
now check temps all over, especially the back which can be a bit soggy or even undercooked if it is very close to the water.
wet rubs are  especially effective because many of the flavors in herbs and spices do not  dissolve in water, but they do dissolve in oil.
called "purge", it is mostly myoglobin, a protein fluid that  helps keep meat moist.
he also submitted another picture of the dark mahogany bird  roosting on hisweber kettle.
i have removed the cooking grates.
i usually plan on 2 pounds per person so those who want  leftovers can take some home (make sure you have plenty of aluminum foil or  zipper bags on hand).
typically you'll find the neck and a bag of "giblets" in there.
finally, salt has antimicrobial properties.
see my article onmeat science for more on the subject.
for a much  shorter period of time.
cut down along one side of the breast bone with long strokes until the knife hits the rib cage.
bottom line: proper cooking is far more important than having a fresh bird.
first prize by david lauro.
if you don't have a thermometer on a wire already in the breast, spot check the temperature with a good digital instant read thermometer by inserting the probe into the deepest part of the breast.
remember that we loosened the skin so it is no longer attached to the meat?
this page was revised 12/18/2011 be my
it is hard to get even  slices especially as your knife approaches the rib cage, which is curved.
grab 4 pieces of aluminum foil, each about 8" square, and coat one  side with vegetable oil so it won't stick.
try david rosengarten'sclassic bread & butter stuffing with cranberries.
olive oil or cooking oil do the job of delivering herbs to the muscle tissues just fine.
here are the rules: (1) you absolutely positively must use a meat thermometer for this maneuver; (2) you cannot stuff the bird; (3) you may have to cook for an hour before you can remove the giblet package and neck, but you really should get them out as quickly as possible, especially if they are in plastic, which can melt; (3) cooking time will be 1.5 to 2.0 times as long.
but you still must get everything up to 160 to 165°f before you take it off the heat because juices from the bird will get into the stuffing.
if  the bird is any lower, the mass of the cooler gravy, evaporation from its  surface, and the sides of the pan will conspire to block heat, airflow, and  smoke and you will end up with a pale, soggy, undercooked bottom.
and so is your method for making your thin gravy.
stir until most of the sugar is dissolved.
if the bird sells for $1.25 per pound on sale, that's $2 for that salt water, more when it is full price!
so if you remove the bird when the breasts are 160°f, the thighs will also be about 160°f.
past winners are not eligible to win but are encouraged  to submit pix.
just make sure it is sharp or the skin will give you fits.
how big a bird do you need?
heat continues to be passed towards the  center, even though it is sitting at room temp, and some of the heat is  escaping into the surrounding air.
how many big eaters will there be?
the smoke flavor is already in the bird so now your focus must be on making sure it is not overcooked.
spread it out and work it as far down to the thighs and legs as possible.
by injecting, you don't have to worry about oversalting, you can do it at the last minute, you have less waste, less cost, no huge containers are needed, no refrigeration space problems, and the biggest safety issue is making sure you don't stab yourself.
fun stuff to know about america's favorite iconic sandwich by one of my favorite food writers.
besides, the smoke is going to darken  things, too.
and please don't ask me how long a stuffed bird will take.
i usually get a white wine from the closeout bin of the local liquor store.
be forewarned, the pan it will get smoky and need serious scrubbing.
breast meat is made of "fast-twitch" pectoral muscles that are good at short bursts of rapid contraction, but they fatigue quickly.
what usda doesn't tell you is that microbes start croaking at about 130°f.
according to the mayo clinic "researchers have found no definitive evidence of a link between msg and these symptoms."
if you want the fat to baste the breasts, well breasts have little fat.
buy a truly fresh turkey only if  you are certain it has been killed within a week of the date you will consume  it.
our philosophy about food is simple.
a honing steel can straighten it out.
selecting winners was not easy and took me a whole day.
this just makes the skin soggy.
do this 1) mix all the ingredients in a bottle and shake vigorously before injecting.
you need the pan because the bags always seems to leak.
your brine recipe is definitely a  keeper!
grab 4 pieces of aluminum foil, each about 8" square, and coat one side with vegetable oil so it won't stick.
the next time you are making rice, risotto, couscous, paella, or soup,  use the frozen cubes for a wonderful flavor.
cut through the ball joint removing the thigh.
the  better plan is to remove each side of the breast from the carcass and then cut  it into beautiful slices across the grain so it is more tender.
there's a lot of flavor in them.
don't even think about using wood indoors.
if you are in a hurry the bird cooks more quickly when cut up.
and if they could, the pressure of hot liquids would push them up, away from the heat, like the liquid in a glass thermometer.
9) now for the breasts.
at that point it is pretty hard (remember, freezing temp of water is 32°f), but not rock solid because of the proteins and other compounds in the liquids, not to mention the injected salt, prevent it from freezing completely.
from his comments: "this was my first time fixing the turkey.
click here fortips  on food photography.
i don't test recipes with stuffed birds, so i have no idea how long they take.
if the idea is to moisten meat, starchy sauces just don't get the  job done.
on the other hand, in an efficient slaughterhouse operation, turkeys are  flash frozen in extreme cold.
most turkeys come with an armature holding the tops of the drums together.
third prize (tie) by jeff boldt (right).
for the internet's best buying guide to grills and smokers,click here.
you mix up a couple of gallons of salt and spices, and the bird only sucks in about a cup.
wood does not absorb much  water.
the best models come apart at the hinge so they can go in the dishwasher.
and i recommend some sharpening devices in my article aboutrequired kitchen  tools, or you can take your knives (and lawn mower blade) to a pro once a year.
the most important thing to do when cooking turkey is to hit the target temps on the money.
the foil is removed later and about 30 minutes before the bird is done, i removed the drip pan to firm up the back of the bird.
honorable mention by smokin in colorado (left).
so you'll need a grate for holding the bird.
sometimes, if the sage in the garden hasn't frozen by thanksgiving, i'll put olive oil or butter and several whole fresh sage leaves under the skin instead of a wet rub and use the wet rub on the outside of the skin only.
chefs who cook sous-vide (the ultimate low and slow cooking) know  this.
i can see you nodding in recognition from here.
this could be a magazine cover!
on the other hand, in an efficient slaughterhouse operation, turkeys are flash frozen in extreme cold.
following your advice, the turkeys were cooked to perfection!
see my article onthe  best setup for an offset smoker.
a 3 to 6 pound breast will be done in 1.5 to 2 hours at 325°f, and larger breasts will be done in 2 to 2.5 hours.
thanks to meatheads thorough reviews, i purchased a mak 1 star this summer, and for the first time, my smoke was worry free thanks to the oven-like precision temperature control.
in order to heat the bottom of the bird properly, if you are using a  3" pan with liquid as i recommend, you need to get the meat at least 2 to  3" above the pan.
pretty bird contest 2012
he also said "i wanted to add that these two birds were cooked in a oklahoma joe longhorn smoker at around 260-275 degrees.
and i recommend some sharpening devices in my article aboutrequired kitchen tools, or you can take your knives (and lawn mower blade) to a pro once a year.
i was a little skeptical that it could be better  than fried turkey, but this was by far the best turkey i've ever had!
even if they  bird was salted, save those the juices.
as with salt, oil amplifies  flavors.
the cavity will brown better, the bird will cook faster, and it is easy to get your hands under the skin where the backbone came out.
this one has a very thin tip with a tiny thermocouple so it gives an accurate reading in just six seconds.
machine washable, temper-ground, serrated, high-carbon stainless-steel, full-tang blades with excellent cutting edge retention, beefy hardwood handle, rust and stain resistant, and they stay shiny without polishing.
when you  are ready to serve the bird, you can transfer some of the gravy to a gravy boat  or serving bowl if you don't like the looks of the carafe.
finally, if you cook breast down, you smush the breasts and put marks on the skin.
he is also the interpreter of the rules.
hne the entire blade, right to the tip.
the heat also escapes into the air, so we don't want to leave the meat  sitting around too long.
at high temps, by the time the heat penetrates, the exterior and outer  layers are overcooked and dry.
in this illustration, on the left we have a piece of meat cooking at 325°f.
don't worry about the fat, you can skim it later.
overdo it and the bird will taste like an ashtray.
turkey loves smoke, but too much can ruin it in  a hurry, and there is is a fine line.
they buy bargain basement.
just don't use anything that has turned to vinegar.
sever the meat around the joint, and then cut between the ball and socket to  remove the leg.
one technique  is to baste the exterior, but that keeps the skin wet and soft, and we want it  dry and crisp.
it was always an adventure chasing the temperature on my gas smoker depending on the fickle midwestern weather this time of year.
in the center picture, the  meat has been removed from the oven.
if you want your stuffing wet and juicy, there will be lots of gravy from this recipe to pour over it.
the meat temp will rise about 5°f at first, and an hour later the temp will have dropped only about 5 to 10°f!
smokin in colorado submitted four nice sharp pix showing all sides of a perfect bird that practically glows.
you may need to take a knife and make shallow slits on either side of the breast bone in order to flatten it, but it doesn't have to be perfectly flat.
i've heard of them burning out.
a thin layer of foil is not going to reflect much  heat nor is it going to be much of an insulator.
hold the knife by the handle firmly in your other  hand.
the  liver willnot be used for the gravy.
if they are clean, they can  sit right in the drip pan. beware!
a lot of books say you should put a foil tent on the bird.
like the type of cooker you are using.
grill manufacturers compete to undercut each other's prices so they are not about to install a high end thermometer, especially when most of their grills are used for hot dogs and burgers.
i cannot pick the right cooker for you any more than i could pick the right car or spouse for you.
when ice crystals form, the water expands and the sharp edges punch holes in muscle fibers, allowing precious moisture to escape.
if we're not careful the skin will slip slide around and you won't get neat slices with skin with each slice of meat.
the charcoal will probably give you all the smoke flavor you need.
but when you start cooking the meat, the brine starts moving deep down.
if you are looking for info, please use the table of contents or the search box, at the top of every page.
the smoke flavor is already in the bird so now  your focus must be on making sure it is not overcooked.
let  it sit for about 10 minutes and with a large spoon or basting bulb, remove most  of the fat.
by the time they are done, thinner parts are overcooked, and the outer parts of the breasts are dry.
but actual cooking time will vary depending on how well it is defrosted, whether or not you brined or injected, what temp your fridge is, if it sat at room temp for a while, how close your bird is to the gravy pan, how well your cooker holds a steady 325°f, the quality of your thermometers, airflow within the cooker, humidity in the cooker, and the breast size of your bird.
similar to german riesling, but often a bit more complex from aging in wood barrels.
what to do when to do it to thaw a frozen turkey, place the bird, still in its plastic shipping bag, in a large roasting pan in the refrigerator.
they'll work, but i think they're a bit too strong for delicate lean meats like turkey.
he cooked 2 birds and submitted photos of several stages of the cooking process from brining to the heavily laden dining table, most of them out of focus.
finally, salt has antimicrobial  properties.
browning is the result of a process called themaillard reaction and it  really kicks in at about 310°f when amino acids and sugars form scores of  scrumptuous new compounds.
the truth is, now  that i've made this umpteen times, i no longer measure the ingredients.
if you have more people who want thigh meat, you need to  remove the bone so you can slice the meat.
2 to 4 ounces by weight should be  enough.
that's a  great temperature for gently melting tough collagen-based connective tissues  without getting their protein panties in a bunch and squeezing out moisture  (see my article onmeat science).
the bird roosts on the food grate above.
in one gentle steady stroke, with slight downward pressure, draw the knife toward yourself across the skin, cutting down through it and into the meat.
you need to be able to poke a breast and read itright now.
people will ask  about the secret ingredient.
it is not strong enough to  cut through bone, but there is nothing better for cutting things off bones.
a dry rub is a mix of spices and herbs rubbed into meat, but for turkey,  we're going to use a wet rub, a mix of herbs, spices, and oil.
but it still shows a nice presentation of white  meat and dark meat.
remember, this is a country where congress once decided to  classify pizza as a vegetable!
if your bird has had a salt solution injected at the factory, you can still amp it up and add richness, moisture, and flavor by injecting melted butter.
we will use it when we cook the bird.
2 to 4 ounces by weight should be enough.
because the evaporation of water from the surface cools the  liquid in the same way sweat cools us on a hot day, the temp of the gravy may  never get above 175°f.
the reason you fall asleep after dinner is not because of tryptophan in the turkey.
let them get dark, but not black.
store the bleach solution in the bottle, tightly sealed, and use it often.
if you need a lot of turkey, and space permits, it is better to cook two small birds than one giant bird.
then add the cold water.
new usda recommended serving temp 165 74 remove  from heat when breasts hit  160 71 let breasts rise to  165 74 ideal temp for dark meat 175  79 popup thermometers pop  at  185 85 bacteria start dying at  130 54 dark meat has about 9% fat, 33% more than white meat, so it tastes and  feels best at about 175°f.
2) don't ask me any questions that involve temp or time unless you tell me that you are using a digital thermometer!
cooking two smaller birds will actually take less time than one large bird  and it will not take any longer time than one smaller bird if you get the  cooker up to the proper temp.
click here for a complete guide tothe proper cooking temps for all meats, both usda and restaurant chef recommendations.
2) submerge the meat in the brine breast side (the large humped side) down and refrigerate.
you will probably want to add another cup of the thin gravy.
do not measure the  temp using the cheap thermometer in the lid unless you plan to eat the lid.
his notes on the preparation: "last year i cooked my bird on my 22" weber kettle, this year i did it on my newly purchase rotisserie, can i add, this is my first cook with the roto.
the liver willnot be used for the gravy.
they don't make junk grills.
the other has a clip so it can hover just above the cooking grate.
put the turkey on a shelf high up in  the cabinet and the gravy pan on the bottom shelf.
wet rubs are especially effective because many of the flavors in herbs and spices do not dissolve in water, but they do dissolve in oil.
now that isreally goofy.
it even has a wireless monitor that i can sit on the coffee table while i watch the game, and alarms in case i snooze.
a water pan also puts humidity in the atmosphere to reduce evaporative cooling and helps keep the meat moist.
if you don't want another gadget in the kitchen, you can lift a turkey with two wooden spoons.
3) bring to a gentle simmer over medium heat.
rest assured that when we recommend a product, it is really because we like it, not because someone has paid us to say so because we do not accept advertising from product categories we review.
as proof of its goodness, when you chill the leftovers it will solidify  into a jelly.
it includes the latest usda recommendations as well as chef recommendations (and they often differ) as well as color photos of the different stages of doneness for red meats.
this warming is the process of exciting the molecules so they move faster.
you can make it richer by cooking it longer and letting it get darker, but don't let it turn brown.
so let's do the math: an ounce of butterball turkey (which has neither butter nor balls) contains about 65 mg sodium.
it was especially thrilling as the first pictures started rolling in.
remember, you can always  add salt, but you can't take it away.
dean made a  smart move with two small birds.
"kosher" birds have been salted on  the outside and inside the cavity because it was thought in ancient times that  this would draw out the blood.
the world would be a  better place if the turkey lobby was as effective as the pork lobby.
but turkey breasts are much thicker than  most steaks
but juices simply can't travel through that much flesh.
you did lop off the wing tips and toss them in the gravy, didn't you?
the eminent food writer jeffrey steingarten attempted to debunk what he considers to be an urban legend in his famous essay"why doesn't everyone in china have a headache?" optional.
from his comments: "brined, smoked turkey.
another good source is a community supported agriculture (csa)  organization which you can find throughlocalharvest.org.
if you fear that the bird is progressing too slowly and you are having trouble keeping the temp up to 325°f, preheat your indoor oven to 325°f and move the bird and the gravy inside.
my dad  always smoked the turkey when i was growing up and i wanted to do it too.
that is a good thing.
we think that people need to know why as well as how, so we spend a lot of time explaining things, and we believe that there are no rules in the bedroom or dining room.
dr. greg blonder, is a physicist, entrepreneur, former chief technical advisor at the legendary bell labs, food lover, and the amazingribs.com science advisor and mythbuster.
just make sure the tail sits about 3" above the drip pan for proper airflow.
i followed your instructions step by step on my weber gas grill and the result was out of this world.
then whack off the wing tips at the first joint and toss them in the  pool.
it should be rich and flavorful.
if you cannot submerge it, make sure you turn it periodically and extend it's time in the bath.
in most cases "instant read" means 30 seconds to get at best a ballpark reading.
he took a 12" long tube of lean pork loin and soaked it in a 6% brine for 24 hours in the fridge.
we want brown skin because when cooking, brown means deep rich, complex taste.
3) spread the remaining rub on top of the skin.
if the bird is any lower, the mass of the cooler gravy, evaporation from its surface, and the sides of the pan will conspire to block heat, airflow, and smoke and you will end up with a pale, soggy, undercooked bottom.
1) add one cup of hot water to a two cup measuring cup.
this warming  is the process of exciting the molecules so they move faster.
" in addition, smoked meat turns pink due to a chemical reaction with the combustion gases and the smoke and the meat.
i much prefer the bone in breasts or boneless breasts.
after tasting this bird you will never again risk life or limb, nor stain the driveway with grease by deep frying a turkey.
juices are mostly trapped within cells and go nowhere.
the grill has a hot side with direct heat underneath it, and a cooler side where the heat flows in from the hot side.
for a much shorter period of time.
in chicago, i occasionally drive to  john's live poultry and egg market where i can pick a live bird, have it  weighed, slaughtered, and dressed on the spot.
what to do when  to do it begin thawing regardless of size friday morning unpack bird,  check thaw wednesday morning prep gravy, make the wet rub 8 p.m.
run your fingers along the sides of the  backbone and near the joints where the wings were attached, right under the  shoulder blades, you'll find tender, juicy blobs of meat, each about the size  and shape of the meat from a large oyster, hence the nickname, turkey  oysters.
the celebration continued informally until 1863 when president lincoln proclaimed a national thanksgiving day to be held each november.
that helps break down the cells in the herbs and releases their flavors, but this is not a necessity because the flavors will marry while on the bird.
a honing steel is no substitute for a real sharpening.
when it's dirty, it goes in the dishwasher and you can't do that with the fancy knives.
during the process, poop can get on their skin, on the gloves of the workers, on the conveyor belts, and in the water baths that are used to remove feathers and rinse the meat.
do not discard the carcass.
if you cook stuffing outside the bird, you can spread it in a baking pan  and get more crispy brown bits, the bits everybody wants.
just clean it thoroughly with hot soapy water.
what the usda doesn't tell you is that you can kill them all if you heat the bird to 160°f for 7 seconds, 155°f for 23 seconds, or 145°f for about 4 minutes.
that, or you must rest a  cooking grate on empty beer cans.
for the ultimate turkey, we take the bird off at 160°f and it will rise to 165°f even if it is off the cooker.
while is positano italy this summer we ordered a ceramic table which was to be  cut from solid volcanic rock in a single slab and then decorated with hand  painted ceramics.
meathead explained that since there isn't an abundance  of connective tissue in poultry, that you can cook at 325 deg.
check both front and rear openings.
i used a horizontal type smoker  for about four hours and then transferred the turkeys to an indoor oven to  finish them off.
do not cram them in so tightly that hot air and smoke can't circulate inside.
it is often said that benjamin franklin (1706-1790) prefered the turkey to the eagle as our national bird, but it is not clear that he was serious.
to use chips or pellets, make a little pouch of aluminum foil and poke holes in one side.
let the bird rest at least 15 minutes before you start carving.
i usually carve one and leave one whole.
crank your oven up to 325°f or as close as possible as measured at  the level of the cooking grate by a digital thermometer.
good news: it's easy with the right tools.
you don't have to be precise.
but turkey doesn't have the same composition  as pork ribs or beef brisket, so we don't need to worry about melting tough  collagens.
below is a picture from the foodnetwork's website.
freeze it in a zipper bag and  save it along with other chicken and duck livers until you have enough to make  a nice pâté, or toss it in a pan with some oil, cook it, and feed  it to the dog.
just be sure to watch it carefully so it doesn't burn and check the temp  in the breast before bringing it in.
they are closer to wild turkeys, with smaller breasts, darker and more flavorful meat that some people call gamey.
this just risks incinerating the skin and flies in the face of physics as shown in the illustration here.
besides, fat brings flavor.
"hey  craig, here's our submission for the photo contest.
just make  sure it is sharp or the skin will give you fits.
besides, it's not fair because the person who gets the first slice gets most of the skin!
recently i have been seeing more and more recipes for cooking turkey at high temps, like 500°f.
i use my bear paws (shown here).
they'll work, but i think they're a bit too strong for  delicate lean meats like turkey.
"the pope's nose", and trim excess skin and fat from around both  cavities, front and rear, and put them in the pan along with the neck and the  juices.
turkeys that say "basted" or "self-basted" or "enhanced" have been injected with a salt solution and possibly flavor enhancers and tenderizers.
other than clearly marked ads, links and recommendations on this site are all products, services, and websites we truly admire, and are never paid endorsements.
some  folks prefer an electric knife, but i prefer a good carving knife.
third prize (tie) by indyduq who did his pretty bird on a  mak pellet smoker.
you want to slice it across the grain so it is easier to chew, and you want as many pieces as possible to have a bit of tasty skin.
below is a butterflied (spatchcocked) bird on a 30 year old $89 weber kettle charcoal grill outfitted with asmokenator, a device that holds the coals off to one side.
if you have more people who want thigh meat, you need to remove the bone so you can slice the meat.
you did lop off the wing tips and toss them in the  gravy, didn't you?
we do not accept ads from product categories we review and we keep a strict wall between editorial and advertising, so, for current pricing and availability of prime space, contact my agency, federated media, by clicking the logo at right.
temp for more than 30 minutes.
here's why: the bigger the bird, the thicker the breasts and the longer it  takes to cook the center of the breasts to proper doneness.
the injection of a brine adds liquid helping to keep the meat moist.
repeat the process on the other side of the blade.
the pics i submitted below for the contest are actually a second, smaller turkey i smoked on friday because there was no turkey left to eat with the rest of the leftovers from thanksgiving day!!
another option is to just remove the drip  pan about 20 minutes before the bird is finished and put its back above direct  heat.
this just doesn't make sense.
so very nice to not be messing with the old gasser!!
wash off the outside of the bottle thoroughly and toss it in the brine.
your brine recipe is definitely a keeper!
cut off the thighs at the ball joint where it meats the body, leave the drums attached.
then roll your wrist so it is halfway between 45° and the steel, about 22.5°.
if you don't want to do the math, just put it in the fridge 7 days before the day you will eat it.
if the lid on your your grill is too low then butterfly (spatchcock) the bird.
yes, it can be, according to the us department of agriculture (usda), if it has been cooked to a temperature of 165°f in the center of the breast.
then remove the wings.
it will improve your cooking overnight and pay for itself in a hurry.
i pour the gravy into a coffee carafe to keep it warm especially when i  have to go to someone else's house for dinner.
i do not recommend putting the meat and the drip pan in the center.
onion skins contain a pigment that darkens the gravy.
you'll never get it all, so don't obsess.
my dad always smoked the turkey when i was growing up and i wanted to do it too.
i know because hundreds of readers have written to tell me so (see the comments and pictures at the bottom of the page).
whatever you do, don't skip the gravy.
the temperatures are the same for both indoor and outdoor cooks.
put the turkey on a shelf high up in the cabinet and the gravy pan on the bottom shelf.
now  that isreally goofy.
you want  to slice it across the grain so it is easier to chew, and you want as many  pieces as possible to have a bit of tasty skin.
sometimes you can buy truly fresh turkeys with no ice crystals and  no purge from a farmer or specialty butcher who has chilled them to between  32°f and 38°.
my family, business associates, vendors, employees, customers, advertisers, and the immediate families of any of these people are not eligible.
oxidized white  wine is fine; in fact i think it adds depth.
put  the neck in the pan.
actual penetration can vary on different meats and turkey is slightly more porous than pork, but you get the picture: when you brine, the salt remains pretty close to the surface.
smoked turkey tastes spectacular, but there are tricks revealed in this recipe that make it the ultimate turkey, whether it is smoked outdoors or roasted in your kitchen.
there are several variables to consider when deciding how much meat to buy.
digital thermometers have small sensors and they are very close to the tip, so they are by far the best.
advertisement | homepage | table of contents | | weights, measures, conversions | techniques | recipes | buyer's guides | links | ruminations | ingredients | |misc bbq articles | one nation under sauce | meet meathead | newsletter | updates | donations | | privacy promise, code of ethics, other legal terms |advertising and sponsorship opportunities |
a perfectly carved bird (at  with the thigh meat glowing pink from smoke and garnished with green onions,  lemons, flat leaf parsley.
slowly the heat  marches towards the center.
he decided to see how salt penetration is impacted by time.
amazingribs.com is published by amazingribs, inc., a florida corporation.
so nice to put the bird on at 9:30am this year as  opposed to 5:30am for so many years!!
to do this, flip the thigh skin side  down, and run the knife around the bone and under it until you can lift it out.
all turkeys are descendants of the wild turkey meleagris gallopavo.
flex it back and forth until you have a good clear shot at the knee from behind.
just don't use anything that has  turned to vinegar.
try this: remove the backbone and toss it in the gravy.
pour some in an ovenproof bowl, add somecaramelized onions, float a toasted crouton on it, put some muenster cheese on top, stick it under the broiler, and you've got a killer french onion soup.
if a little red makes you nervous, even if your thermometer is at 165°f, after carving, a minute or two in the microwave will take care of it.
olive  oil or cooking oil do the job of delivering herbs to the muscle tissues just  fine.
i used a mixture of soaked guava and apple wood chips that i would  add to red-hot kiawe coals at 1 hour intervals." first prize.
i cannot recommend it more highly.
i use it to make the gravy forturkey pot pies with the leftovers.
this process forms smaller ice crystals and that helps prevent purge.
the pink liquid in the plastic bag the bird comes in is myoglobin.
you can ubstitute some of the water  with chicken stock, vegetable stock, or a bottle of a white wine.
make sure there are at  least 2 inches of liquid in the pan at all times.
it's in the skin, which would be below the breasts if they were upside down, so melting fat would just drip out, not bathe the meat.
the process is even more awkward because the carcass is wobbly.
every nationality on earth, every culture, every language is here.
i've never cooked a turkey on a grill, so i supposed i violated  one of your [tenets] above by doing it for the first time for the big day, but  apart from a few other minor deviations i stuck to the plan and it came out  moist and tasty.
it is an "essential nutrient" which means it is necessary for good health and you must ingest it because your body doesn't make it.
you can serve the drumstick whole for the cavemen like me, or you can stand it on the meaty end and slice downward, removing the meat.
some chefs tell you to put a wagnerian breast plate made of foil on the white meat in order to reflect heat so the thighs can get ahead of them.
if you must stuff the bird, then cook it at a lower temp, like 225°f so the exterior will not dry out as much.
i do not recommend putting the meat and the drip pan  in the center.
the best tool is a plastic insulated cooler.
the volume will vary significantly depending on whether you use table salt, kosher salt, pickling salt, or sea salt, but the weight remains the same.
that's because air is a lousy conductor of heat.
the  trick is to have a really sharp knife.
readers know that i love low and slow and many of my recipes recommend a 225°f setting.
try one before you serve it to the gang on turkey day.
thermoworks thermapen.
you will need to add chicken stock to the gravy because there will be few drippings and no neck and skin to throw in there.
put the drip pan on one side of the  charcoal grate and the charcoal on the other side and the meat on the food  grate above the drip pan.
all that will do is retard the  browning and crisping of the skin.
this gravy is not the thick and pasty stuff made with flour that sits on  top of the meat and forms pudding skin.
10) then tilt the knife and work along the rib cage with long strokes until the breast falls away in one football shaped hunk.
if you don't have one, don't blame me if your guests get tummy  aches (or worse), if you keep your guests waiting, or if you serve shoe leather.
" turkey, gravy, stuffing, sweet potatoes, cranberry sauce, pumpkin pie.
i use two thermometers when i cook indoors or outdoors: one, the maverick et-732, has two probes.
now remove the breasts by running your knife along the sides of the breast bone and follow the rones with your kinife along the rib cage until you have two big breasts.
meat temp fridge magnet the prize for best bbq tool at the 2012 the national barbecue association conference went to a simple inexpensive fridge magnet by meathead.
everything will be tender, juicy, and finished in about 2 hours because parts cook more quickly than a whole bird.
rosé and other pink wines.
5) now hold the thigh and cut through the skin that connects it to the  body.
you can use one from your grill, or even one from your indoor oven.
to get a truly fresh turkey, usually you have to order it and the butcher or farmer will give you a pickup date.
worse still, if you stuff your bird, it is not measuring the temp of the stuffing which is several inches further away from the heat than the tip of the popup.
and hasty bake is one of my favorite grill makers.
you can do it yourself
take a paper towel and grab the top of a  drumstick and bend it until the joint between it and the thigh is visible.
i look forward to dining with you every year.
it's called archimedes' principle.
it seems the electrical charges in salt alter the structure of the proteins in the meat, a process called denaturing, and the denatured proteins become more hydrophilic, meaning they glom onto water and hold it tight.
i'll show you how, reluctantly, below.
you can  pasteurize your turkey at 130°f in 2 hours or at 165°f in 2 seconds,  hence the usda recommended minimum of 165°f.
on a gas grill you'll need 4 to 8 ounces of wood.
the broad breasted white used by butterball, perdue, smithfield, jennie-o, and most other major brands has been bred smaller to fit modern family sizes, with larger breasts to satisfy the demand for white meat, with a metabolism that lets them grow to market size rapidly, and with all white feathers because dark feathers make black spots on the skin.
boldt submitted a  lovely composition that was not quite in focus, but he wins a prize for his creative video of the process posted on youtube.
dark meat is pink when cooked medium rare just like pork, but for safety reasons we cook it well past pink until it turns gray.
if you add salt and then reduce it, it will be too salty.
"the pope's nose", and trim excess skin and fat from around both cavities, front and rear, and put them in the pan along with the neck and the juices.
he cooked his on a ceramic cooker that looks like a big green egg judging by his other pix.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.
to get reprint rights,click here.
at high temps, by the time the heat penetrates, the exterior and outer layers are overcooked and dry.
your method produced a very moist and extremely flavorful bird.
this was my first time smoking a turkey.
let the bird rest at least  15 minutes before you start carving.
that's why i recommend cooking turkey untrussed.
i used a horizontal type smoker for about four hours and then transferred the turkeys to an indoor oven to finish them off.
in a pinch, tin snips from your tool kit in the garage will do the job.
you can even leave it there overnight.
honorable mention by kevin keller (left).
the old fashioned method was to cut slices off the  breasts while they were still attached to the carcass.
according to research, the ratio of tryptophan to food is about the same as a pork chop, chicken, salmon, beef, lamb chops.
for more about salt and how important it is to your health, read my article on thezen of salt.
the best arrangement for a grill is what is called a2-zone setup.
i don't test  recipes with stuffed birds, so i have no idea how long they take.
a perfectly carved bird (at with the thigh meat glowing pink from smoke and garnished with green onions, lemons, flat leaf parsley.
besides, fat brings  flavor.
don't forget to pull it out from under the skin flap!
2) insert the needle parallel to the grain and go all the way to the center.
the gravy just floats on top like a life preserver after the ship  has gone down.
on the right, the meat has come close to an even temp throughout and now it is cooling as more heat escapes.
taste it, but resist  the temptation to add salt.
if you need a lot of turkey, and space permits, it is better to cook two  small birds than one giant bird.
after an hour, open the cooker and remove the aluminum foil from the  wings and drums.
that means cookbooks published in 2006 or earlier are wrong.
the bag usually contains the heart (looks like a heart),  the gizzard (two marbles connected in the middle), and the liver (it is the  floppy, shiny thing).
that's because domesticated turkeys can't fly, so their legs and thighs get more exercise than the breasts and wings.
if you  must, leave something out.
click here for more info about these handy tools.
bleach is a powerful sanitizer.
7) place the bird on the cooking rack, breast side up, close the lid and  don't open it for an hour.
about links on this site.
that helps break down the cells in  the herbs and releases their flavors, but this is not a necessity because the  flavors will marry while on the bird.
the disadvantage is that you can't easily put aromatics in the cavity which you can do when the bird is horizontal.
it's time to get down to business.
as much as it pains me to tell you this, you can cook a frozen  turkey, but expect the exterior to be overcooked by the time the center is  cooked to a safe temp, so make sure you have gravy.
here is an overview from 30,000 feet.
i've cooked smoked  turkey before in the past, but decided to follow your recipe in entering the  contest, as well as seeing and tasting the end results.
you're  setting a high bar for your kids.
nowadays finding a bird that has not been salted is almost a mission impossible.
click here to read more about how to use afaux cambro.
savor them for a job well done.
the ideal setup is to place the bird on a rack 2 to 3" above the pan so heat and smoke can travel between them.
click here for more about grillgrates.
this 8.5" x 5.5" magnetic card can be  attached to your fridge or grill, or both!
your inquiries  really helped me fine tune my recipe to anticipate future questions and as a  result i have completely rewritten it.
the term "heritage" is not government-regulated and there is nothing to stop unscrupulous merchants from labeling any old turkey as "heritage".
push the tip past the center and pull it out slowly.
i've cropped this slightly so you can see more of  the bird.
don't leave it sitting at
if none of these works for you, try to raise the bird up by placing it on an oven rack sitting on top of severalempty tall beer cans (don't write to me if you don't know how to empty them).
it acts as a heat sink, absorbing energy and moderating  fluctuations.
there is plenty of heat in the meat that it will not go cold in 15 minutes or longer.
as you can see from the illustration, if the bird is below the lip of the  pan and about 2" above the gravy, the bottom of the bird is in 240°f  high humidity air, 85°f cooler than the top of the bird which is chugging  away nicely in dry heat.
what is needed is something quenching to wash down overcooked white meat, something with a hint of sweetness so it will not taste bitter beside the sweet side dishes, something tart enough to cut their sweetness, and something friendly that everybody will love.
i pour the gravy into a coffee carafe to keep it warm especially when i have to go to someone else's house for dinner.
you won't need the built-in  water pan.
carryover is simple physics.
you may decide after  tasting it that you want more on your next cook, but don't ruin the first one  with too much smoke.
turn off the heat, skim the scum, remove the big chunks, set them aside, and strain.
this is the digital age.
dad would be  proud david, and you know it is just going to get better over the years.
people will ask about the secret ingredient.
the meat freezes well if wrapped tightly in plastic wrap or a zipper bag.
i felt like a proud grandfather as his children sent in pictures of the grandkids.
you can pasteurize your turkey at 130°f in 2 hours or at 165°f in 2 seconds, hence the usda recommended minimum of 165°f.
the  skin will still be brown because the maillard reaction can still take place at  lower temps, but at a much slower pace.
the truth is, now that i've made this umpteen times, i no longer measure the ingredients.
by using a salt sensitive dye, blonder was able to show what happens.
pounds hours at 325° f 12  to 14  2 to 2.5 14 to 18  2.5 to 3 18 to 24  3 to 3.5 24 to 30  3.5 to 4 add 15 to 30 minutes resting time given all those disclaimers, this table is a rough guide for how  long it will take to get the temp in the deepest part of the breast to  160°f and the thigh to 170°f.
make sure there are at least 2 inches of liquid in the pan at all times.
you can serve the thigh whole, but then the choicest pieces of dark meat  go to only 2 guests.
grillgrates are the best new product i have tested in years and the best thing to happen to beef since salt and pepper.
if it is imbalanced it puts serious strain on the motor.
i made a respectable living cooking, eating, writing, and photographing my food.
if you are still using a dial thermometer, please read this article about thermometers, then buy a good digital, and then, if the problem persists (chances are it won't), hit me with your questions.
birds that have been pre-salted are labeled "basted", "self-basted", "enhanced", or "kosher".
click the link above for the recipe.
to be absolutely safe and still have moist and tender whole birds, and to make sure nobody sues me, you shouldserve turkey at 165°f in the deepest part of the meat and test it in multiple locations with a good digital thermometer.
to use chips or pellets, make a little pouch of aluminum foil and poke  holes in one side.
the hotter the food gets, the faster the pathogens die.
if the skins are musty, or the  underlayer is mushy or rotten, discard them.
some people believe that msg can cause headaches, but scientists have not been able to prove the connection.
amazingribs, inc. promises to never sell or distribute any info about you individually without your express permission, and we promise not to, ahem, pepper you with email or make you eat spam.
i usually get  a white wine from the closeout bin of the local liquor store.
you can add herbs and spices such as garlic and pepper, but they can overwhelm the meat's natural flavor.
from his comments: "my first ever smoked turkey did not disappoint.
dad would be proud david, and you know it is just going to get better over the years.
in addition, it is difficult to balance the bird on the spit.
do this 1) mix the herb blend with the oil and let it sit for a few hours if you have the time.
that's right, after 2 hours the salt had penetrated only 1/4", and after 24 hours the salt had traveled only 2/3" deep in the meat.
it is usually dull and boring.
from his comments: "here are pictures of the smoked turkeys i did for thanksgiving 2011.
copyright © by amazingribs, inc.
if you would like us to link to your website, click here to readour links policy first.
incidentally, this is similar to the way i try to present my turkey, but it rarely comes out looking so nice.
in fact, the breasts sit on the rib cage and beneath that is thepleura, a membrane.
all hms get the new amazingribs.com temperature guide magnet.
2) take the stripped carcass and break it into chunks.
turn off the heat, skim the  scum, remove the big chunks, set them aside, and strain.
if you find it too weak  (unlikely) bring it to a boil and cook it down a bit.
good therms will save you a lot of money and grief in the long run, and nothing will improve your cooking more, outdoor or in.
first of all, it is awkward.
the  charcoal will probably give you all the smoke flavor you need.
my definition of an amateur  is anyone who has not been paid for a photograph in the past year.
tell us what you cooked on, especially if you did something fun and  creative.
put the drip pan on the flame deflectors  below the food grate.
flip the carcass  over so the backbone is facing up.
i like thicker slices, especially if the meat is tender.
thoroughly wash your hands, tools, counter tops, cutting boards, sink, platters, and anything that contacts uncooked poultry.
i'll explain why later.
if you truss your bird, the skin beneath the wings, thighs, and drums never darkens and stays rubbery.
if your bird has been swimming in brine, pull it out.
if you cook stuffing outside the bird, you can spread it in a baking pan and get more crispy brown bits, the bits everybody wants.
if they are clean, they can sit right in the drip pan. beware!
we'll use them later.
watch their temps individually with an instant read thermometer.
even the top brands use cheapo thermometers.
some other chefs tell you to put ice bags on the breasts before cooking in order to chill them so that the thighs will have a head start.
bread & butter stuffing with cranberries drunken cranberries soused apple sauce warm french potato salad garlic mashed potatoes sweet potato steak fries crunchy french string beans italian vinaigrette salad dressing green salad with grilled apples pecan tassies swedish glögg there are a lot of reasons to love thanksgiving, chief among them the food, family, and fellowship.
injecting and brining
yes, i know the books tell you  to truss the drumsticks.
first of all, some turkey meat is naturally pink.
if  you rely on it you will be eating balsa wood.
you may be able to find truly fresh turkeys raised on amish-owned family farms.
some butchers develop relationships with local farmers and will take orders for fresh birds.
rest the part of the knife closest to your hand against the top of the  steel and tilt it to a 45° angle.
the next time you are making rice, risotto, couscous, paella, or soup, use the frozen cubes for a wonderful flavor.
wednesday inject (optional), apply wet rub 9 a.m. thursday preheat cooker and  gravy 1 p.m. thursday put the bird on and add wood 2 p.m. thursday add water to gravy pan, remove foil 3 p.m.
9) as the meat temp approaches 160°f in the center of the breast, tilt  the bird and drain the cavity into the gravy.
even if you lace the bird on a grate on the lip of the pan, the bottom will  still be much cooler than the top and will almost certainly be undercooked.
take a look at the calendar.
here's why: if you must have bread stuffing (and if you're having me over, you must have bread stuffing) then cook it on the side (some people insist on calling itdressing if it is not in the bird).
they are also much more expensive.
you may need to weight the meat down to submerge it.
thawing to thaw a frozen turkey, place the bird, still in its plastic shipping bag,  in a large roasting pan in the refrigerator.
you'll drool over the pix.
german riesling is light and fresh, and kabinett is a grade of wine that is slightly sweet, but not too sweet.
turkeys are notoriously unpredictable in the wild and only slightly less so in the oven.
the grill has  a hot side with direct heat underneath it, and a cooler side where the heat  flows in from the hot side.
below i will describe the process of carving a turkey (btw, carving is much easier if you butterfly the bird or break it down into parts before you even cook it).
injecting is a sure fire way to get the flavor and juiciness down deep.
it is practically impossible to prevent contamination, and it can happen on small farms, too.
pounds hours at 325° f given all those disclaimers, this table is a rough guide for how long it will take to get the temp in the deepest part of the breast to 160°f and the thigh to 170°f.
my dogs both hate,  and love you by the way...
you will not lose you pitmaster card.
fun stuff  to know about america's favorite iconic sandwich by one of my favorite food  writers.
while you're under the hood, if you are using charcoal add another 15 to 20 chunks every hour.
thisrigor mortis usually  sets in within an hour or so, and it doesn't go away until about 12 hours  later, so you don't want to eat a fresh killed bird.
it's a mix of parsley, sage, rosemary, and thyme (sing it), with oregano, basil, bay leaf, black pepper, and sugar.
they're plucked and  cleaned by hand and are largely free of pinfeathers.
and because the thigh is pressed tightly against the side, it takes too long to warm and cook through, so by the time it hits ideal temp, about 170°f, the breast is overcooked.
the volume may differ when it is dry, but the weight is the same, and the displacement of the water is the same.
he measured the temps at different levels above the liquid in a 3" tall pan of water.
this was my  first time smoking a turkey.
it is at its best texture and juiciness at about 155°f, but that's 10°f below the usda recommendation and i can't risk a lawsuit by telling you to serve turkey at that temp.
that's what i'm talkin' 'bout!
yes, i know the books tell you to truss the drumsticks.
remove "the part that goes over the fence last", a.k.a.
if you are on a low sodium diet,the cleveland clinic recommends you keep your daily intake down to 2,000 mg, so that serving of turkey is only 1/4 of the recommended daily amountfor someone whose doctor has told them to watch their salt intake.
sounds weird, but you'll see how it works.
cut the tips off the wings and throw them in the gravy.
how many young children will there be?
first time out of the gate, follow my recipe closely until you get the concept.
not if you want crispy skin.
and i don't care what you've read on the internet, vinegar will not do the job.
click here tosee enlargements.
do you want leftovers?
because there are so many  different grill designs i can't go through all the options, so grasp the  science and adapt it to your own rig.
in  fact they are sometimes used as fabric dyes.
it's not accurate and it's a good way to add your  bodily fluids to the gravy.
let it sit for about 10 minutes and with a large spoon or basting bulb, remove most of the fat.
since domesticated birds are largely confined and get little exercise, none of their muscles have nearly as much myoglobin for storing oxygen as red meat animals such as beef.
if you can't get your bird above the pan, you should start it breast side down and turn it over after an hour.
a disposable aluminum pan will not hold the rack and a bird without collapsing, so if you use a disposable pan, it must go under the grill grate and the bird must go on top of the grill grate.
americans share this event not only nationwide, but overseas, from war zones to expats on the job in johannesburg or johannisberg.
they were begging by the time i was done...the smell  was driving them nuts.
or better still, make  muffings (see sidebar).
what the usda doesn't tell you  is that you can kill them all if you heat the bird to 160°f for 7 seconds,  155°f for 23 seconds, or 145°f for about 4 minutes.
you have made me my family's 'grill  master'!!
if you have a bi-metal dial thermometer in the kitchen drawer, right now, go and throw it out.
with this superfast precision digital thermometer, you'll never overcook anything again.
ask your wine merchant for specific recommendations.
high temps are fine for thin cuts  like 3/4" steaks because we want the exterior dark with the interior at  130°f, much lower than turkey.
an empty cavity allows smoke and flavor to enter the meat from the  inside as well as the outside.
fresh or frozen? "fresh" poultry means, according to usda, that the bird has not  been taken below 26°f by the processor.
narragansett and bourbon red are two of several heritage turkeys that  are making a comeback, but they are still hard to find.
hone the knife with a honing steel.
injecting and wet brining are two excellent ways to amp up your bird.
offset barrel smoker setup.
the best choices are stainless steel, ceramic, or  corningware.
for this recipe, we replace the water in the pan with the fixins for our  special gravy and it will collect dripping further enriching the gravy.
we have always been transparent about when we are reviewing a product sample, even beforethe federal trade commission required it in 2009.
draw the knife slowly towards your body gently sliding it downward towards the table at the same time.
the two most important factors in determining cooking time are the  cooking temp and the thickness of the thickest piece of meat, the breast.
interestingly, the meat keeps cooking after you take it out of the heat.
if your meal is mostly savory, and your guests winos, go this route.
let's start with the dark meat.
here's a great idea: rather than waiting for thanksgiving, when you have a houseful of critics, why not have a turkey shoot a few weeks in advance to get your technique down?
alas, most are too sweet.
and remarkably, salt helps keep the moisture in.
his presentation is not overly formal or prissy, but  achievable.
you'll never get the smell out of the place and you'll be sleeping on the couch for weeks.
the fat rises in the thermos, so i can just pour some off before serving, or shake it up to mix it in.
the trick is to have a really sharp knife.
it is not hard once you understand the logic.
this is especially true of  green herbs.
as you can see from the top photo, the salt has not gotten very deep into the meat after 12 hours soaking in a wet brine, but after cooking it has infiltrated fairly deep, seasoning the meat pretty thoroughly.
ingredients for the gravy 3 quarts [2.8 l] water 1 cup [56 ml] apple juice 2 onions, skin on,  ends removed, cut into quarters 2 medium carrots, peeled and cut into 2  inch lengths 1 stalk of celery, leaves and all, cut into 2 inch lengths 1 tablespoon [15 ml] dried sage leaves, crumbled (do not use powdered herbs,  they will cloud the broth) 1 tablespoon [15 ml] dried thyme leaves 2  whole dried bay leaves about the liquids.
wet brining is the process of submerging the bird in a couple of gallons of a 5 to 10% saline solution, often with herbs and spices added.
get smoke signals, my free eletter with tips and recipes.
drippings from the meat will have salt,  so wait until you taste the final gravy and add salt at the end if you think it  needs more.
then you need to move on and test the thigh.
rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels that can be discarded.
you don't have to follow it precisely.
turkey, smoked turkey, bbq, barbecue, barbeque, grilling ,smoking, cookout, party, dinner, smoker, grill.
msg, also known as glutamic acid, is a flavor enhancer as well as a natural byproduct of some aging and fermentation processes.
we  will use it when we cook the bird.
birds are then are processed in slaughterhouses and high speed disassembly lines.
let's do the math: if 8% of a 20 pound bird is injected brine, that's 1.6 pounds.
avoid  mesquite, and hickory.
that's why turkey backs are so often as flabby as an elephant's.
thanks for the excellent website, you taught me everything i know about bbq."
you need elbow room, you don't need adoration or the heckling,
a dry rub is a mix of spices and herbs rubbed into meat, but for turkey, we're going to use a wet rub, a mix of herbs, spices, and oil.
if the bird sells for $1.25 per  pound on sale, that's $2 for that salt water, more when it is full price!
here's why: the bigger the bird, the thicker the breasts and the longer it takes to cook the center of the breasts to proper doneness.
the faux cambro is especially handy if you need to take the bird over the river and through the woods.
4) put the onion (remember to quarter it), garlic, orange peel, and fresh herbs into the cavity.
amateur photographers only, please.
this technique will soften the skin a bit, but that's better than going cold turkey.
a smoker is nice for this recipe, but the ultimate turkey can be done just as easily on a normal charcoal or gas grill.
white meat is very lean, about 6%, and it dries out quickly if it is overcooked.
after an hour, open the cooker and remove the aluminum foil from the wings and drums.
starches are large molecules and they can't penetrate the tiny pores in the meat.
to do this, flip the thigh skin side down, and run the knife around the bone and under it until you can lift it out.
and doing so has the added bonus of letting the crotch area brown.
you can put your hand in a 325°f oven, but don't put it in  325°f oil.
you may see brine recipes elsewhere that call for adding chicken stock, vegetable stock, apple juice, and all kinds of herbs and spices.
he also submitted another picture of the dark mahogany bird roosting on hisweber kettle.
thanks for all your great insight on bbq!"
sometimes, if the sage in the garden hasn't frozen by thanksgiving, i'll  put olive oil or butter and several whole fresh sage leaves under the skin  instead of a wet rub and use the wet rub on the outside of the skin only.
a faux cambro is a beer cooler.
ice crystals are larger than water molecules, and they are sharp.
do this 1) mix the herb blend with the oil and let it  sit for a few hours if you have the time.
the goal is to get as much of the meat off the bones as possible.
it can react with the salt and create off flavors.
if the back isn't 160°f, remove the gravy pan and put the bird over direct heat to firm it up.
and never use red wine unless you want purple turkey!
taste it, but resist the temptation to add salt.
from his comments: "here are pictures of the smoked turkeys i did for  thanksgiving 2011.
place the thumb and forefinger of your free hand on either side of the knife pressing down on the skin gently.
overdo it and the bird will taste like an  ashtray.
if you put it in a dry pan, it will stick and the dripping oils will fry the back, usually overcooking it.
i think this phony "fresh" turkey business is bunk and usda is  allowing marketers to deceive the public.
high enough to benefit from the maillard  reaction on the skin and to melt some of the fat, hot enough to gelatinize  connective tissues, but not flamethrower hot, not risking a badly overheated  outside of the meat before the center is cooked.
the amount of time at which the meat is properly cooked in the center is short, and in short order it is overdone.
take a paper towel and grab the top of a drumstick and bend it until the joint between it and the thigh is visible.
in 2011, for the first time, usda gave a nod to the concept that time and  temp work together to make food safe when it revised the recommended temp for  pork.
i love the lighting, but i wish you had found a better place to put the bird
white meat is very lean, about 6%, and it dries  out quickly if it is overcooked.
this gravy is a thin, flavorful broth  that penetrates the meat, making it incredibly moist and tasty.
if you do not plan to submerge the bird in a brine, sprinkle the skin with salt.
that's what happens to melted collagens, they turn to gelatin, and collagens bring flavor and texture to the table.
the two most important factors in determining cooking time are the cooking temp and the thickness of the thickest piece of meat, the breast.
if problems persist,send me a note.
boldt submitted a lovely composition that was not quite in focus, but he wins a prize for his creative video of the process posted on youtube.
so  you'll need a grate for holding the bird.
they account for 99% of all turkeys on the market.
but it still shows a nice presentation of white meat and dark meat.
drape the bird in plastic wrap and let  it thaw in the fridge.
i've cooked smoked turkey before in the past, but decided to follow your recipe in entering the contest, as well as seeing and tasting the end results.
the  process is even more awkward because the carcass is wobbly.
boneless double breasts tied as roasts take about 2 to 2.5 hours.
in order to heat the bottom of the bird properly, if you are using a 3" pan with liquid as i recommend, you need to get the meat at least 2 to 3" above the pan.
i vsualize them standing 5' away drooling, as am i as i write this.
with your method i'm pretty confident i improved on my dad's.
but there is a trick to slicing it properly (i'll bet you're not surprised to hear that).
if it is thick, it  takes much longer to get to the desired temp in the center.
politics and religion divide us deeply and profoundly.
they are highly competitive because they know that we shop for bargains so they use efficient, inexpensive, mass production farming methods.
i think this phony "fresh" turkey business is bunk and usda is allowing marketers to deceive the public.
he also said "i wanted to add that these two birds were cooked in a  oklahoma joe longhorn smoker at around 260-275 degrees.
he is a bird of bad moral character.
or better still, make muffings (see sidebar).
drape the bird in plastic wrap and let it thaw in the fridge.
simmer just  below the boiling point for at least 2 to 6 hours.
under no circumstances are we liable for any damages that result from use of the site (so you can't sue us if you don't like a recipe or if you burn your tongue on hot ribs, ok?).
and no, the liquid in the can will not add moisture to the meat, especially where the can is in contact with meat.
on my gas grill i usually place one golf-ball sized chunk of wood right on  a burner in the flame.
there is almost always leftover gravy that you can freeze.
it is not  hard once you understand the logic.
on the fron the knife will  slide along the wishbone.
then i drop the cubes into a  zipper bag and label it with the date.
want a good stuffing recipe?
but if there are hardened traditionalists in the house, in the sidebar i have included instructions on how to satisfy them.
just be sure to watch it carefully so it doesn't burn and check the temp in the breast before bringing it in.
steve navarre took great stills and made a fun 2 minute movie that shows the whole process of smoking a bird with a mix of video and stills.
resting allows the pressure that has built  up inside the meat to ease off a bit so the juices don't come gushing out.
10) then tilt the knife and work along the rib cage with long strokes until  the breast falls away in one football shaped hunk.
repeat the process with the other leg.
it is an "essential nutrient" which means  it is necessary for good health and you must ingest it because your body  doesn't make it.
14) now pour a little gravy over the top of the meat in the  platter, enough to moisten it but not drown it.
you can ubstitute some of the water with chicken stock, vegetable stock, or a bottle of a white wine.
so if you remove the bird when the breasts are 160°f, the thighs will  also be about 160°f.
you'll  take the foil off after an hour, so the skin will brown and crisp.
besides, at higher temps the window of opportunity opens and closes too  quickly.
so 325°f is a nice compromise.
turkey loves smoke, but too much can ruin it in a hurry, and there is is a fine line.
that's almost like cheating.
pour into a narrow container so you can suck fluid in through the needle.
are adult beverages  in play?
if you put it in liquid, you will boil the back and end up with soggy flavorless meat and inedible skin.
if you haven'tcalibrated your system, click the  link and practice long before you try to cook anything.
if you must, leave something out.
the traditional turkey roasting configuration is a v-shaped rack that sits  in a deep roasting pan with water in the pan to keep the drippings from  burning.
i should add that i had always  been told that low & slow was the ticket for turkey, and that is how i have  always smoked my birds.
if you have a smoker or grill that doesn't get to 325°f (some smokers won't, especially gassers), you will need to cook longer.
the term "heritage" is not  government-regulated and there is nothing to stop unscrupulous merchants from  labeling any old turkey as "heritage".
then we'll  put some rub on top of the skin to flavor everybody's favorite part and because  oil helps crisp the skin.
but clicking on that link before you shop helps me devote more time and money to you.
weber's time to grill by jamie purviance.
if you absolutely must make traditional thick gravy, here's how: 1) take about 4 tablespoons of the turkey fat and/or butter and put it in a saucepan over medium heat with 4 tablespoons of flour (the ratio is 1:1).
the trick is to get the center to the target temp without overcooking the exterior.
when you subtract bones, giblets, and shrinkage, you will  lose about 20%.
in this illustration, on the left we have a piece of meat cooking at  325°f.
bet on a good  thermometer.
a day before cooking, strip off the plastic bag and remove the organs and  neck from both the front and rear cavities.
when you are ready to serve the bird, you can transfer some of the gravy to a gravy boat or serving bowl if you don't like the looks of the carafe.
if you have a smoker, they are usually designed for indirect cooking.
if you find it too weak (unlikely) bring it to a boil and cook it down a bit.
the hamburger: a history by josh ozersky.
but most of us don't have expensive  calibrated sous-vide water bath cookers, and even then, if you aren't careful,  there is risk.
if you cook poultry properly, you are perfectly safe.
if the task of selecting the beverage to accompany the annual eat-in has fallen to you, remember the sweetness of the sides, the fact that you are buying for everyone, not just yourself, and the fact that the average american does not like wine that is very dry.
as with other animals (hogs for instance) and vegetables (tomatoes for  instance), farmers are rediscovering abandoned "heritage" breeds and  seeds.
for more  on how time and temp work together in the process of pasteurizing meat, read my  article onfood, knife, and grill safety.
so i get a referral fee.
do not use an aluminum pot.
almost all my recipes call  for one or the other and becuase only pellet grills have a thermostat control,  you need to play thermostat.
i made a respectable living cooking, eating, writing, and photographing my  food.
and it is inexpensive.
for more on the subject read my article on the zen of brining.
to make matters worse, some  grocers allow turkeys to thaw a bit so theyfeel fresh.
notice that the dark meat is closer to the coals since we want it cooked to a higher temp and the drip pan about 3" below.
bi-metal dial thermometers were invented in the 1800s, and all but the most expensive models can most charitably be called indicators, not precision measuring instruments.
you fall asleep because you are exhausted from cooking, cleaning, inlaws, chasing kids, stuffing your face, and watching the poor pitiful lions.
set it aside forsmoked turkey supper salad, smoked turkey pot pies, turkey sandwiches, turkeyfajitas, turkey salad, turkey soup, or pulled turkey.
followed your recipe for the most part and it was the juiciest  turkey any of us had ever had.
onion skins contain a pigment  that darkens the gravy.
if you don't stuff you can put herbs and other aromatics in the cavity  to amp up the flavor.
after you cook your bird, take photos and enter my third annual pretty bird contest.
and you certainly don't need to ruin the tablecloth.
turkeys are nervous, but like being stroked and cuddled.
on the other hand, we don't want to cook turkey too hot.
excited molecules get their  neighbors excited by bouncing off them like billiard balls.
to get a truly fresh turkey, usually you have to order it and the butcher  or farmer will give you a pickup date.
here are the rules: (1) you  absolutely positively must use a meat thermometer for this maneuver; (2) you  cannot stuff the bird; (3) you may have to cook for an hour before you can  remove the giblet package and neck, but you really should get them out as  quickly as possible, especially if they are in plastic, which can melt; (3)  cooking time will be 1.5 to 2.0 times as long.
when ice  crystals form, the water expands and the sharp edges punch holes in muscle  fibers, allowing precious moisture to escape.
makes. 2 cups, more than enough to inject a large turkey ingredients 2 teaspoons salt 2 teaspoons sugar 2 cups [112 ml] water or low sodium chicken stock, or a mix of both about the salt.
don't use copper because it can react with the salts and acids in the gravy.
i hope they are pretty enough, lol.
i have covered the tips of the wings and drums with foil to keep them from burning.
let's do the math: if 8% of a 20 pound  bird is injected brine, that's 1.6 pounds.
ingredients for the bird 1 medium onion, cut in quarters, skin on 3  cloves of garlic, coarsely chopped 2 large sprigs of fresh sage or thyme,  about 3 to 4" long peel of one orange or lemon 4 ounces [113 gm]  or so of hardwood or fruitwood chips preparing the gravy
cut through the ball joint  removing the thigh.
what usda doesn't tell you is that microbes start croaking at about  130°f.
yes, the flag is a potent symbol, and i swell with pride as much as the next guy at its sight, but the flag is everywhere from bumperstickers to bandanas.
but  actual cooking time will vary depending on how well it is defrosted, whether or  not you brined or injected, what temp your fridge is, if it sat at room temp  for a while, how close your bird is to the gravy pan, how well your cooker  holds a steady 325°f, the quality of your thermometers, airflow within the  cooker, humidity in the cooker, and the breast size of your bird.
rotisseries are a good way to cook meat because the process of rotating it between hot and cool zones retains juices and insures even cooking,but i don't recommend them for turkey.
surprisingly, the salt even penetrates skin and bone.
that's the pink liquid in the bag.
put the drip pan on top of the big  deflector plate under the cooking grate and put the bird on the cooking grate.
the first thing to do is look at the bird and remember who is winning this contest and remind yourself that you are smarter than a dead turkey.
you will need a cutting board with gutters to catch the ample juices, and a serving platter or 2.
week-old grease and gunk the cooking grates will not  add the kind of complexity you want in your gravy.
you can substitute a small handful of celery leaves for the celery stalk.
for years i have advocated wet brining turkey, but i have changed my tune and i now prefer injecting.
the traditional turkey roasting configuration is a v-shaped rack that sits in a deep roasting pan with water in the pan to keep the drippings from burning.
chunks smolder slowly, but if you do not have chunks,  you can use chips or pellets.
we want brown skin because when cooking, brown means deep rich, complex  taste.
i used a mixture of soaked guava and apple wood chips that i would add to red-hot kiawe coals at 1 hour intervals." first prize.
a clock cannot tell you when food is cooked.
then add the drums and wings.
but if you can find a good one that is off-dry, it will go well with your meal.
if you are careful, you can slide  your knife under the assembly and lift the whole thing onto the serving  platter.
with this superfast precision  digital thermometer, you'll never overcook anything again.
you'll just have to omit the wood.
excessive salt consumption can be hazardous, but not moderate consumption.
called "purge", it is mostly myoglobin, a protein fluid that helps keep meat moist.
if necessary, add a quart of boiling water to the gravy pan.
note: some photos of commercial products such as grills were provided by the manufacturers and are under their copyright.
to inject, you should use a special hypodermic for food.
it's time to get down to  business.
click  here to read about thezen of herbs and spices.
so let's do the math: an ounce of butterball turkey (which has neither  butter nor balls) contains about 65 mg sodium.
there is plenty of meat left and plenty of flavor inside those bones.
just used a weber  classic - no smokenator."
it is truly the most important american holiday.
i have  occasionally added mushrooms (fresh or dried) to the gravy, too.
if you have a pellet smoker that generates its best smoke at about 200°f or so, start there for about 30 minutes, and then crank it up to 325°f.
put the drip pan on one side of the charcoal grate and the charcoal on the other side and the meat on the food grate above the drip pan.
if you are careful, you can slide your knife under the assembly and lift the whole thing onto the serving platter.
only a thermometer can do this.
if you can see unmelted ice, it is probably below 40°f. 3) after no more than 12 hours, remove the bird, rinse it thoroughly inside and out so the exterior will not be too salty, and pat dry.
even "free range", "pasture raised", "natural", and "organic" birds are easily contaminated because they scratch and peck in dirt and grass that is teeming with bacteria, and because they eat insects, worms, larvae, seeds, etc.
there is another good one, theigrill (above), that communicates with my iphone and ipad via bluetooth.
it is at its best texture and juiciness at  about 155°f, but that's 10°f below the usda recommendation and i can't  risk a lawsuit by telling you to serve turkey at that temp.
don't  add cold water or you can cool off the cooking chamber.
awards are based on features, quality, and value.
it will go in the gravy, but i would rather have it in the muscles where it belongs.
had a bit of a scare when the  bird was done a full 90 minutes early, but dialed back the grill, and in spite  of coming off at 175 deg, the meat was still very tender and juicy!
wood does not absorb much water.
on my gas grill i usually place one golf-ball sized chunk of wood right on a burner in the flame.
i should add that i had always been told that low & slow was the ticket for turkey, and that is how i have always smoked my birds.
the gizzard can contain stones to help the turkey with digestion.
i give thanks to you  for such a wonderful and informative site.
besides he is a rank coward... "i am, on this account, not displeas'd that the figure is not known as a bald eagle, but looks more like a turky.
click here for some websites that are good sources of specific wine recommendations.
all hms get the new amazingribs.com  temperature guide magnet.
taste again and add salt only at the last minute.
it seems the electrical  charges in salt alter the structure of the proteins in the meat, a process  called denaturing, and the denatured proteins become more hydrophilic, meaning  they glom onto water and hold it tight.
butterflies are also easier to carve when done.
it was always an adventure  chasing the temperature on my gas smoker depending on the fickle midwestern  weather this time of year.
remember, i am not a mind reader.
see my article onmeat  science for more on the subject.
also, moisture on the surface evaporates cooling the surface in the same way sweat cools you off on a hot day.
if you use a dull knife or a serrated knife, the skin will move around.
they will rarely steer you wrong because they want you back.
3 quarts [2.8 l] water 1 cup [56 ml] apple juice 2 onions, skin on, ends removed, cut into quarters 2 medium carrots, peeled and cut into 2 inch lengths 1 stalk of celery, leaves and all, cut into 2 inch lengths 1 tablespoon [15 ml] dried sage leaves, crumbled (do not use powdered herbs, they will cloud the broth) 1 tablespoon [15 ml] dried thyme leaves 2 whole dried bay leaves about the liquids.
the plates are also hand made in the same area of italy and hand painted, all a perfect compliment to the perfect turkeys." honorable mention by b tucker (left).
some people like to cook breast side down because they think fat and juices will percolate down and keep the breast moist.
we'll keep the temp at 325°f, which is medium, and i'll explain why later.
the herbs are where the flavor is.
just letting the thighs free so hot air can surround them will do the  job just fine, thank you.
the hot outer parts continue to pass their heat inward and in 15 to 30 minutes after coming out of the oven, the center of the muscle can rise another 5°f.
my guests continually raved  about how juicy and incredible the turkey tasted.
go ahead and parade the whole bird around the room and take a few bows, but do the carving in the kitchen, not on the dining table.
click here to see this thischarcoal grill setup up close and personal.
if you must have bread stuffing (and if you're having me over, you must have bread stuffing) then cook it on the side (some people insist on  calling itdressing if it is not in the bird).
if you absolutely positively must have the stuffing in the cavity, then make it very moist, heat it in up to 165°f and stuff the bird with steaming hot stuffing.
there is no need to soak the wood.
pellet smoker setup.
tht's because turkey skin is only about 40% fat, so the brine can move through the wet channels.
don't waste your money.
see my article onthe best setup for an offset smoker.
if you have problems posting with internet explorer, please read this.
put the packet as close to the flame as possible.
even if you lace the bird on a grate on the lip of the pan, the bottom will still be much cooler than the top and will almost certainly be undercooked.
you can always add it later, but you can't take it  out.
they were exported to europe in the 16th century.
they often step in each other's poop and they peck in it.
smoked with apple, cherry and maple wood."
if you are unsure about what temp your cooker will settle in at, and variables like the ambient temperature, sun, and wind can really muck things up, i recommend you put the bird on 30 to 60 minutes early, and when the probe says it is 160 to 165°f, put the bird into a faux cambro to keep the bird warm until dinner time.
you can serve the thigh whole, but then the choicest pieces of dark meat go to only 2 guests.
http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs this link takes you to amazon and tags anything you buy with a code
so i will advise you to cook it to 160°f and let the temp rise to 165°f while it is resting before serving.
besides, the smoke is going to darken things, too.
if you  don't want to do the math, just put it in the fridge 7 days before the day you  will eat it.
and if grandma  insists on the thick glop, there is more than enough of my gravy to mix with  flour to make her happy.
crank your oven up to 325°f or as close as possible as measured at the level of the cooking grate by a digital thermometer.
the flap of skin on top of the beak is a snood, the flap under the beak is the wattle.
below is my 15 year old weber genesis gas grill.
it is too easy to burn the thighs and wings that way.
if your cooker is tall enough, and most eggs, kamados, and ceramic grills are, you may wish to roast the bird vertically.
that's the pink liquid in the  bag.
it is written, photographed, illustrated, and coded solely bymeathead .
it is a recipe for  skin as pale as a seattle sunbather on the bottom and sides, and undercooked  dark meat.
when cooked properly, turkey can be tasty and moist.
it must be easy to make and emphasize fresh seasonal products with a minimum of processed ingredients.
shawn mullins sent in this beautiful  presentation.
a honing steel is a rod that has a sandpaper like surface.
domestic turkeys are too heavy to fly.
until then usda said we should cook white meat to 160°f and dark meat to 180°f, and if you were cooking a whole bird, take it all up to 180°f.
to be absolutely safe and still have moist and tender whole birds, and to  make sure nobody sues me, you shouldserve turkey at 165°f in the  deepest part of the meat and test it in multiple locations with a good digital  thermometer.
"my wife wanted me to smoke a turkey for christmas day, so i decided to do two 10 pound turkeys rather than one 20 pound turkey.
you'll probably need to set the dial on high.
i've cropped this slightly so you can see more of the bird.
the base superheats, eliminates hot spots, and blocks flareups.
about product reviews and best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are highly recommended products.
here's why: don't stuff the bird!
if you fear that the bird is progressing too slowly and you are having  trouble keeping the temp up to 325°f, preheat your indoor oven to 325°f  and move the bird and the gravy inside.
i usually  carve one and leave one whole.
a good thermometer is why i never serve overcooked or undercooked food.
you want to begin by preheating the oven about 5 hours before your guests are ready to sit down.
deadline is december 31, 2012.
click here formore about rubs.
that's right, he used an $89 grill.
now here's an outside the bird concept: try cooking stuffing in well buttered muffin pans so each individual "muffing" will brown all around making lots more crunchy bits!
hone each side alternatively about 3 or 4 times.
in fact, it can be done indoors without the smoke and still turn out a killer meal.
we call them the direct zone and the indirect zone.
first of all it must taste great.
but ice crystals will still have  formed.
a little liquid will follow the needle out of the hole, but if it comes spurting out, use less pressure.
6) now add your smoke wood.
it's a mix  of parsley, sage, rosemary, and thyme (sing it), with oregano, basil, bay leaf,  black pepper, and sugar.
when it's dirty, it goes in the dishwasher and you can't do that with the fancy  knives.
add any leftover gravy from when you cooked the bird.
when i sit down for dinner on the fourth thursday in november and reflect on the fact that i am part of a ritual feast shared by so many for so long, i am deeply and truly awed.
stuffing does little for flavor.
this will  help the skin crisp during cooking because it breaks down the structure of the  skin and dries it out.
if the skins are musty, or the underlayer is mushy or rotten, discard them.
i bought a v-shaped flower vase for the job.
the usda doesn't factor in carryover either.
because most people don't own a quality digital thermometer, and, as a  result, they overcook their turkeys, most manufacturers inject a liquid brine,  about 2% salt, into their turkeys.
he now runs this website and does most of the photography.
in the letter he is critical of the eagle's habits and the artwork depicting it, perhaps mocking the fact that it took six years for congress to chose a national bird.
don't leave it sitting at room temp for more than 30 minutes.
click here to read more aboutfood safety.
turkey can handle higher temps, and higher temps are needed to  render the fats in the skin in order to crisp it.
apples and onions in the cavity.
after you taste my gravy, you won't do the thick high school cafeteria stuff again.
with a grill, it is best to use a 2-zone setup (click that link to see exactly what i mean and when you are on that page click the links that show you how to set up a charcoal grill, gas grill, offset smoker, or bullet smoker).
the herb rub added a  lot to the flavor as well (just sage and thyme).
if you have a pellet smoker that generates its best smoke at about  200°f or so, start there for about 30 minutes, and then crank it up to  325°f.
this process forms smaller ice crystals and that  helps prevent purge.
wait til after the bottle has frozen because water expands when it freezes and it can blow off the cap.
replacement motors are usually north of $100.
the information on this website is for educational purposes only.
if you have a leave-in digital thermometer with a probe on a wire, insert the probe into the breast so the tip is in the center of the thickest part of the breast, being careful not to touch the ribs.
1) once the guests are gone (or the next day if you're beat), wash your hands well, and begin pulling all the remaining meat off the carcass.
he cooked 2 birds and submitted photos of several stages of the  cooking process from brining to the heavily laden dining table, most of them  out of focus.
as a result, the muscles of the legs and thighs must be more efficient at using oxygen for continuous muscle contractions over an extended time.
"i've tried many of your bbq recipes with great success.
turkeys are native to north america.
do not let the onions and other solids in the pan burn!
if you are on a low sodium diet,the  cleveland clinic recommends you keep your daily intake down to 2,000 mg, so  that serving of turkey is only 1/4 of the recommended daily amountfor  someone whose doctor has told them to watch their salt intake.
how many appetizers and snacks?
you can then get the light meat and dark meat cooked perfectly because they are independent of each other.
this will help the skin crisp during cooking because it breaks down the structure of the skin and dries it out.
even if it has been injected with a salt solution at the slaughterhouse,  you can still inject it with butter or oil.
the foil will keep these skinny parts from burning.
this takes a bit of practice.
no other meal has such a set menu.
on the right, the meat has come close to an  even temp throughout and now it is cooling as more heat escapes.
thanks to meatheads thorough reviews, i purchased a mak 1 star this summer, and for the first time, my smoke was worry free thanks  to the oven-like precision temperature control.
periodically he lopped off a cross section and treated it with an indicator that showed colored salty meat.
click here formore on the zen of wood.
this is a  good way to get rid of them.
if it is thick, it takes much longer to get to the desired temp in the center.
what is your male to female ratio?
almost all my recipes call for one or the other and becuase only pellet grills have a thermostat control, you need to play thermostat.
by entering you solemnly swear that you have adhered to these rules, and you agree to let me use your photo as i see fit on this website or to promote this website.
and just for good measure i use one more digital when i'm doing turkey, the super fastthermapen, that i can use to spot check the meat in multiple locations.
the higher temp helps brown the skin in the short cooking time allotted.
it is the only way to get fats, herbs, spices and other large molecules deep into meat.
click here for more aboutthermometers.
neither can you trust the popup thermometer that comes inserted in the bird.
you can add 1/2 teaspoon of msg such as ac'cent.
cut down along one side of the breast bone with long strokes until the knife  hits the rib cage.
if you wish, you can do this a day in advance.
the thanksgiving ceremonial repast makes us all part of an unparalleled time-space continuum.
only by using a food thermometer can one accurately determine that a meat has reached a safe temperature.
cooking two smaller birds will actually take less time than one large bird and it will not take any longer time than one smaller bird if you get the cooker up to the proper temp.
place it on the center of the breast near its handle.
so i will advise  you to cook it to 160°f and let the temp rise to 165°f while it is  resting before serving.
if the idea is to moisten meat, starchy sauces just don't get the job done.
high temps are fine for thin cuts like 3/4" steaks because we want the exterior dark with the interior at 130°f, much lower than turkey.
9) as the meat temp approaches 160°f in the center of the breast, tilt the bird and drain the cavity into the gravy.
as a rule of thumb, 1 to 1.5 pounds raw weight per person usually will be  more than enough.
meathead explained that since there isn't an abundance of connective tissue in poultry, that you can cook at 325 deg.
that looks like one serving!
the lowest temp is the one to watch for.
you will  not lose you pitmaster card.
it is hard to get even slices especially as your knife approaches the rib cage, which is curved.
the  plates are also hand made in the same area of italy and hand painted, all a  perfect compliment to the perfect turkeys.
now put the drip pan and all the gravy fixins onto the cooker at least 2 to 3" below the bird if possible.
onenew york times expert whom i normally worship even use ace bandages to hold the icebags in place so the poor turkey looks like was up all night drinking wild turkey.
conduction heating and carryover cooking
it will also help season the outer layers and denature  the proteins so they hold water better.
the better plan is to remove each side of the breast from the carcass and then cut it into beautiful slices across the grain so it is more tender.
some  butchers develop relationships with local farmers and will take orders for  fresh birds.
most turkeys come with an armature holding  the tops of the drums together.
the grate is much closer to the heat source and the dome is closer to the ambient air.
4) do not tie the legs together.
put it into a deep pot, cover with water, and toss in 2 chopped carrots, 2 chopped onions (skins and all), a few celery leaves, a bay leaf, and some herbs.
he measured the temps at different levels above the  liquid in a 3" tall pan of water.
thisrigor mortis usually sets in within an hour or so, and it doesn't go away until about 12 hours later, so you don't want to eat a fresh killed bird.
you won't harm anything by peaking.
the prizes will be awarded solely on the merits of the photo and the judge is a man with a masters in fine arts and who has in the past made his living as a professional photographer.
begin by placing the tip of the rod on a table and hold it vertical,  perpindicular to the table.
these concentrated animal feeding operations (cafos) , sometimes called factory farms, are designed to deliver big breasted birds grown to market size in only 4 to 5 months, much faster than nature intended, at the lowest possible prices.
you need the pan because the bags  always seems to leak.
shawn mullins sent in this beautiful presentation.
so many pretty birds!
why oil and not butter?
here's how: in  the middle of the two lobes is the breast bone, sometimes called the keel bone.
5) add the rest of the gravy ingredients to the pan and refrigerate.
if there is a gizmo holding the tops of the drumsticks together, remove it.
"fresh" poultry means, according to usda, that the bird has not been taken below 26°f by the processor.
but once a year we get together with our friends and families, fractious though they may be, give thanks to our various gods and hosts, and share a feast.
3) pull the stuff out the cavities.
don't use copper because it can react with the salts and acids in  the gravy.
the heat also escapes into the air, so we don't want to leave the meat sitting around too long.
"kosher" birds have been salted on the outside and inside the cavity because it was thought in ancient times that this would draw out the blood.
be sure not to leave it in the brine longer than 12 hours.
the result will be a magnificent looking, dark mahogany avian, with incredibly tender and juicy flesh, delicately and elegantly flavored with savory herbs and seductive smoke, annointed with a gravy that eclipses all others.
cooking without a good digital thermometer is like driving without a speedometer, flying without an altimeter, building furniture without a tape measure, filling your tires without a pressure gauge, or repairing the reactor without a geiger counter.
if you have a grill, you need to set it up for 2 zones.
all material within comes without warranties of any kind.
cooking time a clock cannot tell you when food is cooked.
if you are using a bullet shaped water smoker like a weber smokey mountain, you can use the built-in water pan for the drip pan.
digital thermometers  have small sensors and they are very close to the tip, so they are by far the  best.
below are my recommendations for different types of wines.
to get a bird that is not pumped, you need to special order it, go to a specialty store like whole foods, or buy it directly from a farmer.
but if you let their freak flag fly, heat will infiltrate them from all sides and, because they are thinner than the breasts, they will be at 170°f when the breasts hit 160°f.
this cheapo blade has a thin flexible dangerously sharp blade, a wicked sharp tip, and it's only about $16.
since  most grocery store turkeys have already been injected with brine at the  slaughterhouse, there is no need to soak it in brine or inject salt at home.
the higher temp helps brown  the skin in the short cooking time allotted.
it can be floral and like a handful of fresh grapes.
leftovers and that valuable carcass do not discard the carcass.
if you are cooking on thanksgiving day north of the mason-dixon line, that air temp iscold.
4 tablespoons of simon & garfunkel rub 4 tablespoons of vegetable oil or olive oil 1 tablespoon table salt about the rub.
the best reasons to buy fromamazon are low prices, fast often free delivery, fair return policies, and often there is no sales tax.
at my house i usually take the meat up to 160°f and let it  rise 5°f by carryover.
i've included complete instructions for wet brining and injecting in the sidebar at right.
how many young  children will there be?
if you want, you can even go crazy and paint the drums with barbecue sauce.
butter is not pure oil, it has water in it so it will not brown as well as other oils.
after you taste my gravy, you won't do the thick high school cafeteria stuff  again.
click here for analytics, stats, demographics, and advertising options.
besides, at higher temps the window of opportunity opens and closes too quickly.
" honorable mention by scott d. streaker (right).
most turkey disasters i hear about are because the bird has not defrosted properly.
americans share this event with our ancestors back in time to 1621, less than a year after the mayflower dropped british colonists in plymouth, ma.
turkeys that say "basted" or "self-basted" or  "enhanced" have been injected with a salt solution and possibly  flavor enhancers and tenderizers.
turkey and herbs get along like peanut butter and jelly.
if you add salt and then reduce it, it will be too
these aromatics will release aromas and they will  penetrate the meat from the inside of the cavity, along with the smoke.
in the center picture, the meat has been removed from the oven.
1) to butterfly a bird, remove the backbone by cutting along both sides of it.
if there is a plastic pop-up thermometer, remove it and discard it.
so maybe it is underneath).
push the tip past the center and  pull it out slowly.
the wet rub goes under the skin so they can be in intimate contact with the  muscle tissue and don't have to fight their way through fatty skin.
13) just before serving the bird, give yourself a reward.
i've shared just about everything i know.
add any leftover  gravy from when you cooked the bird.
"hey craig, here's our submission for the photo contest.
alas there might have been more  prizes if folks held their cameras a little steadier, used a higher iso, or a  tripod.
even if the cavity was filled with liquid, there are no pipelines for juices to travel through.
if you run out, rub the exterior with olive oil or vegetable oil and sprinkle it gently with a little black pepper, sage, and thyme.
they barely impact the flavor.
then screw on the cap.
good carving knives should be professionally sharpened every year or so depending on how often you use them.
i know you've see tv chefs hone knives by crossing the steel and knife in front of them and zip zop, they're done.
so we moisten it with gravy and cranberry sauce and surround it with sweet dishes to enliven it.
i've had good luck with apple, alder, peach, cherry, and oak.
just stick the handle of each into the front and rear cavity.
the best of these are expensive, but they can be lighter than cabernet and merlot, and more tart, making them great foils for rich savory foods.
about the onion skins.
the orange parts are meat that has no salt.
remember, you can always add salt, but you can't take it away.
wild turkeys can fly short distances to escape hunters.
click here tosee this gas grill setup up close and personal.
even if it has been injected with a salt solution at the slaughterhouse, you can still inject it with butter or oil.
i  followed your instructions step by step on my weber gas grill and the result  was out of this world.
this will be the best turkey you've ever tasted.
by the time the heat penetrates that far, the breast will be overcooked and void of moisture.
draw the knife slowly towards  your body gently sliding it downward towards the table at the same time.
it can move through bone because bird bones are very light and pourous, unlike beef bones.
resist the temptation to reach for the wood chips.
the meat of smoked turkey is always pink.
another option is to just remove the drip pan about 20 minutes before the bird is finished and put its back above direct heat.
pinot noir and french burgundy.
if you want to use your own favorite rub, use something without salt if the bird has been salted at the factory or you have salted it with a brine or injection.
set it  aside forsmoked turkey supper salad, smoked turkey pot pies, turkey sandwiches,  turkeyfajitas, turkey salad, turkey soup, or pulled turkey.
slow pitches are easier to hit than fastballs.
just used a weber classic - no smokenator."
you can do this  occasionally as needed.
let's cook that bird!
turkey breasts are called white meat because the muscles are paler than the meat of the legs and thighs.
this chemical reaction is responsible for the rich  flavors in toasted bread, coffee beans, and dark beer.
remember, basting just makes the skin wet and soft.
advertising on this site.
by holding the thighs and drums  tight to the body, it prevents them from cooking properly and keeps the skin in  the bird's crotch from darkening and crisping.
you can use it later when the bird is done to keep it warm.
but salt is not evil.
the smokenator turns your grill into a first class smoker, and the hovergrill can add capacity or be used to create steakhouse steaks.
the pics i submitted below for the contest are actually  a second, smaller turkey i smoked on friday because there was no turkey left to  eat with the rest of the leftovers from thanksgiving day!!
it takes time  because the meat is a combination of water, fat, and protein, and they are good  insulators.
he is clearly a man of good taste.
make sure you put a pan under the bird to catch drips.
i have used a disposable aluminum pan and noticed no off flavors,  but i now have a stainless steel roasting pan that i use just for outdoor  cooking because i got tired of sleeeping on the couch.
instant read digital thermometer is reading 159.2°f.
13 lb bird pre brined from trader joe's.
flex  it back and forth until you have a good clear shot at the knee from behind.
sever the meat around the joint, and then cut between the ball and socket to remove the leg.
the mesh is a pain to get off after you are done cooking.
this will help make the skin crispy.
when does the football game start?
so get that cooler cleaned up before you start cooking.
2) when it is hot, clean the grate you will cook the bird on before you  put the drip pan in.
austrian riesling, new york riesling, and washington state riesling.
david's bird (above) was not  only perfect looking, he took time to garnish it with lettuce and grapes, and  frame it perfectly with his centerpiece in the background.
2) after the meat has rested, you can begin to carve.
as much as we are fascinated with breasts in this easily titillated society, i should set the record straight: technically a turkey has one large breast divided by a breast bone.
hold the knife by the handle firmly in your other hand.
you can't prevent it unless you put them in diapers.
third prize (tie) by indyduq who did his pretty bird on a mak pellet smoker.
after washing your cutting board, knives, meat grinder, counters, and sink, thoroughly wet their surfaces with the bleach solution and allow it to stand for several minutes.
repeat  the process with the other leg.
cloth towels are germ carriers.
butter is not  pure oil, it has water in it so it will not brown as well as other oils.
the only rules are: you must have cooked the bird outdoors sometime in the calendar year using this recipe as a guide.
we'll keep the temp  at 325°f, which is medium, and i'll explain why later.
after you cook your bird, take photos and enter my third annual pretty bird  contest.
bend the thigh back to find the hip joint.
smoke adheres to wet surfaces, so add the wood at the start of the cook.
second prize by david bradley.
when you have the meat cut, re-assemble it into a breast shaped  presentation in order to keep the meat warm.
this lets them brown properly and you will have potato chip  crunchy skin on your wings.
myoglobin is a pink protein liquid that stores oxygen brought to it by the blood, and fat is a storehouse of fuel.
if you run out, rub the  exterior with olive oil or vegetable oil and sprinkle it gently with a little  black pepper, sage, and thyme.
even if they bird was salted, save those the juices.
he did experiments with a shallow pan and got similar results.
they can, however, be drowned in gravy.
the old fashioned method was to cut slices off the breasts while they were still attached to the carcass.
so an 8 ounce portion of turkey, a pretty nice serving, will contain 520 mg.
a day before cooking, strip off the plastic bag and remove the organs and neck from both the front and rear cavities.
the gravy just floats on top like a life preserver after the ship has gone down.
i love the way he presented the bird by reconstructing it although i am left wondering what he did with the thigh meat (i think there's a piece of it peaking out between the breasts
if you are going over the river and through the woods with your bird, or if your bird finishes early, read about how to keep it hot with afaux cambro.
they are closer to wild  turkeys, with smaller breasts, darker and more flavorful meat that some people  call gamey.
the new recommendation is 165°f for any and all parts of turkey and chicken.
hne  the entire blade, right to the tip.
if you have a leave-in digital thermometer with a probe on a wire,  insert the probe into the breast so the tip is in the center of the thickest  part of the breast, being careful not to touch the ribs.
when setting up for 2-zone cooking, i normally recommend you put a water  pan under the meat.
this is especially true of green herbs.
one that can be inserted into the breast and left there throughout the cook.
yes, i am a flip-flopper, so don't vote for me if i run for president.
put the drip pan on the flame deflectors below the food grate.
there are several things wrong with this approach.
the old  fashioned method has you cuttingwith the grain, and slices cut with  the grain is always chewier than slices cutacross the grain.
that, or you must rest a cooking grate on empty beer cans.
it is not strong enough to cut through bone, but there is nothing better for cutting things off bones.
cooking kills bacteria.
if you stuff the bird, the temp in the center of the stuffing must be at  least 165°f to be safe because juices from the bird get into the stuffing.
7) now turn the thigh skin side up and cut it into slices across the grain.
this could be a  magazine cover!
i know this whole approach may sound  a little goofy, but trust me: this nectar is a show stopper.
these are bigger wines, richer, complex, but rarely too sharp or harsh.
we want to avoid pockets of liquid.
my family,  business associates, vendors, employees, customers, advertisers, and the  immediate families of any of these people are not eligible.
avoid mesquite, and hickory.
you can make the ultimate turkey on just about any grill.
if you have a smoker or grill that doesn't get to 325°f (some smokers  won't, especially gassers), you will need to cook longer.
finally, the bird can rip loose of its moorings, and then you have torn breasts.
but fresh meat doesn't stay fresh forever.
honorable mention to dean shultis (right).
deadline  is december 31, 2012.