you can spend a lot of money on a grill.
sign up discuss in my forum start your journey for the perfect grill by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: gas grill recommendations gas grill reviews
free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
a part of the new york times company.
remember that a  grill can be a backup cooking appliance in an emergency.
you go to some local store with half a dozen models to choose from and you get  confused.
gas is easy and  convenient, has better than electric grills but not as good as charcoal or  pellet grills.
grills, particularly gas grills, can come in very handy in an  emergency.
pellets can be expensive and difficult to find in many places, but the flavor is superior because it is a pure hardwood fire.
electric just  needs to be plugged in, but can't be used if the power is out.
my advice to you is not to get  sucked in by flashy features.
generally, electric grills are  the easiest to use but you won't get a real fire flavor.
grill information how to  buy agas grill how to buy a charcoal grill portable grills
below you will find a collection of links to additional grill product information that you might find useful.
these add to not only to the price of a grill, but to the complexity and the chance of breakdowns.
unless you have a gas stove indoors you might need a side burner  outdoors.
gas is easy and convenient, has better than electric grills but not as good as charcoal or pellet grills.
charcoal grills can be had for  under $50usd or more than $2,000usd.
gas grills can range from $100usd to $10,000usd.
keep  your grill choice as small and a simple as you need.
how manybtu's do you need?
what size should you get?
charcoal grills are readily available, inexpensive, and can produce great food but you will be lighting charcoal and dealing with all that involves.
keep your grill choice as small and a simple as you need.
grills, particularly gas grills, can come in very handy in an emergency.
derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide ©2012 about.com.
you can select from electric grills, charcoal grills, gas grills, portable  grills and pellet grills (burns wood pellets).
pellets can be expensive and difficult to find in many places,  but the flavor is superior because it is a pure hardwood fire.
who makes a  reliable and easy to use grill?
discuss in my forum by derrick riches, about.com guidesee more about: you can select from electric grills, charcoal grills, gas grills, portable grills and pellet grills (burns wood pellets).
pellet grills are easy to use and have great flavor but tend to  be more expensive and are not available in most retail outlets.
suppose you need to boil a pot of water and your  power is out.
there are hundreds  of questions you can ask, so i am going to try and help you out.
propane is cheaper than charcoal so your  fuel cost is much less so you can actually save money in the long run if you  cook out a lot.
the real question you have to ask yourself is do you want the occasional big cookout where you have the time for charcoal, or do you want to be able to fire up the grill and be eating in 30 minutes.
pellet grills are easy to use and have great flavor but tend to be more expensive and are not available in most retail outlets.
charcoal grills  are readily available, inexpensive, and can produce great food but you will be  lighting charcoal and dealing with all that involves.
propane is cheaper than charcoal so your fuel cost is much less so you can actually save money in the long run if you cook out a lot.
of course you should think about those extras that you might need.
do you wantcharcoal or gas?
these days grills can come with built in  refrigerators and gas powered ovens in addition to the usual side burners,  infrared burners, rotisserie burners and sear burners.
electric just needs to be plugged in, but can't be used if the power is out.
suppose you need to boil a pot of water and your power is out.
the real question you  have to ask yourself is do you want the occasional big cookout where you have  the time for charcoal, or do you want to be able to fire up the grill and be  eating in 30 minutes.
my advice to you is not to get sucked in by flashy features.
charcoal grills can be had for under $50usd or more than $2,000usd.
unless you have a gas stove indoors you might need a side burner outdoors.
these days grills can come with built in refrigerators and gas powered ovens in addition to the usual side burners, infrared burners, rotisserie burners and sear burners.
so you want to purchase a new grill?
in other words, if you  don't really need it, don't buy it.
below you will find a collection of links to additional grill product  information that you might find useful.
generally, electric grills are the easiest to use but you won't get a real fire flavor.
of course you should think about those  extras that you might need.
remember that a grill can be a backup cooking appliance in an emergency.
in other words, if you don't really need it, don't buy it.
these add to not only to  the price of a grill, but to the complexity and the chance of breakdowns.
unless you have money to burn, the price of a grill is an important factor.