construction there is a one year guarantee on parts and workmanship.
we make it clear in our reviews when we are working with a sample.
easy-up canopy or tent or tarp trash bags utensils: knives, spatula, serving spoons, tongs water for cleanup and don't forget the tickets!
i love nothing more than going to bears games in the snow and  getting there early enough to cook a hearty meal and down a few adult beverages.
the front wheels have an easy to use locking mechanism to prevent gogalley  from rolling when it is in use.
slide the two together, lock  them, toggle a switch on the grill's side, and a battery powered motor and  cable winches the unit up off the ground and snug against the vehicle's hitch.
the whole shebang folds up into a box that is 32.5" wide, 49" tall, and 41" deep plus 10" for the trailer hitch.
amazingribs.com is published by amazingribs, inc., a florida corporation.
the wheels are so good that it just might roll away without locking them down, so i recommend putting the front wheels on the back and visa versa
amazingribs.com is one of the 100 most popular food websites in the us according tocomscore, alexa, and quantcast.
under no circumstances are we liable for any damages that result from use of the site (so you can't sue us if you don't like a recipe or if you burn your tongue on hot ribs, ok?).
many parts are stainless and the rest is powder coated, a nice sturdy  finish, but black is the only color available at the moment.
bugs there are a few minor bugs to be ironed out with future designs (this is,  after all version, 1.0), but absolutely nothing serious enough that would make  me postpone a purchase.
click here for more aboutthermometers.
alas, the locks can't be accessed when the unit is folded.
this will burn off any manufacturer's grease, and give you a sense for how to set it up to hit the two important target temps that almost all my recipes use: 225°f and 325°f.
heck it is even a fine backyard setup.
it has a solid steel frame, double walls, two exhaust vents, a stainless steel burner, and silicone door gaskets.
i'll even toss in a small bag of bbq'rs delight wood smoke pellets.
i had not trouble getting it over 600°f on a 70°f day as measured by my lab grade thermocouples.
rinse with clear water and air or pat dry with clean paper towels.
national barbecue association represented by: the lisa ekus group promoting a world of culinary talent founding member: operation bbq relief amazingribs.com is all about the zen of barbecue, grilling, and outdoor cooking, with great bbq recipes and techniques: barbecue baby back ribs, spareribs, pulled pork, beef brisket, steak, burgers, chicken, smoked turkey, lamb, barbecue sauces, burgers, steaks, rubs, and side dishes, with the world's best buying guide to barbecue smokers and grills.
we purchase many products we review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
i leave the unit uncovered to cool before i put the vinyl cover on and, well, sometimes adult beverages are served and i forget, and that left side is unprotected.
this baby has everything except the kitchen sink.
try to get  enough surface area so you can push the coals to one side for indirect cooking  and to prevent burning.
i had put meathead's memphis dust on them the night and cut  them in half so there was plenty of room around them in the smoker.
i pulled them out of the smoker, tossed them  on the hot grill, painted on the sauce, and sizzled them for about three  minutes per side so the sugars would caramelize.
the side burner has a small round metal disk that keeps rain out of the side burner.
and i forget, and that left side is unprotected.
with a $30 donation you'll get a 100% cotton brushed twill adjustable low profile cap with the amazingribs patch sewn on.
the main grates are cast iron and are held in tight by three screws so they won't bounce out in transit.
i would prefer a square lid that will cover the whole left side cabinet and a door to keep out rain and snow when i am cooking (hey, i'm no fair weather fan!).
while my wife was frying some onions and peppers in olive oil on the side  burner.
ceramic grills/smokers large capacity, restaurant & trailer smokers electric smokers gas smokers pellet grills/smokers stovetop smokers pig roasters wood burning pizza ovens how to buy a grill overview the differences between charcoal & gas grills charcoal grill reviews & ratings egg, kamado, ceramic grills/smokers pellet grills/smokers gas grills tailgate grills & portable grills grills gone wild thermometers & thermostats barbecue accessories kitchen tools the amazingribs.com brazilian steak knife set outdoor kitchen planning cookbooks, magazines, videos barbecue sauces bar necessities corkscrews funny aprons, hats, t-shirts, tschotschkes meathead's favorite ingredients photography gear we do not accept ads from products we review.
i love nothing more than going to bears games in the snow and getting there early enough to cook a hearty meal and down a few adult beverages.
but if you don't get that screw down tight, the wheels can pop off if you hit a big crack in the ground.
the side burner has a small round metal disk that keeps rain out of the  side burner.
like the type of cooker you are using.
if your hitch is smaller, there are adapters available.
meat temp fridge magnet the prize for best bbq tool at the 2012 the national barbecue association conference went to a simple inexpensive fridge magnet by meathead.
and what is the central object of the game of football?
what she may not know is that a gridiron is an early name for the iron grate with parallel bars upon which meat is cooked over coals.
cooking with the gogalley
the wing on the left has a hole for a standard 13 gallon garbage bag and a ring that holds it in place.
why is barbecue so popular at football tailgate parties?
put the t screw back in place, lock it to the hitch, slide the casters off, and  there's enough clearance to motor down the road at highway speeds.
alas, the only major shortcoming of the gogalley is that it lacks a sink.
for example, a grill manufacturer might make their firebrand grill model abc123 with cast iron grates available only on amazon.
when you get to the stadium or  campground, lower it with the winch, unlock it, unfold it so the sideburner is  on one side and the smoker is on the other side, lift the work tables, and you  have everything but the kitchen sink.
advertising on this site.
get smoke signals, my free eletter with tips and recipes.
the big wheels make rolling it around easy, but they must be removed when gogalley is attached to your vehicle and you are motoring down the highway or they will scrape bottom.
so you can cookindirect or have a hot zone on one side and a warm zone on  the other.
i have not had a chance to work with many of these, so  i list them alphabetically with no comment at this time.
we  got there at about 9 a.m., claimed a great parking space, and put mylast meal  ribs in the smoker.
do as much prep in advance as possible.
skip the wood chips and you have an oven that can be used as a warming oven or for baking cookies, rolls, or beans.
gogalley is designed for portability, but there is no reason it can't be used in your back yard.
buy an empty spray bottle at the drug store and fill it with a dilute solution of household bleach.
when hauling gogalley i am concerned that some water and mud may get into  the cabinet under the grill through vents in the bottom, but i haven't tested  this yet.
when it is folded up, you roll it back to the trailer hitch on your car or truck, remove a large t shaped heavy duty handscrew that holds the trailer hitch securely to the body, and move the hitch on the grill in position to mate with the vehicle.
about product reviews and best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are highly recommended products.
meanwhile i was putting the finishing touches on italian sassiges on the grill (there's plenty of room for them and the ribs)
the wheels on the side cabinets lock tight when you decide on your configuration.
the front wheels have an easy to use locking mechanism to prevent gogalley from rolling when it is in use.
coleman roadtrip charcoal party grill contempo charcoal grill hotspot notebook portable charcoal grill lodge logic pre-seasoned sportsman's charcoal grill magma marine gas & charcoal grills & accessories son of hibachi combo with snuff out pouch tool box jumbo grill weber 616002 char q charcoal grill weber go-anywhere charcoal grill weber smokey joe silver charcoal grill campfire grills camerons products rebel campfire grill cowboy campfire charcoal or wood grills grill 4 all
setting up takes about 3 minutes if you  stop to drink a beer.
if problems persist,send me a note.
the moving parts use long heavy  piano hinges.
usda recommends a solution of one tablespoon of 5% unscented, liquid chlorine bleach per gallon of water.
for some reason, there is no igniter for the side burner and it must be lit  with a match or a lighter and the markings on the knob for the side burner as  well as the knob for the smoker don't line up properly on mine.
we have hands-on experience testing this product.
skip the wood chips and you have an oven that can  be used as a warming oven or for baking cookies, rolls, or beans.
best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are given only to products that we highly recommend based on price.
this design is especially cool because some universities, like notre dame, prohibit trailers in their tailgating lots.
the other night i made smoked burgers, so easy with this unit.
read mybuyer's guides and the buying checklists and follow the links.
let's start with the most clever innovation on this rig: the trailer hitch and the way the designers have made the gogalley portable.
a small referral fee when you purchase from them after clicking on a link on this site, so purchasing from them helps underwrite the cost of operating amazingribs.com.
also, the unit must be on level surface when you detach it from the hitch or it will be difficult to extract the tongue from the hitch.
copyright © by amazingribs, inc.
it includes the latest usda recommendations as well as chef recommendations (and they often differ) as well as color photos of the different stages of doneness for red meats.
the burners light with a  push-button piezo switch, and the designers have put in two of them in case one  fails, which it shouldn't.
versatility gogalley is designed for portability, but there is no reason it can't be  used in your back yard.
i'm the guy who knows enough about the game to scream at the coaches from deep in the end zone bleachers as if they'll hear and heed me.
heck it is even a fine  backyard setup.
tailgating is such a ritual that i even have a checklist of what to take.
you can fry a pretty good size turkey in that baby or  boil a mess of lobsters.
packed with innovation, this is the best rig i've ever seen for tailgating or camping.
that's why they put it in swimming pools.
and it is inexpensive.
there are many options, from throwaways, to tried and true hibachis, to  some pretty snazzy rigs.
if you are foolish enough to overfill the turkey fryer  or put a frozen bird into the oil and it overflows and catches on fire, there  is an emergency fuel turn-off under the grill that goes from open to closed  with a quarter turn.
just  make sure you tighten them well, perhaps with a pair of pliers.
manufacturers: click here forpermission to use these medals in ads and on packaging (there is no charge) and for info on how to get a high resolution version.
the top of the smoker gets hot so it can be used to keep a serving platter warm, but it can also burn you if you're not careful, and you don't want to absently mindedly put an unopened beer on it.
tech cherokee solaire anywhere portable infrared propane gas grill, stainless steel weber gas go-anywhere gas grill weber q 100 gas grill weber q 200 gas grill weber q 220 gas grill bayou classic fold and go portable charcoal grill brinkmann charcoal go
awards are based on features, quality, and value.
a pigskin, of course, even though it hasn't been made of pigskin for decades.
i've shared just about everything i know.
nominee: 2010 world food media awards member: international association of culinary professionals member: kansas city barbeque society member:
condiments were laid out on the side tables, and the platter of ribs was placed on top of the smoker to stay warm.
grill camerons products pioneer campfire charcoal or wood grill char-broil cb collection table top charcoal grill cobb premier portable stainless steel charcoal grill & smoker cobb pro portable bbq charcoal grill and smoker
here's a key to our reviews.
there are porcelain coated heat diffuser plates above the stainless  steel burners and a tray under the grill is angled to catch and drain grease to  a small pan in the cabinet that is easy to remove.
it comes with a heavy duty vinyl coated water proof cover made from the  trap material used for hauling steel on flat bed trucks.
how to buy a smoker overview charcoal smokers egg, kamado,
also, when i am done cooking
here's my checklist for a football tailgater.
manufacturers often make slight variations to their basic model exclusively for certain merchants.
your suggestions are always welcome.
the hood is double layered on the top to help retain heat.
the authors are human and capable of mistakes, omissions, or errors, so we make no guarantees as to the accuracy, completeness, or safety of the information.
the center section is a 4-burner gas grill with 540 square inches of primary cooking surface and a 150 square inch removable warming rack above.
parker gas grill solaire anywhere portable infrared propane gas grill, stainless steel weber gas go-anywhere gas grill weber q 100 gas grill weber q
meanwhile, the abc125 is identical except it has stainless steel grates, and it is sold only at ace hardware.
latches appear to be well made and mounted.
also, the unit must be on level surface when you  detach it from the hitch or it will be difficult to extract the tongue from the  hitch.
exact  clearance height will depend on your vehicle.
all material within comes without warranties of any kind.
the best reasons to buy fromamazon are low prices, fast often free delivery, fair return policies, and often there is no sales tax.
if you have a weber kettle, you need the amazing smokenator and hovergrill.
click here for analytics, stats, demographics, and advertising options.
after washing cutting boards, knives, meat grinders, counters, etc., it's a good idea to sanitize with bleach.
if you are looking for info, please use the table of contents or the search box, at the top of every page.
check the rules on the place you plan to park.
if you like all the info we give you for free and would like to help us stay free, please copy the link below and save it.
we have always been transparent about when we are reviewing a product sample, even beforethe federal trade commission required it in 2009.
but that is like  saying an f-22 is a jet with some weapons.
click here for more info on these wonderful knives.
bleach is a powerful sanitizer.
for example, if you plan to make omelets for breakfast, break and mix the eggs, add the herbs and whatever else was going in, pour them in a jar, and then all you need to do is pour them into the hot pan with butter.
there are three levels on which it can be set.
first of all it must taste great.
have some snacks and a beverage.
my playing career is loooong behind me so now i have gotten serious about tailgating.
i had put meathead's memphis dust on them the night and cut them in half so there was plenty of room around them in the smoker.
the hood is double  layered on the top to help retain heat.
rest assured that when we award a medal, it is because we are impressed by it for the price, not because someone has paid us to say so or because the company is an advertiser or sponsor.
the pot has a perforated insert.
when it is folded up, you roll it back to the  trailer hitch on your car or truck, remove a large t shaped heavy duty  handscrew that holds the trailer hitch securely to the body, and move the hitch  on the grill in position to mate with the vehicle.
but clicking on that link before you shop helps me devote more time and money to you.
so i get a referral fee.
there are a few minor bugs to be ironed out with future designs (this is, after all version, 1.0), but absolutely nothing serious enough that would make me postpone a purchase.
click here for more about grillgrates.
they are sturdy enough to hold whatever you need, but i wouldn't sit  on them.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.
when the ribs came off i toasted the inside of the buns for the  sausages on the grill, nestled the sausages in, and topped them with the fried  onions and peppers.
i usually bring a small portable gas grill or charcoal grill, but in the fall of 2011, thanks to the manufacturer, i had the opportunity to amp up my game with a new product, thegogalley.
then raise up the two 29" long stainless  steel work tables, one on each side, and there enough room for prep and  serving.
http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs this link takes you to amazon and tags anything you buy with a code
the ribs were ready by noon.
for some reason, there is no igniter for the side burner and it must be lit with a match or a lighter and the markings on the knob for the side burner as well as the knob for the smoker don't line up properly on mine.
unless otherwise noted, all text, recipes, photos, and code are owned by amazingribs, inc. and fully protected by us copyrightâ law.
tell me below what is missing.
3) please don't ask me "what grill (or smoker) should i buy?"
of course the prices can differ.
alas, the locks can't be accessed when the unit  is folded.
it  has a solid steel frame, double walls, two exhaust vents, a stainless steel  burner, and silicone door gaskets.
the top of the smoker gets hot so it  can be used to keep a serving platter warm, but it can also burn you if you're  not careful, and you don't want to absently mindedly put an unopened beer on it.
advertisement | homepage | table of contents | | weights, measures, conversions | techniques | recipes | buyer's guides | links | ruminations | ingredients | |misc bbq articles | one nation under sauce | meet meathead | newsletter | updates | donations | | privacy promise, code of ethics, other legal terms |advertising and sponsorship opportunities |
even with the  wheels removed, the unit can come close to scraping bottom on some smaller suvs  with a low mounted hitch.
click here to see many the portable grills on amazon.com all at once.
i had broken the eggs before we left home, chopped some fresh herbs into the mix, and poured it into a plastic bottle.
and it can't guarantee a victory for the home team.
a good thermometer is why i never serve overcooked or undercooked food.
this one has a very thin tip with a tiny thermocouple so it gives an accurate reading in just six seconds.
we have seen this product up close and we have also gathered info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
it can be opened up into a straight line as in the photo above, or in a v shape, or even a u shape making for a very compact and efficient kitchen.
i am told an all stainless option is in the works.
i  usually bring a small portable gas grill or charcoal grill, but in the fall of  2011, thanks to the manufacturer, i had the opportunity to amp up my game with  a new product, thegogalley.
federal safety laws require lots of vents on gas grills to allow air in and combustion gases out.
try to get enough surface area so you can push the coals to one side for indirect cooking and to prevent burning.
there are many options, from throwaways, to tried and true hibachis, to some pretty snazzy rigs.
about links on this site.
it will improve your cooking overnight and pay for itself in a hurry.
now there's a sure-fire hit for your next  tailgater.
packed with innovation, this is the best rig i've ever seen for tailgating  or camping.
i'm not all that confident in the velcro straps that hold the cover down when on the highway, but so far they have done the job.
when pegged on low with the water pan in place it can smoke at an ideal 225°f easily (most cabinet gassers cannot go this low).
i leave the unit uncovered to  cool before i put the vinyl cover on and, well, sometimes adult beverages are  served
the propane tank straps into the storage cabinet below the grill, but you should remove it when driving.
the burners line up side to  side
condiments were laid out on the side tables, and the  platter of ribs was placed on top of the smoker to stay warm.
they are very easy to put in place and locking them is  done by tightening a large t-shaped thumbscrew.
other than clearly marked ads, links and recommendations on this site are all products, services, and websites we truly admire, and are never paid endorsements.
mobility let's start with the most clever innovation on this rig: the trailer hitch  and the way the designers have made the gogalley portable.
rest assured that when we recommend a product, it is really because we like it, not because someone has paid us to say so because we do not accept advertising from product categories we review.
it must be easy to make and emphasize fresh seasonal products with a minimum of processed ingredients.
there are porcelain coated heat diffuser plates above the stainless steel burners and a tray under the grill is angled to catch and drain grease to a small pan in the cabinet that is easy to remove.
if you are not using a good digital you have no idea what the temp really is so i can't help you.
if you would like us to link to your website, click here to readour links policy first.
as any fan will tell you the greensward the game is played on, marked with  parallel white stripes, is called agridiron.
the main grates are cast iron and are held in tight by  three screws so they won't bounce out in transit.
readmy page about food safety.
the listings are down the page a bit since i have devoted so much space to the gogalley.
machine washable, temper-ground, serrated, high-carbon stainless-steel, full-tang blades with excellent cutting edge retention, beefy hardwood handle, rust and stain resistant, and they stay shiny without polishing.
napoleon travel q portable gas grill o-grill 3000 portable gas barbecue grills magma marine gas & charcoal grills & accessories outdoor chef gas city grill outdoor great room cng-traveler cook number portable 20-inch gas grill
and i took it to a 2:30 p.m. college football game at soldier field in chicago.
if you are foolish enough to overfill the turkey fryer or put a frozen bird into the oil and it overflows and catches on fire, there is an emergency fuel turn-off under the grill that goes from open to closed with a quarter turn.
napoleon travel q portable gas grill o-grill 3000 portable gas barbecue grills magma marine gas & charcoal grills & accessories outdoor chef gas city grill outdoor great room cng-traveler cook number portable 20-inch gas grill parker gas grill
it is by far the most popular barbecue website in the world and pageviews increase rapidly every year.
check outamazon's gift & wish registry.
exact clearance height will depend on your vehicle.
i'm a big football fan, an undersized high school linebacker who even did spring training with the university of florida gatorsas paper gator when i was sports editor of the campus paper (click the link to read about my dubious record at the swamp).
like a musician, you must master your instrument to make great food.
meanwhile i was putting the finishing touches on italian sassiges on the grill (there's plenty of room for them and the ribs) while my wife was frying some onions and peppers in olive oil on the side burner.
after the game you  can be back up and running in minutes.
the hitch connection fits a dot  approved 2" square receiver hitch with a minimum of class iii rating which  means it can handle up to 500 pounds.
for the tailgate party, balcony, beach, back country hike, cattle drive, winnebago trip, or on your yacht, you need a portable grill.
it is not cheap at about $2,000, but it is a bargain for what it has under the hood and what it does.
pyromid volcano ii collapsible cook stove with propane gas grills cadac safari chef gas grill 5-in-1 portable cooking system char-broil tabletop gas grill cuisinart all-foods tabletop gas grill bundle dansons little guy infrared portable gas grill fire magic
the base superheats, eliminates hot spots, and blocks flareups.
steakhouse knives these are the same knives used at the best steakhouses (peter luger, smith & wollensky, morton's and others).
it comes with two bimetal dial thermometers that work pretty well when i compared them to my lab grade thermocouples, but, as always, you should use digital thermometers to be sure.
you need to consider price, temperature control, ease of cleanup, ability to smoke foods, high heat, durability, safety, and, of course, size and weight.
rarely will a $400 gold medal be in the same league as an $800 gold medal, so it is important that you read the reviews.
tailgate grills, camping grills, and portable grills of all sizes
many parts are stainless and the rest is powder coated, a nice sturdy finish, but black is the only color available at the moment.
this is the concept behind the expensive new infrared grills.
we think that people need to know why as well as how, so we spend a lot of time explaining things, and we believe that there are no rules in the bedroom or dining room.
slide the two together, lock them, toggle a switch on the grill's side, and a battery powered motor and cable winches the unit up off the ground and snug against the vehicle's hitch.
the wing on the left has a hole for a standard 13 gallon garbage bag  and a ring that holds it in place.
needless to say, our campsite  was popular with passersby.
the wheels are so good that it just might roll away without locking  them down, so i recommend putting the front wheels on the back and visa versa
after the game you can be back up and running in minutes.
remember, i am not a mind reader.
my playing career is loooong behind me so now i have gotten serious about  tailgating.
note: some photos of commercial products such as grills were provided by the manufacturers and are under their copyright.
the frozen bottles can keep food cold, and can be used for drinking.
i have not had a chance to work with many of these, so i list them alphabetically with no comment at this time.
the smokenator turns your grill into a first class smoker, and the hovergrill can add capacity or be used to create steakhouse steaks.
- meathead pyromid volcano ii collapsible cook stove with propane cadac safari chef gas grill 5-in-1 portable cooking system char-broil tabletop gas grill char-broil gas grill-2-go express cuisinart all-foods tabletop gas grill bundle dansons little guy infrared portable gas grill fire magic
the big wheels make rolling it around easy, but they must be removed when  gogalley is attached to your vehicle and you are motoring down the highway or  they will scrape bottom.
we got there at about 9 a.m., claimed a great parking space, and put mylast meal ribs in the smoker.
we do not accept ads from product categories we review and we keep a strict wall between editorial and advertising, so, for current pricing and availability of prime space, contact my agency, federated media, by clicking the logo at right.
price is an important factor.
amazingribs, inc. promises to never sell or distribute any info about you individually without your express permission, and we promise not to, ahem, pepper you with email or make you eat spam.
the gogalley is a single unit that contains a grill, a smoker/oven, a side  burner, large work surfaces, storage, and a trailer hitch.
needless to say, our campsite was popular with passersby.
i cannot recommend it more highly.
many of the small units don't have lids.
what she may not know is  that a gridiron is an early name for the iron grate with parallel bars upon  which meat is cooked over coals.
to get reprint rights,click here.
the burners light with a push-button piezo switch, and the designers have put in two of them in case one fails, which it shouldn't.
it has a cast iron box for smoke chips and a water pan right above it for humidity.
this baby has everything except the  kitchen sink.
click here for more details ofour privacy promise.
it can be opened up into a straight line as in the  photo above, or in a v shape, or even a u shape making for a very compact and  efficient kitchen.
i'm not all that  confident in the velcro straps that hold the cover down when on the highway,  but so far they have done the job.
they are very easy to put in place and locking them is done by tightening a large t-shaped thumbscrew.
if your hitch is smaller, there are  adapters available.
many reviews are by meathead, the author of most things on this website.
the body is framed with square tubular heavy duty 11 gage  steel and parts appear to be welded properly.
burner/boiler/fryer.
when i got there all i had to do was drop some butter into the hot  non-stick pan on the side burner, shake the bottle, and pour in the eggs.
even with the wheels removed, the unit can come close to scraping bottom on some smaller suvs with a low mounted hitch.
the football-ribs relationship why is barbecue so popular at football tailgate parties?
coleman roadtrip charcoal party grill contempo charcoal grill one grill charcoal grill hotspot notebook portable charcoal grill lodge logic pre-seasoned sportsman's charcoal grill magma marine gas & charcoal grills & accessories son of hibachi combo with snuff out pouch tool box jumbo grill weber 616002 char q charcoal grill weber go-anywhere charcoal grill weber smokey joe silver charcoal grill camerons products rebel campfire grill cowboy campfire charcoal or wood grills grill 4 all grilliput 1)
when out and about, i usually look for convenience, and because a small bottle of propane will last a long time and it's a heckuva lot lighter than charcoal, my favorite small portable is a lightweightweber 1520 gas go-anywhere gas grill.
advertising on amazingribs.com is a great way to build your brand or make direct sales.
i had not trouble getting it over  600°f on a 70°f day as measured by my lab grade thermocouples.
i don't care how much you spent on your grill, the bi-metal dial thermometer that came with it is probably cheap and unreliable and likely to be off by as much as 50°f.
amazon often has the best prices anywhere, even better than many manufacturers' websites because manufacturers know that if they undercut retailers like amazon, they may drop the products.
2) don't ask me any questions that involve temp or time unless you tell me that you are using a digital thermometer!
the left side has a big cast iron  burner that puts out 25,000 btu.
the information on this website is for educational purposes only.
you can fold it up and lock it back on the trailer hitch while you're at  the game and never have to worry about someone stealing it.
it is especially important that you pay close attention to food safety when you are away from refrigeration and running hot water.
we have also gathered info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
when a product is available on amazon.com, we often provide a direct link.
it takes you to amazon.com and tags things you buy with the amazingribs code so we get that referral fee.
when you get to the stadium or campground, lower it with the winch, unlock it, unfold it so the sideburner is on one side and the smoker is on the other side, lift the work tables, and you have everything but the kitchen sink.
the best portable rig ever i'm a big football fan, an undersized high school linebacker who even did  spring training with the university of florida gatorsas paper gator when i was  sports editor of the campus paper (click the link to read about my dubious  record at the swamp).
the gogalley is a single unit that contains a grill, a smoker/oven, a side burner, large work surfaces, storage, and a trailer hitch.
a few reviews have been contributed by scot murphy and gordon hubbell.
there are even tool hooks on the tables.
there are four 12" wide by 14"  long removable shelves that can hold 8 short racks of baby backs, 4 whole  chickens, 4 pork butts, etc.
as any fan will tell you the greensward the game is played on, marked with parallel white stripes, is called agridiron.
a pigskin, of  course, even though it hasn't been made of pigskin for decades.
when gogalley is unfurled, there is a nifty  gas smoker and oven on the right that, if it was a standalone it might be the  best gas smoker on the market.
it is not cheap at about $2,000, but it is a bargain for what  it has under the hood and what it does.
i am told an all  stainless option is in the works.
the manufacturer sent me one of the first units off the assembly line
click here formore info.
but if you don't get that screw  down tight, the wheels can pop off if you hit a big crack in the ground.
bi-metal dial thermometers are often off by as much as 50°f!
how well will it take a beating riding on the back of an suv to the games and being rolled around parking lots?
federal safety  laws require lots of vents on gas grills to allow air in and combustion gases  out.
amazingribs.com does not make or sell anything, but we love toys and we are happy to share our opinions of them.
the listings are down  the page a bit since i have devoted so much space to the gogalley.
try to get one with a cover for  the best temperature control and to prevent burning thicker meats.
this means you need written permission to republish or distribute anything on this website.
click here for more info and how to order it.
the propane tank straps into the storage cabinet  below the grill, but you should remove it when driving.
setting up takes about 3 minutes if you stop to drink a beer.
for the tailgate party, balcony, beach, back country hike, cattle drive,  winnebago trip, or on your yacht, you need a portable grill.
the left side has a big cast iron burner that puts out 25,000 btu.
our privacy promise.
they are sturdy enough to hold whatever you need, but i wouldn't sit on them.
when shopping for a portable, the same rules apply as when you are shopping  for other grills.
worse still, it is in the dome, and the temp down on the grate where the meat sits is much different.
arrive early so there is no rush, and stay after.
then raise up the two 29" long stainless steel work tables, one on each side, and there enough room for prep and serving.
the whole shebang folds up into a box that is 32.5" wide, 49"  tall, and 41" deep plus 10" for the trailer hitch.
and now they have the amazingribs.com imprimatur.
then i made omelets for breakfast.
amazon pays amazingribs inc.
try to get one with a cover for the best temperature control and to prevent burning thicker meats.
when pegged  on low with the water pan in place it can smoke at an ideal 225°f easily  (most cabinet gassers cannot go this low).
the pot  has a perforated insert.
of course, in order to do this, you absolutely positively must have a gooddigital oven thermometer.
save and clean empty milk jugs, and freeze water in them.
the burners line up side to side so you can cookindirect or have a hot zone on one side and a warm zone on the other.
when out and about, i usually look for convenience, and because a small  bottle of propane will last a long time and it's a heckuva lot lighter than  charcoal, my favorite small portable is a lightweightweber 1520 gas go-anywhere  gas grill.
it weighs about 350 pounds.
when gogalley is unfurled, there is a nifty gas smoker and oven on the right that, if it was a standalone it might be the best gas smoker on the market.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs the first thing to do after you assemble your new grill or smoker is to season it and calibrate it by doing a few dry runs without food.
i cannot pick the right cooker for you any more than i could pick the right car or spouse for you.
when hauling gogalley i am concerned that some water and mud may get into the cabinet under the grill through vents in the bottom, but i haven't tested this yet.
it comes with a heavy duty vinyl coated water proof cover made from the trap material used for hauling steel on flat bed trucks.
i popped a couple of 6 ounce ground chuck patties in the smoker at about 225°f, tossed in a handful of pellets, and 10 minutes later took them out and put the on the preheated grill to build the crust.
i had broken the eggs before we left  home, chopped some fresh herbs into the mix, and poured it into a plastic  bottle.
you can fold it up and lock it back on the trailer hitch while you're at the game and never have to worry about someone stealing it.
raise it up to use a large skillet, wok, or griddle, drop it down low to insert  the capacious six gallon aluminum cauldron that comes with the system.
now there's a sure-fire hit for your next tailgater.
it fits nicely on  the skid on which it is shipped.
in 2012max good joined our staff as director of buyer's guides and more and more of the reviews come from him.
we have researched this product from afar by gathering info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources, with our bs meters on high.
start planning early.
a must for gas grills.
you need to consider price, temperature control, ease of  cleanup, ability to smoke foods, high heat, durability, safety, and, of course,  size and weight.
unlikeall the others, this one is not flimsy.
- meathead dual fuel: gas or charcoal
i would prefer a square lid that will cover the whole left side  cabinet and a door to keep out rain and snow when i am cooking (hey, i'm no  fair weather fan!).
how well will it  take a beating riding on the back of an suv to the games and being rolled  around parking lots?
i pulled them out of the smoker, tossed them on the hot grill, painted on the sauce, and sizzled them for about three minutes per side so the sugars would caramelize.
the temperatures are the same for both indoor and outdoor cooks.
it has a cast iron box for smoke chips and a  water pan right above it for humidity.
click here to read more.
then, please tell me everything i need to know to answer your question.
our philosophy about food is simple.
the wheels on the side cabinets lock tight when you decide  on your configuration.
pay attention to the awards i have given my faves.
i'm the guy who knows enough about the game to scream at  the coaches from deep in the end zone bleachers as if they'll hear and heed me.
the hitch connection fits a dot approved 2" square receiver hitch with a minimum of class iii rating which means it can handle up to 500 pounds.
it comes with two bimetal dial thermometers that work pretty well when i  compared them to my lab grade thermocouples, but, as always, you should use digital thermometers to be sure.
i popped a  couple of 6 ounce ground chuck patties in the smoker at about 225°f, tossed  in a handful of pellets, and 10 minutes later took them out and put the on the  preheated grill to build the crust.
when shopping for a portable, the same rules apply as when you are shopping for other grills.
it fits nicely on the skid on which it is shipped.
flood surfaces with the bleach solution and allow it to stand for several minutes.
200 gas grill weber q 220 gas grill charcoal grills bayou classic fold and go portable charcoal grill brinkmann charcoal go
but gogalley is not just for football games.
amazon also offers fast delivery (often free), no sales tax (in most states), gift wrapping (on many items), and painless refund policies.
put the t screw back in place, lock it to the hitch, slide the casters off, and there's enough clearance to motor down the road at highway speeds.
you can fry a pretty good size turkey in that baby or boil a mess of lobsters.
the moving parts use long heavy piano hinges.
the body is framed with square tubular heavy duty 11 gage steel and parts appear to be welded properly.
some lots do not permit tailgating, some do not allow charcoal grills, some do not allow adult beverages, some do not allow glass bottles, and some do not allow trailers.
let the crowds fight their way out.
so you can lock the rear wheels when it is still folded.
just make sure you tighten them well, perhaps with a pair of pliers.
when the ribs came off i toasted the inside of the buns for the sausages on the grill, nestled the sausages in, and topped them with the fried onions and peppers.
there is a one year guarantee on parts and workmanship.
but that is like saying an f-22 is a jet with some weapons.
the manufacturer sent me one of the first units off the assembly line and i  took it to a 2:30 p.m. college football game at soldier field in chicago.
it is written, photographed, illustrated, and coded solely bymeathead .
there are four 12" wide by 14" long removable shelves that can hold 8 short racks of baby backs, 4 whole chickens, 4 pork butts, etc.
feel free to copy and paste it and print it.
when i got there all i had to do was drop some butter into the hot non-stick pan on the side burner, shake the bottle, and pour in the eggs.
if you have problems posting with internet explorer, please read this.
raise it up to use a large skillet, wok, or griddle, drop it down low to insert the capacious six gallon aluminum cauldron that comes with the system.
grillgrates are the best new product i have tested in years and the best thing to happen to beef since salt and pepper.
remember to keep food below 40°f or above 150°f.
if you are still using a dial thermometer, please read this article about thermometers, then buy a good digital, and then, if the problem persists (chances are it won't), hit me with your questions.
the center section is a 4-burner gas grill with  540 square inches of primary cooking surface and a 150 square inch removable  warming rack above.
firemaster holland companion no flare-up portable grill margaritaville ride-behind tailgating gas grill
this design is especially cool because some universities, like notre dame,  prohibit trailers in their tailgating lots.