the ears of corn are done  when the kernels are tender and squirt a bit of milk when pushed.
set the grill over the fire placing the meat on top.
when the meat is about half way done, place the vegetables in a single layer around the meat.
with this  handful of camping recipes in your arsenal, see what you can come up with to  compliment them.
for your first adventure in outdoor biscuit cooking, use a pre-made biscuit.
there are several ways to spice up the flavor of whatever you throw on the grill, and the key to success is found in doing a little preparatory work at home.
at this point  you can brush the kernels with butter sprinkled with a bit of chopped fresh  mint or brush with olive oil.
suggestions for great grilled meats no list of camping recipes  would be complete without some suggestions for great grilled meat.
if you are using a gas grill, then turn off the burners on the side opposite where the biscuits are.
grab a skillet and place five slices of bacon in the bottom.
chop a big ripe tomato and add it to the  frying vegetable mixture.
use tongs to open the potato packages to check for doneness.
cayenne pepper: this is  the spice that provides the kick.
place the sliced vegetables in a plastic container or zip-lock bag along with your desired amount of italian dressing.
once the bacon is lightly crisped, remove it and drain on paper towels.
first, slice potatoes onto a 12-inch square of aluminum  foil.
your comment will be published pending approval.
make sure you bring plenty of toppings so that everyone can  load up their pizza with the things that they like best.
cherry tomatoes are also a fun side dish ingredient.
daily horoscope explore your destiny as you discover what's written in your stars.
though many people don't think beyond  the hamburger or hot dog when preparing a menu of camping recipes, it is  possible to bring a flair of gourmet to campfire cooking.
this article has been written by an outside contributor.
here are  a few simple but out of the ordinary camping recipes to get your imagination in  gear.
if you are using charcoal, then make sure the biscuits are near the edge of the grill.
custom-made meat rubs and salts can be used on just about any variety of meat.
cayenne pepper, cumin, chili powder, and crushed red pepper are just a few of the additional ingredients that you can add to your rubs to give them these specialized flavors.
you can always add more if you're not happy with the result.
top chefs' tips 5 seductive recipes for couples armed with a few simple camping recipes, you should be ready  to come home from your next foray into the woods with a new nickname: your  friends may start calling you 'cookie.'
it is inexpensive and helps to enhance the flavors of the other spices that you will add.
learn to make your own spice rubs and seasoning salts so that you can honestly lay claim to a brand new, never-before-used, top-secret recipe.
once they've embellished their pizza with a variety of toppings, cover the pizza with cheese, and then place it on the grill.
once the husks have turned a light brown color move the ears to the outer most area of the grill where the corn will continue to cook for the next 15 minutes.
garlic powder: this is the first ingredient that will really  begin to offer its own unique flavor.
- how well do you understand cholesterol?
cayenne pepper: this is the spice that provides the kick.
a  simple and easy camping recipe requires only sliced potatoes, sliced sweet  onions and butter.
learn to make  your own spice rubs and seasoning salts so that you can honestly lay claim to a  brand new, never-before-used, top-secret recipe.
the label on your frozen  tv dinner tells you that your meal contains 400 calories and 10 grams of fat,  plain and simple.
lather on the butter and enjoy.
once you have this basic mixture put together, you can begin to customize  your rub to your own tastes.
if  you are using charcoal, then make sure the biscuits are near the edge of the  grill.
be sure to cover the grate with foil so that  the flames don't lick the bottom of your pizza crust.
healthy appetite healthy food that tastes delicious too?
this will cause heat to build up inside the grill,  but there will be no flame directly underneath the biscuits to burn the bottom.
grilled corn on the cob is one of the long-time favorite recipes for  camping.
use fresh summer  veggies like squash, zucchini, mushrooms, and sweet onions.
crushed red pepper: this spice could have been included with the basic ingredients, but not every one likes to use it.
your guests  will be amazed when you open the lid and pull out perfectly done biscuits that  are fresh and hot.
just pop open a can and lay your biscuits out on tinfoil.
instead, use pre-baked flatbreads or crusts that  you buy in the store.
they're listed on the mile-long ingredients label, and chances are you don't know what even half of them are, much less how to pronounce them.
just  because you're roughing it doesn't mean that your taste buds need to.
just because you're roughing it doesn't mean that your taste buds need to.
you can use salt and pepper to taste.
it is inexpensive and helps to enhance the flavors of the other  spices that you will add.
daily reflections we could all use some encouragement now and then - we're human!
- what is your hair color personality?
what does it take to burn it off?
onion powder:this is another staple that should be included in almost any rub that you make.
- what’s the worst setback you’ve had to overcome?
you'll need a flat surface to cook on.
this recipe works just as well on a charcoal grill as it does on an industrial gas grill, so this is a great camping recipe.
cover the biscuits loosely with another piece of tinfoil and close the lid.
invalid email address!
don't worry if you don't like eating onions, as the onion powder just offers a tangy little twist to the rub without overpowering it.
today's sponsored links advertisement advertisement playing with your food breakfast lunch snack dinner breakfast lunch snack dinner pick a meal
fresh biscuits on the grill an equally impressive feat is to cook fresh biscuits on the grill.
if you have an open campfire instead of a grill, then  just use the grate out of your grill from home.
custom-made meat rubs and  salts can be used on just about any variety of meat.
if you have an open campfire instead of a grill, then just use the grate out of your grill from home.
your guests will be amazed when you open the lid and pull out perfectly done biscuits that are fresh and hot.
start with just a dash of garlic powder for your camping recipes, since it can quickly overpower the flavor of the meat.
with some basic  preparations, the right supplies and a little practice, you and your friends  will be crawling into your tents with full bellies and satisfied palettes.
like the pizzas, this may sound absurd at first, but if you take a quick look at the basic baking principles involved in making biscuits, it will all start to make sense.
salt: this should be the base of any rub or spice mix that you make from scratch.
it gives a nice, full-bodied flavor to your rub.
make it a chance to get away and try some great new recipes.
with this handful of camping recipes in your arsenal, see what you can come up with to compliment them.
before serving, crumble the bacon pieces over the top for a favorite among camp cooking recipes.
of course, feel free to add other  spices to create the nuances that fit your unique tastes and grilling style.
next slice the onions over the potatoes and add four or five pats of butter.
manage my newsletters | about us | share | site map | rss | find a doctor / news / quizzes / tools / experts - - health centers - a-z reference - top conditions - natural health - everyday care - family health - calendar - news - - find a diet or exercise - diet & fitness a-z - diet center - fitness center - diet & fitness rx - experts - - healthy recipes - healthy eating guides - food 411 - food quizzes - food experts - find a nutritionist - - relationships - sex - family - money - timeout - looks - style - - healthy recipes - find a recipe - recipe collections - main ingredient - courses - dietary need - cuisine - occasion - healthy eating guides - beverages - bone health - breakfast - diabetes - dinner - gluten free - heart health - heartburn/gerd - high fiber - hypertension - anti-aging - low calorie - low carb - low fat - low sodium - omega-3s - pregnancy - snacks - special occasions - vegetarian - weight loss - food 411 - food quizzes - food experts - find a nutritionist food navigator
ground pepper: most cooks are much  happier with the flavor of freshly ground pepper than the pepper that comes  already crushed in shakers.
here are a few simple but out of the ordinary camping recipes to get your imagination in gear.
you can, and it's easier than you might think.
once you have this basic mixture put together, you can begin to customize your rub to your own tastes.
next: return to first page of article next: return to first page of article note: all comments for this article are moderated.
- what's your yoga iq?
chili powder: while it's not technically a spice, chili powder tastes great  and is a easy way to give a dull mixture some personality.
test your knowledge of sneaky  additives, from yellow #6 to rbgh, with this ingredient listquiz.
one last special treat camp cooking  recipes should be easy to prepare and take only a small amount of time to cook.
it may sound difficult, but if you take the proper steps to prepare your cooking surface, these tasty, personal-sized pizzas can be a lot of fun.
this is one of the best camping recipes you'll come across for side dishes.
since you don't have to worry about the crust, you can focus your attention on creating single-serving pizzas that your kids and guests can top with whatever they like.
you can even make different batches and label them.
garlic powder: this is the first ingredient that will really begin to offer its own unique flavor.
once they've  embellished their pizza with a variety of toppings, cover the pizza with  cheese, and then place it on the grill.
the ears of corn are done when the kernels are tender and squirt a bit of milk when pushed.
the grilled entrees are  great mouth-watering recipes for camping, but now it's time to create camping  recipes using fresh vegetables that complement the meats.
cover the campfire with an  aluminum foil-wrapped grill.
wrap the mound of vegetables and  butter in the aluminum foil and place on the hot grill or into the coals for 45  to 60 minutes.
grilled corn on the cob is one of the long-time favorite recipes for camping.
here are some basic  ingredients that you can include in your rub.
don't add too much to start with, and make sure you wash your hands when you are done.
cover the campfire with an aluminum foil-wrapped grill.
it gives a nice, full-bodied flavor to your  rub.
living with diabetes the latest news, tips and recipes for people with diabetes.
since you don't have to  worry about the crust, you can focus your attention on creating single-serving  pizzas that your kids and guests can top with whatever they like.
please enter a valid email.
you might give one a hot and spicy flavor for that macho man who thinks he can eat anything.
these kind come in pressure-sealed cans in the grocery store.
- 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 previous next tools: related stories - meatless meals for better health: the flexitarian way - gluten free food - how to cook kale - how to cook the perfect turkey: top chefs' tips - 5 seductive recipes for couples armed with a few simple camping recipes, you should be ready to come home from your next foray into the woods with a new nickname: your friends may start calling you 'cookie.'
camping recipes that demand a second helping by brian simkins published june 28, 2007 view comments meatless meals for better health:
set the grill over the fire placing the meat on  top.
another popular one would be a little bit sweeter and milder, by adding a little sugar so that it will caramelize over the meat while the meat grills.
once the husks have turned a  light brown color move the ears to the outer most area of the grill where the  corn will continue to cook for the next 15 minutes.
chili powder: while it's not technically a spice, chili powder tastes great and is a easy way to give a dull mixture some personality.
give the ears a shake to remove excess water.
from: to: message: please enter a valid email.
when you  open the grill cover or lift off your foil, you will be greeted by a molten  pile of bubbling cheese and a perfect pizza, right down to the golden brown  crust.
salt: this should be the base of any rub or spice mix that you make  from scratch.
it will burn quickly otherwise.
let them cook for the amount of time recommended on the package.
the flexitarian way gluten free food how to cook the perfect turkey:
cumin: this is the  base flavor of most south western or tex-mex type rubs and sauces.
make sure you use low heat.
there are several ways to  spice up the flavor of whatever you throw on the grill, and the key to success  is found in doing a little preparatory work at home.
build up your campfire until you have a nice bed of coals, and then knock the fire down below the lip of the ring and lay the grill across it.
add half of a diced onion and half of a diced green  pepper to the grease in the skillet; saut'ing lightly.
please use the form below to email this article.
set the skillet on  the grill, frying the bacon.
like the pizzas, this may sound absurd at first, but if you take a quick look  at the basic baking principles involved in making biscuits, it will all start  to make sense.
set the skillet on the grill, frying the bacon.
let the vegetables simmer in the skillet until the  green beans are done to your liking.
it takes about 5 to10 minutes for the vegetables to cook through.
the grilled entrees are great mouth-watering recipes for camping, but now it's time to create camping recipes using fresh vegetables that complement the meats.
soak the ears in water for about 15 minutes.
this is one of the easiest camping recipes to master, and it's one that will make you look like a culinary genius.
fresh biscuits on the grill an equally impressive feat  is to cook fresh biscuits on the grill.
it has not been reviewed by the lifescript editorial staff for accuracy.
once the bacon is lightly crisped, remove it and  drain on paper towels.
pizza on the grill do you think you could cook pizza on  the grill?
let the vegetables  marinate in the dressing while you prepare the fire.
your daily resource for losing weight and staying fit.
they're listed on the  mile-long ingredients label, and chances are you don't know what even half of  them are, much less how to pronounce them.
when you open the grill cover or lift off your foil, you will be greeted by a molten pile of bubbling cheese and a perfect pizza, right down to the golden brown crust.
pizza on the grill do you think you could cook pizza on the grill?
let the vegetables simmer in the skillet until the green beans are done to your liking.
cooking an  excellent meal while camping will fill both your stomach and your ego, so have  fun!
close your grill cover or use foil as a  cover, and cook for about five minutes.
start with just a dash of garlic powder  for your camping recipes, since it can quickly overpower the flavor of the  meat.
place the sliced vegetables in a plastic container or zip-lock  bag along with your desired amount of italian dressing.
though many people don't think beyond the hamburger or hot dog when preparing a menu of camping recipes, it is possible to bring a flair of gourmet to campfire cooking.
this week's stories heart health top cardiologists' heart tips workout cardio fitness guide skin natural skin savers soul pain and opportunity inspire 2 real-life heroes news
wash all the vegetables and cut into 1-inch  thick slices.
you'll need a  flat surface to cook on.
but what else is hiding in the package?
brain shocks enhance memory quizzes
what's your ingredient list iq?
arrange the  biscuits so that they are not directly over the hottest part of the grill.
- select a food - select an exercise type - select an exercise - enter weight healthy advantage the #1 daily resource for health and lifestyle news!
top nutrition articles and tips tweet send to a friend!
build up your campfire until  you have a nice bed of coals, and then knock the fire down below the lip of the  ring and lay the grill across it.
take a poll vote next poll see all polls top-rated quizzes - do you take heart medications and supplements to lower your ldl cholesterol?
- how often do you perform a breast self-exam?
select exercise type endurance exercise gym classes sports household/recreation activities minutes start again please complete all fields.
test your knowledge of sneaky additives, from yellow #6 to rbgh, with this ingredient listquiz.
even the doubters will be standing in line for seconds.
side dishes on the grill
this will allow the biscuits to bake instead  of fry in their own moisture.
cover the biscuits loosely with another piece of  tinfoil and close the lid.
soak the ears in water for  about 15 minutes.
toss 1 to 1 ' pounds of fresh green beans into the skillet.
of course, feel free to add other spices to create the nuances that fit your unique tastes and grilling style.
from:  to:  message: please enter a valid email.
before serving, crumble the bacon pieces  over the top for a favorite among camp cooking recipes.
for your first adventure in outdoor biscuit cooking, use a  pre-made biscuit.
peel back the husks and remove the silk.
make your next camping trip more than just a trip into the  woods.
suggestions for great grilled meats no list of camping recipes would be complete without some suggestions for great grilled meat.
here are some basic ingredients that you can include in your rub.
make sure you bring plenty of toppings so that everyone can load up their pizza with the things that they like best.
you can even make different batches and label  them.
add half of a diced onion and half of a diced green pepper to the grease in the skillet; saut'ing lightly.
don't worry if you don't like eating onions, as the onion  powder just offers a tangy little twist to the rub without overpowering it.
lather on the  butter and enjoy.
if you are using a gas grill, then turn off the burners on the side  opposite where the biscuits are.
don't be  content with frozen hamburgers and cheap hotdogs.
- 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 sponsored by: view comments next page >> next page >>
wash all the vegetables and cut into 1-inch thick slices.
it may sound difficult, but if you take the proper  steps to prepare your cooking surface, these tasty, personal-sized pizzas can  be a lot of fun.
cayenne pepper, cumin, chili powder, and crushed red pepper  are just a few of the additional ingredients that you can add to your rubs to  give them these specialized flavors.
at this point you can brush the kernels with butter sprinkled with a bit of chopped fresh mint or brush with olive oil.
onion powder:this is another staple that should be included in almost any  rub that you make.
the label on your frozen tv dinner tells you that your meal contains 400 calories and 10 grams of fat, plain and simple.
what's your sodium iq?
the secret with campfire pizza is that you don't actually  cook the dough on the grill.
if you plan your menu in advance, then you can figure out how many crusts you will need and pack accordingly.
healthy recipes find a recipe main ingredient course dietary needs cuisine occasion recipe collections healthy eating guides diabetes heartburn/gerd bone health gluten free hypertension weight loss anti-aging food 411 food quizzes food experts find a nutritionist popular eating guides see all → - bone health - diabetes - gluten-free - heartburn/gerd - heart health - high fiber - hypertension - anti-aging - low cal - low carb - low fat - low sodium - omega-3s - pregnancy - vegetarian - weight loss popular recipe collections see all → - appetizers - beverages - breakfast/brunch - celebrations - dessert - entrees - fast and easy - feel good foods - for dieters - health concerns - ingredient focus - meatless - menus for 2 - seasonal - world of flavors article library top nutrition articles and tips tweet email print send to a friend!
use black pepper to make up any rub or spice mix.
when the meat is about half way done, place the vegetables in a single  layer around the meat.
you might give one a hot and spicy flavor for that macho man who thinks  he can eat anything.
chop a big ripe tomato and add it to the frying vegetable mixture.
instead, use pre-baked flatbreads or crusts that you buy in the store.
- are you ready to lose weight?
a simple and easy camping recipe requires only sliced potatoes, sliced sweet onions and butter.
cherry tomatoes are  also a fun side dish ingredient.
toss 1 to 1 ' pounds of  fresh green beans into the skillet.
make your next camping trip more than just a trip into the woods.
brush on more italian dressing as the vegetables cook.
this is one of the easiest camping  recipes to master, and it's one that will make you look like a culinary genius.
don't add too much to start with, and make  sure you wash your hands when you are done.
another popular one would be a little bit sweeter and  milder, by adding a little sugar so that it will caramelize over the meat while  the meat grills.
next slice the onions over the potatoes and add four or five pats of  butter.
wrap the mound of vegetables and butter in the aluminum foil and place on the hot grill or into the coals for 45 to 60 minutes.
close your grill cover or use foil as a cover, and cook for about five minutes.
it has not  been reviewed by the lifescript editorial staff for accuracy.
place the ears on a grill over medium hot coals.
crushed  red pepper: this spice could have been included with the basic ingredients,  but not every one likes to use it.
don't be content with frozen hamburgers and cheap hotdogs.
let the vegetables marinate in the dressing while you prepare the fire.
- what's the one beauty product you never leave home without?
with some basic preparations, the right supplies and a little practice, you and your friends will be crawling into your tents with full bellies and satisfied palettes.
ground pepper: most cooks are much happier with the flavor of freshly ground pepper than the pepper that comes already crushed in shakers.
- how do you get your daily dose of vitamin d? - {3ba54f8e-b6d3-4e21-9ac6-ad5ac3f66534} - how much do you know about alzheimer’s disease?
cumin: this is the base flavor of most south western or tex-mex type rubs and sauces.
use fresh summer veggies like squash, zucchini, mushrooms, and sweet onions.
lifescript site map health diet & fitness - health centers - a-z reference - top conditions - everyday care - natural health - family health - calendar - news food - diet & fitness a-z - diet center - fitness center - diet & fitness rx - diet & fitness experts life - healthy eating guides - healthy recipes - food quizzes - find a nutritionist soul healthy tools - family - money - relationships - sex - timeout lifescript healthy solutions content in these special sections is created on behalf of our advertising partners - doctor finder - experts - quizzes - recipes - tools living with asthma take a breath take in life managing your high cholesterol copyright © 1999 - 2012 - www.lifescript.com - all rights reserved - about lifescript - contact us - privacy policy - - terms of use - spam policy - products - advertise
it will burn quickly  otherwise.
rate this article (votes: 13) (avg: 3.92) - currently 3/5 stars.
camping recipes that demand a second helping by brian simkins published june 28, 2007 view comments rate (votes: 13) - currently 3/5 stars.
this recipe works  just as well on a charcoal grill as it does on an industrial gas grill, so this  is a great camping recipe.
one last special treat camp cooking recipes should be easy to prepare and take only a small amount of time to cook.
first, slice potatoes onto a 12-inch square of aluminum foil.
this will allow the biscuits to bake instead of fry in their own moisture.
be sure to cover the grate with foil so that the flames don't lick the bottom of your pizza crust.
arrange the biscuits so that they are not directly over the hottest part of the grill.
this will cause heat to build up inside the grill, but there will be no flame directly underneath the biscuits to burn the bottom.
turn the ears often to keep them from burning.
the secret with campfire pizza is that you don't actually cook the dough on the grill.
if you plan your menu in advance, then you can figure out  how many crusts you will need and pack accordingly.
cooking an excellent meal while camping will fill both your stomach and your ego, so have fun!