but if you  have a little bigger budget or you're limited on patio space, check the  char-broil combination gas/charcoal grill.
if you truly enjoy outdoor cooking, it  makes sense to own two models that you use for different purposes.
though some barbeque fans swear they can't tell the difference between food cooked on gas grills and food cooked on charcoal, the charcoal purists insist otherwise.
most gas grills - excluding portable and table-top models - are on the expensive side, ranging anywhere from $300 to $1500, and more for higher end models such as built-ins and smoker/grill combinations.
so who's the winner in this category?
if cost is the most important deciding factor for you, you'll likely want to look at charcoal grills.
according to them, the flavor that is infused from the smoke of charcoal briquettes or wood coals is what distinguishes an outdoor feast from a standard kitchen meal.
die-hard  grilling aficionados swear by the flavor and process of cooking with charcoal  grills.
if cost is the most important deciding factor for you, you'll likely want  to look at charcoal grills.
the jury is still out on this  argument, and it probably always will be.
q&a with nh books           links   library           about our site            find a handyman submit an article
though some barbeque fans swear they can't tell the difference between food  cooked on gas grills and food cooked on charcoal, the charcoal purists insist  otherwise.
if you truly enjoy outdoor cooking, it makes sense to own two models that you use for different purposes.
as you can see, there are pros and cons to owning a gas grill, just as there are advantages and disadvantages to owning a charcoal model.
die-hard grilling aficionados swear by the flavor and process of cooking with charcoal grills.
free "handy" magazine                                build your own quality hot tub search our  website !
for those who still can't decide...  buy both!!
do what many families have  done in recent years - they buy both!
return to barbeque grill articles gas vs.
return to barbeque grill articles
the  case for gas or charcoal seems to be divided along three main points: convenience taste the convenience argument... and the winner is:  the gas grill!!
in an effort to address the taste issue, some gas grill manufacturers have  built models that addceramic flavor bars, patented by weber.
if you add features like additional  burners and side tables, you can count on something like a $300 to $400 range.
taste is such an individual decision; you may just have to try both grills and see for yourself.
most models feature push-button ignitions, a consistent, steady heat source that's ready to go within minutes, excellent temperature control, and easy cleanup.
but convenience isn't necessarily a deciding factor for all grill shoppers.
the clear winner in this category is the gas grill.
for example,  you can use the gas grill for cooking quick barbeque meals during the week, and  break out the charcoal grill for when you want to take your time on the weekend.
charcoal enthusiasts say it's the ritual - piling up the charcoal, lighting it,
in the end, the decision comes  down to your lifestyle and what features work best for you and your family.
there are a couple of options available to you if you want to own both a gas and a charcoal grill.
linking to our site is allowed and encouraged!!
do what many families have done in recent years - they buy both!
about the author: vanessa kirkland is successful freelance writer and outdoor cooking enthusiast.
tending the fire, and manually adjusting cooking temperatures by moving food  from hotter spots to cooler ones - that makes outdoor cooking worth the effort.
taste is such an individual decision;  you may just have to try both grills and see for yourself.
a popular brand  that uses this flavor bar feature is the weber genesis series.
most models feature  push-button ignitions, a consistent, steady heat source that's ready to go  within minutes, excellent temperature control, and easy cleanup.
advertise on our site   privacy info    comments / questions copyright 2011
there's the obvious one: buy both grills.
but with the majority of new grill purchases being gas models, there are obviously fans in that camp, too.
for example, you can use the gas grill for cooking quick barbeque meals during the week, and break out the charcoal grill for when you want to take your time on the weekend.
home       repair articles         enter a  sweepstakes!!
essentially, it's two grills in one, the left side exclusively gas and the right side exclusively charcoal.
most gas grills - excluding portable and table-top models - are on the  expensive side, ranging anywhere from $300 to $1500, and more for higher end  models such as built-ins and smoker/grill combinations.
charcoal enthusiasts say it's the ritual - piling up the charcoal, lighting it, tending the fire, and manually adjusting cooking temperatures by moving food from hotter spots to cooler ones - that makes outdoor cooking worth the effort.
there are a couple of options available to you if you want to own both a  gas and a charcoal grill.
the taste argument... and the winner is:  disputed tie!!
as you can see, there are pros and cons to owning a gas grill, just as  there are advantages and disadvantages to owning a charcoal model.
still aren't sure which one is right for you?
essentially, it's two grills in one,  the left side exclusively gas and the right side exclusively charcoal.
so what will it be - gas, charcoal, or both?
they feel that trading the process of the backyard barbeque for the push-button convenience of a gas grill is missing the point.
about the author: vanessa kirkland is successful freelance writer and  outdoor cooking enthusiast.
the jury is still out on this argument, and it probably always will be.
in the end, the decision comes down to your lifestyle and what features work best for you and your family.
let's look at the arguments for both.
by vanessa kirkland the debate over which grill is better - gas or charcoal - may not induce  as many passionate and polarized opinions as the upcoming presidential  campaign, but for outdoor cooking enthusiasts it comes pretty close.
these bars catch grease drippings and vaporize them into a  humid smoke that infuses more flavor into what's being cooked.
a popular brand that uses this flavor bar feature is the weber genesis series.
return to barbeque grill articles the debate over which grill is better - gas or charcoal - may not induce as many passionate and polarized opinions as the upcoming presidential campaign, but for outdoor cooking enthusiasts it comes pretty close.
they cost considerably less than gas, with basic models ranging from about $30 to $100.
they cost considerably less than gas, with basic  models ranging from about $30 to $100.
the case for gas or charcoal seems to be divided along three main points: the clear winner in this category is the gas grill.
if you add features like additional burners and side tables, you can count on something like a $300 to $400 range.
these bars catch grease drippings and vaporize them into a humid smoke that infuses more flavor into what's being cooked.
so which grill wins the debate?
charcoal grills: who wins the "great barbeque  debate"?
the cost argument... and the winner is:   the charcoal grill!!
but with the majority of new grill purchases being gas models, there  are obviously fans in that camp, too.
return to barbeque grill articles search our website!
they feel that trading the process of the backyard barbeque for the push-button  convenience of a gas grill is missing the point.
in an effort to address the taste issue, some gas grill manufacturers have built models that addceramic flavor bars, patented by weber.
according to them, the flavor that is infused from the smoke of  charcoal briquettes or wood coals is what distinguishes an outdoor feast from a  standard kitchen meal.
but if you have a little bigger budget or you're limited on patio space, check the char-broil combination gas/charcoal grill.