- char-broil combination gas/charcoal grill model# 463724511 - gas/charcoal r... - char-griller duo gas/charcoal grill model #5050 - charcoal/gas grill review - about grills - gas grills, charcoal grills, all kinds of grills derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches gas grills gas grill burning coals charcoal ash explore barbecues & grilling must reads most popular - bbq recipes - best gas grill - barbecue & grilling recipe of the week - best smokers - bbq & grilling faq see more about: - top 10 bbq sauces - top 10 rub recipes - top 10 steak recipes - kansas city rib rub - buy a gas grill
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
you should look into repairing your grill and not try boosting the heat with charcoal.
suggested reading related articles - grills faq - gas grill repair - how to grill - learn how to grill on a gas or charcoal grill - grill
a part of the new york times company.
if your grill is having trouble reaching a good temperature then there is  probably something wrong with it.
free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
- how to grill - charcoal basics
- about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling barbecues & grilling search free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
by category - how to grill - charcoal basics - beef - fish and seafood - fruit and vegetables
also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
answer: no, gas grills are designed to handle the heat created by  burners and not the heat created by burning charcoal.
answer: no, gas grills are designed to handle the heat created by burners and not the heat created by burning charcoal.
what kind of grill is right for me?
you should look into repairing your grill and  not try boosting the heat with charcoal.
sign up discuss in my forum can i use charcoal in my gas grill?
throw charcoal in a gas grill and you  will probably end up having to replace several parts, if not the entire grill  itself.
if your grill is having trouble reaching a good temperature then there is probably something wrong with it.
sign up - barbecues & grilling - grills/smokers - grilling - barbecue/smoking discuss in my forum can i use charcoal in my gas grill?
throw charcoal in a gas grill and you will probably end up having to replace several parts, if not the entire grill itself.
aside from the fact that you would be filling your gas grill with ash and quite likely have hot burning coals falling out of your grill the heat from burning charcoal can be very damaging to components of a gas grill.
by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: question: can i use charcoal in my gas grill?
aside from the fact that  you would be filling your gas grill with ash and quite likely have hot burning  coals falling out of your grill the heat from burning charcoal can be very  damaging to components of a gas grill.
by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: how to grill charcoal basics question: can i use charcoal in my gas  grill?
- grilling help - grills - lamb - meals and menus - more recipes - organizations - pork - poultry - sauces & marinades - smokers - smoking help - spices & seasonings barbecues & grilling - about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling - grills - grills faq - can i use charcoal in my gas grill?