the bonding agent that holds  the tiles on the shell is similar in composition to what nasa uses to hold heat  tiles on the space shuttle.
you buy this grill directly from the manufacturer and it is shipped to you in a big crate.
while the cap, once installed, won't  fall off, it does wobble a little to allow for the expansion of the metal bolt  that holds it in place.
this grill comes standard with three cooking grates, giving you up to  nearly 1,000 square inches of potential cooking space.
this kamado style grill has a thick, heavy shell.
many companies have tried to cash in on their popularity by imitating their  design and business method.
the lid is held closed by a simple locking latch (that thumped my fingers a few times until i learned to move them out of the way).
spin cap top vent, daisy wheel, and damper vents spring loaded lid for weightless lift and locking latch to hold lid closed removable coal basket manufactured in indonesia by komodo kamado guide review - komodo kamado otb 23-inch charcoal grill since the  1970s the big green egg has been synonymous with the kamado style of cooker.
have several strong people on hand when it shows up.
it is very  heavy and if you are placing it on a wooden deck i suggest something to put  under it so that it doesn't dent the wood.
the top vent is actually a rotating cap made of the same refractory materials and covered in the same tiles as the rest of the grill.
the main grate has a hinged door in the front for the same purpose.
the cooking grates are 3/8-inch welded 304 stainless rod and the remaining stainless steel pieces are cnc laser cut plate.
the temperature barely fluctuates.
the lid is held closed by a simple locking latch (that thumped my  fingers a few times until i learned to move them out of the way).
these cookers range in quality from junk to decent with varying  levels of customer support so buyer beware.
the lid would literally  be too heavy to lift but the covered spring mechanism makes the lid virtually  weightless.
the lid would literally be too heavy to lift but the covered spring mechanism makes the lid virtually weightless.
it is available in virtually any color you want and in multiple tile patterns.
it  is available in virtually any color you want and in multiple tile patterns.
weighing in at nearly  600 pounds of which 82 pounds are stainless steel, this is the space age of  charcoal grills.
the top grate  sits on top of the main grate.
the komodo kamado isn't one of those.
the bonding agent that holds the tiles on the shell is similar in composition to what nasa uses to hold heat tiles on the space shuttle.
probably the  first thing you will notice about this charcoal grill/smoker is the price.
the komodo kamado is the epitome of over-engineering.
a part of the new york times company.
is it better than other similar  grills?
there is even a brushed copper design coming soon.
expensive description 375 square inches of grilling space with a total cooking area of 978  square inches on three levels dual layer refractory shell - inner layer high temperature - outer layer  insulative 3/8-inch rod stainless steel cooking grates four leg design with heavy duty rubber wheels all metal components are laser cut 304 stainless steel (82 pounds worth) 588 pounds total weight (about 140 pounds per square inch on its wheels)
discuss in my forum by derrick riches, about.com guidesee more about: komodo kamado charcoal grill - blue tilekomodo kamado the komodo kamado is the epitome of over-engineering.
of course there is very little comparable between the two,  other than the fact that they are both kamado style grills.
you buy this grill directly from the manufacturer and it is shipped to you  in a big crate.
manufacturer's site 5 out of 5 the best  do-it-all cooker, member greg_r i've owned and used a komodo kamado (or kk) for the past 6 years for all  kinds of food in every kind of weather imaginable.
you buy this grill because it is attractive, extremely well built, and because you can (i personally can't).
the kk is one of the few  cookers that can cook slow-and-low (225 for bbq) and also achieve very high  temperatures for breads and pizza (800+ degrees).
there is even a space to install the popular bbq guru airflow  control mechanism that lets you control the temperature of this grill with  computer precision.
this grill comes standard with three cooking grates, giving you up to nearly 1,000 square inches of potential cooking space.
the kk is a luxury item with the  customization, fit & finish and the customer support to match.
no see all 8 reviews derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide ©2012 about.com.
kk is also great if you have small children around...
is it 5 times better?
the  main grate has a hinged door in the front for the same purpose.
the cookers have increased in price and features over the years but this cooker still represents a good value when you consider the looks and required space for potential replacements.
you get to  choose the color of the tiles or stones along with the grout so it can match  other objects in your backyard.
the cooker is extremely  efficient, i have bbq'd up to 20hrs straight without ever having to refill the  charcoal.
manufacturer's site i've owned and used a komodo kamado (or kk) for the past 6 years for all kinds of food in every kind of weather imaginable.
in the area of thinking of everything, the komodo kamado has the only  rotisserie system (sold separately) that lets you close the lid completely  while in use.
the kk is one of the few cookers that can cook slow-and-low (225 for bbq) and also achieve very high temperatures for breads and pizza (800+ degrees).
the insulation makes the surface slightly warm to the touch, even if you are running at very high temperatures.
special orders are available.
this  23-inch version will run you nearly 5 times what a comparable egg would cost at  around $3,600usd.
was this review helpful to you?
the kk is a luxury item with the customization, fit & finish and the customer support to match.
the bottom grate fits  down inside the grill and has an open space in the front to feed the fire.
the top vent  is actually a rotating cap made of the same refractory materials and covered in  the same tiles as the rest of the grill.
the bottom grate fits down inside the grill and has an open space in the front to feed the fire.
this insulation also makes cooking in wind, snow or rain  very easy...
in the area of thinking of everything, the komodo kamado has the only rotisserie system (sold separately) that lets you close the lid completely while in use.
these would be primarily used for smoking, giving you plenty of space for lots of barbecue.
you get to choose the color of the tiles or stones along with the grout so it can match other objects in your backyard.
no see all 8 reviews
the top grate sits on top of the main grate.
this insulation also makes cooking in wind, snow or rain very easy...
the insulation  makes the surface slightly warm to the touch, even if you are running at very  high temperatures.
the cooking grates are 3/8-inch welded 304  stainless rod and the remaining stainless steel pieces are cnc laser cut plate.
you buy this grill because it is  attractive, extremely well built, and because you can (i personally can't).
the cooker is extremely efficient, i have bbq'd up to 20hrs straight without ever having to refill the charcoal.
there are similar cookers like  the big green egg, kamado cooker (not to be confused with the kk), and other  ceramic bbqs.
the komodo kamado is a luxury grill.
it is very heavy and if you are placing it on a wooden deck i suggest something to put under it so that it doesn't dent the wood.
these cookers range in quality from junk to decent with varying levels of customer support so buyer beware.
that is more than just hyperbole.
weighing in at nearly 600 pounds of which 82 pounds are stainless steel, this is the space age of charcoal grills.
is it better than other similar grills?
the cookers have increased in price and  features over the years but this cooker still represents a good value when you  consider the looks and required space for potential replacements.
write a review 5 out of 5 people found this helpful.
while the cap, once installed, won't fall off, it does wobble a little to allow for the expansion of the metal bolt that holds it in place.
these would be primarily used for smoking,  giving you plenty of space for lots of barbecue.
there is even a space to install the popular bbq guru airflow control mechanism that lets you control the temperature of this grill with computer precision.
there are similar cookers like the big green egg, kamado cooker (not to be confused with the kk), and other ceramic bbqs.