unless otherwise noted, all text, recipes, photos, and code are owned by amazingribs, inc. and fully protected by us copyrightâ law.
- the history of barbecue the origin of the word - the invention of bbq: dissertation on roast pork - meet candy weaver, a real iron chef - lbj & bbq diplomacy - david letterman's top 10 barbecue lists - meatless month?
it will improve  your cooking overnight and pay for itself in a hurry.
we have always been transparent about when we are reviewing a product  sample, even beforethe federal trade commission required it in 2009.
other than clearly marked ads, links and recommendations on this site are all products, services, and websites we truly admire, and are never paid endorsements.
- saucing strategies - reheating leftover ribs - recipes - rubs, spice blends, pastes, marinades, brines - the zen of marinades - the zen of brines - meathead's memphis dust - rendezvous-style memphis seasoning - rub for brisket - mrs. o'leary's cow crust - simon & garfunkel rub for chicken & pork - poultry seasoning - chili powder - seasoned salt - harissa hot pepper paste - ras el hanout spice mix - chinese five spice powder - poultry seasoning - pickling spices - mayo mojo - pesto - charmoula herb paste - barbecue sauces - kansas city classic bbq sauce - tennessee hollerin' whiskey sauce - south carolina mustard sauce - grownup mustard sauce - lexington dip - east carolina mop-sauce - louisiana bayou bite sauce - texas mop-sauce - danny gaulden's legendary glaze - alabama white sauce - kentucky black sauce for lamb & mutton - eve's apple butter pig paint - spiced apricot glaze - chocolate chile barbecue sauce - other fun sauces -
we do not accept ads from product categories we review and we keep a strict wall between editorial and advertising, so, for current pricing and availability of prime space, contact my agency, federated media, by clicking the logo at right.
advertising on amazingribs.com is a  great way to build your brand or make direct sales.
- my food photography - my other websites - special thanks to these folks - my privacy promise & other legal terms be my friend follow on twitter
| techniques | recipes | buyer's guides | links | ruminations | ingredients | |misc bbq articles | one nation under sauce | meet meathead | newsletter | updates | donations | | privacy promise, code of ethics, other legal terms |advertising and sponsorship opportunities |
amazingribs, inc. promises to never  sell or distribute any info about you individually without your express  permission, and we promise not to, ahem, pepper you with email or make you eat  spam.
bi-metal dial thermometers are often off by as much as 50°f!
the authors are human and capable of mistakes, omissions, or errors, so we make no guarantees as to the accuracy, completeness, or safety of the information.
copyright © by amazingribs, inc.
- thawing frozen meat - does grilling cause cancer?
if you would like us to link to your website, click here to readour links policy first.
the information on this website is for educational purposes only.
the information on this website is for  educational purposes only.
- do nitrites & nitrates cause cancer?
so i  get a referral fee.
if you would like us to link to your website, click here to readour  links policy first.
our philosophy about food is simple.
this means you need written permission to republish or distribute anything on this website.
grinding your own burgers - how to make incredible steakhouse steakburgers - how to make great diner burgers - mary's little lamburgers - mu shu pork burgers - hot dogs & sausages - the zen of sausages - hot dog road trip - how to cook hot dogs - preparing your buns - all-purpose hot dog chili - what's in a frankfurter?
nominee: 2010 world food media awards member: international association of culinary professionals member: kansas city barbeque society member:
it will improve your cooking overnight and pay for itself in a hurry.
the temperatures are the same for both indoor and outdoor cooks.
other than clearly marked ads,  links and recommendations on this site are all products, services, and websites  we truly admire, and are never paid endorsements.
but clicking on that link before you shop helps me devote more time and money to you.
this is the concept behind the expensive new  infrared grills.
machine washable, temper-ground,  serrated, high-carbon stainless-steel, full-tang blades with excellent cutting  edge retention, beefy hardwood handle, rust and stain resistant, and they stay  shiny without polishing.
click here formore info.
it includes  the latest usda recommendations as well as chef recommendations (and they often  differ) as well as color photos of the different stages of doneness for red  meats.
advertisement | homepage | table of contents | | weights, measures, conversions
table of contents techniques recipes buyer's guides ingredients one nation under sauce misc bbq articles weights, measures, conversions links advertising newsletter updates meet meathead .
advertisement | weights, measures, conversions |  techniques | recipes | buyer's guides | links | ruminations | ingredients | |misc bbq articles | one nation under sauce | meet meathead | newsletter |  updates | donations | | privacy promise, code of ethics, other legal terms  |advertising and sponsorship opportunities |
click here for more info and how to order it.
table of contents feel free to dive in and jump around, but if you are the methodical type, you might want to work your way down this list from the top.
grillgrates take you to the infrared zone grillgrates are the best new product i have tested in years and the best  thing to happen to beef since salt and pepper.
click here for more aboutthermometers.
i'll even toss in a small bag  of bbq'rs delight wood smoke pellets.
it is by far the most popular barbecue website in the world and pageviews increase rapidly every year.
amazingribs.com is published by amazingribs, inc., a florida corporation.
then, please tell me everything i need to know to answer your question.
so i get a referral fee.
it must be easy to make and emphasize fresh seasonal products with  a minimum of processed ingredients.
amazingribs.com is published by amazingribs, inc., a  florida corporation.
unless otherwise  noted, all text, recipes, photos, and code are owned by amazingribs, inc. and  fully protected by us copyrightâ law.
no spam from meathead, guaranteed.
and it is inexpensive.
bans - the future for foodies - funny food at moto - other rants & raves - the war on thanksgiving - air force one photo:
national barbecue association represented by: the lisa ekus group promoting a world of culinary talent founding member: operation bbq relief important info about this website amazingribs.com is all about the zen of barbecue, grilling, and outdoor cooking, with great bbq recipes and techniques: barbecue baby back ribs, spareribs, pulled pork, beef brisket, steak, burgers, chicken, smoked turkey, lamb, barbecue sauces, burgers, steaks, rubs, and side dishes, with the world's best buying guide to barbecue smokers and grills.
promoting a world of culinary  talent founding member: operation bbq relief important info about this website amazingribs.com is all about the zen of barbecue,  grilling, and outdoor cooking, with great bbq recipes and techniques: barbecue  baby back ribs, spareribs, pulled pork, beef brisket, steak, burgers, chicken,  smoked turkey, lamb, barbecue sauces, burgers, steaks, rubs, and side dishes,  with the world's best buying guide to barbecue smokers and grills.
this one has a very thin tip with a tiny thermocouple so it gives an accurate reading in just six seconds.
machine washable, temper-ground, serrated, high-carbon stainless-steel, full-tang blades with excellent cutting edge retention, beefy hardwood handle, rust and stain resistant, and they stay shiny without polishing.
the ultimate smoked turkey - smoked turkey supper salad - smoked turkey pot pies - bobby flay's tandoori style turkey breast - simon & garfunkel chicken - smoked chicken georgia style - buxom chicken breasts - cornell chicken - chicken in 'bama white sauce - chicken piccata - turducken - seafood - seared salmon on a salad - schmancy smoked salmon - mussels mariniere - lamb - the zen of lamb cuts - binghamton spiedies (kabobs) - lamb loin chops in sheep dip - mary's little lamburgers - moroccan lamb mechoui - beef -
i cannot recommend it more highly.
the base superheats, eliminates  hot spots, and blocks flareups.
- pig roasters - outdoor kitchens - barbecue accessories, tools, & toys - required kitchen tools - bar necessities - corkscrews - funny aprons, hats, t-shirts - books & magazines - commercial barbecue sauces - food photography tools & techniques - one nation under sauce - south carolina pitstops - kansas city pitstops - austin bbq belt pitstops - links - best food & cooking websites - best barbecue websites - barbecue competitions & associations - build your own grill, smoker, or hog pit - best wine, beer, spirits ratings & resources - best restaurant guides - best cooking schools, wine schools, classes - best hot dog links - meathead's other websites - meathead's links policy & link exchanges - blog - barbecue related - what is barbecue?
with a $30 donation you'll get a 100% cotton brushed twill adjustable low profile cap with the amazingribs patch sewn on.
awards are  based on features, quality, and value.
note: some photos of commercial  products such as grills were provided by the manufacturers and are under their  copyright.
we think that people need to know why as  well as how, so we spend a lot of time explaining things, and we believe that  there are no rules in the bedroom or dining room.
your suggestions are always welcome.
amazingribs.com best in bbq gold medal winners here are  some great products that have earnedthe amazingribs.com best  in bbq gold medals.
it starts with the basic techniques and science a good backyard cook should know in order to master the craft.
click here for more info on these wonderful knives.
the smokenator: a necessity for all weber kettles
rest assured that when we recommend a  product, it is really because we like it, not because someone has paid us to  say so because we do not accept advertising from product categories we review.
this is the concept behind the expensive new infrared grills.
photoshop it! - lessons from three mile island - the electronic crybaby - lessons from marley - obama's to do list - a letter to charities - my christmas list - planning chicago olympics - smoking on stage - stopping the email lies - coalition of the weeding - meathead makes football hall - can we send illegals home?
like the type of cooker you are using.
all material within comes without warranties of any kind.
the smokenator turns your grill into a first class smoker, and the hovergrill  can add capacity or be used to create steakhouse steaks.
- about amazingribs.com - meet meathead - advertising on amazingribs.com - "smoke signals" free email newsletter - donate to keep the site free - contact meathead - tunes for bbq - testimonials & pix from readers - amazing ribs: where's the book?
i cannot pick the right cooker for you any more than i could pick the right car or spouse for you.
if you are looking for info, please use the table of contents or the search box, at the top of every page.
this means you need written  permission to republish or distribute anything on this website.
if you are not using a good digital you have no idea what the temp really is so i can't help you.
- italian sausage sandwiches - italian sausage meatloaf - wisconsin brat tub - pizza - zen of pizza on the grill - taxonomy of pizza styles - all purpose dough for grilled pizza
we purchase many products we review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
the best reasons to buy fromamazon are low prices, fast often free delivery, fair return policies, and often there is no sales tax.
a must for gas grills.
about product reviews and best in bbq gold,  silver, and bronze medals are highly recommended products.
amazingribs.com is one of the 100 most popular food websites in the us according tocomscore, alexa, and
- grilled pizza margherita - pepe's style white clam pizza recipe - grilled pizza with capicola - grilled provencal caramelized onion pizza - building a wood burning pizza oven - other entrees - grilled eggplant parm - grilled cheese sandwiches on the grill - pimento cheese - paella on the grill - chicago italian beef sangwitches - pot pies - bobby flay's turkey fajitas - bobby flay's grilled turkey cuban sandwich - potatoes - the zenâ of potatoes - mom's potato salad - potato pancakes (latkes) - warm french potato salad - oktoberfest german potato salad - italian pesto potatoes - great greek potatoes - english blue cheese potatoes - american garlic mashed potatoes - syracuse salt potatoes - mayo mojo potatoes - sweet potato steak fries - beans - the zen of beans - boston baked beans - barbecue beans with bourbon - hoppin john - grannie's texas beans - red beans & rice - drunken beans - hot dog chili - french green beans - breads - roasted garlic garlic bread - cornbread - slaws, salads, and veggie sides - the zen of slawsome slaw - simple sweet-sour slaw - creamy cole slaw with sour cream - creamy cole slaw with mayo - wonderful waldorf slaw - thai cucumber salad - caprese tomato salad - italian vinaigrette salad dressing - grilled asparagus spears - green salad with grilled apples - french green beans - caramelized onions - other side dishes - ultimate corn on the cob - cheesy grits - crack 'n' cheese - bread & butter & sage dressing - smoked tomato soup - gazpacho - soused apple sauce - charoses:
- dessert - pie dough - zen of pie thickeners - grape pie - chocolate truffles - pecan tassies - snacks and munchies - pimento cheese - frico cheese crisps - grilled jalapeno poppers - boursin cheese spread - grilled pizza - chestnuts roasted on an open fire - mayo mojo egg salad - sweet & sour pickles - kosher dill pickles & pickled green tomatoes - cracklins - drinks - mojitos with mojo - southern sweet tea - rosengarten's real lemonade - marvelous mint juleps - brew for cue, wine for swine, booze too - classic cocktails & bartending skills - saintly swedish glogg - my ingredients - the zen of balsamic vinegar - the zen of beans - the zen of beef cuts - the zen of beef grades & labels - the zen of beef ribs - the zen of chiles, chili, & hot sauces - the zen of chocolate - the zen of clams - the zen of corn - the zen of garlic - the zen of hams - the zen of hard boiled eggs - the zen of herbs & spices - the zen of ketchup - the zen of lamb cuts - the zen of molasses & syrups - the zen of mustards - the zen of parmesan cheese - the zen of pickles - the zen of pie thickeners - the zen of pork cuts - the zen of potatoes - the zen of rice - the zen of salt - ...more ingredients... - buyer's guides - the amazingribs.com best in bbq medals - thermometer buying guide - what to look for in a smoker - charcoal smokers - egg, kamado, & ceramic grill/smokers - large capacity, restaurant & trailer mounted smokers - pellet grills & smokers - gas smokers - electric smokers - commercial indoor smokers - stovetop smokers - what to look for in a grill - charcoal grill reviews & ratings - egg, kamado, & ceramic grill/smokers - gas grill reviews & ratings - pellet grills & smokers - tailgate, camping, & portable grills - grills gone wild - gas grills vs. charcoal grills - which is better?
click here for analytics, stats, demographics, and advertising options.
note: some photos of commercial products such as grills were provided by the manufacturers and are under their copyright.
the zen of beef cuts - the zen of beef grades & labels - the zen of beef ribs - texas beef brisket - how to grill great steakhouse steaks - searing steaks - extreme steak - santa maria tri-tip & whole beef tenderloin - crusty flank steak - drunk chuck steak - beef prime rib & other beef roasts on the grill - bbq beef ribs texas & chicago style - korean kalbi: grilled beef ribs - braised beef ribs - beef kabobs - home made corned beef - corned beef and cabbage - corned beef hash - home made pastrami - rockin' reuben sandwiches - chicago italian beef sangwitches - the classic chicago hot dog - beef jerky - burgers - the zen of hamburgers - the zen of hamburger buns - the zen of burger sauces, condiments, toppings - the zen of cheeseburgers - new mexico green chile cheeseburgers -
- cincinnati cheese coneys - west virginia slaw dogs - sandra's candied cocktail wienies - my most memorable hot dog - meathead's ultimate hot dog - meathead's ride in the wienermobile - how to start a hot dog stand - chasing your dog: what to drink?
with a $30 donation you'll get a 100% cotton brushed twill adjustable low  profile cap with the amazingribs patch sewn on.
if you have a weber kettle, you need the amazing smokenator and hovergrill.
we have always been transparent about when we are reviewing a product sample, even beforethe federal trade commission required it in 2009.
i've shared just about everything i know.
with some barbecue - other food & drink related - raw sprouts: riskiest food around - new usda cooking temps still goofy - how google's new recipe search works - meathead goes meatless in august 2010 - who killed gourmet magazine? - remembering stuart miller - obama's first test - best hot dog gone - save mr. beef!
if you sign up for my free email newsletter,smoke signals, i will let you know as i add new articles.
grillgrates take you to the infrared zone grillgrates are the best new product i have tested in years and the best thing to happen to beef since salt and pepper.
2) don't ask me any questions that involve temp or time unless you tell me that you are using a digital thermometer!
amazingribs, inc. promises to never sell or distribute any info about you individually without your express permission, and we promise not to, ahem, pepper you with email or make you eat spam.
awards are based on features, quality, and value.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.
here are some great products that have earnedthe amazingribs.com best in bbq gold medals.
steakhouse knives these are the same knives used at the best steakhouses (peter luger, smith & wollensky, morton's and others).
to get reprint rights,click here.
we purchase many products we review although occasionally suppliers send us  samples.
hot dogs - chicago hot dogs - chicago's best hot dog stands - no ketchup on hot dogs - detroit coney dogs
get smoke signals, my free eletter with tips and recipes.
but clicking on that link before you shop helps me  devote more time and money to you.
rest assured that when we recommend a product, it is really because we like it, not because someone has paid us to say so because we do not accept advertising from product categories we review.
3) please don't ask me "what grill (or smoker) should i buy?" read mybuyer's guides and the buying checklists and follow the links.
it includes the latest usda recommendations as well as chef recommendations (and they often differ) as well as color photos of the different stages of doneness for red meats.
homepage - technique - grill and smoker setup - 2-zone and indirect cooking: a vital technique - the importance of a digital thermometer - calibrating & seasoning a grill or smoker - grill cleaning & maintenance - charcoal grill setup - gas grill setup - offset (barrel) smoker setup & modifications - weber smokey mountain & bullet smoker setup - smokenator setup & tips - what goes in the water pan - important stuff for all cooks - meat temperature guide - weights, measures, conversions - thermodynamics of cooking - meat science - the zen of charcoal - the zen of wood & smoke - the stall: how it works & what to do about it - aluminum foil: the texas crutch - mythbustin': lookin' ain't cookin' - the zen of brining - dry brining - injecting - marinating - faux cambro keeps your food warm - cooking more than one large hunk o' meat - freezing & reheating leftovers - use a cooking diary - glossary of terms - food, knife, and grill safety
remember, i am not a mind reader.
advertising on this site.
the smokenator turns your grill into a first class smoker, and the hovergrill can add capacity or be used to create steakhouse steaks.
under no circumstances are we liable for any damages that result  from use of the site (so you can't sue us if you don't like a recipe or if you  burn your tongue on hot ribs, ok?).
delicious jewish applesauce - drunken cranberries - breakfast - grilled french toast - cornbread
- rating all-beef franks - hot dog history - new york
amazingribs.com best in bbq gold medal winners meat temp fridge magnet the prize for best bbq tool at the 2012 the national barbecue association conference went to a simple inexpensive fridge magnet by meathead.
my current rss feed read this before posting a comment please: 1)
we do not accept ads from  product categories we review and we keep a strict wall between editorial and  advertising, so, for current pricing and availability of prime space, contact  my agency, federated media, by clicking the logo at right.
we think that people need to know why as well as how, so we spend a lot of time explaining things, and we believe that there are no rules in the bedroom or dining room.
thermoworks pocket thermometer -
about links on this site.
this one has a very thin tip with a tiny thermocouple so it gives an accurate  reading in just six seconds.
- ernest gallo remembered - italian culinary trends - robert mondavi remembered - food & the flicks - foie gras
amazingribs.com is one of the  100 most popular food websites in the us according tocomscore, alexa, and
if you have problems posting with internet explorer, please read this.
our privacy promise.
my posts on google+ read me in huffpost my free email newsletter
it is by far the most popular barbecue website in the world and  pageviews increase rapidly every year.
i'll even toss in a small bag of bbq'rs delight wood smoke pellets.
the authors are human and capable of mistakes, omissions, or errors, so  we make no guarantees as to the accuracy, completeness, or safety of the  information.
http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs this link takes you to amazon and tags anything you buy with a code
click here for more about grillgrates.
click here to read more.
advertising on amazingribs.com is a great way to build your brand or make direct sales.
click  here for more info on these wonderful knives.
meat temp fridge magnet the prize for best bbq tool at the 2012 the national barbecue association  conference went to a simple inexpensive fridge magnet by meathead.
click  here for more info and how to order it.
steakhouse knives these are the same knives used at the best steakhouses (peter luger, smith  & wollensky, morton's and others).
it is written, photographed, illustrated, and coded solely bymeathead .
a hog pit - pork piccata - mu shu pork burgers - cracklins - stuffed pork loin roast for special occasions - wisconsin brat tub - chicken & turkey -
more guessing a good thermometer is why i never serve overcooked or undercooked food.
save this link to keep this site free!
if problems persist,send me a note.
it must be easy to make and emphasize fresh seasonal products with a minimum of processed ingredients.
click here for more details ofour privacy promise.
it is  written, photographed, illustrated, and coded solely bymeathead .
the base superheats, eliminates hot spots, and blocks flareups.
about product reviews and best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are highly recommended products.
the best reasons to buy  fromamazon are low prices, fast often free delivery, fair return policies, and  often there is no sales tax.
pay attention to the awards i have given my faves.
your suggestions are always  welcome.
if you are still using a dial thermometer, please read this article about thermometers, then buy a good digital, and then, if the problem persists (chances are it won't), hit me with your questions.
the zen of stocks, gravies, bouillons - rich red wine sauce - piccata sauce - chimichurri sauce - grilled marinara sauces - horseradish cream sauce - grownup mustard sauce - red hot sauce - green chile salsa new mexico style - pesto - harissa hot pepper paste - cuban mojo sauce - dc mumbo sauce - porknography: ribs, pulled pork, & more - the different cuts of pork - last meal ribs: best bbq ribs ever - ribs in a hurry, rendezvous-style - vermont maple pig candy - best indoor oven-baked ribs - slow cooker ribs - chinatown char-siu pork & ribs - hoisinful nine dragon ribs - chinese five spice riblets - tuscan marinated ribs - mexican rangetop ribs - the zen of hams - the ultimate easter ham - perfect pulled pork from pork butt - pork chops & country ribs - better than mcrib sandwich - whole hog old school - building
and now they have the amazingribs.com imprimatur.
donate to keep this site free!
first of all it must taste great.
all material within comes without warranties of any  kind.
under no circumstances are we liable for any damages that result from use of the site (so you can't sue us if you don't like a recipe or if you burn your tongue on hot ribs, ok?).
first of all it must  taste great.
- why sprouts may be the riskiest food - making amazing ribs - how to skin 'n' trim ribs - are my ribs ready