why do you need a smoker?
the trick tosmoking on a  charcoal grill is to have a grill large enough to place the meat away from the  direct heat of the charcoal fire.
this means that a 10 pound beef brisket can easily take 10 hours to smoke.
in  the following pages i explore all the different kinds of smokers in detail, but  for now lets just say that you can buy wood smokers, charcoal smokers, gas  smokers, electric smokers, and pellet smokers.
many purists will say that the lower  the temperature the better the barbecue, but in recent years, many barbecue  competitors have moved to higher temperatures, partly because the technology of  modern smokers makes this possible.
in this context, barbecue is a method of cooking  tough cuts of meat (typically beef or pork) slowly over a low heat with smoke.
since barbecue is cooked at such low  temperatures, the cooking times are very long.
this  is how they reach high temperatures; by brute force.
there are many ways to smoke low and  slow and there are many kinds of smokers and smoker/grills on the market.
vertical water smokers
smokers - what is a smoker?
each has its advantages and disadvantages, but the most important factor is you, what kind of barbecue you want to smoke, and how much effort (and money) you want to put into it.
charcoal grills, on the other hand, can make good smokers.
many purists will say that the lower the temperature the better the barbecue, but in recent years, many barbecue competitors have moved to higher temperatures, partly because the technology of modern smokers makes this possible.
smoking barbecue is done at temperatures  between 225 f and 275 f (110 c to 135 c).
because of the high airflow in most gas grills, they are not good at capturing smoke and can cause foods to dry out over long periods of time.
this low and slow cooking process allows the tough connective tissues in these  meats to breakdown, turning to sugar and water.
at the same time, fats are  slowly melted, providing moisture that prevents the meat from drying out.
this is done either by cooking indirectly or by using some kind of baffle (more on this later).
the real answer is  maybe.
cooking times can be between 45  minutes to 1 hour and 15 minutes per pound.
since barbecue is cooked at such low temperatures, the cooking times are very long.
this low and slow cooking process allows the tough connective tissues in these meats to breakdown, turning to sugar and water.
in this context, barbecue is a method of cooking tough cuts of meat (typically beef or pork) slowly over a low heat with smoke.
the smoke provides flavor, color, and aids in the breakdown of connective tissues (collagen) and fats.
previous derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide ©2012 about.com.
barbecue is a loaded term  that has many meanings, but when we are talking about smokers we are talking  abouttrue barbecue.
so what do we mean by low and slow?
gas grills do not make good smokers.
pork butt with smoke regarding bbq inc. to understand what a  smoker is, we need to first discuss what barbecue is.
the smoke provides flavor, color,  and aids in the breakdown of connective tissues (collagen) and fats.
the simple answer is yes.
in the following pages i explore all the different kinds of smokers in detail, but for now lets just say that you can buy wood smokers, charcoal smokers, gas smokers, electric smokers, and pellet smokers.
this means that a 10 pound beef  brisket can easily take 10 hours to smoke.
each has its advantages and  disadvantages, but the most important factor is you, what kind of barbecue you  want to smoke, and how much effort (and money) you want to put into it.
charcoal grills burn charcoal, produce smoke, and if they have a lid and a good design, can hold low temperatures for long periods of time.
charcoal  grills burn charcoal, produce smoke, and if they have a lid and a good design,  can hold low temperatures for long periods of time.
this is done either by cooking indirectly or  by using some kind of baffle (more on this later).
a  good smoker does all this efficiently and provides the space necessary to  produce the amount of barbecue needed.
discuss in my forum by derrick riches, about.com guidesee more about: pork butt with smokeregarding bbq inc. what is barbecue?
a good smoker does all this efficiently and provides the space necessary to produce the amount of barbecue needed.
can i smoke on a grill?
the limits of charcoal grill  smoking, is the size.
the real answer is maybe.
a part of the new york times company.
smoking barbecue is done at temperatures between 225 f and 275 f (110 c to 135 c).
most charcoal grills are too small to produce a lot of  barbecue, so if you want to smoke more than two racks of ribs or a pork roast,  then you will need something larger, or in other words; a smoker.
cooking times can be between 45 minutes to 1 hour and 15 minutes per pound.
there are many ways to smoke low and slow and there are many kinds of smokers and smoker/grills on the market.
gas grills are designed to pump heat through the cooking chamber.
this is how they reach high temperatures; by brute force.
which smoker is right for me?
so  what do we mean by low and slow?
most charcoal grills are too small to produce a lot of barbecue, so if you want to smoke more than two racks of ribs or a pork roast, then you will need something larger, or in other words; a smoker.
the limits of charcoal grill smoking, is the size.
in this context, a smoker is an outdoor cooking appliance that can maintain low cooking temperatures for extended periods of time while producing smoke and holding it around the meat for absorption.
at the same time, fats are slowly melted, providing moisture that prevents the meat from drying out.
gas grills do not make good  smokers.
because of the high  airflow in most gas grills, they are not good at capturing smoke and can cause  foods to dry out over long periods of time.
the trick tosmoking on a charcoal grill is to have a grill large enough to place the meat away from the direct heat of the charcoal fire.
in this context, a smoker is an outdoor cooking  appliance that can maintain low cooking temperatures for extended periods of  time while producing smoke and holding it around the meat for absorption.
previous smokers - what is a smoker?