used to stabilize and promote a creamytexture.
a tea of peppermint, elder flowers, boneset, sage , yarrow, or quaking aspen.
whey supports your immune system by raising levels of glutathione – a tiny molecule that’s found in every cell as its ‘master’ antioxidant and detoxifier.
during the 1980's researchers at brigham young university found that garlic kills cold viruses, flu viruses and the herpes viruses responsible for cold sores and venereal disease.
for teething - camomile or passion flower tea with honey.
garlic garlic purifies the blood, helps control acne, reduces blood pressure, cholesterol and clotting.
strongly suspected as a cause of alzheimers artificial colors (made of coal tar based dyes).used to improve theappearance of inferior products to look wholesome and fresh, to use in placeof natural colors which turn pale or brown with time, to attract children tothe bright colors.
for severe cases of hayfever, start treatment at least 3-4 months before the pollen season commences with one tablespoonful of honey, or honeycomb or cappings after each meal, and a tablespoonful of honey in a glass of water at bedtime.
build the immune system with an alkaline diet and antifungal herbs.
wash grease or dirt from the burn with soap and water.
this will allow all additional protein meals to become increasingly anabolic (by releasing extra leucine for anabolic purposes).
and you can easily pre-pack whey protein in your bag or case and bring it with you anywhere you go.
"07" stabilized oxygen (available in health stores) - lean  head back and drip a few drops directly onto throat.
let the blend steep for several days away from the heat.
for example, "studies strongly suggest that milk thistle can protect the liver from injury.
but if you commit to drinking at least 8 glasses of water daily, you will not have any stress and strain in the bathroom.
to avoid this, cleanse, diet, exercise will help mentally and physically.
they remove toxins from the body, but if they are not working properly, toxins build up in the bloodstream.
cayenne, parsley root, ginger root, golden seal root, ginseng root, garlic (2 capsules 3 times a day) asthma this and other lung ailments are usually caused by bad habits and an unhealthy life style.
(from natural health bible by bratman, md & kroll phd).
other studies have shown garlic's ability to kill bacteria resistant to antibiotics and meat seasoned with garlic is protected against the killer bug e.coli!
the paste may be preserved by adding a little glycerine but better when made fresh.
for a mild laxative put 1/4 teaspoon ginger powder, 20 leaves of senna and 1 slice of lemon into 1/3 cup boiling water.
you could reduce the dose next time; however, you do get used to it.
both can cause allergic reactions, affect the nervous system andprecipitates behavioral problems in children.
a tincture - active ingredients can be removed from the whole herb by any liquid solvent such as grain alcohol, glycerin, fermented wine or apple cider vinegar.
use decoction of goldenseal root or witch  hazel bark externally.
bromate (calcium and potassium bromate).
blend on high  speed until smooth.
for a sinus attack, chew a mouthful for about fifteen minutes, discard and repeat, 4-6 times a day.
cover with plastic to protect items from staining.
see information under garlic eye irritations cataracts can form when vitamin c, b2, lysine and tryptophan are low.
note: the blending of 4 herbs, kava, chamomile, hops and  hawthorn, can help relax your body, mind, heart, and digestion, promoting a  more refreshing night's sleep.
water composition of the body is 75% of the muscles, 75% of your brain, 83% of your blood and 20% of your bones.
there can be miraculous recovery from serious arthritis within 3  weeks.
it could multiply the bacteria more rabidly, and in greater numbers which would interfere with the body's ability to fight the infection.
keep your diet clean from chemicals, pesticides and preservatives to minimize the metabolic stress on your body.
anything that weakens the immune system, like  poor digestion, stress, worry, fear, wrong food, etc. can cause  allergies.
learn to read labelsand be aware of the effects of chemicals found in common commercial foods.
noticeable improvement has been reported in as little as 4-24 hours.
medicinal herbs: pau d’arco tea (drink 3 cups a day) or a  strong tea (6 tea bags to 2 quarts water) for soaking the feet (15  min.
recipe for bf&c fomentation.
note: a powerful blend that works well is 1 teaspoon each cramp bark, motherwort, valerian root, kava root, skullcap leaves and flowers in 4 cups water.
it combats inflammation of the kidneys and the bladder.
it is an aid for malfunction in bone, flesh, cartilage and is excellent for accelerating the healing process for sprains, pulled muscles or tendons, breaks, calcium spurs, tremors, skin eruptions, varicose veins, etc.
remember, fasting stimulates a substantial peak in muscle protein synthesis when feeding is resumed.
even 10 minutes of intense exercise can still yield positive results while you're on a super busy schedule.
increase your intake of antioxidants from fruits and vegetables to support your muscle antioxidant defenses and allow recuperation and buildup.
herbal combination for a preventative when exposed to an illness: brigham herb, marshmallow root, golden seal root, chaparral leaves, burdock root, parsley root, lobelia herb, cayenne pepper , in tincture or capsules.
secure with a tie, a stretch bandage or pin.
for painful gas problems try 1 teaspoon each ginger and baking soda.
see food  storage add new comment natural remedies for  common illnesses "health is never valued so much as when it is gone" for quick relief, and emergencies, acquire the foods, herbs or herb  formulas you feel your family will need.
note: to make this formula much more effective, take 2 soft gel capsules of wheat germ oil (by viobin) per day, or you could take 1 teaspoon of the oil (if you don’t mind the taste).
according to herbalist joyn heinerman ph.d, raw garlic lowers high blood sugar levels which eases diabetes.
if the skin is broken, you will need an antiseptic solution to prevent infection.
this will add  another 2 hours of treatment.
used for colds, infections, stimulates the immune system.
symptoms include inflammation, burning,  itching, scaling, cracking and blistering.
it is effective against both bacteria and viruses.
herbal combination: alfalfa, burdock, oat straw, slippery elm, and white willow bark can be taken in capsule, extract or tea form.
herbs do not take the place of a  healthy diet, good nursing or natural living.
take between 1  teaspoon to 1 1/2 tablespoons of powdered charcoal up to 3 times a day  (tablets are also available).you can take it between meals, as food  can reduce its effectiveness.
lift the herbs occasionally with a fork to see if they are getting browned and brittle, and whether the oil has drawn the value from the herb.
if symptoms are continual crying, rather than occasional, (and longer than 2 months), throwing up and not just spitting up, it is most likely another problem besides colic.
an old time and effective relief for sinus and hayfever problems, is to  chew honeycomb or honey cappings (and honey pollen if available).
mix equal amounts of ginger and flour (cornmeal or flax seed meal) with enough water to make a thick paste and apply it amply over the affected area.
taking 1-2 teaspoons a day kills any bad bacteria entering the blood stream.
make sure everything you are using is very clean.
drink lots of hot herb  tea or hot lemonade.
a list of its uses could fill a small book.
helps in earaches, heart problems, stomach irritations, parasites, and impotence.
ginger tea is excellent for trouble in the  genital- reproductive organs, for menstrual cramps; you may be amazed at  how effective it is.
see instructions for making herb oils included in our nature's medicine chest plant id series.
remove  sea weed, and liquefy.
medicinal herbs: alfalfa, aloe, burdock, cayenne, chaparral, dandelion, garlic, dulse, kelp, parsley, papaya, saffron, red clover, mormon tea, yucca.
earache allergies have been linked to the cause of ear infections.
for toothache: apply a small amount of clove oil or peppermint oil on tooth, with a swab stick.
consult a competent physician when needed.
another simple all-natural cough syrup is to take the juice of one boiled lemon, thicken with honey and add 2-3 crushed cloves of garlic.
(2 teaspoon apple cider vinegar  to 2 glass of warm water each day).
ginger helps in boils, bronchitis (chronic), cholera, colds, colic, congestion, diarrhea, dyspepsia), flatulence (suppressed gas), flu, gout, headaches, hemorrhage of lungs, menstruation, nausea (especially for motion sickness), neuralgia, paralysis of the tongue, reproductive problems, rheumatism, sore throat, toothache.
to avoid this, cleanse, diet, exercise will help mentally and  physically.
to make a poultice for infections, secretions, bacteria, toxins, insect stings, even snake bites, as well as to relieve pain, place a charcoal paste between 2 pieces of paper toweling or porous cloth, making it the size to your need.
a fresh comfrey leaf poultice, blended to a thick gel, and placed on the bruised, broken or sprained area works miraculously!
use instructions  under colds along with herbs listed below.
it is available as a powder, granules  and in commercial capsules either as an oil or powder (aged products with no odor are not effective for infections).
this means that to establish the right anabolic environment, you should try to increase leucine consumption beyond maintenance requirements.
on palm of hand, cup around the nose and breath in until passages clear.
found in bread, baked goods, packaged breadcrumbs, refrigerated biscuits and others.
follow the same suggestions under colds for cleansing and diet.
when using it in oil form it would be 2-3 drops  in a cupful of water.
helps the immune system, builds resistance to disease and has  a cleansing effect on the blood.
put on extra blankets in order to help sweat out the toxins...or  soak 15 minutes in a very hot bath to which yarrow blossoms or chopped  fresh ginger root (tied in a cloth) have been added.
it is non-irritating to the delicate membranes of the digestive tract and is assimilated quickly and easily.
anything that weakens the immune system, like poor digestion, stress, worry, fear, wrong food, etc. can cause allergies.
a paste made from  powdered comfrey root can be used in a poultice to heal bleeding  hemorrhoids.
leave uncovered and wet for 5-20 minutes per application.
just let nature take its'  course.
username password remember me more topics »home more and more we are finding that the foods we are eating are at the root ofmany serious health problems.
wrap with gauze or a cloth, then an ace bandage to hold it in place.
for an earache use garlic oil or an oil blend of mullein and garlic (found  in most health stores).
(which contains oak  bark, golden seal root, myrrh gum, comfrey root, garlic and  cayenne, in tincture form)
another suggestion is to find sore spots along your shoulders, neck and back with  your thumb or middle finger, press in hard, until the pain  disappears.
see instructions for making herb oils included in our nature's medicine  chest plant id series.
many times we think we are allergic to certain foods, plants or animals, but in reality our immune system may just be over reacting.
whey provides more branch chain amino acids (bcaas) than any other protein source.
the sinuses are the first line of defense in protecting the lungs against infection.
a 3rd degree  burn will take up to 3 weeks or more and should leave no scarring.
if attacks are moderately severe chew honey -comb or  cappings in honey 5 times a day for 2 days and reduce the dose to 3 times a  day as long as needed.
it is better to kill the bacteria before a health problem arises.
a study made in 1981 shows that activated charcoal cuts down on the amount of gas produced by beans and other gas-producing foods.
it can be taken in teas, capsules, pills, or any way you desire.
condinue this during the hayfever season.
for chronic conditions use in combinations and take 1/2 cup of the combined decoction or 1 teaspoon of the combined tincture, 3 times a day.
in addition, saturate a clean sock over the infected area and wear as usual.
do not dry, but let it soak in.
avoid high-fiber, spicy, acidic, greasy, sugary, or dairy foods that could further irritate the stomach.
herbs: alfalfa, barberry, black cohosh, black walnut , burdock, cayenne, dandelion, echinacea, garlic,  gentian, ginseng, golden seal, gotu kola, hawthorn, hops  , kelp, licorice.
make sure the whey protein is derived from grass fed cows and is cold processed.
or you could mix 2 teaspoon each  of the individual tinctures in a cup of water and drink 1/2 cup, 2 times a  day.
try not to eat late, especially just before going to bed.
for pollen allergies take raw crude pollen (best within a 20 mile radius of  where you live).
if you cannot handle  cayenne replace it with equal parts honey and fresh lemon.
you can buy garlic bulbs from your local  grocery store or natural food store.
it also removes other metals vital to our health, like iron, zinc etc.
their study of accidental poisonings in kentucky found that parents could successfully use activated charcoal at home.
(this has worked when nothing else has) 1 cup brown short grain rice 7 cups distilled water 2 tablespoons rice syrup 1 strip (6-7 inches) kamboo sea weed cook rice, water and sea weed on low heat for 2 hrs.
for recipe to make this see comfrey.
if rubbing on chest or around nose area, first rub on a little olive oil to keep from irritating skin.
drug companies are trying to develop drugs that can build muscles or forestall their weakening, while food companies are exploring nutritional products with the same objective.
processed charcoal that binds to many types of poisons and can keep them from being absorbed into the bloodstream.
doctors also use charcoal to prevent and treat intestinal infections, and as a cleansing and healing agent.
it also helps prevent the development of stomach ulcers, and improves brain function.
yes, garlic can lower cholesterol, thin the blood and prevent dangerous blood clots (by making blood platelets less sticky).
the bcaas are leucine (mentioned above), valine and isoleucine.
help the fever, rather than suppress it.
rub gums with eucalyptus oil.
an effective treatment for indigestion and gas.
for chronic conditions use in combinations and take 1/2  cup of the combined decoction or 1 teaspoon of the combined tincture, 3 times a day.
infants should not be given  grains until they are 1 year old.
week 1 echinacea and goldenseal combination (15-20 drops or  2 tabs, 3 times daily) pantothenic acid (vit. b5) (100-250 mg, 2-3 times  daily) week 2 astragalus, alone or as part of a formula (1 dose, 3  times daily) week 3 echinacea and goldenseal combination (15-20 drops or  2 tabs, 3 times daily)
to relieve sore throat, strep or staph: 1 tablespoon honey, 1/4 teaspoon cayenne, 1 clove chopped or  pressed garlic.
for babies it is the same proportion, but just give less of it in a eye dropper.
it can be prepared in many forms: bolus,essence, liniment, in massage oil,  liquid extract, plaster, poultice, tincture, syrup .it is used in  capsule or tea form generally in equal parts with other herbs.
excellent for hair, since normal hair growth is reduced by a lack of amino acids.
it functions as a means of excreting toxins from the body, just as the  kidneys and bowels do.
found in crackers, soups, salad dressings, cookies,baking mixes, potato chips etc. edta (ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid).
herbs: angelica root, cramp bark, kava, red raspberry,  black coholsh, blue cohosh, cramp bark, camomile, tea.
tree tea oil this is an oil that is effective anti-fungal agent and works great when applied directly on the feet.
to increase circulation to the scalp for baldness take 3 cayenne caps twice a day with meals.
back to the top >> fever is not a disease, but a symptom that may indicate  the presence of disease.
found inchinese food,seasoned salts, soups , bouillon, frozen dinners, saladdressing mixes, boxed dinners etc. nitrataes & nitrites (is a preservative)
alfalfa, aloe, burdock, cayenne,  chaparral, dandelion, garlic, dulse, kelp, parsley, papaya,  saffron, red clover, mormon tea, yucca.
good digestion means health.
a little lemon essential oil mixed with water makes a great antiseptic.
a  paste made from powdered comfrey root can be used as a poultice to  heal bleeding hemorrhoids.
many times we think we are allergic to certain foods, plants or animals,  but in reality our immune system may just be over reacting.
the  best prevention and cure is to keep your body at a balanced  alkaline-acid level.
eat honey as part of your diet for general relief.
if you feel your headache is caused from a neck or back that is out, try hanging from a rod or door.
honey that has not been strained, filtered and overheated
use only in small doses to prevent morning sickness.
colloidal silver spray directly on the cleaned infected area and let  dry.
it can help you fight off infections, reduces heart attacks by keeping the blood vessels soft and pliable, mental activity is more effective because more oxygen reaches the brain.
any impairment in the regulation of blood glucose and insulin activity could inactivate your mtor and jeopardize your muscle protein synthesis.
it will keep a month before you need to replace it with fresh oil.
it is suggested that the outside leaves of lettuce etc. bedestroyed.
take a 1 teaspoon 3 times a day, for 3 days.
herbal combination for a preventative when exposed to an illness: brigham herb, marshmallow root, golden seal root, chaparral leaves, burdock root, parsley root, lobelia herb, cayenne pepper , in tincture or capsules.
it is  non-irritating to the delicate membranes of the digestive tract and  is assimilated quickly and easily.
c with bioflavonoids when bleeding starts and 1,000 mg every hour until bleeding has completely stopped.
most health stores carry these drops combined.
for 2nd degree burns or worse - make a thin  paste of comfrey powder, wheat germ oil and honey (a most miraculous  healing agent).
other foods high in potassium are bananas, potatoes, grapefruit.
based on nitrogen-balance measurements, the requirement for leucine to maintain body protein is 1-3 grams daily.
you may need to add more honey to thin it.
note: for detailed instructions on the above preparations see the  nature's medicine chest 4x6 plant id cards, or the nature's medicine  chest cd.
in many of the home cases, children received the substance within an hour of ingesting poison, which is optimal for reducing poison absorption, said authors henry spiller of kentucky's regional poison center in louisville and dr. george rodgers of the university of louisville.
comfrey can be cut down as many as 7 times during a growing season, so you should be able to use new leaves for your poultices.
it accentuates most of the herbs for the lower abdominal and colon areas.
be creative  according to your taste.
herb preparations to make a tea (infusion) - steep (by bringing water to a boil, take off heat, add leaves or flowers-1 tablespoon fresh or 1 teaspoon dried, cover and let sit)
intravenous administration of free form amino acids including leucine has shown to cause severe hyperglycemic reactions and insulin resistance.
but there is one more factor that can dictate whether you gain or lose muscle mass.
jamaica ginger root is best.
pour the honey into a blender,  add the garlic cloves, lemon juice and peel, and sage leaf.
according to  herbalist joyn heinerman ph.d, raw garlic lowers high blood sugar  levels which eases diabetes.
if the honeycomb or cappings are not available.
it is an aid for malfunction in bone, flesh, cartilage and is  excellent for accelerating the healing process for sprains, pulled muscles  or tendons, breaks, calcium spurs, tremors, skin eruptions, varicose veins,  etc.
a dab of witch hazel applied to the  rectum with a cotton ball is one of the very best remedies available for  external hemorrhoids, especially if there is bleeding.
for an ointment, start with a melted base such as olive oil and beeswax.
this helps to fight off head  colds, sinus infections, to prevent consti- pation and yeast infections.
(this has worked when nothing else has) 1 cup brown short grain rice 7  cups distilled water 2 tablespoons rice syrup 1 strip (6-7 inches)
of course, you'll need to get off  foods that are acid- forming (beef, fish, chicken, dairy, sugar etc.)
we have used the fresh pulverized leaves of comfrey for over 30 years, for the healing of sprains, pulled ligaments and bruising, with great success!
try covering the bite with clay, a poultice of plantain,   lobelia or mugwort.
test confirm antibiotic activity for candida, cholera, staphyloccus, salmonella, dysentery and typhus.
you can make cayenne oil by soaking 1/2cup of cayenne powder in 1 cup of oil for 10 days.
this defense mechanism of the body acts to destroy harmful microbes.
acidophilus is also good for constipation problems.
take 2 tablespoons to 1-1 1/2 cups water, 3-5 times a day and a citrus juice fast, especially lemons and limes which are the most alkalizing to the body.
herbs: drink often - spearmint and skullcap tea, camomile,  celery seed or blue vervain.
keep towel  wrapped tightly, take the same amount of cayenne and immediately get into a  warm bed.
not life threatening but have been associated withdepression and reduced sexual urges and reproductive problems.
note: licorice may be used during week 2 and week 4 for additional support.
use antibacterial mouthwashes, inflammatory herbs, avoid refined sugars, soft drinks, chewable vitamin c. use more foods and herbs high in calcium.
k (alfalfa, cornsilk, irish moss, kelp, shepherds’ purse) used with vit.
use the same cleansing and diet program  as listed under colds.
squeeze out the liquid.
note that the anabolic impact of leucine is proportional to its availability and is dependent on its circulating levels.
can you think of any other food that is proven to fight infection,  thin the blood, alleviate high blood pressure, lower cholesterol, stimulate the  immune system, treat lung infections and prevent cancer?
it is a bacterial disease and rivals the common cold for the most  prevalent human disorder.
it's an extremely efficient protein.
caution: do not try this if you have major back problems,  if you are overweight, if the door or rod is not secure, or if you do not  feel comfortable with it.
activated charcoal powder is easily taken orally by placing a spoonful in a glass, adding water, juice etc., stirring it and drinking it.
indigestion those who are ill, lack the ability to properly digest and assimilate their food.
to whiten your teeth, dip wet toothbrush in charcoal and brush.
a poultice - fresh, ground-up herbs, or wetted powdered herbs to form a paste, and  applied wet to an area to encourage healing.
apply burn paste on the affected area and bandage.
clears up infection.
drink lots of pure water, and green drinks.
toothache, sore gums diet is a major cause of tooth disease.
be sure to take extra vinegar and water 5 times a day or  more for the next 3 days.
another way to overcome fatigue is to use apple cider vinegar in your bath (1/2 pint to a tub full of water) and soak for 15 minutes.
you could alternate when poultice is inconvenient.
if you plan on keeping  it longer than a week, keep it in the refrigerator.
menstrual pain is sometimes aggravated by tension, insufficient exercise,  poor dietary habits, nervous tension, tight muscles, the use of  stimulants, poor diet alcohol, caffeine, sugars etc.
note: honey capping is the thin wax cappings which are sliced from a  comb of honey before it is put into the honey extractor.
the bf&c ointment, which can be applied along with, or in place of the fresh comfrey applications mentioned above, contains: comfrey root, white oak bark, mullein leaves, black walnut leaves, marshmallow root, wormwood herb, lobelia herb, skullcap, grave root, beeswax and olive oil.
eat more vegetables and fruit in small amounts through the day, rather than having 3 large meals.
a diet of red meat, chicken, refined foods, sugar, salt and other acid foods should be eliminated.
in a blender with water keep adding the fresh comfrey leaf as long as it will blend until you have a very thick paste.
excellent for a weak immune system, especially where the patient suffers chronic tiredness and is susceptible to minor infections.
stop doing anything that would damage the  lungs.
locate a pure, unfiltered, raw honey for the results  mentioned above.
put pressure, with your finger, on the upper lip, just under the nose.
if they become clogged from too  much mucus produced by the body, infection may set in.
a fresh comfrey leaf poultice,  blended to a thick gel, and placed on the bruised, broken or sprained  area works miraculously!
herbs: camomile, hops, calendula, peppermint and yarrow tea.
it can invigorate the blood , remove toxins in the body and improve circulation.
place in a glass of warm to hot water and sir until the water clears.
for 2nd degree burns or worse - make a thin paste of comfrey powder, wheat germ oil and honey (a most miraculous healing agent).
high levels of prostaglandins cause uterine muscle contractions or cramps.
herbal program for hay fever and allergies - from janet zand.
place doubled towel on  top of door, near hinges.
they are much like varicose veins, which enlarge and  lose their elasticity, resulting in saclike protrusions into the anal  canal.
we make a delicious treat by adding lemon and mint or carob powder, chopped nuts, roasted sesame seeds etc.
herbs: make an eyewash of the following teas (strain well) - borage flowers, rosemary, eyebright herb, sage or goldenseal root.
pantothenic acid (vit.b5) (100-250 mg, 2-3 times  daily) week 4 astragalus, alone or as part of a formula (1  dose, 3 times daily) note: licorice may be used during week 2 and week 4 for  additional support.
it functions as a means of excreting toxins from the body, just as the kidneys and bowels do.
accumulated metabolic stress and toxicity present major obstacles to muscle recuperation and buildup.
the epa deems that even 1 oz (7-8 teaspoons) a day, for over 72 years is safe.
excellent for hair, since normal hair growth is reduced by a lack of amino  acids.
arthritis, gout arthritis, bursitis, gout, tennis elbow, hips  and shoulders are caused by deposits of crystallized uric acid in the  joints.
mct has shown the capacity to swiftly convert to energy without spiking insulin and without the need for bile acid digestion.
a paste made from powdered comfrey root can be used in a poultice to heal bleeding hemorrhoids.
the protocols suggested here can fit any lifestyle.
kamboo sea weed cook rice, water and sea weed on low heat for 2 hrs.
a fungal infection that thrives in an environment  of warmth and dampness.
aloe vera gel, applied directly on the  anus can relieve the pain and soothe.
activated charcoal is required by law to be part of the standard equipment on many ambulances, for use in poisonings.
used as a gargle and mouthwash for sore throats, tonsillitis, mouth ulcers, and gum infections.
the active compounds in echinacea are said to increase the ability of white blood cells to surround and destroy bacterial and viral invaders.
a tea of alfalfa, aloe vera, cayenne, corn silk,  cramp bark, dandelion, fennel, garlic, gentian, ginger , ginseng, gotu kola, hawthorn, hops, lobelia, oregon  grape, papaya, parsley, peppermint, skullcap, slippery elm , valerian, wood betony, yarrow.
place  in a glass of warm to hot water and sir until the water clears.
tooth decay is not a natural process.
it has antibiotic, antiviral and  anti-inflammatory properties.
herbal combination for infection: plaintain leaf, black walnut leaf , golden seal root, bugleweed herb, marshmallow root, lobelia herb ( 4 caps every 2 hours) or take equal parts garlic,  myrrh, goldenseal root, cayenne in capsules 4 times a day.
jaundice of the newborn, bee stings, poison ivy reactions, and many other illness can be helped with activated charcoal.
(2 capsules 3 times a day).
however, do not take it regularly for long periods.
when using it in oil form it would be 2-3 drops in a cupful of water.
fever fever is not a disease, but a symptom that may indicate the presence of disease.
take either gatorade or a rehydration mix of  fruit juice (for potassium), 1/2 teaspoon honey ( for glucose) and a  pinch of table salt (sodium chloride).
do not remove the burned skin.
the main reason for this breakdown in digestion is the increased amount of cooked and processed foods in our diets.
used to add flavor food when natural flavor are removedthrough processing.
2nd degree burns blister, ooze and are painful (contact with oven  coils, severe sunburn)
do not wash or take off old paste,unless it falls off, but just keep adding a little more paste on top of the old, each day.
eat raw vegetables, sprouts and no acid foods (see list, under cleansing) to eliminate toxins quickly: take 2 capsules, or 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper, and immediately get into as hot a shower as you can.
burns become knowledgeable on the treatment for many different  types of burns.
rubbing a clove of this natural antifungal and antiseptic over your skin it can help to clear away acne, blemishes and skin rashes.
check with a gastro specialist.
diluted 1 to 1 with water and a pinch of salt.
herbs: drop warmed garlic, lobelia and mullein oil into each ear (even if only one is hurting).
apply the vinegar directly to insect stings for quick relief or to cool sunburns by adding a few cups of vinegar to your bath.
dehydration is the number one cause of constipation.
acidophilus is also good  for constipation problems.
your wellness begins with your immune system.
honey is a little acid to the taste, just as lemons are acid to the taste
studies at cornell, pennsylvania state university and other top institutions, prove garlic stops heart attacks before they begin, helps in ulcers, and that it significantly reduces the rates of stomach and colorectal cancer.
it can also whiten teeth.
keep it covered, dry and clean between washings.
sulfites are preservatives and antioxidants that can be very dangerous forsome people.
for toothache: apply a small amount of  clove oil or peppermint oil on tooth, with a swab stick.
drink peppermint, elder flower and yarrow tea.
herbal combination: marshmallow root, slippery elm bark,  lobelia herb, ginger root, wild yam (1 cup tea a.m. and p.m.)
abscesses or boils - apply a poultice of  lobelia , mullein or  comfrey and ground  flaxseed.
promotes energy and healing, helps one to recuperate rapidly from severe exertion, has a natural and gently laxative effect, helps in hypertension.
cover with a bandage and leave it in place for 24 hours.
take it between meals, as food can reduce its effectiveness.
a change of diet, which helps the nervous system, will definitely help.
caution should be used by those with high blood pressure or who have a tendency toward water retention.
contained inmargarine, salad dressings, canned legumes, boxed dinners, frozen dinnersand others.
herbal combination: black cohosh root, cayenne pepper, hops  flowers, lobelia herb, skullcap herb, valerian root,  wood betony and mistletoe leaf.
the foods that are the most acid- forming are beef, eggs, oysters, oatmeal, wheat, wheat flour, rice and white bread.
a tincture would be 5-20 drops, and 500 milligrams when using it in powder form.
see information for headache relief under apple cider vinegar.
for sinus problems, hayfever, kills bacteria, has anti- hemorrhage value.
to a sink full of water and splash this on you shoulders, arms, armpits, on your chest, stomach, neck and face.
it is rich in  nutrients, enzymes, and boron which is needed for calcium absorption and  brain function, plus it has all the amino acids the body needs.
drink often - spearmint and skullcap tea, camomile, celery seed or blue vervain.
promotes digestion, helps headaches, chronic fatigue, poisoning, fights infections, reduces heart attacks, prevents high blood pressure, helps with inflammation of the kidneys and bladder, sore throat and sleep problems, helps with dry skin, can increase hormone levels, ease insomnia and burn off unwanted pounds!.
or you could mix 2 teaspoon each of the individual tinctures in a cup of water and drink 1/2 cup, 2 times a day.
if rubbing on chest or around nose area, first rub  on a little olive oil to keep from irritating skin.
for anti inflammatory effects.
drip a few drops of the oil in both ears,  even if only one is hurting, place a piece of cotton in ear to keep  from running out.
herbs: alfalfa, barberry, black cohosh, black walnut , burdock, cayenne, dandelion, echinacea, garlic, gentian, ginseng, golden seal, gotu kola, hawthorn, hops , kelp, licorice.
before world war 11, silver solutions were often used a topical antiseptic, and also as an oral, or even injected, antibiotic.
water composition of the body is 75% of the muscles, 75% of your brain,  83% of your blood and 20% of your bones.
stocked by some pharmacies, it can be mixed at home with water, juice or soft drinks, and also comes pre- mixed with water.
leave  uncovered and wet for 5-20 minutes per application.
strain the tea through a very fine strainer and make fresh everyday.
both apple cider vinegar and garlic are powerful antioxidants.
fda is performing tests for childbirth andreproductive problems.
it has found to be a factor in colitis, ulcers, strokes,  cancer, high blood pressure, heart attacks, headaches, and nervous  breakdowns.
charcoal used as an antidote for poisons in poisonous snake, spider and insect bites, food poisoning, poisonings and overdoses of aspirin, tylenol and other drugs.
it is easy on the kidneys, lessening tissue destruction.
peppermint and ginger  tea or the extract, wild yam root, catnip, angelica,  camomile or anise tea.
to make a poultice for boils etc.
place doubled towel on top of door, near hinges.
for cuts: place cayenne pepper directly on cut (does not sting).
smaller doses for children.
add a few crushed cloves of  garlic to as many of your meal preparations that you can, good in  guacamole, stir-fry, sauces, or roast them in the oven.
you could  alternate when poultice is inconvenient.
this can also be effective in loosing inches if you are overweight, or stay normal if you do not need to loose.
a simple combination of marshmallow root and astragalus can help those who suffer from allergies, hayfever, asthma, rheumatoid arthritis or any hyperactive immune response.
this is not necessary.
remain in this lying position for a minimum of 10 minutes, preferably for a least 30 minutes.
garlic clears phlegm, which helps in treatment for colds, flu, smallpox, certain viruses, bronchitis, pumonary tuberculosis and whooping cough.
the alternative is to have the burned skin scraped off and  skin grafting by a plastic surgeon.
for teething - camomile or passion flower tea with honey.
dry thoroughly  and put a few drops of the undiluted tea on the affected area.
strain  the tea through a very fine strainer and make fresh everyday.
exercise and fresh air helps.
honey honey has advantages over other sugars: it provides a maximum of  energy.
comfrey powder a poultice made from the comfrey leaf can reduce swelling and bruising around sprains and arthritic joints.
an ointment or salve - a semisolid herbal preparation for external use that is soaked in olive oil, beeswax, and herbs.
what makes it so special?
for an earache use garlic oil or an oil blend of mullein and garlic (found in most health stores).
honey is a little acid to the taste, just as lemons are acid to the taste but they  have an alkaline effect.
an excellent cough syrup is made with 1 cup honey, 5-10 cloves of garlic, 1 tablespoon of sage leaf, the juice from 1 medium lemon and 1 tablespoon lemon peel, fresh or dried.
try to purchase it within a 20 mile  radius of your home.
it could multiply the  bacteria more rabidly, and in greater numbers which would interfere  with the body's ability to fight the infection.
an ointment made from oak bark, comfrey  leaf, marshmallow root, mullein leaf, black walnut leaf, gravel  root, wormwood herb, lobelia herb and skullcap herb is good.
drink 1 cup  of the tea, 2-3 times daily before meals.
the following information is taken from the food bible - by benkendorf.
herbs: try any of the following: rub the juice from a dandelion stem on the wart, 2-3 times a day.
as you can see, whey protein supplementation can effectively allow you to get the minimum leucine you need to build muscle without consuming freaky amounts of food and calories.
sometimes it takes a few weeks, so  don’t give up.
this is a very potent  remedy.
if pain in stomach persists.
diet is a major cause of tooth  disease.
during plagues in europe, wealthy families gave their children silver spoons to suck on, hence the saying “born with a silver spoon in his mouth.”
infants should not be given grains until they are 1 year old.
pharmacists and pediatricians, too, should be made aware that the substance can be effectively used at home, they said.
herbal combination: an excellent formula which comes in capsules or tincture, available in herb or health stores, consists of bayberry bark, eyebright herb, golden seal root, red raspberry leaf and cayenne .
an excellent vitamin therapy: take every day for 1 month: vit.
it has antibiotic, antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties.
a liniment - is a liquid herbal preparation with a base of alcohol and oil  for external application.
honey is an excellent medium for vitamins.
take a hot bath with 1  cup each sea salt and baking soda .
charcoal from burn toast is considered worth- less, and charcoal briquettes dangerous due to the added petrochemicals.
a strong  acidophilus will usually check it within 1-3 days.
alginates (ammonium, calcium, potassium and sodium; propylene glycolalginate; algin derivatives).
feed your muscle with quality whey protein after exercise.
other conditions are inflammation, pink eye, tired or sore eyes.
drink   burdock root or  red clover tea often, to cleanse the blood.
do not  take diuretics, rather drink more water.
to ease pain – rinse area with warm salt water (1/2 teaspoon to 8 oz. warm water) warts (a viral infection.
can be caused by sitting or standing at long periods, violent coughing, lifting, constipation.
calendula, chamomile, elder flower, tea tree oil, olive leaf extract, oat  straw tea can all be used externally for relief.
for more information and an excellent newsletter on keeping healthy go to dr.mercola.com _________________________________________________ for building muscle
caution: internal use of roots and large amounts of leaves should be avoided.
since the vinegar will be helping you burn fat instead of store it, your daily activities will help you shed inches much more quickly than pounds.
can be taken internally or applied topically and used as a general disinfectant.
a tea of alfalfa, aloe vera, cayenne, corn silk, cramp bark, dandelion, fennel, garlic, gentian, ginger , ginseng, gotu kola, hawthorn, hops, lobelia, oregon grape, papaya, parsley, peppermint, skullcap, slippery elm , valerian, wood betony, yarrow.
passion flower, hops, valerian, catnip, camomile, lobelia, skullcap, wood betony and lavender flowers .
take 2 tablespoons to 1-1  1/2 cups water, 3-5 times a day and a citrus juice fast, especially  lemons and limes which are the most alkalizing to the body.
it is reported the burns and cuts  will heal very rapidly with virtually no visible scarring.
it relieves this type of allergy within a half an hour.
repeat treatment until the wart blisters and falls off (takes about a week).
can snuff cayenne pepper (painful for a few minutes but works immediately).
do not take diuretics, rather drink more water.
6 parts oak bark 6 parts comfrey root 3 parts marshmallow root 3 parts mullein herb 2 parts wormwood 3 parts walnut bark or leaves 3 parts gravel root 1 part lobelia 1 part skullcap soak this herb combination in distilled water (1 oz. of combined herbs to 1 pint distilled water) 4-6 hours, then simmer for thirty minutes, strain and reduce the liquid down to its volume by simmering over low heat.
honey is the only food that stays fresh for thousands of years.
usually within a few hours to a day after the diarrhea and vomiting have subsided, you'll be ready for food.
place 5-7 drops of colloidal silver in the ear.
sweeten with honey if desired.
honey honey is a natural antiseptic, makes a good salve for burns and wounds, assimilates rapidly and easily, not irritating to the digestive tract.
use  ½-1 teaspoon of the herb or the mixed herbs to 1 cup water  (depending on the age of child).
it can be taken in teas, capsules, pills,  or any way you desire.
swirl the charcoal in a glass of water and  drink it down, or mix it with olive oil for easy ingestion by use of  a spoon.
supplement with vitamins a, b, and c. external bleeding
for a mild laxative put 1/4 teaspoon ginger powder,  20 leaves of senna and 1 slice of lemon into 1/3 cup boiling water.
with hands on the toweling and your feet not  touching the floor, let your whole body relax with the feel of the weight  pulling on your lower back.
nitrites combine with stomachjuices to form powerful cancer-causing agents called nitrosamines.
they  remove toxins from the body, but if they are not working properly, toxins  build up in the bloodstream.
note that whey protein is the fastest to assimilate among all protein foods.
add 1  tablespoon camomile flowers and let steep another 20 minutes.
a 3rd degree burn will take up to 3 weeks or more and should leave no scarring.
take only ½ to 1 teaspoon of the tea, depending on age, 2-3 times a day or until the diarrhea stops.
it can be used in powder form or in a tincture.
keep it bland, cereal, pudding, soda crackers or broth.
this can be used for sautéing, in salad dressings.
about the author ori hofmekler is the author of the warrior diet, the anti-estrogenic diet, maximum muscle minimum fat, and the upcoming book unlocking the muscle gene/north atlantic books.
collinsonia, also known as stoneroot has proven helpful, for centuries.
you will find the symptoms are  reduced or eliminated without the side-effects of prescription or  other over-the-counter medicines.
make sure you are getting enough water and  exercise.
locate a pure, unfiltered, raw honey for the results mentioned above.
if you wake up with nausea and vomiting and digestive  upsets, follow the apple cider vinegar and water treatment throughout  the day.
soak this herb combination in distilled water (1 oz. of combined herbs to 1 pint distilled water) 4-6 hours, then simmer for thirty minutes, strain  and reduce the liquid down to its volume by simmering over low heat.
but they have an alkaline effect.
aloe vera gel, applied on the anus, relieves  the burning.
keep 1-3 hours gap between meals (depends on meal size).
to cope with chronic fatigue, mix 3 teaspoons vinegar to 1 cup of honey and take 2 teaspoons of this mixture before going to bed.
final note life isn't just about looking hard and feeling strong.
(which contains oak bark, golden seal root, myrrh gum, comfrey root, garlic and cayenne, in tincture form)
have them available, so that  when there are signs of an illness coming on, you can immediately  take care of it.
herbal combination: an excellent formula which comes in capsules or tincture, available in herb or health stores, consists of bayberry bark, eyebright herb, golden seal root, red raspberry leaf and cayenne .
apple cider vinegar, taken on a daily basis, can bring you arthritis relief by helping to dissolve calcium deposits in joints and whisking them away for excretion.
use antibacterial mouthwashes, inflammatory herbs, avoid refined sugars,  soft drinks, chewable vitamin c. use more foods and herbs high in calcium.
make all your muscle meals low glycemic.
the reasons why muscles wither with age is a problem that is intriguing a growing number of scientists.
try not to eat late,  especially just before going to bed.
a liniment - is a liquid herbal preparation with a base of alcohol and oil for external application.
diarrhea can be caused by a number of problems: parasites,  colitis, stress, viruses, chemicals, allergies, or diet.
you will see miraculous healing within  2- 3 weeks.
also used for cosmetic and cleaning purposes.
some of the causes of skin problems are allergies to molds, foods, chemicals, cosmetics, insect bites, poison plants, fungi and much more.
you many want to ask if sulfates have been used.
a colon cleanse is advised in some cases of hay fever.
the following chart presents leucine content in common foods: leucine content in food / per 100g whey protein concentrate 8.0g raw cheddar cheese 3.6g lean beef 1.7g salmon 1.6g almonds 1.5g chicken 1.4g chick peas 1.4g raw eggs 1.0g egg yolk 1.4g sheep milk 0.6g pork 0.4g cow milk 0.3g this means that to get the minimum 8 gram leucine requirement for anabolic purposes, you need the following amounts of food: a pound and a half of chicken three pounds of pork over a pound of almonds (over 3000 calories) over a pound and a half of raw eggs (16 eggs) half a pound of raw cheddar cheese and remarkably, only 3oz of high-quality whey.
try apple cider vinegar (2 tsp. vinegar in a glass of  warm water and honey added, if desired).
it is used in water purification, air purification and for removing undesirable odors and impurities in food.
lift the  herbs occasionally with a fork to see if they are getting browned and  brittle, and whether the oil has drawn the value from the herb.
you could make it into a  sweet treat, by adding it to a ground dried fruit, honey and a favorite  flavoring.
herbal combination: make a tea of the following or use separately –  equal partscatnip, fennel, peppermint or spearmint.
can snuff cayenne pepper (painful for a few minutes but works immediately).
do not overdose as it may  stop up your bowels longer than you want it to.
colloidal silver spray silver solution directly onto the wound.
flush the burn with lots of cold, not ice, water (15-30 minutes) or apply cold, wet towels.
herbal combination: x-ceptic tincture on throat.
raw garlic can sometimes irritate you stomach if you eat too much.
be sure to wash your hands thoroughly and rinse the garlic after peeling and before placing it in the oil.
colloidal silver personal reports show positive results with: asthma, athletes foot and fungus, infections of the feet, burns and cuts, cankers and other mouth sores, cold sores, diabetic neuropathy, diaper and other rashes, earaches, e-coli, flu, colds, sore throat, food poisoning, inflammation of the joints, laryngitis, mastitis, sinus infection, tuberculosis, thrush, tooth decay, urinary tract infection, yeast infection, water purification, general well-being.
it does come in capsules.
fresh garlic is the most potent.
unlike other fresh foods that loose vitamins when they are picked or stored, honey keeps the vitamin content when stored.
raw garlic can  sometimes irritate you stomach if you eat too much.
it can also cause toxicity and kidney damage.
wrap with gauze or a cloth, then an ace  bandage to hold it in place.
take 3,000 mg of vit.
herbs: drink peppermint and ginger tea, rosemary, catnip , mate and mint tea, horsetail (a good source of silica necessary for bone and connective tissue).
with hands on the toweling and your feet not touching the floor, let your whole body relax with the feel of the weight pulling on your lower back.
and that's the glycemic factor.
be creative according to your taste.
do not wash or take off old paste,unless it  falls off, but just keep adding a little more paste on top of the old, each day.
once you have experienced the healing effects of this ointment, you will want to keep it available at all times.
it can heal eye problems, but it will burn for a few minutes.
stops bleeding in 10-30 seconds and  prevents scarring.
could combine with calendula, red clover blossoms.
note: this above combination is called bf&c (bones, flesh and  cartilage)
it speeds healing of cuts, burns, boils, insect bites, wounds, ulcers, boils, varicose veins, open sores, and eczema.
it is a bacterial disease and rivals the common cold for the most prevalent human disorder.
bee pollen increases strength and endurance.
rice milk formula for babies with colic, allergies to other milks etc.
herbs: peppermint and ginger tea or extract wild yam root , catnip, angelica, camomile, dill, summer savory,  wintergreen, motherwort, valerian, burnet.
to relieve sore throat, strep or staph: herbs: amaranth, barberry, comfrey, fenugreek, goldenseal, mallow, sage, savory, slippery elm, sumac , white oak bark, white pond lily, wintergreen, and witch hazel are all good for a gargle.
used incured meats, giving a particular taste and color to bacon, bologna, salami,frankfurter, ham, pepperoni etc.
this will either prevent or shorten the illness greatly and  most likely avoid having to go to a doctor.
you could make it into a sweet treat, by adding it to a ground dried fruit, honey and a favorite flavoring.
we use too many devitalized foods that have been robbed, through processing, of their mineral content.
herbal combination: place a 1-2 drops of the following oils, which have been blended together, olive, cassia, eucalyptus, cajeput oil, pure menthol plus camphor crystals, or tie-fu (an essential oil found in most health stores)
it is also good if you have caught a cold or flu.
rub gums with brandy.
but if you  commit to drinking at least 8 glasses of water daily, you will not  have any stress and strain in the bathroom.
the fresh chopped root is  also used (from a teaspoon or by the pound) in bath water for burning of  dermatitis, to relieve sore muscles, bruising, exhaustionetc.
the fresh root is chewed for cases of paralysis of the  throat, hemorrhage of the lungs and salivary glands.
it is  caused by bacteria, sugars for the bacteria to feed on and the weakness of  tooth enamel.
itch  relief – lotion made from chamomile, tea tree oil and vitamin e. herbal combination: a poultice of chaparral, dandelion and  yellow dock root helps.
within 3 days, or before, you will notice much healing.
mix the honey and oil, in a blender when possible, gradually adding the  comfrey.
change once or twice a day.
if you already have a headache take 1 tablespoon of honey at once, and later, if needed.
for a sprain, torn ligaments, bruising etc., place comfrey gel on area, cover with gauze, then plastic to protect staining on clothes and cover with a cloth or ace bandage.
chew the honeycomb once a day after that for a week to prevent a recurrence.
two weeks  before the onset of pollen take 2 teaspoonful of honey in 2 teaspoonful of  apple cider vinegar in a glass of water before breakfast and before retiring at night.
some of the causes of skin problems are allergies to  molds, foods, chemicals, cosmetics, insect bites, poison plants, fungi and  much more.
the fda has confirmed 17 deaths due to sulfites.
angelica root, cramp bark, kava, red raspberry, black coholsh, blue cohosh, cramp bark, camomile, tea.
it relieves this type of allergy within a half an  hour.
burn paste an effective paste for serious burns.
are also high in vitamins.
other teas to drink would be blackberry root tea, red raspberry leaf, comfrey, dandelion, alfalfa, cayenne, garlic, ginger, gentian, golden seal, hawthorn, kelp , licorice, lobelia, myrrh, oat straw, red clover, slippery elm, white oak bark, wormwood or camomile.
for severe cases of hayfever,  start treatment at least 3-4 months before the pollen season commences with one tablespoonful of honey, or honeycomb or cappings after each meal, and a  tablespoonful of honey in a glass of water at bedtime.
taking bentonite with it is even more effective, but much more water would need to be taken, and if there is cramping or the person is already throwing up, this would not be wise.
our early settlers would often throw silver dollars into their wells or water barrels to kill bacteria.
the tea eases indigestion and flatulence and reduces fever.
most antibiotics have associated side effects, some being very serious, and tend to generate strains of microbes that are resistant to that antibiotic (because silver solution appears to be effective over a broad spectrum, it does not target specific mechanisms or receptors.
it excellerates cell renewal in damaged muscles, fractures, torn ligaments, ruptures, and broken bones.
helps the immune system, builds resistance to disease and has a cleansing effect on the blood.
it has found to be a factor in colitis, ulcers, strokes, cancer, high blood pressure, heart attacks, headaches, and nervous breakdowns.
avoid high-fiber, spicy, acidic, greasy,  sugary, or dairy foods that could further irritate the stomach.
for hayfever sufferers try chewing the honeycomb once a day for 1 month before the hay-fever season starts.
put on extra blankets in order to help sweat out the toxins...or soak 15 minutes in a very hot bath to which yarrow blossoms or chopped fresh ginger root (tied in a cloth)
an excellent product - stabilized oxygen, "07" can be used for food poisoning, dysentery, diarrhea, bronchitis, emphuysemis, sinus.
cut finely, press or crush 1 clove and take several times a day.
peppermint and ginger tea or the extract, wild yam root, catnip, angelica, camomile or anise tea.
herbal combination: fresh garlic juice, comfrey leaves, wormwood herb, lobelia herb, marshmallow root, oak bark, mullein leaves, skullcap herb, uva ursi herb.
it is one of the  most valuable foods on this planet and has been used since biblical  times, heralding its value for endurance and strength.
losing just one percent of your body's fluids can cause discomfort and pain.
if you are taking colloidal silver it can take that out too
although banned on fresh fruits and vegetables it has been reported to stillbe in use, and in some cases, minute amounts can be used on foods withoutlabeling.
if you did nothing else but take 1  or more fresh, pressed garlic pearls, drinking it down with water, 3 times  a day you would have an excellent product for fighting infection!
i would not want to be without it.
a dab of witch hazel applied to the rectum with a cotton ball is one of the very best remedies available for external hemorrhoids, especially if there is bleeding.
other juices  will work but will take twice as long.
get into a warm bed immediately to sweat out toxins.
eat  honey as part of your diet for general relief.
this proves again that we're programmed to benefit from whole food nutrition only.
olive oil 1/2 lb dry herbs or 1 lb fresh  herbs put ingredients into a closed container (stainless steel, earthenware,  unchipped or unbroken enamel or glassware), and place into a warm  oven the oven (200° , or 180° f. for 3-4 hours.
it binds with the metal particlesin foods, brought about by food processing and removes them from the body.
chewing a little parsley,  mint, caraway or fennel seeds or putting a drop of peppermint oil on your  tongue can help eliminate the garlic odor on your breath, also see  information above on charcoal, on bad breath.
garlic garlic is often referred to as a "miracle food" and it more than  lives up to that description.
this activation process renders it 2-3 times as effective as regular charcoal, the activation being accomplished by fine grinding and processing by steam.
try apple cider vinegar (2 tsp. vinegar in a glass of warm water and honey added, if desired).
apple cider vinegar relieves arthritis pain, regulates menstruation, cures and prevents obesity.
the foods that are the most acid- forming are beef,  eggs, oysters, oatmeal, wheat, wheat flour, rice and white bread.
earache allergies have been linked to the cause of ear  infections.
"nutri biotic caps plus” (available at most health stores) is excellent for virus.
artificial flavors ( over 1,500 including benzaldehyde and methylsalicylatres).
the paste is made by mixing equal parts of flaxseed meal or corn starch with the charcoal powder in a bowl.
for best results, incorporate at least two recovery meals after exercise / 20g-30g protein per meal.
charcoal is odorless and tasteless, although the texture is strange.
apply burn paste  on the affected area and bandage.
stop doing anything that would damage the lungs.
it will keep a month  before you need to replace it with fresh oil.
for cuts: place cayenne pepper  directly on cut (does not sting).
apple 1-2 hours or if at bed time, leave overnight.
take a hot bath with 1 cup each sea salt and baking soda .
to ease pain – rinse area with warm salt water (1/2  teaspoon to 8 oz. warm water) warts (a viral infection.
see information also under apple cider vinegar.
it destroys microorganism, including bacteria, fungi, viruses and others.
herbs: anise, fenugreek, marshmallow, red clover, bayberry may help to loosen phlegm and clear congestion, golden seal, horehound, mullein, nettle.
herbal combination: fresh garlic juice, comfrey leaves, wormwood  herb, lobelia herb, marshmallow root, oak bark, mullein  leaves, skullcap herb, uva ursi herb.
use with other herbs for an enema.
do it a few times, if you don't hear adjusting (tiny pops) in your back, try it again throughout the day, until you do.
take either gatorade or a rehydration mix of fruit juice (for potassium), 1/2 teaspoon honey ( for glucose) and a pinch of table salt (sodium chloride).
a tea of peppermint, elder flowers, boneset, sage , yarrow, or quaking aspen.
and furthermore, protein serves as a perfect fuel during times of fasting and intense physical hardship.
noticeable improvement has been reported in as  little as 4-24 hours.
while american academy of pediatrics guidelines still recommend that parents of young children keep a bottle of ipecac syrup on hand for accidental poisonings, many local poison control centers have started recommending home use of activated charcoal as well.
cottonseed oil (arsenic is used to defoliate the cotton)
most health stores carry these  drops combined.
use fresh herbs whenever possible.
mct can help shift leucine's pathway from fueling into muscle building.
the risk ofpossible dangerous chemical residues is too great to recommend any foods inwhich the oil is used.
a fungal infection that thrives in an environment of warmth and dampness.
nutritionists have used apple cider vinegar to treat alzheimer's and senility, age-related diseases often triggered by mineral deficiencies.
in other words, the more leucine you consume from food, the better chances for anabolic impact you get.
for an excellent burn paste, see information under comfrey.
sweeten  with honey if desired.
for acute conditions take large doses,  1 cup of the decoction or 1 teaspoon of the tincture every 2 hours ,  for 10 days.
and to optimize its anabolic pathway, it has been estimated that leucine requirement should be about 8g - 16g daily.
water water is the most powerful healing remedy of anything we ingest.
whey protein is rich in the amino acids critical for developing and sustaining new muscle mass.
mushroom poisoning, brown recluse spider bites, and snake bites can all be treated with activated charcoal.
it can also be a valuable warning signal that you may have a potentially serious illness.
you may want  to try soaking the area in apple cider vinegar or a tincture or strong tea  of goldenseal root.
place over the area to be treated and cover with a piece of household plastic.
see balchs' prescription for nutritional healing for more on this subject and the dangers to look out for.
a diet of red meat, chicken, refined foods, sugar, salt and  other acid foods should be eliminated.
rub the glands with mullein and lobelia  ointment, professor cayenne's herbal balm or exceptic, in downward strokes.
herbs: peppermint and ginger tea or extract wild yam root , catnip, angelica, camomile, dill, summer savory, wintergreen, motherwort, valerian, burnet.
it adsorbs the excess gas as well as the bacteria that form the gas.
for future needs you may want to prepare a ready to go poultice for immediate use or when the fresh leaf is not available.
to make garlic oil, add peeled whole garlic cloves to a quart of olive oil (add the amount according to the taste or potency you want).
use decoction of goldenseal root or witch hazel bark externally.
this can be used for  sautéing, in salad dressings.
tree tea oil this is an oil that is effective anti-fungal agent and  works great when applied directly on the feet.
it is one of the most widely used medicinal herbs.
the fresh root is chewed for cases of paralysis of the throat, hemorrhage of the lungs and salivary glands.
a paste made from powdered comfrey root can be used as a poultice to heal bleeding hemorrhoids.
stay away from any product made with added fructose.
note: honey capping is the thin wax cappings which are sliced from a comb of honey before it is put into the honey extractor.
important to  consider your diet.
apple cider vinegar is high in potassium and more effective than any other source, because it has the minerals and the acid medium in which potassium needs to work.
there are over 60 types of warts)
note: if it reoccurs in  the next few days, repeat procedure again and within a month the dosage may be  cut to 1 teaspoon in the morning and one at night, until the asthma is gone.
if you are taking prescription drugs, check with your doctor before beginning treatment with charcoal.
when the 1st glass is  finished, take another, using 2 tsp.
the 23 cases treated in emergency rooms involved children whose parents didn't have activated charcoal at home and whose local pharmacies didn't stock it.
drink lots of fluids, eat lots of fiber, prevent heavy lifting, choose a hemorrhoid cream over suppositories.
(make a tea of 1 teaspoon of the chopped leaf to 1 cup water).
when eating it raw, you could chew a sprig of parsley afterward to  clear your breath.
you can put 1 drop of the essential oil in a  massage blend to relieve muscular pain, rheumatism, lumbago, and fatigue.
use instructions under colds along with herbs listed below.
use a mild apple cider vinegar douche (4 tsp.
an apple cider vinegar gargle brings marked relief to sore throats.
this is a very potent remedy.
a tincture would be 5-20 drops, and 500 milligrams  when using it in powder form.
as a preventative use 1-2 cloves a day either raw (crushed or chopped finely), in salads, dressings, or soups.
herbs: drink peppermint, elder flower and yarrow tea.
see information for headache relief under apple cider vinegar.
these make up one third of the amino acid profile of your muscles.
start your morning with a whey protein meal to cover your minimum leucine requirement.
nutrasweet (aspartame) shown that children could suffer brain damage from ahigh intake of aspartame.
many doctors are hesitant to prescribe antibiotics even for well-documented infections.
by detoxifying the intestines, you can often reduce and even eliminate allergic reactions.
leave blisters intact, if it pops, clean with soap and water, then smooth on an ointment.
rub  gums with brandy.
2 teaspoonful of honey will bring almost the same results.
have them available, so that when there are signs of an illness coming on, you can immediately take care of it.
a definitelink to hyperactivity in children.
this will either prevent or shorten the illness greatly and most likely avoid having to go to a doctor.
colloidal silver spray directly on the cleaned infected area
use whey meals as a primary source of protein during the day to grant maximum protein/leucine loading efficiency with minimum digestive stress.
basic burn information: 1st-degree burns are red and painful (sunburns,  scalds.)
place this thick-jel like substance into baggies, lay them flat and freeze.
elliminating dairy products and an alkaline diet alone may help.
frequent nosebleeds can be stopped by soaking a cotton ball in the vinegar and packing it lightly into the nostrils.
see also information under honey.
by cleansing,  building the immune system, eating right, and especially keeping away from  dairy products, mucus can be controlled.
do not take an antacid or a antidiarrheal product.
to retard spoilage of large batches, add vegetable glycerin (2 gallon of tea simmered (not boiled) down to 2 quarts and add 1 pint of glycerin.
the choice is now in your hands.
use eucalyptus oil as a spray, rub, or add to essential oil  diffuser, or humidifier.
if you did nothing else but take 1 or more fresh, pressed garlic pearls, drinking it down with water, 3 times a day you would have an excellent product for fighting infection!
this discourages candida growth.
be sure to take extra vinegar and water 5 times a day or more for the next 3 days.
apply 1-3 times per day, depending on severity.
use often when you have a cold or any sinus problems, or hay fever because it reduces immune reactivity, dries up mucus, opens nasal passages and helps the immune system.
herbs: aloe vera gel, ginkgo biloba extract, green tea.
swallow with water or a little fennel tea.
dr.penny budoff, m.d. states many women needlessly suffer from this chemical problem.
(1 tablespoon ever hour as  needed) food poisoning vomiting and diarrhea can flush out important electrolytes - potassium,  sodium, and glucose.
this product may help in certain skins problems.
there are no records of health endangering side effects.
doctors still use it today as a healing agent and antidote for poisons and an effective treatment for indigestion and gas, deodorizing foul-smelling gas or stools.
both doctors and patients need to be more aware that muscle deterioration is a major reason the elderly lose mobility.
this is also excellent for hot  flashes for women going through menopause.
they zap the free radicals that cause aging and contribute to tumor growth.
its anabolic impact after exercise is unmatched.
caution: do not try this if you have major back problems, if you are overweight, if the door or rod is not secure, or if you do not feel comfortable with it.
see balchs' prescription for nutritional healing  for more on this subject and the dangers to look out for.
for a baby, use 5 drops.
skin irritations there are many reasons for skin reactions.
you will find the body soaks it in.
sam biser indicates you will see  great improvement within 3 weeks.
a teaspoon of the cayenne tincture added to a cup of warm water makes a great gargle for sore throats and mucus congestion.
strain and drink the clear liquid.
we use too  many devitalized foods that have been robbed, through processing, of their  mineral content.
an excellent natural sweetener.
a steam inhalation treats colds and lung infections.
eliminate dairy products, grains.
add a few crushed cloves of garlic to as many of your meal preparations that you can, good in guacamole, stir-fry, sauces, or roast them in the oven.
wrap the burn in a clean, dry cloth or gauze pad and leave alone for the first 24 hours.
place cotton in ears.
it has the highest content of leucine and bcaa among all foods.
the powdered root in a burn paste has proven very successful as well.
sam biser indicates you will see great improvement within 3 weeks.
herbs: for minor burns - aloe, irish moss, drink comfrey or horsetail tea, 3 cups a day.
garlic is a strong natural antibiotic.
found ingelatin desserts, soft drinks, beverage mixes, hot cocoa mixes, desserts,yogurt and more.
silver is a potent bactericide and kills bacteria.
sometimes it takes a few weeks, so don’t give up.
the mineral content of honey is not high (dark honey  having 4 times as much iron as the light honeys), but as slight as  the mineral value of honey may seem, if you take 1 tablespoon in the morning  and one in the afternoon, there will be a noticeable difference in  weight, energy, vivacity and general appearance.
20g is about the threshold amount of protein needed to grant maximum utilization efficiency without wasting nitrogen.
when eating it raw, you could chew a sprig of parsley afterward to clear your breath.
the lymph glands are the body’s filter system.
in the spring and summer, treat hay fever with  herbal and nutritional remedies.
k (alfalfa, cornsilk, irish  moss, kelp, shepherds’ purse) used with vit.
msg (monosodium glutamate)
menstrual pain is sometimes aggravated by tension, insufficient exercise, poor dietary habits, nervous tension, tight muscles, the use of stimulants, poor diet alcohol, caffeine, sugars etc.
spray or diffuse room with fir needle essential oil to kill bacteria or virus in the air.
in 30 of the cases treated at home, care givers reported some difficulty using activated charcoal, but all ultimately administered it successfully, the researchers said.
a therapeutic dose is  2-3 cloves daily with meals, either cooked or raw.
keep gums stimulated and to remove plaque, massage between your teeth with stim-u-dent (hold in mouth till soft).
drink yarrow or comfrey tea and bathe affected parts with  a strong tea of the same.
look for the cause and correct.
for the past 45 years an array of unnatural andsynthetic foods have been put into the foods we buy.
if you are not asleep within a 1/2 hour, take 2 more teaspoonful and another at any time you wake up and unable to fall back asleep.
alfalfa, burdock, oat straw,  slippery elm, and white willow bark can be taken in capsule, extract  or tea form.
use distilled water and  dilute it for very small babies.
it combines  with almost any other herbs.
it can be caused by anxiety, distress, pain,  nervous exhaustion.
use distilled water and dilute it for very small babies.
a tonic made with 1/4 cup of apple cider vinegar, and 1 teaspoon honey to 1 cup hot water can help with dry skin, to increase hormone levels, to ease insomnia and burn off unwanted pounds!
herbal combination for infection: plaintain leaf, black walnut leaf , golden seal root, bugleweed herb, marshmallow root, lobelia herb ( 4 caps every 2 hours) or take equal parts garlic, myrrh, goldenseal root, cayenne in capsules 4 times a day.
it is one of your body's best-kept secrets in the war against free radicals and the normal signs of aging.
a mixture of the following, made into an ointment, is excellent healing agent for bones, flesh and cartilage - white oak bark, comfrey root, mullein leave, black walnut leaves, marshmallow root, wormwood herb, lobelia herb, skullcap herb, gravel root, beeswax, olive oil, and wheat germ oil.
burns should be allowed to begin the healing process on their own.
chewing a little parsley, mint, caraway or fennel seeds or putting a drop of peppermint oil on your tongue can help eliminate the garlic odor on your breath, also see information above on charcoal, on bad breath.
eat raw vegetables, sprouts and no acid foods (see list, under cleansing) to eliminate toxins quickly: take 2 capsules, or 1 teaspoon cayenne  pepper, and immediately get into as hot a shower as you can.
menstrual cramps each month, the lining of a woman's uterus produces chemicals called prostaglandins, which help the uterine muscles contract and expel tissue and fluids during menstruation.
strain and place in a jar.
it is highly effective and acts against a wide range of bacteria and yeasts.
it also makes the eyes bright and shiny.
after that, wash gently with soap and water once a day.
caution: charcoal may adsorb and inactivate other medications.
this is also excellent for hot flashes for women going through menopause.
the substance is a fine powder form of .
ipecac works for substances such as toxic plants or vitamin overdoses, while charcoal is considered more effective for a broad range of household items including certain cough medicines, painkillers and disinfectant cleaners.
so how much leucine in the form of foods, not supplements, do you need to consume for getting results?
it is effective for indigestion, gas, bad breath, deodorizes and purifies solutions, filters and purifies the blood in transfusions, treats some forms of dysentery, diarrhea, dyspepsia, foot and mouth disease, filters toxins from the blood in liver and kidney diseases.
as such, it's digested so rapidly that it increases the refueling speed of your muscles during that critical time just following your workout.
colloidal silver taken orally, it has stopped asthma attacks.
a 20,000 u vit c 3,000 vit e 800 u vitamin b complex 50 mg continue taking a little longer if warts are leaving,but not quite gone.
as a preventative use 1-2 cloves a day either raw (crushed or chopped  finely), in salads, dressings, or soups.
also, can produce headaches, dizziness, behavioralchanges, mood swings, seizures and urinary tract infections.
if attacks are moderately severe chew honey -comb or cappings in honey 5 times a day for 2 days and reduce the dose to 3 times a day as long as needed.
rubbing a clove of this natural antifungal and antiseptic over your skin it  can help to clear away acne, blemishes and skin rashes.
indigestion those who are ill, lack the ability to properly  digest and assimilate their food.
the fresh chopped root is also used (from a teaspoon or by the pound) in bath water for burning of dermatitis, to relieve sore muscles, bruising, exhaustionetc.
use eucalyptus oil as a spray, rub, or add to essential oil diffuser, or humidifier.
increase your intake of leucine rich foods such as high quality whey protein, raw cheese and organic, pasture-raised eggs.
there can be miraculous recovery from serious arthritis within 3 weeks.
in 115 out of 138 cases for which the substance was recommended and instructions on use were given, children were able to be treated at home with no complications.
burns become knowledgeable on the treatment for many different types of burns.
look for the cause and  correct.
take a teaspoonful  of honey and if possible chew comb or cappings during the day to keep the  nose open and dry.
apple cider vinegar: apple cider vinegar and citrus juices are very high in organic acids, which can wash and clean your joints, flushing out the inorganic acids, the uric acids etc.
"greater efforts need to be put into educating parents about the need to stock activated charcoal in the home in advance of a poisoning," they said.
note: a powerful blend that works well is 1 teaspoon each  cramp bark, motherwort, valerian root, kava root, skullcap leaves and  flowers in 4 cups water.
blend on high speed until smooth.
mix together and eat as needed.
many of the excellent herbal formulas listed are available through health stores or check out the reference books listed.
to make a  decoction - boil roots or barks for 20 minutes
stress, nervousness caused by illness, trauma, injuries, life style changes.
aluminum is added to many foods, in beer, soda pop cans, packaging for manyproducts.
remove sea weed, and liquefy.
whey is often considered ‘king’ of the proteins, and therefore can claim ‘most valuable’ status in muscle building.
can be very toxicif dosage becomes too high.
apparently, when free form amino acids are artificially administrated, they rapidly enter the circulation while disrupting insulin function, and impairing your body's glycemic control.
rub the glands with mullein and lobelia ointment, professor cayenne's herbal balm or exceptic, in downward strokes.
it enables an athlete to recuperate rapidly from over exertion and fatigue, according to standardized medical  tests.
it combines with almost any other herbs.
drink also in tea form, hot.
drink 1/2 to 1 gallon water (distilled) throughout the day.
for babies it is the same proportion,  but just give less of it in a eye dropper.
other herbs are, alfalfa, black  cohosh, cayenne, catnip, dandelion, garlic, ginger,  ginseng, golden seal, gotu kola, hops, kava kava, kelp,  licorice, lobelia, mistletoe, mullein, passion flower, pau  d’arco, rose hips, st.john’s wort, valerian , wild oats.
studies have reported that dietary protein has beneficial stabilizing effect on insulin levels when entering the circulation from ingested food.
garlic is often referred to as a "miracle food" and it more than lives up to that description.
see food storage add new comment "health is never valued so much as when it is gone" for quick relief, and emergencies, acquire the foods, herbs or herb formulas you feel your family will need.
its antibacterial properties help prevent infections.
a flavor enhancer which will greatly increase theflavors of certain highly processed foods.
it tends to accumulate in our bodies over the years and found todestroy brain cells.
check out his web page for more on deep tissue repair for arthritis and many other excellent helps with health problems.
change poultice after each use.
water necessary for the smooth operation of a variety of bodily functions, regulates body temperature, assists in removing waste materials through the colon, helps carry nutrients and oxygen to the cells, moistens the oxygen in the lungs.
for hayfever sufferers  try chewing the honeycomb once a day for 1 month before the hay-fever  season starts.
an old time and effective relief for sinus and hayfever problems, is to chew honeycomb or honey cappings (and honey pollen if available).
dry thoroughly and put a few drops of the undiluted tea on the affected area.
herbal combinations: in the spring and summer, treat hay fever with herbal and nutritional remedies.
it will either not appear or be very mild.
aloe vera gel, applied on the anus, relieves the burning.
for sore gums - apply a decoction or diluted tincture of myrrh gum, goldenseal root or witch hazel to gums.
powdered activated charcoal reaches its maximal rate of adsorption extremely rapidly, within 1 minute after ingestion.
(2 teaspoon apple cider vinegar to 2 glass of warm water each day).
aloe vera gel, applied directly on the anus can relieve the pain and soothe.
it prevents poisons from reaching the rest of your system, especially effective for food poisoning.
gargling with a mouthwash mix of salt and vinegar can soothe sore throats and toothaches.
to  retard spoilage of large batches, add vegetable glycerin (2 gallon of tea  simmered (not boiled) down to 2 quarts and add 1 pint of glycerin.
an ointment or salve - a semisolid herbal preparation for external use that is soaked in olive  oil, beeswax, and herbs.
they are much like varicose veins, which enlarge and lose their elasticity, resulting in saclike protrusions into the anal canal.
see our web page for availability and for further information in the book onother chemicals in foods and their damaging affects on the system, alsodetailed lists of name brand foods that do and do not no contain thesechemicals.
control your salt intake, coffee, strong spices, beer and cola.
there is no pill or tablet your doctor can prescribe to do the same."
if you wake up with nausea and vomiting and digestive upsets, follow the apple cider vinegar and water treatment throughout the day.
home use of activated charcoal has been limited because many parents don't know about it or are uncertain how to administer it, kentucky researchers report in december's issue of pediatrics.
add new comment for medical emergencies and everyday living 1.
home use of activated charcoal rising ( a write up in the local newspaper dec. 7, 2002) chicago (ap) - activated charcoal, a poison antidote used in emergency rooms for decades, can be easily used in children at home and may help prevent a trip to the hospital, a study found.
i will include a few that have proven very successful.
remain in this lying  position for a minimum of 10 minutes, preferably for a least 30 minutes.
it can  also be a valuable warning signal that you may have a potentially serious  illness.
found in ice cream, salad dressings, cheese spreads, frozendinners, ramen soups and others.
it is the a potent natural antibiotic estimated to be equivalent to 1  percent of that of penicillin.
just let nature take its' course.
because of this it is very important for pregnant and nursing women to avoidfoods with edta.
among the many substances known to be adsorbed to the surface of charcoal are poisons (such as lead acetate, ddt, strychnine), drugs (including aspirin, cocaine, iodine, phenobarbital, penicillin), and inorganic substances (among them mercury, chlorin, lead).
mix equal amounts of  ginger and flour (cornmeal or flax seed meal) with enough water to  make a thick paste and apply it amply over the affected area.
rub the oil onto sore muscles and joints to increase circulation and to reduce pain.
you can usually take charcoal 2 hours before or after other drugs.
diarrhea can be caused by a number of problems: parasites, colitis, stress, viruses, chemicals, allergies, or diet.
other conditions are inflammation, pink eye, tired  or sore eyes.
can be caused by sitting or standing at long periods, violent  coughing, lifting, constipation.
included in cereals,baked goods, drink mixes, instant potato flakes, boxed dinners, chewing gumand others.
taken with milk thistle, it can restore and help the liver.
it was a suggestion given to me by a chiropractor, and it has worked for me as well as others for years.
to make garlic oil, add peeled whole garlic cloves to a quart of olive oil  (add the amount according to the taste or potency you want).
aloe vera gel, ginkgo biloba extract, green tea.
the sinuses are the first line of defense in  protecting the lungs against infection.
note: to make this formula much more effective, take 2 soft gel capsules of  wheat germ oil (by viobin) per day, or you could take 1 teaspoon of  the oil (if you don’t mind the taste).
also put a heating pad or hot-water bottle on  your abdomen for a few minutes at a time.
symptoms include inflammation, burning, itching, scaling, cracking and blistering.
many of the excellent  herbal formulas listed are available through health stores or check  out the reference books listed.
strain the oil and bottle it for use.
2nd degree burns blister, ooze and are painful (contact with oven coils, severe sunburn)
you can make a paste by mixing a teaspoon of cayenne into a tablespoon of olive oil to rub on cold sores, sore joints or sore muscles.
it contains every essential amino acid, plus some of the non-essential ones.
note that mixing whey protein with low glycemic fruits such as berries is ok.
garlic and its related compounds have been found to lower bad cholesterol  levels by over 15 % and have successfully reduced blood pressure up  to 20% in people suffering from hypertension.
the best prevention and cure is to keep your body at a balanced alkaline-acid level.
by taking 2 teaspoons of apple cider vinegar to a glass of water at each meal, it can be helpful in maintaining the health of your digestive tract, and in turn the all-around health of you body.
now use a cloth or wool material to cover and hold the poultice and plastic in place.
this report suggests that it is possible to use larger amounts of honey compared to other sweets because of the ease in which honey is assimilated.
try to purchase it within a 20 mile radius of your home.
you will find the symptoms are reduced or eliminated without the side-effects of prescription or other over-the-counter medicines.
using apple cider vinegar: when there is food poisoning with vomiting,  only drink teaspoonsful every few minutes.
the tincture can be diluted and used as any eye wash, either with drops or in an eye cup wash the eye with an herbal eyebright formula either by dropper or in eye wash bath.
rub on hands when you go out in public to prevent picking up germs (from shaking hands, touching doorknobs, etc.
when skin rashes occur is it a good indication that the pancreas needs help or that your body needs cleansing to get rid of toxins.
herbs: drink yarrow or comfrey tea and bathe affected parts with a strong tea of the same.
the seeds of anise,  caraway, or carrot.
you can take charcoal intermittently for long periods or regularly for up to 23 weeks.
3rd degree burns are charred, white colored (from chemicals, electricity or prolonged contact with a hot surface gently wrap the burn in a clean dry cloth or thick gauze pad.
increase the gap between meals to potentiate the anabolic effect of each meal.
it can be prepared in many forms: bolus,essence, liniment, in massage oil, liquid extract, plaster, poultice, tincture, syrup .it is used in capsule or tea form generally in equal parts with other herbs.
garlic and its related compounds have been found to lower bad cholesterol levels by over 15 % and have successfully reduced blood pressure up to 20% in people suffering from hypertension.
two weeks before the onset of pollen take 2 teaspoonful of honey in 2 teaspoonful of apple cider vinegar in a glass of water before breakfast and before retiring at night.
life requires you to act.
repeat 2-3 times per day.
use the same cleansing and diet program as listed under colds.
drink at least 8 glasses of  distilled water and establish an alkaline way of eating.
basic burn information: 1st-degree burns are red and painful (sunburns, scalds.)
drink at least 8 glasses of distilled water and establish an alkaline way of eating.
this defense mechanism of the body acts to destroy  harmful microbes.
herbs: drink peppermint and ginger tea, rosemary, catnip , mate and mint tea, horsetail (a good source of silica necessary for bone  and connective tissue).
the body needs extra b-complex, c and e vitamins, calcium with magnesium, potassium, selenium and zinc.
and even though leucine is relatively abundant in our food supply, it is often wasted as an energy substrate or used as a building block rather than an anabolic agent.
honey is the only food  that stays fresh for thousands of years.
whey protein is also ideal for muscle fueling before exercise.
a 3rd glass should be taken with one small swallow every 15 minutes.
herbs: anise, fenugreek, marshmallow, red clover, bayberry  may help to loosen phlegm and clear congestion, golden seal,  horehound, mullein, nettle.
stops bleeding in 10-30 seconds and prevents scarring.
do not stick your finger down your throat!
during the 1980's researchers at brigham young  university found that garlic kills cold viruses, flu viruses and the herpes  viruses responsible for cold sores and venereal disease.
for food poisoning, take 1 tablespoon with water, 3 times a day, between meals.
allergies, hayfever toxins in the bloodstream is a main cause for allergic reactions.
a comfrey ointment or oil is also very effective.
calendula, chamomile, elder flower, tea tree oil, olive leaf extract, oat straw tea can all be used externally for relief.
can you think of any other food that is proven to fight infection, thin the blood, alleviate high blood pressure, lower cholesterol, stimulate the immune system, treat lung infections and prevent cancer?
an excellent cough syrup is made with 1 cup honey, 5-10 cloves of garlic, 1  tablespoon of sage leaf, the juice from 1 medium lemon and 1  tablespoon lemon peel, fresh or dried.
herbs: for minor burns - aloe, irish moss, drink comfrey or  horsetail tea, 3 cups a day.
note: this above combination is called bf&c (bones, flesh and cartilage)
a garlic or catnip enema is very  effective.
no need to scrape skin away.
(1 tablespoon ever hour as needed)
cleanse system and detoxify.
act immediately: the minute  you feel something coming on, don’t delay.
losing 5% may cause hallucinations and a drop of 15% results in death.
drink also in  tea form, hot.
give it 2-3 days, changing with new comfrey each day.
by cleansing, building the immune system, eating right, and especially keeping away from dairy products, mucus can be controlled.
spray silver solution directly onto the wound.
caution: avoid the use of garlic if you are nursing.
the tincture can be diluted and  used as any eye wash, either with drops or in an eye cup wash the eye with  an herbal eyebright formula either by dropper or in eye wash bath.
it is rich in nutrients, enzymes, and boron which is needed for calcium absorption and brain function, plus it has all the amino acids the body needs.
crush a garlic clove and apply directly on wart only.
you could make a paste of castor oil and baking soda and apply to the wart every night and bandage it (may take 3-6 weeks).
use equal  amounts of wheat germ oil and honey (about 1/2 cup each ), then add enough  comfrey powder to make a thin paste.
herbs: make an eyewash of the following teas (strain well) - borage flowers, rosemary, eyebright herb, sage or goldenseal root.
other juices will work but will take twice as long.
start with a small amount, 1/2 teaspoon and increase  to 1 tablespoon daily, in juices, cereals.
take a brisk walk, do yoga stretches.
it is the a potent natural antibiotic estimated to be equivalent to 1 percent of that of penicillin.
usually within a few hours to a day after the diarrhea and vomiting have subsided, you'll be ready for food.
strain and bottle it.
check  out his web page for more on deep tissue repair for arthritis and  many other excellent helps with health problems.
unlike  other fresh foods that loose vitamins when they are picked or stored,  honey keeps the vitamin content when stored.
herbal formula: black cohosh root, sarsaparilla root,  american ginseng root, licorice root, false unicorn root,  blessed thistle herb and squaw vine herb ( 2 capsules 3 times a day).
for a refreshing pick-up add several oz.
it is one of the most valuable foods on this planet and has been used since biblical times, heralding its value for endurance and strength.
there is not much this herb cannot do.
colloidal silver lie down on bed or couch with affected ear facing up.
of course, you'll need to get off foods that are acid- forming (beef, fish, chicken, dairy, sugar etc.)
be sure to build up the immune system.
apple cider vinegar: apple cider vinegar and citrus juices are very  high in organic acids, which can wash and clean your joints, flushing out  the inorganic acids, the uric acids etc.
if  the honeycomb or cappings are not available.
echinacea is one of the most potent and well researched herbal substances for building a strong immune system.
you may have to add more water for formula  consistency.
an acute attack should subside in half a day  to a day with the nasal passages opening up and the pain gone.
losing 5% may cause  hallucinations and a drop of 15% results in death.
to make a decoction - boil roots or barks for 20 minutes a poultice - fresh, ground-up herbs, or wetted powdered herbs to form a paste, and applied wet to an area to encourage healing.
an acute attack should subside in half a day to a day with the nasal passages opening up and the pain gone.
see information under garlic cataracts can form when vitamin c, b2, lysine  and tryptophan are low.
the charcoal can be mixed with soda or another powder for flavor.
bha & bht (butylated hydroxyanisole and hydroxytoluene)
also put a heating pad or hot-water bottle on your abdomen for a few minutes at a time.
making a poultice for external injuries: you are fortunate if you have the space to grow a plant of comfrey.
for sore gums  - apply a decoction or diluted tincture of myrrh gum, goldenseal root or  witch hazel to gums.
(do not use black cohosh if you are pregnant or have a chronic disease).
it is a powerful anti-inflammatory agent.
herbal combination: black cohosh root, cayenne pepper, hops flowers, lobelia herb, skullcap herb, valerian root, wood betony and mistletoe leaf.
use an eye bath, available at drug stores.
for pollen allergies take raw crude pollen (best within a 20 mile radius of where you live).
use 20-50 drops (50 drops for an adult, if you are really sick), 3 times a day, preferably in juice.
in addition, saturate a clean sock over the infected area and wear as  usual.
other teas to drink would be blackberry root tea, red  raspberry leaf, comfrey, dandelion, alfalfa, cayenne,  garlic, ginger, gentian, golden seal, hawthorn, kelp , licorice, lobelia, myrrh, oat straw, red clover,  slippery elm, white oak bark, wormwood or camomile.
herbs: drop warmed garlic, lobelia and mullein oil into each  ear (even if only one is hurting).
herbs often can help people deal with chronic health conditions that conventional medicine find perplexing.
an ointment made from oak bark, comfrey leaf, marshmallow root, mullein leaf, black walnut leaf, gravel root, wormwood herb, lobelia herb and skullcap herb is good.
herb preparations to make a tea (infusion) - steep (by bringing water to a boil, take  off heat, add leaves or flowers-1 tablespoon fresh or 1 teaspoon  dried, cover and let sit)
for colds, decongests the lungs, improves digestion, stops bleeding and prevents scarring, for poor circulation, heals ulcers, for hair loss, sinus problem, eye problems, cold sores, hayfever, helps in heart attacks, gangrene, hypothermia, tetanus, lockjaw.
colds, flu & strep throat act immediately: the minute you feel something coming on, don’t delay.
a change of diet, which  helps the nervous system, will definitely help.
keep towel wrapped tightly, take the same amount of cayenne and immediately get into a warm bed.
it helps the body absorb nutrients, and to covert food into energy, protects and cushions vital organs, like the liver and kidneys.
this report suggests that it is possible to use larger amounts  of honey compared to other sweets because of the ease in which honey  is assimilated.
sprinkle a pinch of cayenne powder on a cut to quickly stop the bleeding.
warmth will increase your blood flow and relax you muscles, especially important in your cramped and congested pelvic area.
tea tree oil (20 drops to about 4 quarts of water) is also excellent for soaking (same amount of time).
avoid protein bars and powders made with added sugar.
one way to spare leucine for anabolic purposes is by adding coconuts' mct (medium chain triglycerides) to a whey protein meal.
cover with plastic to protect items from  staining.
the bcaas’ most important job is to assist in synthesizing other amino acids that muscle building requires, including glutamine.
cayenne, parsley root, ginger root,  golden seal root, ginseng root, garlic (2 capsules 3 times a day) asthma this and other lung ailments are usually caused by bad  habits and an unhealthy life style.
ginger tea is excellent for trouble in the genital- reproductive organs, for menstrual cramps; you may be amazed at how effective it is.
an excellent product - stabilized oxygen, "07" can be used for  food poisoning, dysentery, diarrhea, bronchitis, emphuysemis,  sinus.
drip a few drops of the oil in both ears, even if only one is hurting, place a piece of cotton in ear to keep from running out.
fortify the immune and lymph system: by cleansing the colon and liver.
tea tree oil (20 drops to about 4 quarts of  water) is also excellent for soaking (same amount of time).
for acute conditions take large doses, 1 cup of the decoction or 1 teaspoon of the tincture every 2 hours , for 10 days.
herbal combination: make a tea of the following or use separately – equal partscatnip, fennel, peppermint or spearmint.
losing just one percent of  your body's fluids can cause discomfort and pain.
for nose bleeds: if caused by dryness, use aloe vera gel,  calendula ointment or comfrey ointment.
vinegar to 1 pint water) to support the health of the vaginal intestinal flora.
use only in  small doses to prevent morning sickness.
and often you get too busy to pay attention to how you eat or exercise.
herbal combination: marshmallow root, slippery elm bark, lobelia herb, ginger root, wild yam (1 cup tea a.m. and p.m.)
the following is a vitamin therapy for the common wart.
when the 1st glass is finished, take another, using 2 tsp.
doctors advise women to not use during pregnancyor when breast feeding.
it is non- toxic and far less expensive than most prescription drugs.
it is reported the burns and cuts will heal very rapidly with virtually no visible scarring.
set 2-4 tablespoons of vinegar in open dishes for an air freshener.
if headaches persist, try doubling the amount of vinegar, also try 2 tsp. of honey at each meal.
bites -  a plantain poultice is especially helpful for insect, spider bites,  bee stings.
used to keep foodsfrom changing color and fats from becoming rancid.
even in ancient greece and rome, people used silver containers to keep liquids fresh.
for an excellent burn paste, see information under comfrey.
a salve made of bayberry, goldenseal root, myrrh  and white oak bark works even better than the commercial preparations.
a garlic or catnip enema is very effective.
arthritis, gout arthritis, bursitis, gout, tennis elbow, hips and shoulders are caused by deposits of crystallized uric acid in the joints.
for possible cancer-causing,reproduction and fertility, and possible brain-altering effects.
the mineral content of honey is not high (dark honey having 4 times as much iron as the light honeys), but as slight as the mineral value of honey may seem, if you take 1 tablespoon in the morning and one in the afternoon, there will be a noticeable difference in weight, energy, vivacity and general appearance.
2 capsules can be taken 3 times a day.
studies at cornell,  pennsylvania state university and other top institutions, prove  garlic stops heart attacks before they begin, helps in ulcers, and that it  significantly reduces the rates of stomach and colorectal cancer.
echinacea is one of the most  potent and well researched herbal substances for building a strong  immune system.
use 20-50 drops (50 drops for an adult, if you are really  sick), 3 times a day, preferably in juice.
note: for detailed instructions on the above preparations see the nature's medicine chest 4x6 plant id cards, or the nature's medicine chest cd.
water cushions your joints, which prevents creaking, it helps help lower cholesterol, reduces high blood pressure and eliminates free radicals.
medicinal herbs: pau d’arco tea (drink 3 cups a day) or a strong tea (6 tea bags to 2 quarts water) for soaking the feet (15 min.
it is helpful in relieving nervous diarrhea, traveler's diarrhea, spastic colon, indigestion and peptic ulcers.
the usual amount to use would be 1 cup of the tea, at a time.
it is caused by bacteria, sugars for the bacteria to feed on and the weakness of tooth enamel.
a therapeutic dose is 2-3 cloves daily with meals, either cooked or raw.
using leucine as a free form amino acid can be highly counterproductive.
note that the highest concentrations of leucine and branched chain amino acids (bcaa) are found in dairy products; particularly quality cheese and whey protein.
this will add another 2 hours of treatment.
drink lots of hot herb tea or hot lemonade.
for such problems take between 1 teaspoon and 1 1/2 tablespoons of powdered charcoal up to 3 times a day.
you can buy garlic bulbs from your local grocery store or natural food store.
honey has advantages over other sugars: it provides a maximum of energy.
herbs do not take the place of a healthy diet, good nursing or natural living.
week 1 echinacea and goldenseal combination (15-20 drops or 2 tabs, 3 times daily) pantothenic acid (vit. b5) (100-250 mg, 2-3 times daily) week 2 astragalus, alone or as part of a formula (1 dose, 3 times daily) week 3 echinacea and goldenseal combination (15-20 drops or 2 tabs, 3 times daily) pantothenic acid (vit.b5) (100-250 mg, 2-3 times daily)
herbs: passion flower, hops, valerian, catnip,  camomile, lobelia, skullcap, wood betony and lavender flowers .
the body needs extra b-complex, c and e vitamins, calcium with  magnesium, potassium, selenium and zinc.
use an  eye bath, available at drug stores.
fructose is the worst fuel for your muscles.
avoid foods that are offensive to you during the hay  fever season (i.e. wheat, milk, dairy, nuts and nut butters)
you will see miraculous healing within 2- 3 weeks.
a strong acidophilus will usually check it within 1-3 days.
it is available as a powder, granules and in commercial capsules either as an oil or powder (aged products with no odor are not effective for infections).
acidophilus, bee pollen, vitamins a, b, c, e, co q10, and zinc lozenges are helpful.
you may want to try soaking the area in apple cider vinegar or a tincture or strong tea of goldenseal root.
take only ½ to 1 teaspoon of the tea, depending on  age, 2-3 times a day or until the diarrhea stops.
for migraines, tension or other types of headaches, apple cider vinegar is worth a try by drinking it, putting it in a vaporizer or taking it in water a.m. and p.m. and at every meal.
a simple  combination of marshmallow root and astragalus can help those who suffer  from allergies, hayfever, asthma, rheumatoid arthritis or any  hyperactive immune response.
put pressure, with your  finger, on the upper lip, just under the nose.
apply 1-3 times  per day, depending on severity.
by cleansing and changing to an alkaline diet with fresh, raw  vegetables, sprouts, soaked nuts and seeds, the body can build back the  enzymes needed for digestion.
you can put 1 drop of the essential oil in a massage blend to relieve muscular pain, rheumatism, lumbago, and fatigue.
herbs ginkgo biloba, mullein oil, nettle, pau d'arco, shuan huang lian combination, asthma-x5 herbal combination, echinacea, goldenseal, horsetail, juniper berries, licorice root, and slippery elm bark tablets.
if you feel your headache is caused from a neck or  back that is out, try hanging from a rod or door.
concern that they cause malignancy, toxicity,allergic reactions, hyperactivity in children and much more.
yes, garlic can lower cholesterol, thin the blood and prevent dangerous  blood clots (by making blood platelets less sticky).
it helps with fever blisters, genital herpes, athlete's foot, new tests suggest it has a role in treating lead poisoning, some carcinomas and diabetes.
another simple all-natural cough syrup is to take the juice of one boiled  lemon, thicken with honey and add 2-3 crushed cloves of garlic.
caution should be used by those with high blood  pressure or who have a tendency toward water retention.
nevertheless, with the right knowledge and practice, you can become increasingly efficient in restoring and improving your physical shape even when your available time is scarce.
add hot, to boiling water to make a moderately thick paste, but thin enough to spread on the toweling.
it is well known that the main cause of fatigue is an over-acid body.
charcoal placed in gas masks during world war 1 counteracted the effects of chemical warfare.
for  a sinus attack, chew a mouthful for about fifteen minutes, discard  and repeat, 4-6 times a day.
you may need to take 2 t in 1/1/2 cup water and repeat this 3-5 times a day, along with lemon and lime juice or apple and grape juice fasts.
another suggestion is to find sore spots along your shoulders, neck and back with your thumb or middle finger, press in hard, until the pain disappears.
bring to boil, then simmer 20 minutes.
it's also a lot quicker than the time it would have taken to get them emergency room treatment, they said.
toxins in the bloodstream is a main cause  for allergic reactions.
caused by illness, trauma, injuries, life  style changes.
"nutri biotic caps plus” (available at most health stores) is  excellent for virus.
use equal amounts of wheat germ oil and honey (about 1/2 cup each ), then add enough comfrey powder to make a thin paste.
start with a small amount, 1/2 teaspoon and increase to 1 tablespoon daily, in juices, cereals.
mix the honey and oil, in a blender when possible, gradually adding the comfrey.
pour the honey into a blender, add the garlic cloves, lemon juice and peel, and sage leaf.
control your salt intake, coffee,  strong spices, beer and cola.
collinsonia, also known as stoneroot has proven helpful,  for centuries.
this helps to fight off head colds, sinus infections, to prevent consti- pation and yeast infections.
herbs: camomile, hops, calendula, peppermint and yarrow  tea.
using apple cider vinegar: when there is food poisoning with vomiting, only drink teaspoonsful every few minutes.
herbs ginkgo biloba, mullein oil, nettle, pau d'arco, shuan  huang lian combination, asthma-x5 herbal combination, echinacea,  goldenseal, horsetail, juniper berries, licorice root, and  slippery elm bark tablets.
wash and cleanse area with cool water.
charcoal an effective treatment for indigestion and gas.
eat more vegetables  and fruit in small amounts through the day, rather than having 3 large  meals.
food poisoning vomiting and diarrhea can flush out important electrolytes - potassium, sodium, and glucose.
herbs: amaranth, barberry, comfrey, fenugreek,  goldenseal, mallow, sage, savory, slippery elm, sumac , white oak bark, white pond lily, wintergreen, and witch hazel  are all good for a gargle.
in other words, protein food benefits your body's glycemic control.
herbal combination: a poultice of chaparral, dandelion and yellow dock root helps.
used in drink mixes, puddings, cereals, candy, gelatindesserts, ice cream etc.
add 1 tablespoon camomile flowers and let steep another 20 minutes.
researchers believe that this unique role of leucine in the regulation of muscle protein synthesis is consistent with the sparing of lean body mass seen with high protein diets during weight loss.
note: if it reoccurs in the next few days, repeat procedure again and within a month the dosage may be cut to 1 teaspoon in the morning and one at night, until the asthma is gone.
be sure you have enough vitamins, minerals (especially calcium,  potassium and magnesium) and take before and during your period.
note: the blending of 4 herbs, kava, chamomile, hops and hawthorn, can help relax your body, mind, heart, and digestion, promoting a more refreshing night's sleep.
it has a mild antifungal action.
dough conditioners that can affectthe function of the kidneys as well as the nervous system.
a fennel eye bath for tired, dry eyes and clearer vision - make a tea from  fennel seed.
c  with bioflavonoids when bleeding starts and 1,000 mg every hour until  bleeding has completely stopped.
the usual amount to use  would be 1 cup of the tea, at a time.
mineral shortage in the diet causes loss of energy and vitality.
do not overdose as it may stop up your bowels longer than you want it to.
drink 1 cup of the tea, 2-3 times daily before meals.
be sure you have enough vitamins, minerals (especially calcium, potassium and magnesium) and take before and during your period.
used in liniments for shingles, arthritis, carpal tunnel, and sore muscles.
keep it bland, cereal, pudding,  soda crackers or broth.
other studies have  shown garlic's ability to kill bacteria resistant to antibiotics and meat  seasoned with garlic is protected against the killer bug e.coli!
strain through cheese cloth and place in bottle.
2 teaspoonful of honey  will bring almost the same results.
the active compounds in echinacea are said to increase  the ability of white blood cells to surround and destroy bacterial  and viral invaders.
if symptoms are continual crying, rather than  occasional, (and longer than 2 months), throwing up and not just  spitting up, it is most likely another problem besides colic.
this can also be effective in loosing inches if you are overweight, or stay  normal if you do not need to loose.
charcoal has been used effectively in the healing arts for centuries, and is considered the most valuable single agent currently available for treating poisonings, internally and externally.
other herbs are, alfalfa, black cohosh, cayenne, catnip, dandelion, garlic, ginger, ginseng, golden seal, gotu kola, hops, kava kava, kelp, licorice, lobelia, mistletoe, mullein, passion flower, pau d’arco, rose hips, st.john’s wort, valerian , wild oats.
a salve made of bayberry, goldenseal root, myrrh and white oak bark works even better than the commercial preparations.
cover with plastic and bandage.
after 2-3 days, apply healing ointments.
when skin rashes occur is it a good indication that the pancreas  needs help or that your body needs cleansing to get rid of toxins.
water is the most powerful healing remedy of anything we ingest.
if you have a burning sensation in your stomach after taking a strong dose, don't worry this is normal.
for this reason it is unlikely that mutations of bacteria or viruses will produce resistant species).
you may have to add more water for formula consistency.
(comfrey is recommended for external use only) insomnia
the best and most effective charcoal is activated charcoal.
for nose bleeds: if caused by dryness, use aloe vera gel, calendula ointment or comfrey ointment.
symptoms may include headaches, facial and head flushing,abdominal pains and faintness and can occur together and singly, 15-30minutes after eating.
adsorption takes place almost immediately.
a fennel eye bath for tired, dry eyes and clearer vision - make a tea from fennel seed.
if you plan on keeping it longer than a week, keep it in the refrigerator.
take a teaspoonful of honey and if possible chew comb or cappings during the day to keep the nose open and dry.
helps in boils, acne, duodenal ulcers, flu, herpes, persistent infections, and is an antiseptic.
skin rashes, chicken  pox, measles etc.- chickweed or  plantain ointments.
bees wax 1/2 lb dry herbs or 1 lb fresh herbs put ingredients into a closed container (stainless steel, earthenware, unchipped or unbroken enamel or glassware), and place into a warm oven the oven (200° , or 180° f. for 3-4 hours.
for  a baby, use 5 drops.
colds, flu & strep throat
cover and let steep 10 minutes.
do it a few times, if you don't hear adjusting  (tiny pops) in your back, try it again throughout the day, until you  do.
the main reason for this breakdown in  digestion is the increased amount of cooked and processed foods in our  diets.
try 2 teaspoons every 3-4 hours during the day.
pure water is the best.
3rd degree burns are charred, white colored (from  chemicals, electricity or prolonged contact with a hot surface gently wrap the burn in a clean dry cloth or thick gauze pad.
the glycemic factor as noted, the triggering of your mtor to increase muscle mass requires healthy insulin and glucose homeostasis.
use ½-1 teaspoon of the herb or the mixed herbs to 1 cup water (depending on the age of child).
the paste may be preserved by adding a little glycerine but better  when made fresh.
be sure  to wash your hands thoroughly and rinse the garlic after peeling and  before placing it in the oil.
swirl the charcoal in a glass of water and drink it down, or mix it with olive oil for easy ingestion by use of a spoon.
we make a delicious treat by adding lemon and mint or  carob powder, chopped nuts, roasted sesame seeds etc.
the alternative is to have the burned skin scraped off and skin grafting by a plastic surgeon.
drink lots of fluids, eat lots of fiber, prevent heavy lifting, choose a  hemorrhoid cream over suppositories.
by cleansing and changing to an alkaline diet with fresh, raw vegetables, sprouts, soaked nuts and seeds, the body can build back the enzymes needed for digestion.
this will not cause a substantial increase in the glycemic load of your meal.
have your slow assimilating proteins (eggs, cheese, fish or meat) at night to grant a steady release of leucine and a long lasting anabolic impact during the sleeping hours.
herbal formulas: a mixture of the following, made into an ointment, is excellent healing agent for bones, flesh and cartilage - white oak bark, comfrey root, mullein leave, black walnut leaves, marshmallow  root, wormwood herb, lobelia herb, skullcap herb, gravel root,  beeswax, olive oil, and wheat germ oil.
potassium prevents high blood pressure, unwanted fluid retention, regulates the body's water balance, normalizes the heart rhythm and works inside cells to keep sodium in check.
the leaves are more potent before the blossoms appear.
make sure everything you are using is  very clean.
the seeds of anise, caraway, or carrot.
a tincture - active  ingredients can be removed from the whole herb by any liquid solvent  such as grain alcohol, glycerin, fermented wine or apple cider vinegar.
are also high in  vitamins.
make sure you are getting enough water and exercise.
it enables an athlete to recuperate rapidly from over exertion and fatigue, according to standardized medical tests.
it can be caused by anxiety, distress, pain, nervous exhaustion.
take between 1 teaspoon to 1 1/2 tablespoons of powdered charcoal up to 3 times a day (tablets are also available).you can take it between meals, as food can reduce its effectiveness.
bruising, sprains herbs:
several things… whey protein is easy to digest and very bioavailable to your body.
but beware that only food based leucine can benefit your muscles without side effects.
try 2  teaspoons every 3-4 hours during the day.
warmth will increase your blood flow and relax you muscles, especially  important in your cramped and congested pelvic area.
herbal formula: black cohosh root, sarsaparilla root, american ginseng root, licorice root, false unicorn root, blessed thistle herb and squaw vine herb ( 2 capsules 3 times a day).
if they become clogged from too much mucus produced by the body, infection may set in.