also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
lump charcoal is also more available these days and can typically be found in places that sell smokers and outdoor cooking equipment.
what's the best charcoal to use in my smoker?
by category - barbecue basics - lighting charcoal - beef - fish and seafood - fruit and vegetables - grilling help - grills - lamb - meals and menus - more recipes - organizations - pork - poultry - sauces & marinades - smokers - smoking help - spices & seasonings barbecues & grilling - about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling - smokers - smokers faq - what's the best charcoal to use in my smoker?
if you want to step up a level you can use what is know as lump charcoal.
lump charcoal made from hardwood is as close to smoking with hardwood as you can get without splitting logs.
of course not all charcoals are created equal.
derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches lump charcoal hardwood logs flavorful smoke charcoals smoke flavor lighter fluid explore barbecues & grilling must reads most popular - bbq recipes - best gas grill - barbecue & grilling recipe of the week - best smokers - bbq & grilling faq see more about: - top 10 bbq sauces - top 10 rub recipes - kansas city rib rub - top 10 steak recipes - big daddy’s carolina sauce
these leave a bad taste and are just not good for any kind of cooking.
a part of the new york times company.
charcoal should also be kept completely dry.
this isn't pressed sawdust like most charcoals, but is actual pieces of wood that have been fired into charcoal.
lump charcoal also costs more, but since it burns hotter and longer you use  less so the in long run it isn't as expensive as you might think.
if you want an inexpensive charcoal go with something that has not additives.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
answer: while there are those who will tell you that the best charcoal is actually hardwood logs, there are those people who live in the real world and use charcoal to produce heat for their smokers.
if you  want an inexpensive charcoal go with something that has not additives.
what's the best charcoal to use in my smoker?
- about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling barbecues & grilling search free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
lump charcoal also costs more, but since it burns hotter and longer you use less so the in long run it isn't as expensive as you might think.
by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: - barbecue basics - lighting charcoal question: what's the best charcoal to use in my smoker?
lump charcoal burns longer so you use less and have a much more flavorful smoke.
suggested reading related articles - smoking basics - smoke - charcoal - buying charcoal - get the good stuff, the plain stuff - making smoke - add an authentic smoke flavor to your grilling - jim bob smoker - reader submissions: show off your custom bbq smoker - what is the best way to light charcoal?
free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
sign up - barbecues & grilling - grills/smokers - grilling - barbecue/smoking discuss in my forum
sign up discuss in my forum
you can add really wood for smoke  flavor but avoid charcoals that promise things like ";authentic mesquite  flavor".
lump  charcoal burns longer so you use less and have a much more flavorful smoke.
answer: while there are those who will tell  you that the best charcoal is actually hardwood logs, there are those people  who live in the real world and use charcoal to produce heat for their smokers.
- which produces better tasting food?
good charcoal for smoking lasts a long time and produces a steady high heat.
lump charcoal  is also more available these days and can typically be found in places that  sell smokers and outdoor cooking equipment.
charcoal should be as basic and clean as possible.
lump charcoal made from hardwood is as  close to smoking with hardwood as you can get without splitting logs.
the first rule is to avoid self-starting charcoals that have lighter fluid additives to get them burning.
the first rule is to avoid  self-starting charcoals that have lighter fluid additives to get them burning.
charcoal  should be as basic and clean as possible.
by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: barbecue basics lighting charcoal question: what's the best  charcoal to use in my smoker?
this isn't pressed sawdust like most charcoals, but is actual pieces of wood  that have been fired into charcoal.
good charcoal for smoking lasts a long time and  produces a steady high heat.
you can add really wood for smoke flavor but avoid charcoals that promise things like ";authentic mesquite flavor".