from now on you can start up every charcoal fire just by using some newspaper and you can start grilling within fifteen minutes.
an electric barbecue based on induction reaches a temperature of 200°.
thanks to the technology the capacity lays seriously high  and it is possible to grill thick meat rare and to get the meat warm also on  the inside.
barbecook® shortens this time thanks to the quickstart® system.
cook chips ensure evenly distributed and long-lasting heat.
moreover, they are more hygienic than the  porous lava stones.
they complement each other perfectly and therefore you can  purchase them all.
also the lid, the bowl and the heat spreading plate need to be  cleaned.
as a preparation for the charcoal you can regulate the height of the  grillers and the intensity of the flames.
this is not only a clear advantage in safety, but this property also reduces maintenance to a minimum.
cook chips ensure evenly distributed and  long-lasting heat.
after half an hour the amica is ready for grilling, and the party can begin!
in order to  make the system as efficient as possible, the old models were supplied with  lava stones.
on the contrary, the electric types are usually used where there is limited room, such as a camp site or on a small balcony.
it is certain that cooking with induction is one of the most advanced cooking techniques and that even more and more professional cooks are opting for this technique, because of the fast reaction time and the accurate temperature regulation.
gas, charcoal and electric barbecues all have their fervent supporters and their convinced adversaries.
barbecook® shortens this  time thanks to the quickstart®  system.
nowadays lava stones have been replaced by plates which spread out  the heat and produce a better result.
thanks to induction this time is, however, considerably shortened.
specially developed by barbecook®, the cook chips are a unique and new energy source.
gas barbecues blaze  less than charcoal barbecues because their temperatures are lower.
barbecook® developed the cook chips for the amica  table barbecue in particular.
the heat of a gas barbecue is more humid and therefore ideal for fish.
gas a gas barbecue reaches a temperature of between 200° and   250°, which is perfect for preparations which require more time, such as  grilling of chicken.
thanks to the higher efficiency and faster pre-heating, induction saves energy.
the cook chips – and the amica – are lighted with barbecook® lighting gel.
the efficiency with  induction is four times higher than with the traditional electric barbecues.
on the contrary, the  electric types  are usually used where there is limited room, such as a  camp site or on a small balcony.
in this new form of party cooking everyone grills  their own food around the authentic charcoal fire of the amica.
the heat of a gas barbecue is more humid and  therefore ideal for fish.
thanks to the higher efficiency and faster pre-heating, induction saves  energy.
nowadays lava stones have been replaced by plates which spread out the heat and produce a better result.
for gas barbecues you don't need to adjust the position of the grill, because the temperature is set with adjustable knobs.
the griller will be sterilized thanks to the intense heat of the next session.
thanks to the technology the capacity lays seriously high
in this way you can enjoy your barbecue preparations,  according to your full desires and tastes.
for gas barbecues you don't need to adjust the position of the grill,  because the temperature is set with adjustable knobs.
types of fuel so different and so complementary:  gas, charcoal and electric  barbecues.
a gas barbecue reaches a temperature of between 200° and 250°, which is perfect for preparations which require more time, such as grilling of chicken.
in this new form of party cooking everyone grills their own food around the authentic charcoal fire of the amica.
cook chips specially developed by barbecook®, the cook chips are a unique and new  energy source.
the griller will be sterilized thanks to  the intense heat of the next session.
electric barbecue an electric barbecue based on induction reaches a temperature  of  200°.
this is not only a clear advantage in safety, but  this property also reduces maintenance to a minimum.
and it is possible to grill thick meat rare and to get the meat warm also on the inside.
a lot of people who like it, cannot resist the cosy atmosphere of this interactive way of grilling.
thanks to  induction this time is, however, considerably shortened.
the surface temperature amounts to 500°c, over which any  dish can be prepared.
the different types of appliances are used in  different ways.
a charcoal barbecue of average quality has a temperature on the surface of a minimum of 500°.
moreover, they are more hygienic than the porous lava stones.
gas, charcoal and electric barbecues all have their  fervent supporters and their convinced adversaries.
also the electric barbecue has to pre-heat.
after barbecuing it is  advised to let the barbecue burn for fifteen minutes in order to clean the  appliance.
a  lot of people who like it, cannot resist the cosy atmosphere of this  interactive way of grilling.
you need a lot of  patience with the traditional charcoal barbecues, since it takes about forty  minutes just to create a decent charcoal fire .
barbecook® developed the cook chips for the amica table barbecue in particular.
you need a lot of patience with the traditional charcoal barbecues, since it takes about forty minutes just to create a decent charcoal fire .
from now on you can start up  every charcoal fire just by using some newspaper and you can start grilling  within fifteen minutes.
gas barbecues blaze less than charcoal barbecues because their temperatures are lower.
their unique composition prevents formation of smoke  during the grilling process!
it is certain  that cooking with induction is one of the most  advanced cooking techniques and that even more and more professional cooks are  opting for this technique, because of the fast reaction time and the accurate  temperature regulation.
cook chips are made of bamboo and therefore particularly environment-friendly.
since the gas bottle has a big  volume, the barbecue can be used for several times.
this temperature,  for example, is  ideal to grill ribs or to prepare them rare.
the different types of appliances are used in different ways.
this temperature, for example, is ideal to grill ribs or to prepare them rare.
so different and so complementary: gas, charcoal and electric barbecues.
also the gas barbecue has to pre-heat for about fifteen minutes in order to make the grill hot enough.
the efficiency with induction is four times higher than with the traditional electric barbecues.
the cook chips  – and the amica – are lighted with barbecook® lighting gel.
thanks to this energy saving technique, the temperature on the cooking  surface is also much lower.
one of  the big advantages is the type of combustion.
also the gas barbecue has to pre-heat  for about fifteen minutes in order to make the grill hot enough.
in this way you can enjoy your barbecue preparations, according to your full desires and tastes.
as a preparation for the charcoal you can regulate the height of the grillers and the intensity of the flames.
their unique composition prevents formation of smoke during the grilling process!
the surface temperature amounts to 500°c, over which any dish can be prepared.
they complement each other perfectly and therefore you can purchase them all.
after barbecuing you don't need to remove the ashes nor the pyrolysis.
while the europeans prefer  charcoal, the englishmen usually choose the gas type.
charcoal a charcoal barbecue of average quality has a temperature on the  surface of a minimum of 500°.
grilling on a nice glowing charcoal fire is a very pleasant activity.
thanks to this energy saving technique, the temperature on the cooking surface is also much lower.
after barbecuing you don't need to  remove the ashes nor the pyrolysis.
while the europeans prefer charcoal, the englishmen usually choose the gas type.
in order to make the system as efficient as possible, the old models were supplied with lava stones.
cook chips are made of bamboo and therefore particularly  environment-friendly.