brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill model# 810-3821-s. this gas/charcoal dual grill is almost an exact copy of the char-griller duo that sells at lowe's home improvement stores.
the  person who buys this grill probably didn't do their research and most likely
no see all 9 reviews
bought it on impulse.
i purchased one exactly 4-months ago.
this model has been discontinued.
manufacturer's site user reviews 1 out of 5 falls apart, member jsdanow1
the questions you should be asking yourself is do you really need both a  charcoal and a gas grill and if you do would it make more sense to buy one of  each separately.
while relatively small this  charcoal grill gives you enough room for many grilling tasks, but is limited in  indirect grilling space.
so i am working to get a credit from home depot to get something else.
manufacturer's site 1 out of 5 falls  apart, member jsdanow1
the btu output is low for the size (the  char-griller version has 40,800 btus), but the barrel shape and thicker steel  body holds in heat well enough to give you some good grilling power.
propane tank  and cover sold separately
recently there have been a few side by side grills.
this brinkmann model as home depot is such a blatant knockoff of the char-griller duo sold at lowe's that you would think it would be too embarrassing to put out on the showroom floor.
since the competition between home depot and lowe's is so tight it would appear that they have to carry the same products, for the same price, but from different companies.
on the charcoal side you get a typical barrel shaped charcoal grill.
the cast iron cooking grates are good for heat transfer and the dual layer bottom holds in the heat and protects the painted finish.
over the years several companies have attempted to blend the convenience of gas with the flavor of charcoal.
write a review 0 out of 0 people found this helpful.
first the girll was not put together  properly by home depot, then there is a part on the lid that breaks.
one 402 square inch charcoal cooking chamber one 402 square inch 3-burner, 36,000 btu maximum output gas cooking chamber 1176 square inches of total grilling space 10,000 btu brass capped side burner under a flush mounted lid turn and click piezoelectric ignition on control knob stainless steel tubular gas burners porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates barrel shaped thermal painted steel body and lid hood mounted thermometers on each cooking chamber made in china by brinkmann exclusively for home depot stores.
the real question is, do you really need this 5 foot long, 120 pound all in one grill or would you be better served with separate grills.
basically this version is two grills, one gas and one charcoal mounted together on a single cart.
- about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling barbecues & grilling search free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
propane tank and cover sold separately guide review - brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill
the gas grill side is a 36,00 btu 3-burner gas grill with medium weight porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates and a low powered, 10,000 btu side burner.
after all if the gas components of this grill rust out and make that side useless you have a 5 foot long charcoal grill with limited cooking area.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
since the competition  between home depot and lowe's is so tight it would appear that they have to  carry the same products, for the same price, but from different companies.
the  cast iron cooking grates are good for heat transfer and the dual layer bottom  holds in the heat and protects the painted finish.
sign up - barbecues & grilling - grills/smokers - grilling - barbecue/smoking discuss in my forum brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill about.com rating 3 star rating user rating 1.5
first the girll was not put together properly by home depot, then there is a part on the lid that breaks.
was this review helpful to you?
while relatively small this charcoal grill gives you enough room for many grilling tasks, but is limited in indirect grilling space.
while some of these components are not the best quality they are not  necessarily that bad for the price.
sound too good to be true?
while some of these components are not the best quality they are not necessarily that bad for the price.
other than this, it is a typical low cost gas grill.
star rating (9 reviews) write a review by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: - gas/charcoal grill reviews - brinkmann grills - home depot grills brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill model # 810-3820-s
my recommendation would be to purchase aweber charcoal grill for  around $100 that will last you a good decade and perhaps a lower endchar-broil  gas grill for around $150 that will last a few years.
my recommendation would be to purchase aweber charcoal grill for around $100 that will last you a good decade and perhaps a lower endchar-broil gas grill for around $150 that will last a few years.
by category - gas/charcoal grill reviews - brinkmann grills - home depot grills - beef - fish and seafood - fruit and vegetables - grilling help - grills - lamb - meals and menus - more recipes - organizations - pork - poultry - sauces & marinades - smokers - smoking help - spices & seasonings barbecues & grilling - about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling - grills - gas grills - gas grill reviews - discontinued grills - 2010 gas grills - brinkmann dual zone charcoal model # 810-3820-s (discontinued) - gas/charcoal grill review also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill model# 810-3821-s. this gas/charcoal dual grill is almost an exact copy of the char-griller duo  that sells at lowe's home improvement stores.
obviously home depot felt they were missing something so they got brinkmann to make this grill to the almost exact specifications.
the gas grill side is a 36,00 btu 3-burner gas grill with medium weight  porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates and a low powered, 10,000 btu side  burner.
the btu output is low for the size (the char-griller version has 40,800 btus), but the barrel shape and thicker steel body holds in heat well enough to give you some good grilling power.
the brinkmann corporation the bottom line
add in a side burner, albeit a weak one and you have what would appear to be a complete package, and all for about $300usd.
manufacturer's site pros - inexpensive gas/charcoal combo cons - low quality gas grill components - lightweight construction - limited support from the manufacturer description - one 402 square inch charcoal cooking chamber - one 402 square inch 3-burner, 36,000 btu maximum output gas cooking chamber - 1176 square inches of total grilling space - 10,000 btu brass capped side burner under a flush mounted lid - turn and click piezoelectric ignition on control knob - stainless steel tubular gas burners - porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates - barrel shaped thermal painted steel body and lid - hood mounted thermometers on each cooking chamber - made in china by brinkmann exclusively for home depot stores.
no see all 9 reviews suggested reading related articles - top 10 charcoal grills - top 10 gas grills between $250 and $500 - grills, barbecues & smokers 2011 - gas/charcoal grill reviews - brinkmann gas grill reviews - brinkmann dual zone 3-burner gas and charcoal grill (model# 810-3821-s) - g... - char-broil combination gas/charcoal grill model# 463724511 - gas/charcoal r... - kenmore 3-burner charcoal/gas combo grill model# 720-0718 - gas/charcoal gr... - char-griller duo gas/charcoal grill model #5050 - charcoal/gas grill review - charmglow 4-burner 2-lid gas grill model #810-7420-s (discontinued) - gas g... derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches lowe s home improvement char griller duo home depot stores gas charcoal propane tank piezoelectric ignition explore barbecues & grilling must reads most popular - bbq recipes - best gas grill - barbecue & grilling recipe of the week - best smokers - bbq & grilling faq see more about: - top 10 bbq sauces - top 10 rub recipes - top 10 steak recipes - kansas city rib rub - buy a gas grill
a part of the new york times company.
guide review - brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill this model  has been discontinued.
other than  this, it is a typical low cost gas grill.
obviously home depot felt they  were missing something so they got brinkmann to make this grill to the almost  exact specifications.
the truth is that this grill isn't that well built.
this brinkmann model as home depot is such a blatant  knockoff of the char-griller duo sold at lowe's that you would think it would  be too embarrassing to put out on the showroom floor.
the questions you should be asking yourself is do you really need both a charcoal and a gas grill and if you do would it make more sense to buy one of each separately.
so i am working to get a credit from home depot to get  something else.
the person who buys this grill probably didn't do their research and most likely
after all if the gas components of this grill rust out and  make that side useless you have a 5 foot long charcoal grill with limited  cooking area.
the lids do not seal and the gas does not come out evenly.
low quality gas grill components lightweight construction limited support from the manufacturer description