unless otherwise noted, all text, recipes, photos, and code are owned by amazingribs, inc. and fully protected by us copyrightâ law.
the temperature of the meat stops moving.
the best chefs have developed tricks and techniques that can make major differences in the outcome.
other than clearly marked ads, links and recommendations on this site are all products, services, and websites we truly admire, and are never paid endorsements.
the most common error we make is adding the sauce at  the wrong time.
if you've got a gas grill, you've gotta click on this trick.
the smokenator may be the best accessory for the weber kettle ever, making it a very effective smoker, but there are some things i strongly disagree with in the smokenator manual.
we do not accept ads from product categories we review and we keep a strict wall between editorial and advertising, so, for current pricing and availability of prime space, contact my agency, federated media, by clicking the logo at right.
do this before you start: mise en place.
amazingribs.com is one of the 100 most popular food websites in the us according tocomscore, alexa, and quantcast.
here's my  definition of what amazing ribs taste like.
bi-metal dial thermometers are often off by as much as 50°f!
the authors are human and capable of mistakes, omissions, or errors, so we make no guarantees as to the accuracy, completeness, or safety of the information.
copyright © by amazingribs, inc.
if you would like us to link to your website, click here to readour links policy first.
the first step to becoming a great  outdoor cook is to master your instrument, and the best way to do this is to  calibrate it with dry runs.
boiling meat turns it to mush and sucks out all the  flavor, but this technique makes it tender and juicy.
use the memphis method for cooking over direct heat and get them done in a hurry.
the information on this website is for educational purposes only.
the first step to becoming a great outdoor cook is to master your instrument, and the best way to do this is to calibrate it with dry runs.
read mybuyer's guides and the buying checklists and follow the links.
but beware of those  vertical rib holders.
beginners are often baffled after 2 to 3 hours of cooking pork  shoulder or beef brisket.
here are some of my favorite tips and tricks that make cooking easier, and the outcome better.
our philosophy about food is simple.
when you are done with these dry runs, you want to know what to do when a recipe calls for cooking at 225°f or 325°f on the indirect side of the 2-zones and 425°f on the direct side.
the smokenator may be the best accessory for  the weber kettle ever, making it a very effective smoker, but there are some  things i strongly disagree with in the smokenator manual.
so you can never be 100% sure when things will be ready, especially when you're cooking low and slow.
this means you need written permission to republish or distribute anything on this website.
the most important trick i can teach you is, learn 2-zone  and indirect cooking.
nominee: 2010 world food media awards member: international association of culinary professionals member: kansas city barbeque society member:
it will improve your cooking overnight and pay for itself in a hurry.
the most common error we make is adding the sauce at the wrong time.
our resident mythbuster, dr. greg blonder busts  this myth.
but beware of those vertical rib holders.
the wsm is one of the best backyard cookers available and the brinkmann bullet  is another popular unit.
important stuff for all cooks the importance of 2-zone and indirect cooking.
the temperatures are the same for both indoor and outdoor cooks.
but clicking on that link before you shop helps me devote more time and money to you.
the basic concept  is to get all the ingredients out and ready first.
here are some broad concepts every outdoor cook needs to know.
click here formore info.
...more to come (to be notified when new recipes and other articles  come online, be sure to subscribe to my free, spam free,email newsletter).
what are baby backs, spares, country ribs, riblets, rib tips, rib roasts, and the st. louis cut?
what  are amazing ribs?
do nitrites & nitrates in hot dogs, pastrami, and lunch meats cause  cancer?
here's the best way to set up a charcoal grill for real barbecue.
click here for more info and how to order it.
advertisement | homepage | table of contents | | weights, measures, conversions | techniques | recipes | buyer's guides | links | ruminations | ingredients | |misc bbq articles | one nation under sauce | meet meathead | newsletter | updates | donations | | privacy promise, code of ethics, other legal terms |advertising and sponsorship opportunities |
click here for more aboutthermometers.
the message is that when you open the lid of your grill or  smoker, cooking slows or stops.
it is by far the most popular barbecue website in the world and pageviews increase rapidly every year.
amazingribs.com is published by amazingribs, inc., a florida corporation.
then, please tell me everything i need to know to answer your question.
so i get a referral fee.
rancid grease garnished with scale is not something i see on restaurant menus very often.
the best table  you'll find anywhere.
and it is inexpensive.
the ribs the world loves best are from the american  south, barbecued, with a perfect balance of porcine flavor, silky mouthfeel,  springy texture, and juiciness framed by a kiss of smoke, hugged by the  sweetness, acidity, and spiciness of sauce, and licked by fire.
best setup for a charcoal grill.
use a cooking diary.
chemistry behind when you left school, but if you want to eat well, you need to  understand that cooking is all about physics and chemistry, with a little magic  mixed in.
this one has a very thin tip with a tiny thermocouple so it gives an accurate reading in just six seconds.
machine washable, temper-ground, serrated, high-carbon stainless-steel, full-tang blades with excellent cutting edge retention, beefy hardwood handle, rust and stain resistant, and they stay shiny without polishing.
i cannot recommend it more highly.
techniques recipes buyer's guides  ingredients one nation under sauce misc bbq articles weights,  measures, conversions links advertising newsletter updates meet meathead .
the problem with outdoor cooking is  that the temp isn't as easy to control as indoor cooking.
and stays unyielding for hours.
contrary to what your neighbor says, greasy grill grates and carbon buildup on the lid do not improve the flavor of your food.
with a $30 donation you'll get a 100% cotton brushed twill adjustable low profile cap with the amazingribs patch sewn on.
the most important technique an outdoor cook needs to master is how to control the cooking temperature by using 2-zone and indirect heating.
here are the optimum serving temps.
that means leftovers.
important weights, measures, and conversion tables.
here's a printable version of  my cooking log.
you may have thought you left physics and chemistry behind when you left school, but if you want to eat well, you need to understand that cooking is all about physics and chemistry, with a little magic mixed in.
when the whole fam damily is coming over, you might want to cook more than one pork butt or brisket, or a shoulder and a brisket and some ribs.
first, let's define some terms: what is barbecue?
here's how to get it.
keep your meat warm with a faux cambro.
use the memphis method for cooking over  direct heat and get them done in a hurry.
here's how to ignore the manual and set them up right.
your suggestions are always welcome.
it's french and it means, roughly, "everything in its place", and it is the best thing from france since the pinot noir grape.
mythbustin': is it true when they say "if you're lookin', you ain't cookin'"?it is a widely accepted shibboleth, appearing in practically every barbecue book ever written: "if you're lookin', you ain't cookin'".
eat all the raw veggies you  like, but don't eat raw sprouts.
make notes  on the meat, the prep, the cooker temp, ambient temp, the wood you used, how it  tasted, and what improvements you need to make.
national barbecue association represented by: the lisa ekus group promoting a world of culinary talent founding member: operation bbq relief amazingribs.com is all about the zen of barbecue, grilling, and outdoor cooking, with great bbq recipes and techniques: barbecue baby back ribs, spareribs, pulled pork, beef brisket, steak, burgers, chicken, smoked turkey, lamb, barbecue sauces, burgers, steaks, rubs, and side dishes, with the world's best buying guide to barbecue smokers and grills.
these  popular smokers have some problems that can ruin your meal.
click here for more info on these wonderful knives.
the basic concepts you need to understand in order to make amazing ribs, steaks, and other meats.
here is an exclusive explanation by physicist dr. greg blonder about what is happening and what to do about it.
grill and smoker setups best setup for a gas grill.
i always cook more food than needed so nobody goes hungry.
this is the concept behind the expensive new infrared grills.
i've got a better way.
the most important trick i can teach you is, learn 2-zone and indirect cooking.
here is an exclusive explanation by  physicist dr. greg blonder about what is happening and what to do about it.
get it done early and hold it in a faux cambro,  aka beer cooler.
food, knife, and grill safety.
like the type of cooker you are using.
the message is that when you open the lid of your grill or smoker, cooking slows or stops.
all material within comes without warranties of any kind.
i cannot pick the right cooker for you any more than i could pick the right car or spouse for you.
the question is, how does this impact cooking times?
here's how to get sizzling sauce without burning it.
if you are looking for info, please use the table of contents or the search box, at the top of every page.
how to live to cook again and how to not  kill your spouse, by accident that is.
on the back of all slabs there's a membrane that keeps flavor from the meat and gets very tough.
if you are not using a good digital you have no idea what the temp really is so i can't help you.
it's french and it means,  roughly, "everything in its place", and it is the best thing from  france since the pinot noir grape.
we purchase many products we review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
the best reasons to buy fromamazon are low prices, fast often free delivery, fair return policies, and often there is no sales tax.
a must for gas grills.
contrary to what your neighbor says, greasy  grill grates and carbon buildup on the lid do not improve the flavor of your  food.
cooking more than one large hunk o' meat.
when the whole fam damily is  coming over, you might want to cook more than one pork butt or brisket, or a  shoulder and a brisket and some ribs.
try these hot tips & techniques good cooking needs more than good recipes.
this article has tips for setting up a cos as well as  hot to modify it.
and scale on the hood can reduce the heat of your grill.
the best chefs have developed  tricks and techniques that can make major differences in the outcome.
the seductive aroma and flavor of smoke is the essence of barbecue.
click here for analytics, stats, demographics, and advertising options.
note: some photos of commercial products such as grills were provided by the manufacturers and are under their copyright.
meat temp fridge magnet the prize for best bbq tool at the 2012 the national barbecue association conference went to a simple inexpensive fridge magnet by meathead.
best setup for a gas grill.
here are  some of my favorite tips and tricks that make cooking easier, and the outcome  better.
best setup for a weber smokey mountain and other charcoal bullet smokers.
does grilling pose a cancer risk?
safety first thawing meat.
skin 'n' trim: removing the membrane.
3) please don't ask me "what grill (or smoker) should i buy?"
what are baby  backs, spares, country ribs, riblets, rib tips, rib roasts, and the st. louis  cut?
if you have a weber kettle, you need the amazing smokenator and hovergrill.
yes, you can get real smoky, authentic tasting barbecue on a gas grill.
forget what the weber folks say.
chef anthony bourdain calls  it his religion.
we have always been transparent about when we are reviewing a product sample, even beforethe federal trade commission required it in 2009.
our resident mythbuster, dr. greg blonder busts this myth.
i've shared just about everything i know.
these popular smokers have some problems that can ruin your meal.
rancid grease garnished with scale is not something i see on restaurant  menus very often.
on the back of all slabs there's a  membrane that keeps flavor from the meat and gets very tough.
if you have the space, it's no problem.
ribs in a hurry memphis style.
perhaps the trickiest part of cooking ribs is knowing  when they are ready, but not overcooked.
2) don't ask me any questions that involve temp or time unless you tell me that you are using a digital thermometer!
beginners are often baffled after 2 to 3 hours of cooking pork shoulder or beef brisket.
why sprouts may be the riskiest food going.
amazingribs, inc. promises to never sell or distribute any info about you individually without your express permission, and we promise not to, ahem, pepper you with email or make you eat spam.
awards are based on features, quality, and value.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.
here's how to handle them.
steakhouse knives these are the same knives used at the best steakhouses (peter luger, smith & wollensky, morton's and others).
here are my tips for  success.
to get reprint rights,click here.
the seductive aroma and flavor of smoke is the essence of  barbecue.
here's a printable version of my cooking log.
the importance of 2-zone and indirect cooking.
the boy scouts have a similar motto: "be prepared".
get smoke signals, my free eletter with tips and recipes.
here's what you need to know about cooking with  hardwood, hardwood lump charcoal, charcoal briquets, and the new  "competition briquets".
rest assured that when we recommend a product, it is really because we like it, not because someone has paid us to say so because we do not accept advertising from product categories we review.
it includes the latest usda recommendations as well as chef recommendations (and they often differ) as well as color photos of the different stages of doneness for red meats.
the most important technique  an outdoor cook needs to master is how to control the cooking temperature by  using 2-zone and indirect heating.
remember, i am not a mind reader.
here's what you need to know about cooking with hardwood, hardwood lump charcoal, charcoal briquets, and the new "competition briquets".
i am publishing them here with this request: if you improve upon them  or have suggestions,pass them back to me.
advertising on this site.
meat temperature guide.
the smokenator turns your grill into a first class smoker, and the hovergrill can add capacity or be used to create steakhouse steaks.
the best table you'll find anywhere.
eat all the raw veggies you like, but don't eat raw sprouts.
smokenator setup & tips.
overcome them and you'll love the output.
so you can never be  100% sure when things will be ready, especially when you're cooking low and  slow.
here's how to clean and maintain your grill and smoker year round.
make notes on the meat, the prep, the cooker temp, ambient temp, the wood you used, how it tasted, and what improvements you need to make.
we think that people need to know why as well as how, so we spend a lot of time explaining things, and we believe that there are no rules in the bedroom or dining room.
about links on this site.
you need to control the temperature of your  oven because the solids and liquids in the food react differently to different  levels of heat.
chef anthony bourdain calls it his religion.
if you have problems posting with internet explorer, please read this.
perhaps the trickiest part of cooking ribs is knowing when they are ready, but not overcooked.
you need to control the temperature of your oven because the solids and liquids in the food react differently to different levels of heat.
our privacy promise.
i always cook more food than  needed so nobody goes hungry.
making amazing ribs are they ready yet?
i'll even toss in a small bag of bbq'rs delight wood smoke pellets.
good cooking needs more than good recipes.
sure, you know how many  teaspoons in a tablespoon (don't you?), but do you know how many tablespoons in  a cup?
http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs this link takes you to amazon and tags anything you buy with a code
the wsm is one of the best backyard cookers available and the brinkmann bullet is another popular unit.
not unless you do it badly.
click here for more about grillgrates.
click here to read more.
get it done early and hold it in a faux cambro, aka beer cooler.
advertising on amazingribs.com is a great way to build your brand or make direct sales.
how to live to cook again and how to not kill your spouse, by accident that is.
here's how to remove it.
so here's the solution.
boiling meat turns it to mush and sucks out all the flavor, but this technique makes it tender and juicy.
here are my tips for success.
here's my definition of what amazing ribs taste like.
it is written, photographed, illustrated, and coded solely bymeathead .
overcome them and  you'll love the output.
freezing & reheating leftover meats.
under no circumstances are we liable for any damages that result from use of the site (so you can't sue us if you don't like a recipe or if you burn your tongue on hot ribs, ok?).
sure, you know how many teaspoons in a tablespoon (don't you?), but do you know how many tablespoons in a cup?
here's  the best way to set up a charcoal grill for real barbecue.
if problems persist,send me a note.
it must be easy to make and emphasize fresh seasonal products with a minimum of processed ingredients.
do nitrites & nitrates in hot dogs, pastrami, and lunch meats cause cancer?
click here for more details ofour privacy promise.
it can prevent disasters.
how to defrost meat safely.
you may have thought you left physics and
this is how weber says to setup the grill for indirect cooking.
the base superheats, eliminates hot spots, and blocks flareups.
about product reviews and best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are highly recommended products.
yes, you can get real smoky, authentic tasting  barbecue on a gas grill.
a good thermometer is why i never serve overcooked or undercooked food.
i am publishing them here with this request: if you improve upon them or have suggestions,pass them back to me.
what are amazing ribs?
pay attention to the awards i have given my faves.
grillgrates are the best new product i have tested in years and the best thing to happen to beef since salt and pepper.
mythbustin': is it true when they say "if you're lookin', you ain't  cookin'"?it is a widely accepted shibboleth, appearing in practically  every barbecue book ever written: "if you're lookin', you ain't  cookin'".
grill cleaning and maintenance.
how does it differ from grilling and smoking?
here's why they are different.
if you've got a small smoker you've gotta click on this trick.
if you are still using a dial thermometer, please read this article about thermometers, then buy a good digital, and then, if the problem persists (chances are it won't), hit me with your questions.
when you are done  with these dry runs, you want to know what to do when a recipe calls for  cooking at 225°f or 325°f on the indirect side of the 2-zones and  425°f on the direct side.
and now they have the amazingribs.com imprimatur.
the basic concept is to get all the ingredients out and ready first.
here's how to  remove it.
this article has tips for setting up a cos as well as hot to modify it.
first of all it must taste great.
the basic concepts you need to understand in order to make  amazing ribs, steaks, and other meats.
whenever you cook, keep a log.
the thermodynamics of barbecue.
the ribs the world loves best are from the american south, barbecued, with a perfect balance of porcine flavor, silky mouthfeel, springy texture, and juiciness framed by a kiss of smoke, hugged by the sweetness, acidity, and spiciness of sauce, and licked by fire.
best setup for an offset smoker (and modifications you can make).
seasoning and calibrating your grill.
...more to come (to be notified when new recipes and other articles come online, be sure to subscribe to my free, spam free,email newsletter).
the problem with outdoor cooking is that the temp isn't as easy to control as indoor cooking.