what was once a matter of opinion is not anymore.
no salesperson for gas grills is ever going  to mention those "convenience" features.
natural lump charcoal comes in many varieties and brands.
natural lump charcoal  comes in many varieties and brands.
since gas is nearly  30% moisture, it tends to "steam distill" meat, according to  litkenhous.
paul fine commented "look at barbecue cook-offs and contests where flavor really counts.
that's because a charcoal fire, built with plenty of charcoal,  gets hotter than a gas fire.
flavor is the issue!
barbecook grills are the easiest and safest charcoal grills you will ever use because ofquickstart and quickstop.
cook's illustrated magazine performed its own comparison tests for its august 2004 issue.
in the last several years a "zillion" gas grills have been purchased.
the more expensive the gas grill the more gimmicks they have added to try to incorporate the flavor of charcoal.
this for me brings up another issue: have fun!
with barbecook  grills there is nothing to service.
it also lights faster and gets hotter; the real secret in locking in juices and flavor.
in the last several  years a "zillion" gas grills have been purchased.
in an article by lisa mayer in hearth & home magazine the facts came out.
in an article by lisa mayer in hearth & home  magazine the facts came out.
supposedly gas is more convenient; until you clean the grill or realize the maintenance on burners, orifices, gas lines etc.
charcoal briquets contain a lot of fillers  and chemicals and we simply do not recommend them.
there  is a difference and it's flavor!
the meat loses more juices and takes on a "floppy"  characteristic.
barbecook grills are  the easiest and safest charcoal grills you will ever use because ofquickstart  and  quickstop.
the wood volatiles (wood gases remaining in charcoal  after carbonization takes place) that are released when charcoal is burned  coagulate the meat's surface proteins.
"after analyzing meat cooked over charcoal and gas, dr. e.e. litkenhous of vanderbilt university determined that there is a real scietific difference in the chemical reaction that occurs during the two cooking methods."
the more expensive the gas grill the more gimmicks  they have added to try to incorporate the flavor of charcoal.
they work every time!
none of those competitors use gas."
besides natural lump charcoal, you can also  use just plain wood; like you use in your fireplace or wood stove.
besides searing, charcoal adds another distinct  advantage - smoke flavor!
paul fine commented "look at barbecue  cook-offs and contests where flavor really counts.
"after analyzing meat cooked over charcoal  and gas, dr. e.e. litkenhous of vanderbilt university determined that there is  a real scietific difference in the chemical reaction that occurs during the two  cooking methods."
the article talked of using alder, cedar and cherry planks.
it gives flavor without chemical tastes.
the wood volatiles (wood gases remaining in charcoal after carbonization takes place) that are released when charcoal is burned coagulate the meat's surface proteins.
the meat loses more juices and takes on a "floppy" characteristic.
besides searing, charcoal adds another distinct advantage - smoke flavor!
every wood  imparts its own characteristic flavor.
natural lump charcoal is just wood, no additives.
according to dr. litkenhous, when charcoal is  burned it produces virtually moisture free, super-heated air accompanied by  intense radiant heat, which "case hardens" the meat's surface,  sealing in the juices.
charcoal briquets contain a lot of fillers and chemicals and we simply do not recommend them.
with barbecook grills there is nothing to service.
none of those competitors  use gas."
last night i read an  article about charcoal grilling fishes on wood planks.
there is a difference and it's flavor!
last night i read an article about charcoal grilling fishes on wood planks.
no salesperson for gas grills is ever going to mention those "convenience" features.
it also lights faster and gets hotter; the real secret  in locking in juices and flavor.
"gas versus charcoal" ...
since gas is nearly 30% moisture, it tends to "steam distill" meat, according to litkenhous.
this for me brings up another issue:  have fun!
that's because a charcoal fire, built with plenty of charcoal, gets hotter than a gas fire.
the article talked of  using alder, cedar and cherry planks.
besides natural lump charcoal, you can also use just plain wood; like you use in your fireplace or wood stove.
answer: it's all about flavor!
it gives flavor  without chemical tastes.
once you use it you'll never want a  briquet.
supposedly gas is  more convenient; until you clean the grill or realize the maintenance on  burners, orifices, gas lines etc.
testers found that "grilling over charcoal provides exceptional browning and searing that a gas grill simply can't replicate.
what was once a matter of  opinion is not anymore.
the result is charcoal-smoke flavor and  meat that takes on a "plumped" characteristic.
ask any  honest grill dealer, they will all say  "charcoal tastes better!"
once you use it you'll never want a briquet.
testers found that "grilling  over charcoal provides exceptional browning and searing that a gas grill simply  can't replicate.
the result is charcoal-smoke flavor and meat that takes on a "plumped" characteristic.
ask any honest grill dealer, they will all say "charcoal tastes better!"
flavor  is the issue!
cook's illustrated magazine performed its own  comparison tests for its august 2004 issue.
every wood imparts its own characteristic flavor.
according to dr. litkenhous, when charcoal is burned it produces virtually moisture free, super-heated air accompanied by intense radiant heat, which "case hardens" the meat's surface, sealing in the juices.