contemporary style grill model comparisons more than a gas grill — cook with any combination of charcoal, wood  and gas on a kalamazoo hybrid grill kalamazoo invented hybrid grilling technology, and to this day there is no  other grill that so seamlessly combines the capabilities of a gas grill and a  charcoal grill.
the burners can be used to quickly and easily start the fire and then turned off, or they can be used throughout cooking to provide the heat while a handful of wood chunks lend all the flavor of an open wood fire.
for gas grilling, simply fire up the grill.
kalamazoo's revolutionary hybrid grilling system enables the serious outdoor gourmet to conveniently use any combination of wood, charcoal or gas on one stainless steel hybrid grill.
load charcoal or wood into the drawers above the powerful cast stainless steelgas burners and the grill is ready for flavorful solid fuel grilling.
kalamazoo k900 series hybrid grill models use a pair of drawers in a side-by-side configuration.
each pair of hybrid grill drawers includes one drawer for gas grilling and one for charcoal or wood grilling.
or simply fire up the burners  for gas-only cooking.
for charcoal or wood grilling, place some charcoal or wood in the drawers.
kalamazoo k900 series hybrid grill models use a pair of drawers in a  side-by-side configuration.
the burners can be used to quickly and easily start the  fire and then turned off, or they can be used throughout cooking to provide the  heat while a handful of wood chunks lend all the flavor of an open wood fire.
wood imparts flavor that gas on its own will not, and gas offers convenience that wood or charcoal can't match.
kalamazoo 900hb hybrid built-in grill base price: $12,995 get product details kalamazoo 900hs hybrid free-standing grill with side burner base price: $15,895 get product details kalamazoo 900ht hybrid free-standing grill base price: $13,895 get product details kalamazoo 450hs hybrid free-standing grill with side burner base price: $10,245 get product details outdoor kitchen resource bookoutdoor kitchen resource book home | customer service | contact us | privacy policy | terms of use | site map | find us on facebook grills | cooktops | ventilation | pizza ovens |
warming | refrigeration | cabinetry | bars | fireplaces | online store bringing gourmet lifestyles
for gas grilling,  simply fire up the grill.
if you like the flavor of foods  cooked with an open wood flame, a kalamazoo outdoor gourmet hybrid grill may be  right for you.
kalamazoo's revolutionary hybrid grilling system enables the serious  outdoor gourmet to conveniently use any combination of wood, charcoal or gas on  one stainless steel hybrid grill.
if you like the flavor of foods cooked with an open wood flame, a kalamazoo outdoor gourmet hybrid grill may be right for you.
outdoors since 1906™ | call us at1-800-868-1699 ©2005-2010 kalamazoo outdoor gourmet, llc built-in grills | free-standing grills | hybrid grills | gas grills | charcoal grills | wood-burning grills barbecue grills | outdoor grills |
above the burners are the hybrid fire grilling drawers.
rather than joining the argument, we've engineered a solution… our exclusive and revolutionary hybrid fire grilling drawer system.
no other grill so seamlessly combines the convenience of a gas grill with a  high-performance charcoal and wood grill.
no other grill so seamlessly combines the convenience of a gas grill with a high-performance charcoal and wood grill.
for years the argument has raged on about charcoal and wood versus gas  barbecues.
load charcoal or wood into the drawers  above the powerful cast stainless steelgas burners and the  grill is ready for flavorful solid fuel grilling.
kalamazoo k450 series hybrid grill models use a single drawer that covers the entire cooking area.
kalamazoo dragon burners™ deliver over 115 btus of grilling power to each square inch of the primary grilling area, so these are seriously capable gas grills.
for years the argument has raged on about charcoal and wood versus gas barbecues.
either way, cleanup is a breeze with our deep-hopper clean out system that funnels down to a deep, stainless steel pan.
rather than  joining the argument, we've engineered a solution… our exclusive and  revolutionary hybrid fire grilling drawer system.
wood imparts flavor that gas on its own will not,  and gas offers convenience that wood or charcoal can't match.
watch a more detailed hybrid grill video demonstration
kalamazoo dragon burners™ deliver over 115 btus of  grilling power to each square inch of the primary grilling area, so these are  seriously capable gas grills.
kalamazoo k450 series hybrid grill models use a single drawer that covers  the entire cooking area.
how the hybrid grill drawers work: each pair of hybrid grill drawers includes one drawer for gas grilling and  one for charcoal or wood grilling.
take a tour of the kalamazoo advanced cooking concept.
or simply fire up the burners for gas-only cooking.
stainless steel grills gas grills | gas grill | gas bbq grill | gas bbq grills | gas barbecue grill
kalamazoo invented hybrid grilling technology, and to this day there is no other grill that so seamlessly combines the capabilities of a gas grill and a charcoal grill.
watch a more detailed hybrid grill video demonstration why choose between a wood grill, a charcoal grill and a gas grill when  you can enjoy a kalamazoo hybrid grill and have the best of all worlds?
for charcoal or wood grilling, place some charcoal or  wood in the drawers.
hybrid grills are available in built-in and free-standing designs, and can  be specified as part of acustom outdoor kitchen.
either way, cleanup is a breeze with our deep-hopper  clean out system that funnels down to a deep, stainless steel pan.
hybrid grills are available in built-in and free-standing designs, and can be specified as part of acustom outdoor kitchen.