maybe both: a gas grill for everyday grilling, and  a charcoal model for more occasional barbecuing.
it's the most important feature of your outdoor kitchen, and a good place to invest a big chunk of your budget.
charcoal grill gas grill enlarge photo
generally speaking, it's smart to choose a grill with at least two separately controlled burners so you can grill foods indirectly (a technique often used for cooking larger items like whole chickens), a built-in temperature gauge, and a gas gauge, so you won't run out of propane mid-meal.
inexpensive grills start around 500 square inches, and a high-end  gas grill may offer several times that capacity.
© 2012 scripps networks, llc.
don't rush into buying a grill.
inexpensive grills start around 500 square inches, and a high-end gas grill may offer several times that capacity.
get a great grill choose a mid-range grill made of high-quality materials, advises mark  allen, president of the national outdoor kitchen and fireplace association.
"there's no standard grill size," says mark allen, president of the national outdoor kitchen and fireplace association.
by amanda lecky filed under: outdoors as the popularity of outdoor kitchens has grown in recent years  manufacturers have introduced a manner of outdoor appliances, from wine  refrigerators to built-in deep fryers.
if you regularly cook for a crowd, you  may want a large grill with multiple burners and a smaller surface with three  burners is fine for meals for a family of four.
or if your budget is ample,  look for a grill that offers both options in one unit.
once you've settled on your grill, you'll have a few more decisions to make.
charcoal grills there are more types of charcoal grills than gas grills.
stainless steel is the best (and priciest) choice because it holds up well to the elements over time.
it may be tempting to save some money  by starting out with a less expensive grill that you can upgrade later, but  that's not always a smart strategy, particularly if the grill is built-in.
choose a mid-range grill made of high-quality materials, advises mark allen, president of the national outdoor kitchen and fireplace association.
find top rated contractors and great deals on kudzu.com.
a small grill may  have about 40,000 btus or fewer, while a large grill may have as many as  100,000 btus of power.
find the right size for your  needs by evaluating your cooking habits.
outdoor kitchen costs to consider learn to make a budget so your outdoor kitchen won't be a wallet buster.
get remodeling know-how and real-world inspiration delivered to your inbox each week.
to  decide which grill is right for you, keep these considerations in mind.
but it's harder to control the temperature, you have to stoke the fire  constantly, and at the end of cooking you're left with a mess of ashes.
you'll find kettle grills, built-in grills, table grills, hibachis, barrel smokers, water smokers and ceramic cookers, all of which use charcoal to grill or barbecue foods.
"if your cheap  grill doesn't last and you have to replace it, you'll probably have to redo the  opening in the counter, which can be a big headache."
the right one for you will depend on how you like to cook, but whichever  charcoal grill suits your style, look for these signs of quality: sturdy, high-grade steel construction baked-on porcelain enamel finish for a kettle grillheat-resistant handles vents on the top and bottom for adjusting temperature a hinged cooking grate, which makes it easier to add coals to the fire more from outdoor kitchens planning guide outdoor kitchen appliances get tips on how to find the right oven, fridge and more for your outdoor  kitchen.
size gas grills are measured by the number of square inches of cooking surface they provide.
as the popularity of outdoor kitchens has grown in recent years manufacturers have introduced a manner of outdoor appliances, from wine refrigerators to built-in deep fryers.
or if your budget is ample, look for a grill that offers both options in one unit.
photography  courtesy of masterbuilt and cal flame.
look for grill power someplace in the middle.
it's the most important feature of your  outdoor kitchen, and a good place to invest a big chunk of your budget.
but it's harder to control the temperature, you have to stoke the fire constantly, and at the end of cooking you're left with a mess of ashes.
to decide which grill is right for you, keep these considerations in mind.
photography courtesy of masterbuilt and cal flame.
this contemporary kitchen remodel with european-style laundry brings the outdoors in.
"there's no standard grill size," says mark allen, president of  the national outdoor kitchen and fireplace association.
advertise with us | help | contact us
look for a grill that's made in the u.s. of 304 grade stainless  steel, with a double-wall hood and heavy cast stainless-steel burners andgrates power grill power is measured in british thermal units (btus).
a small grill may have about 40,000 btus or fewer, while a large grill may have as many as 100,000 btus of power.
while gas is a quick start option for fast grilling, charcoal infuses delicious smoky aromas into foods for an authentic grill flavor.
so which type to choose?
generally speaking, it's smart to choose a grill with at least two  separately controlled burners so you can grill foods indirectly (a technique  often used for cooking larger items like whole chickens), a built-in  temperature gauge, and a gas gauge, so you won't run out of propane mid-meal.
hiring a pro for an outdoor project know what questions to ask when choosing professionals for your outdoor  kitchen project.
stainless steel is the best (and priciest) choice because it  holds up well to the elements over time.
materials most grills are made from cast aluminum, sheet metal, cast iron or  stainless steel.
instead, he advises  choosing a mid-range grill made of high-quality materials.
accessories as you might expect, the higher the price of the grill, the more bells and whistles—like side burners, infrared searing stations, rotisseries, dual-fuel functionality, and smoking compartments—it's likely to feature.
maybe both: a gas grill for everyday grilling, and a charcoal model for more occasional barbecuing.
there are more types of charcoal grills than gas grills.
charcoal grills burn hotter than gas grills and you can  burn wood in a charcoal grill, to impart a natural, smoky flavor to your foods.
chances are you just need a great grill.
gas grills are convenient, they ignite at the push of a button and allow  you to control the heat with the turn of a knob, but they're not ideal for true  slow-cooked barbecue.
accessories as you might expect, the higher the price of the grill, the more bells and  whistles—like side burners, infrared searing stations, rotisseries,  dual-fuel functionality, and smoking compartments—it's likely to feature.
projects by professionals(at pro galleries)
charcoal grills burn hotter than gas grills and you can burn wood in a charcoal grill, to impart a natural, smoky flavor to your foods.
hiring a pro for an outdoor project know what questions to ask when choosing professionals for your outdoor kitchen project.
home ► outdoor projects  &96658; kitchen remodeling ▼ charcoal vs. gas: outdoor grills it's the most important feature in an outdoor kitchen, but before you go  shopping for a grill make sure you've done your research.
size gas grills are measured by the number of square inches of cooking surface  they provide.
look for a grill that's made in the u.s. of 304 grade stainless steel, with a double-wall hood and heavy cast stainless-steel burners andgrates power grill power is measured in british thermal units (btus).
you'll find kettle  grills, built-in grills, table grills, hibachis, barrel smokers, water smokers  and ceramic cookers, all of which use charcoal to grill or barbecue foods.
instead, he advises choosing a mid-range grill made of high-quality materials.
again, look to your habits to decide which features are worth your money.
materials most grills are made from cast aluminum, sheet metal, cast iron or stainless steel.
while gas is a quick start option for fast grilling, charcoal infuses  delicious smoky aromas into foods for an authentic grill flavor.
electric grills are  another choice, and may be the only option for apartment or condo dwellers, but  they don't impart a real barbecue flavor.
gas grills are convenient, they ignite at the push of a button and allow you to control the heat with the turn of a knob, but they're not ideal for true slow-cooked barbecue.
electric grills are another choice, and may be the only option for apartment or condo dwellers, but they don't impart a real barbecue flavor.
it may be tempting to save some money by starting out with a less expensive grill that you can upgrade later, but that's not always a smart strategy, particularly if the grill is built-in.
"if your cheap grill doesn't last and you have to replace it, you'll probably have to redo the opening in the counter, which can be a big headache."
find the right size for your needs by evaluating your cooking habits.
all rights reservedsee all of scripps networks digital scripps networks digitalclose site map | terms of use | ad choices | infringements | privacy policy | about |
if you regularly cook for a crowd, you may want a large grill with multiple burners and a smaller surface with three burners is fine for meals for a family of four.
the right one for you will depend on how you like to cook, but whichever charcoal grill suits your style, look for these signs of quality: get tips on how to find the right oven, fridge and more for your outdoor kitchen.