this owes to the fact that diameter of the activated charcoal fiber is 15 micro- m to 20 micro- m, which is smaller by hundreds first than few millimeters of an activated charcoal used in a fixed bed.
the two activated charcoal towers repeats adsorption and desorption alternately.
the flow sheet illustrated below shows adsorption in the first activated charcoal tower and desorption in the second activated charcoal tower.
as a result, a solvent gas is adsorbed  and desorbed at a higher rate with shorter break band, saving the quantity of  activated charcoal.
features 1) highly efficient adsorption organic solvents contained in exhaust gas are adsorbed and  purified efficiently by the activated charcoal fiber.
when gas containing a solvent enters an activated charcoal tower, the  solvent is adsorbed from the gas while it passes the cylindrically rolled  activated charcoal fiber elements from its outer to inner circumference and the  processed gas is discharged through top of the system as purified gas.
note (about symbols)
2)  recovery of high quality solvent adsorption and regeneration in short time gives less thermal  effects on the solvent, so that high purity solvent can be recovered.
process flow sheet of solvent gas adsorber 3.
another activated charcoal tower blows water vapor through inner circumference of the activated charcoal fiber element to desorb the adsorbed solvent, and mixture of the solvent vapor and water vapor is introduced into the capacitor through outer circumference of the element and recovered as a high purity solvent after being separated from clarified and cooled water.
this owes to  the fact that diameter of the activated charcoal fiber is 15 micro- m to 20  micro- m, which is smaller by hundreds first than few millimeters of an  activated charcoal used in a fixed bed.
the flow sheet illustrated below shows adsorption in the first  activated charcoal tower and desorption in the second activated charcoal tower.
air pollution control technology in japan solvent recovery  equipment activated charcoal fiber solvent gas adsorber 1.
air pollution control technology in japan solvent recovery equipment updated: november 1996 activated charcoal fiber solvent gas adsorber 1.
as a result, a solvent gas is adsorbed and desorbed at a higher rate with shorter break band, saving the quantity of activated charcoal.2.
the two activated charcoal towers repeats adsorption and desorption alternately.3.
features when gas containing a solvent enters an activated charcoal tower, the solvent is adsorbed from the gas while it passes the cylindrically rolled activated charcoal fiber elements from its outer to inner circumference and the processed gas is discharged through top of the system as purified gas.
process flow sheet of solvent gas adsorber 1) highly efficient adsorptionmiura chemical equipment co., ltd organic solvents contained in exhaust gas are adsorbed and purified efficiently by the activated charcoal fiber.2) recovery of high quality solvent adsorption and regeneration in short time gives less thermal effects on the solvent, so that high purity solvent can be recovered.3) lost cost of equipment
general a most outstanding feature of this method is that cycling times of adsorption and desorption are about 10 minutes respectively.
miura chemical equipment co., ltd http://www.miura-eco.co.jp/top_page/index.html
since a recovered chlorine-containing solvent has no hcl as a by-product due to low ph of clarified water, there is no need to use a high grade corrosion-resistant material, saving equipment costs.
another  activated charcoal tower blows water vapor through inner circumference of the  activated charcoal fiber element to desorb the adsorbed solvent, and mixture of  the solvent vapor and water vapor is introduced into the capacitor through  outer circumference of the element and recovered as a high purity solvent after  being separated from clarified and cooled water.
3) lost cost of equipment since a recovered chlorine-containing solvent has no hcl as a  by-product due to low ph of clarified water, there is no need to use a high  grade corrosion-resistant material, saving equipment costs.
general a most outstanding feature of this method is that cycling times  of adsorption and desorption are about 10 minutes respectively.