we make it clear in our reviews when we are working with a sample.
most  gas grills cover the flame jets with metal plates, lava rock, or ceramic rocks  that absorb the heat and radiate it.
if you use self-igniting charcoal or charcoal fluid to start a charcoal fire, there can be an unpleasant petrochemical smell during ignition and it can get into the food.
most of these problems are easily surmounted if you know how: if you use gloves, shovels, or tongs, you need never handle raw coals.
my favorite charcoal grills have a crank that let you raise and lower the charcoal bed.
propane gas is ideal for grills because, when pressurized, it compresses  and turns to liquid, making it easy to store in tanks.
click here to read about how to clean, maintain, and troubleshoot your grill.
in the  700°f plus range.
amazingribs.com is published by amazingribs, inc., a florida corporation.
under no circumstances are we liable for any damages that result from use of the site (so you can't sue us if you don't like a recipe or if you burn your tongue on hot ribs, ok?).
amazingribs.com is one of the 100 most popular food websites in the us according tocomscore, alexa, and quantcast.
either way, before you make a purchase, read my article on how to buy a  grill.
charcoal makes more smoke than gas, although, when lit completely, when  ashed over, good charcoal produces little smoke and besides, it is not likely  to penetrate deeply into food that is cooked quickly such as hot dogs, burgers,  or steaks.
i  strongly recommend the chimney because it is faster and easier and needs no  outlet.
click here for more aboutthermometers.
this will burn off any manufacturer's grease, and give you a sense for how to set it up to hit the two important target temps that almost all my recipes use: 225°f and 325°f.
i also use the hovergrill that came with mysmokenator to raise the coals.
and cleanup of ash is easier with some of the one-touch grills or grills that have removable ash trays.
since charcoal grills do not have temperature dials to raise or lower temp, it is important to learn how to set up a2-zone fire which helps you regulate heat by moving meat from the hot to the medium zone, and learn how to control the energy of the fire by closing off the oxygen intake vents.
i'll even toss in a small bag of bbq'rs delight wood smoke pellets.
it is not intuitive and  brainless, but there is little it cannot do when you achieve mastery,  grasshopper.
national barbecue association represented by: the lisa ekus group promoting a world of culinary talent founding member: operation bbq relief amazingribs.com is all about the zen of barbecue, grilling, and outdoor cooking, with great bbq recipes and techniques: barbecue baby back ribs, spareribs, pulled pork, beef brisket, steak, burgers, chicken, smoked turkey, lamb, barbecue sauces, burgers, steaks, rubs, and side dishes, with the world's best buying guide to barbecue smokers and grills.
we purchase many products we review although occasionally suppliers send us samples.
if you are using charcoal, only a little bit of it comes from the charcoal.
there is also a minor difference in the flavor imparted by combustion  gases, the volatile by-products given off by the burning of the charcoal or the  gas.
some of his lava rocks have begun to disintegrate and there are gaps where  bare flame slips through to lick the meat.
if you like your steaks well done, gas grills are perfect for you.
they  offer convenience and control.
when drippings hit the heat source they vaporize and some of that condenses on the meat and some penetrates into the meat.
with a $30 donation you'll get a 100% cotton brushed twill adjustable low profile cap with the amazingribs patch sewn on.
although they excel at holding a steady temp, they are not perfect.
most are set up so you can easily attach a rotisserie accessory  and many come with side burners so you can keep sauces warm or cook side  dishes.
ceramic grills/smokers large capacity, restaurant & trailer smokers electric smokers gas smokers pellet grills/smokers stovetop smokers pig roasters wood burning pizza ovens how to buy a grill overview the differences between charcoal & gas grills charcoal grill reviews & ratings egg, kamado, ceramic grills/smokers pellet grills/smokers gas grills tailgate grills & portable grills grills gone wild thermometers & thermostats barbecue accessories kitchen tools the amazingribs.com brazilian steak knife set outdoor kitchen planning cookbooks, magazines, videos barbecue sauces bar necessities corkscrews funny aprons, hats, t-shirts, tschotschkes meathead's favorite ingredients photography gear we do not accept ads from products we review.
for this reason you should use a charcoal chimney or an electric charcoal starter.
let's settle this once and for all.
i frequently cook steaks in my weber kettle over grape vine and fruit wood cuttings i collect when i prune my vines and trees.
they die down to white hot coals in about 10 minutes, and i have about 15 minutes of 1000°f temps to cook on before they die.
this page revised 10/7/2009 1)
like the type of cooker you are using.
that must be calculated bybtu per square inch, something they never tell you.
butonce you get to know your instrument, it is pretty easy to manage and if it has two or more burners it is easy to have two or more heat zones.
there is a new breed of electric grills that  are ideal for apartments with small balconies.
meat temp fridge magnet the prize for best bbq tool at the 2012 the national barbecue association conference went to a simple inexpensive fridge magnet by meathead.
there's no reason why you can't cook with the original fuel: wood.
some cooks think the steam can be a disadvantage for some meats, hampering chicken skin from getting crisp for example.
for example, a grill manufacturer might make their firebrand grill model abc123 with cast iron grates available only on amazon.
advertising on this site.
get smoke signals, my free eletter with tips and recipes.
infrared/sear burners may be perfect for steaks, but they are much too hot  for direct heat cooking of most fish and veggies.
those two words alone cinch the argument for  many folks.
this is not just a matter of convenience or price.
weber has  its own technology for high heat searing.
it's a wire grate with legs that can sit on the charcoal grate placing the coals within 1" of the meat.
char-broil's new quantum line has a radiation plate beneath the entire surface.
in the 700°f plus range.
newer high end models with sear  burners can get as hot as charcoal.
seasoning and calibrating your grill or smoker with dry runs
if you push the coals  to one side of the grill and set up a 2-zone cooking environment, fatty meats  like chicken skin do not drip on the coals and flare up, and even if there are  flareups, a squirt gun can contain them.
my brother-in-law makes the world's finest swordfish on a crappy old gas grill with lava rocks he has been using since they were harvested in the last ice age.
about product reviews and best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are highly recommended products.
when fully lit and ashed over, it produces less smoke  flavor.
the one on  right was cooked with gas and exacly the same amount of chips by weight.
and cleanup of ash is easier with some  of the one-touch grills or grills that have removable ash trays.
grillgrates can be added to most any gas grill and can  significantly improve the cooking characteristics.
if you're starting out, and you want no fuss no muss, go  gas.
if problems persist,send me a note.
they are easy to start, they heat  up within 10 to 15 minutes, they hold temperatures steadily yet we can crank  them up and cool them down in a hurry, they can be configured for indirect and  multi-zone cooking, and they are easy to clean.
my  brother-in-law makes the world's finest swordfish on a crappy old gas grill  with lava rocks he has been using since they were harvested in the last ice  age.
we have hands-on experience testing this product.
the  charcoal ribs had a deeper smokier fireplace scent and flavor.
best in bbq gold, silver, and bronze medals are given only to products that we highly recommend based on price.
the most important reason to buy a charcoal grill is that charcoal can get hotter thanstandard gas grills, and heat is what you need to get steaks and lamb crisp on the outside and red or pink on the inside.
the charcoal ribs had a deeper smokier fireplace scent and flavor.
propane gas is ideal for grills because, when pressurized, it compresses and turns to liquid, making it easy to store in tanks.
read mybuyer's guides and the buying checklists and follow the links.
charcoal vs. gas grill throwdown.
because most gas grills cannot achieve the same high  heat as charcoal, charcoal is superior for getting that great dark crust on  steaks that is much more flavorful than tan meat.
a small referral fee when you purchase from them after clicking on a link on this site, so purchasing from them helps underwrite the cost of operating amazingribs.com.
there's no ash, so gassers are easier to clean, but they  suffer from carbon and grease buildups that need to be scraped or pressure  washed every few months.
those two words alone cinch the argument for many folks.
copyright © by amazingribs, inc.
it includes the latest usda recommendations as well as chef recommendations (and they often differ) as well as color photos of the different stages of doneness for red meats.
charcoal is dirty to handle; it can be hard  to light; it takes about 15 minutes longer to get up to temp; there can be  flare-ups that can burn the food andflareups may be a health risk; it is hard  to tell what temp you are cooking at; the temperature cannot be turned down  rapidly; during long cooks it slowly loses heat and you need to add more  charcoal; charcoal grills rarely have rotisseries; and there is a lot of ash to  clean up after.
click here for more onwood pellet grills and smokers.
there are about 2,500 btu in one cubic foot of propane and only about 1,000 btu in one cubic foot of natural gas.
below you can see two slabs of st. louis cut ribs cooked  at the same temp side by side withmeathead's memphis dust only, no sauce.
click here for mybuying guide to thermometers.
my quantum hits 680°f about an inch above the grates.
this is not just a matter of convenience  or price.
many of the more expensive gas grills now  come with "infrared" burners off to one side.
and it is inexpensive.
manufacturers: click here forpermission to use these medals in ads and on packaging (there is no charge) and for info on how to get a high resolution version.
why we love gas grills.
they call them sear burners, and they  lie in a corner just below the grates.
my fave is theweber chimney starter.
it can  give you those deep dark crusty steaks with red or pink interiors.
awards are based on features, quality, and value.
manufacturers tout the number of btu their grills can produce, but the number  can be very misleading.
i've shared just about everything i know.
nominee: 2010 world food media awards member: international association of culinary professionals member: kansas city barbeque society member:
drippings hit these radiant surfaces where  they are vaporized, making smoke and steam, just like charcoal.
let me try to sort it out for you with a few inflammatory thoughts.
here's a key to our reviews.
charcoal makes more smoke than gas, although, when lit completely, when ashed over, good charcoal produces little smoke and besides, it is not likely to penetrate deeply into food that is cooked quickly such as hot dogs, burgers, or steaks.
alas, most gas grill lids do not seal well, so a lot of the smoke is lost and more wood is needed than on a tighter grill.
higher btu grills use more fuel if you use all burners.
if you can afford it, get an infrared burner and a side burner.
on a three burner grill you might use a hot zone for meat, a medium  zone for veggies, and a low zone for holding finished foods.
grills are used mostly for three types of cooking: 1) high heat direct radiation cooking when the food is placed directly  above the heat source for things like steaks.
higher btu grills use more fuel if you use all  burners.
how to buy a smoker overview charcoal smokers egg, kamado,
it also contains more cooking energy than natural gas as measured in british thermal units (btu).
some new gas  grills have "infrared" burners which are superheated surfaces that  are very close to the meat and more vapors get back to the meat with these  burners.
they can incinerate in a hurry.
i light them from below and within 10 minutes i have 8' flames.
by meathead "gas or charcoal"?
manufacturers often make slight variations to their basic model exclusively for certain merchants.
infrared burners can sometimes be used for rotisserie cooking and can even be  used for indirect heat cooking.
infrared burners use a gas flame to superheat a ceramic or metal plate that radiates much more heat than standard burners.
i dry stacks of the pencil  thick sticks for a few months, and then stuff as many as i can into my grill.
your suggestions are always welcome.
the authors are human and capable of mistakes, omissions, or errors, so we make no guarantees as to the accuracy, completeness, or safety of the information.
it is still  necessary to know what temperature you are cooking at, and the thermometers on  most gas grills are worthless, even expensive grills, so i strongly recommend  you buy a good digital oven thermometer and a good digital meat thermometer.
so if there is  little taste difference, the choice comes down to functionality.
meanwhile, the abc125 is identical except it has stainless steel grates, and it is sold only at ace hardware.
i don't care how much you spent on your  grill, the bi-metal dial thermometer that came with it is probably cheap and  unreliable and likely to be off by as much as 50°f.
charcoal, especially before it is fully lit, emits combustion gases and smoke flavors.
that's why i own both.
almost all my birds, fish,  veggies, pizzas, and breads go on my lp gas grills, almost all my red meats go  on my charcoal grills.
almost all my birds, fish, veggies, pizzas, and breads go on my lp gas grills, almost all my red meats go on my charcoal grills.
most of these problems are easily surmounted if you know how: if you use  gloves, shovels, or tongs, you need never handle raw coals.
but that smoke flavor is soooooo gooooood.
because the mechanisms are more complex, gas grills  tend to be more expensive than comparable charcoal grills, assembly of new gas  grills is more complex than charcoal grills, and there are more parts to break  and be replaced.
it must be delivered to the  grill by a pipeline from your house so a certified contractor will be needed to  do the installation and the grill must be parked in a permanent location.
i have never been able to come close to his swordfish on all my fancy toys.
why we love charcoal grills.
a  btu is the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of  water 1f.
they offer convenience and control.
it is still necessary to know what temperature you are cooking at, and the thermometers on most gas grills are worthless, even expensive grills, so i strongly recommend you buy a good digital oven thermometer and a good digital meat thermometer.
all material within comes without warranties of any kind.
the best reasons to buy fromamazon are low prices, fast often free delivery, fair return policies, and often there is no sales tax.
if you have a weber kettle, you need the amazing smokenator and hovergrill.
charcoal purists are vehement  and border on snobbery.
that's the kind of temp that steakhouses cook at.
there is a new breed of electric grills that are ideal for apartments with small balconies.
if it's tuesday, you're late  getting home from work, and you need dinner ready in an hour, a gasser can do  it.
nothing  is more annoying than setting a chicken on the grill, cranking up the lawn  mower, and returning in 30 minutes to discover that the tank ran out and the  bird is raw.
but if you like your meat crunchy on the  outside and rare to medium rare on the inside, the temp at which it is most  tender and juicy, thenmost gas grills just don't get the job done.
of course, in order to do this, you absolutely positively must  have a gooddigital oven thermometer.
the combustion gases from charcoal  when mixed with smoke from wood chips or chunks makes a distinctive flavor  typical of traditional southern barbecue.
when drippings hit the heat source they vaporize  and some of that condenses on the meat and some penetrates into the meat.
click here for analytics, stats, demographics, and advertising options.
let's cut to the most convincing argument: probably 99% of the world's  greatest steakhouses grill with gas.
as much as twice the heat.
on second  thought, don't.
click here to read about how to clean, maintain,  and troubleshoot your grill.
spiders seem to like it down in there, and i have even had to dig a wasp's nest out of one of the tubes once.
if you are looking for info, please use the table of contents or the search box, at the top of every page.
let's see how each fuel performs at these tasks and all the other factors.
when propane combusts it makes more steam than charcoal, and that may help  keep meat moist giving gas an advantage for some meats.
if you like all the info we give you for free and would like to help us stay free, please copy the link below and save it.
we have always been transparent about when we are reviewing a product sample, even beforethe federal trade commission required it in 2009.
on second thought, don't.
a lot of the smoke you see when grilling comes from drippings from the food hitting the hot surfaces below and from buildup on the grates and the inside of your grill.
the gas ribs had  a better pork flavor with hints of bacon and they were moister.
or you could buy the char-griller duo (right), which does both.
click here for more info on these wonderful knives.
more expensive grills can get up to 700°f.
first of all it must taste great.
if  you have an lp grill you should always have a full backup tank on hand.
the first thing to do after you assemble your new grill or smoker is to  season it and calibrate it by doing a few dry runs without food.
propane grills cannot be hooked up to natural gas without an adapter kit and the regulator may need to be adjusted.
16,682,400 total other fuel choices wood.
let me try to sort it out for you with a few inflammatory  thoughts.
the first thing to do after you assemble your new grill or smoker is to season it and calibrate it by doing a few dry runs without food.
there are several nice grills that burn wood  pellets made by compressing sawdust.
you may think you  can, but blind tastings have shown that you probably can't.
there are also gas jets and venturis that can clog up.
this  will burn off any manufacturer's grease, and give you a sense for how to set it  up to hit the two important target temps that almost all my recipes use:  225°f and 325°f.
rest assured that when we award a medal, it is because we are impressed by it for the price, not because someone has paid us to say so or because the company is an advertiser or sponsor.
charcoal devotees claim it is the flavor, but for me, a lot of it is the  ritual and the thrill of playing with fire.
they call them sear burners, and they lie in a corner just below the grates.
but clicking on that link before you shop helps me devote more time and money to you.
sideburners typically run 10,000-15,000 btu.
so i get a referral fee.
click here for more about grillgrates.
but if you like your meat crunchy on the outside and rare to medium rare on the inside, the temp at which it is most tender and juicy, thenmost gas grills just don't get the job done.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.
you can get night lights, side tables, spice racks, storage drawers, side burners, and there's probably even one with a dvd player.
if it's tuesday, you're late getting home from work, and you need dinner ready in an hour, a gasser can do it.
http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs this link takes you to amazon and tags anything you buy with a code
even with steaks, you need to  keep an eye on food over direct infrared.
charcoal is dirty to handle; it can be hard to light; it takes about 15 minutes longer to get up to temp; there can be flare-ups that can burn the food andflareups may be a health risk; it is hard to tell what temp you are cooking at; the temperature cannot be turned down rapidly; during long cooks it slowly loses heat and you need to add more charcoal; charcoal grills rarely have rotisseries; and there is a lot of ash to clean up after.
unless otherwise noted, all text, recipes, photos, and code are owned by amazingribs, inc. and fully protected by us copyrightâ law.
gas grills outsell charcoal grills and it is easy to understand why.
most are set up so you can easily attach a rotisserie accessory and many come with side burners so you can keep sauces warm or cook side dishes.
if you use a lot of  coals or if the coals are raised close to the cooking surface, they can cook as  hot as 700°f or more.
char-broil's new quantum line has a  radiation plate beneath the entire surface.
3) please don't ask me "what grill (or smoker) should i buy?"
of course the prices can differ.
usually there is no lid over the  meat.
indirect heat convection roasting for things like whole chickens and  roasts when the heat source is off to the side and the food cooks by warm air  circulating around it with the lid closed.
advertisement | homepage | table of contents | | weights, measures, conversions | techniques | recipes | buyer's guides | links | ruminations | ingredients | |misc bbq articles | one nation under sauce | meet meathead | newsletter | updates | donations | | privacy promise, code of ethics, other legal terms |advertising and sponsorship opportunities |
butonce you get to know your instrument, it is pretty  easy to manage and if it has two or more burners it is easy to have two or more  heat zones.
some cooks think the  steam can be a disadvantage for some meats, hampering chicken skin from getting  crisp for example.
a good thermometer is why i never serve overcooked or undercooked food.
manufacturers tout the number of btu their grills can produce, but the number can be very misleading.
this one has a very thin tip with a tiny thermocouple so it gives an accurate reading in just six seconds.
we have seen this product up close and we have also gathered info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
or  300°f on a hot day.
usually there is no lid over the meat.
about links on this site.
i light them from below and within 10 minutes i have 8'  flames.
it will improve your cooking overnight and pay for itself in a hurry.
alas, most gas grill lids do not seal well, so a lot of the smoke is lost  and more wood is needed than on a tighter grill.
it's a wire grate with legs  that can sit on the charcoal grate placing the coals within 1" of the  meat.
low to mid-price gas grills typically have a top end of 100 to 450°f.
this is a bit of a  misnomer because all grills cook by infrared, or heat, radiation.
for more info about charcoal, read my  articlethe zen of charcoal.
if you use a lot of coals or if the coals are raised close to the cooking surface, they can cook as hot as 700°f or more.
there are about 2,500 btu in one cubic foot of propane and only about  1,000 btu in one cubic foot of natural gas.
this is a bit of a misnomer because all grills cook by infrared, or heat, radiation.
other than clearly marked ads, links and recommendations on this site are all products, services, and websites we truly admire, and are never paid endorsements.
nexo outdoor fireplaces are a steel reinforced, pumice-stone refractory core covered with sandstone rock or with white stucco made in danish island of mors.
rest assured that when we recommend a product, it is really because we like it, not because someone has paid us to say so because we do not accept advertising from product categories we review.
it must be easy to make and emphasize fresh seasonal products with a minimum of processed ingredients.
if you use strong flavored rubs, marinades, and sauces, you will never notice taste differences especially because they hamper browning (read my article onmarinades).
in short, cooking with charcoal can yield superlative results if you  calibrate it and practice.
but when it comes to direct heat grilling, which is usually fast,  the fact is that,if all things are equal such as cooking temp, most  folks can't tell the difference in the taste between charcoal and gas grilled  food.
when i get my hands on top quality lamb or beef, i  use bricks to raise the charcoal grate on my weber kettle to within 1" of  the meat and the result looks and tastes as good as anything you can get at  morton's (see the picture at the top of this page).
if you are not using a good digital you have no idea what the temp really is so i can't help you.
nexo outdoor fireplaces are a steel reinforced, pumice-stone refractory  core covered with sandstone rock or with white stucco made in danish island of  mors.
if you're willing to put in a bit more time to gain mastery of your tool, then go charcoal, and look for one that let's you raise and lower the coal.
if you would like us to link to your website, click here to readour links policy first.
to do that you need areliable oven thermometer, and a little know-how that takes time to acquire.
55-75 btu/square inch is the typical range.
i frequently cook steaks in my weber kettle over grape vine and fruit wood  cuttings i collect when i prune my vines and trees.
there's no reason why you can't cook with the  original fuel: wood.
my quantum hits 680°f about an  inch above the grates.
there is a lot of grease to clean, but many of them are non-stick coated and some of the parts can go into the dish washer.
the biggest problem with gas grills is that only the top end models get hot enough to get a steak crunchy on the exterior without overcooking the interior.
the  italicized word is "most".
machine washable, temper-ground, serrated, high-carbon stainless-steel, full-tang blades with excellent cutting edge retention, beefy hardwood handle, rust and stain resistant, and they stay shiny without polishing.
if you're willing to put in a bit more time to gain mastery of your tool,  then go charcoal, and look for one that let's you raise and lower the coal.
if you use your grill for long low and slow smoke roasting, there is a more noticeable difference in flavor.
when i get my hands on top quality lamb or beef, i use bricks to raise the charcoal grate on my weber kettle to within 1" of the meat and the result looks and tastes as good as anything you can get at morton's (see the picture at the top of this page).
i also use the hovergrill  that came with mysmokenator to raise the coals.
although they excel at holding a steady  temp, they are not perfect.
there is a lot of grease to clean, but many of them are non-stick coated and  some of the parts can go into the dish washer.
to do that you need areliable oven thermometer, and a little know-how that  takes time to acquire.
it is by far the most popular barbecue website in the world and pageviews increase rapidly every year.
if you keep the  charcoal dry and use achimney, getting hot coals is easy.
check outamazon's gift & wish registry.
it is not intuitive and brainless, but there is little it cannot do when you achieve mastery, grasshopper.
like a musician, you must master your instrument to make great food.
when you cook low and slow, the smoke from charcoal is much more noticeable.
natural gas is cheaper than lp gas and  you never have to worry about running out, unless you don't pay your gas bills.
the gas ribs had a better pork flavor with hints of bacon and they were moister.
the flame war between charcoal grill purists and gas grill hotheads burns brighter than the debate between mac and pc users.
when fully lit and ashed over, it produces less smoke flavor.
some of his lava rocks have begun to disintegrate and there are gaps where bare flame slips through to lick the meat.
even with steaks, you need to keep an eye on food over direct infrared.
the  one on the left was cooked with charcoal with wood chips for flavor.
a dial setting of 1 may equal 275°f on a  70°f day, but it can be 225°f on a cool, windy, or rainy day.
nothing is more annoying than setting a chicken on the grill, cranking up the lawn mower, and returning in 30 minutes to discover that the tank ran out and the bird is raw.
the temp in the top of the dome can be very different at meat level.
the base superheats, eliminates hot spots, and blocks flareups.
steakhouse knives these are the same knives used at the best steakhouses (peter luger, smith & wollensky, morton's and others).
higher btu grills usually have more cooking surface over  which the btu are spread.
small grills can have as little as 5,000 btu and large ones up to 60,000.
or 300°f on a hot day.
rarely will a $400 gold medal be in the same league as an $800 gold medal, so it is important that you read the reviews.
indirect heat convection roasting for things like whole chickens and roasts when the heat source is off to the side and the food cooks by warm air circulating around it with the lid closed.
let's cut to the most convincing argument: probably 99% of the world's greatest steakhouses grill with gas.
this is the concept behind the expensive new infrared grills.
we think that people need to know why as well as how, so we spend a lot of time explaining things, and we believe that there are no rules in the bedroom or dining room.
it works on anything from grills to diapers and it has zero impact on the price you pay.http://tinyurl.com/amazingribs 58% gas 40% charcoal 2% electric 16,682,400 total wood.
most gas grills use metal plates, lava rocks, and ceramics to radiate heat, so there are no open flames, no flareups, and cleanup is easier because drips are usually vaporized.
remember, i am not a mind reader.
charcoal purists are vehement and border on snobbery.
infrared burners can sometimes be used for rotisserie cooking and can even be used for indirect heat cooking.
note: some photos of commercial products such as grills were provided by the manufacturers and are under their copyright.
the smokenator turns your grill into a first class smoker, and the hovergrill can add capacity or be used to create steakhouse steaks.
the biggest problem with gas  grills is that only the top end models get hot enough to get a steak crunchy on  the exterior without overcooking the interior.
charcoal, especially before it is fully lit, emits combustion  gases and smoke flavors.
grills are used mostly for three types of cooking: 1) high heat direct radiation cooking when the food is placed directly above the heat source for things like steaks.
we do not accept ads from product categories we review and we keep a strict wall between editorial and advertising, so, for current pricing and availability of prime space, contact my agency, federated media, by clicking the logo at right.
they are great for smoke roasting, and they can get hot enough for direct heat grilling, they are not good direct heat grilling tools.
price is an important factor.
amazingribs, inc. promises to never sell or distribute any info about you individually without your express permission, and we promise not to, ahem, pepper you with email or make you eat spam.
i cannot recommend it more highly.
on a three burner grill you might use a hot zone for meat, a medium zone for veggies, and a low zone for holding finished foods.
worse still, it is in  the dome, and the temp down on the grate where the meat sits is much different.
i strongly recommend the chimney because it is faster and easier and needs no outlet.
weber has its own technology for high heat searing.
if you like your steaks well  done, gas grills are perfect for you.
to get reprint rights,click here.
you can get night lights, side tables, spice racks, storage drawers,  side burners, and there's probably even one with a dvd player.
click here for more details ofour privacy promise.
so if there is little taste difference, the choice comes down to functionality.
many reviews are by meathead, the author of most things on this website.
other than the fact that the flavor is very strong, and  you have to use the right woods or the food will be inedible.
if you are using gas, the smoke is invisible.
if you are using charcoal, only a little bit of it comes from the  charcoal.
gas pros and cons gas grills outsell charcoal grills and it is easy to understand why.
charcoal devotees claim it is the flavor, but for me, a lot of it is the ritual and the thrill of playing with fire.
natural gas is mostly methane.
if you use your grill for long low and slow smoke roasting, there  is a more noticeable difference in flavor.
the italicized word is "most".
because the mechanisms are more complex, gas grills tend to be more expensive than comparable charcoal grills, assembly of new gas grills is more complex than charcoal grills, and there are more parts to break and be replaced.
of course there are at least two different kinds of charcoal.
advertising on amazingribs.com is a great way to build your brand or make direct sales.
the one on the left was cooked with charcoal with wood chips for flavor.
grillgrates can be added to most any gas grill and can significantly improve the cooking characteristics.
i don't care how much you spent on your grill, the bi-metal dial thermometer that came with it is probably cheap and unreliable and likely to be off by as much as 50°f.
gas grills typically range from 15,000 to 60,000 btu per hour.
charcoal pros and cons why we love charcoal grills.
it's a cheaply made grill, but i'll bet we see better duos in the future.
amazon often has the best prices anywhere, even better than many manufacturers' websites because manufacturers know that if they undercut retailers like amazon, they may drop the products.
2) don't ask me any questions that involve temp or time unless you tell me that you are using a digital thermometer!
newer high end models with sear burners can get as hot as charcoal.
the flame war between charcoal grill purists and  gas grill hotheads burns brighter than the debate between mac and pc users.
when propane combusts it makes more steam than charcoal, and that may help keep meat moist giving gas an advantage for some meats.
the information on this website is for educational purposes only.
they are great for smoke roasting, and  they can get hot enough for direct heat grilling, they are not good direct heat  grilling tools.
we have also gathered info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources.
when a product is available on amazon.com, we often provide a direct link.
that's why i  own both.
it takes you to amazon.com and tags things you buy with the amazingribs code so we get that referral fee.
if you keep the charcoal dry and use achimney, getting hot coals is easy.
infrared and sear burners.
some people discard the lava rocks or ceramics every year.
there is also a minor difference in the flavor imparted by combustion gases, the volatile by-products given off by the burning of the charcoal or the gas.
some new gas grills have "infrared" burners which are superheated surfaces that are very close to the meat and more vapors get back to the meat with these burners.
a few reviews have been contributed by scot murphy and gordon hubbell.
i'm waiting for the sixto.
my favorite charcoal grills have a crank that let you raise and lower the  charcoal bed.
i dry stacks of the pencil thick sticks for a few months, and then stuff as many as i can into my grill.
if you push the coals to one side of the grill and set up a 2-zone cooking environment, fatty meats like chicken skin do not drip on the coals and flare up, and even if there are flareups, a squirt gun can contain them.
gas grills can come with a wider range of accessories.
drippings hit these radiant surfaces where they are vaporized, making smoke and steam, just like charcoal.
there are several  cowboy grills designed to hold your food a safe distance above wood or wood  embers, good for your backyard a campfire in the wilderness.
click here formore info.
bi-metal dial thermometers are often off by as much as 50°f!
with the prices that steakhouses charge, they can afford any fuel  they want.
at high temps there is not too much smoke flavor, but it is hard to escape the smokiness if you want to, and some things you just don't want smokey.
the one on right was cooked with gas and exacly the same amount of chips by weight.
below you can see two slabs of st. louis cut ribs cooked at the same temp side by side withmeathead's memphis dust only, no sauce.
amazingribs.com does not make or sell anything, but we love toys and we are happy to share our opinions of them.
you may think you can, but blind tastings have shown that you probably can't.
this page revised 10/7/2009
small grills can have as little as 5,000 btu and  large ones up to 60,000.
they are easy to start, they heat up within 10 to 15 minutes, they hold temperatures steadily yet we can crank them up and cool them down in a hurry, they can be configured for indirect and multi-zone cooking, and they are easy to clean.
on a propane grill, the flavor is a bit more bacon-like.
some high end gas grills also have smoke boxes for wood chips, but for most gas grills you need to make foil packets or put pans of wood down under the cooking grate near the flame.
they who wouldnever ever never own a gas grill.
if you use self-igniting  charcoal or charcoal fluid to start a charcoal fire, there can be an unpleasant  petrochemical smell during ignition and it can get into the food.
meat drippings are  mostly water, fat, and protein, plus whatever you have added, such as marinade  or sugar in barbecue sauce.
taste is a matter of taste.
this means you need written permission to republish or distribute anything on this website.
click here for more info and how to order it.
because most gas grills cannot achieve the same high heat as charcoal, charcoal is superior for getting that great dark crust on steaks that is much more flavorful than tan meat.
on goes the top grate.
they die down to white hot coals in about 10 minutes, and i have about  15 minutes of 1000°f temps to cook on before they die.
the second most asked question since  "chicken or egg?"
sideburners typically run  10,000-15,000 btu.
alas i have never seen a charcoal grill with a half good thermometer, and the thermometer is never mounted where it is needed, near the meat.
there's no ash, so gassers are easier to clean, but they suffer from carbon and grease buildups that need to be scraped or pressure washed every few months.
our privacy promise.
it can give you those deep dark crusty steaks with red or pink interiors.
there are several nice grills that burn wood pellets made by compressing sawdust.
with the prices that steakhouses charge, they can afford any fuel they want.
in short, cooking with charcoal can yield superlative results if you calibrate it and practice.
is there a taste difference?
it must be delivered to the grill by a pipeline from your house so a certified contractor will be needed to do the installation and the grill must be parked in a permanent location.
worse still, it is in the dome, and the temp down on the grate where the meat sits is much different.
and now they have the amazingribs.com imprimatur.
the most important reason to buy a charcoal grill is that charcoal can get  hotter thanstandard gas grills, and heat is what you need to get  steaks and lamb crisp on the outside and red or pink on the inside.
other than the fact that the flavor is very strong, and you have to use the right woods or the food will be inedible.
either way, before you make a purchase, read my article on how to buy a grill.
a btu is the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water 1f.
electric starter coils work well too, but they require an electic outlet.
propane grills cannot be hooked up to natural gas without an adapter kit and  the regulator may need to be adjusted.
charcoal grills typically cook up to 500°f or more.
amazon pays amazingribs inc.
liquid propane (lp) gas comes in 20 pound steel tanks.
the second most asked question since "chicken or egg?"
of course, in order to do this, you absolutely positively must have a gooddigital oven thermometer.
the high heat is perfect for red meats, and if you learn your instrument, it will reward you handsomely.
with gas grills you have your choice of liquid propane or natural gas.
meat drippings are mostly water, fat, and protein, plus whatever you have added, such as marinade or sugar in barbecue sauce.
at high temps there is not too much smoke flavor, but it is  hard to escape the smokiness if you want to, and some things you just don't  want smokey.
for more info about charcoal, read my articlethe zen of charcoal.
most gas grills cover the flame jets with metal plates, lava rock, or ceramic rocks that absorb the heat and radiate it.
if you have an lp grill you should always have a full backup tank on hand.
alas, most infrared burners are only big enough for one or two steaks at a time.
alas i have never seen a charcoal grill with a half good  thermometer, and the thermometer is never mounted where it is needed, near the  meat.
i cannot pick the right cooker for you any more than i could pick the right car or spouse for you.
briquets,  which are made from charcoal and a lot fillers and chemicals, and lump, which  is pretty much just hardwood charcoal.
a dial setting of 1 may equal 275°f on a 70°f day, but it can be 225°f on a cool, windy, or rainy day.
some models can get quite hot.
many of the more expensive gas grills now come with "infrared" burners off to one side.
the number of btu is not indicative of the heat it can  generate.
higher btu grills usually have more cooking surface over which the btu are spread.
they are your temperature dials.
most gas grills use metal plates, lava rocks, and ceramics to radiate heat,  so there are no open flames, no flareups, and cleanup is easier because drips  are usually vaporized.
it's a  cheaply made grill, but i'll bet we see better duos in the future.
spiders seem to like it down in there, and i have even had to dig a wasp's nest  out of one of the tubes once.
there are several cowboy grills designed to hold your food a safe distance above wood or wood embers, good for your backyard a campfire in the wilderness.
in 2012max good joined our staff as director of buyer's guides and more and more of the reviews come from him.
indirect heat smoke roasting with the lid closed when the warm  convection airflow is heavy with flavorful hardwood smoke.
we have researched this product from afar by gathering info from the manufacturer, owners, and other reliable sources, with our bs meters on high.
the number of btu is not indicative of the heat it can generate.
i have both gas and charcoal.
a must for gas grills.
some high end gas grills also have smoke boxes  for wood chips, but for most gas grills you need to make foil packets or put  pans of wood down under the cooking grate near the flame.
you should read some of the slop slung on the barbecue message boards.
natural gas is cheaper than lp gas and you never have to worry about running out, unless you don't pay your gas bills.
even though it is not  recommended, i often throw aromatic woods right down near the burners on my  weber gas grill.
indirect heat smoke roasting with the lid closed when the warm convection airflow is heavy with flavorful hardwood smoke.
it also contains more  cooking energy than natural gas as measured in british thermal units (btu).
but when it comes to direct heat grilling, which is usually fast, the fact is that,if all things are equal such as cooking temp, most folks can't tell the difference in the taste between charcoal and gas grilled food.
there is one other flavor difference of note.
the temperatures are the same for both indoor and outdoor cooks.
they are your  temperature dials.
charcoal, wood, pellets, gas, infrared, and microwave!
click here to read more.
i have never been able to come close  to his swordfish on all my fancy toys.
then, please tell me everything i need to know to answer your question.
alas, most  infrared burners are only big enough for one or two steaks at a time.
that must be calculated bybtu per square inch, something  they never tell you.
the most important part of any cooking, indoor or out, is regulating heat.
our philosophy about food is simple.
electric starter coils work well  too, but they require an electic outlet.
pay attention to the awards i have given my faves.
since charcoal grills do not have temperature dials to raise or lower temp,  it is important to learn how to set up a2-zone fire which helps you regulate  heat by moving meat from the hot to the medium zone, and learn how to control  the energy of the fire by closing off the oxygen intake vents.
with gas grills you have your choice of  liquid propane or natural gas.
infrared  burners use a gas flame to superheat a ceramic or metal plate that radiates  much more heat than standard burners.
the high heat is perfect for red meats, and if you  learn your instrument, it will reward you handsomely.
on a propane grill, the flavor is a  bit more bacon-like.
briquets, which are made from charcoal and a lot fillers and chemicals, and lump, which is pretty much just hardwood charcoal.
charcoal, wood, pellets, gas, infrared, and  microwave!
if you use strong flavored  rubs, marinades, and sauces, you will never notice taste differences especially  because they hamper browning (read my article onmarinades).
amazon also offers fast delivery (often free), no sales tax (in most states), gift wrapping (on many items), and painless refund policies.
the combustion gases from charcoal when mixed with smoke from wood chips or chunks makes a distinctive flavor typical of traditional southern barbecue.
infrared/sear burners may be perfect for steaks, but they are much too hot for direct heat cooking of most fish and veggies.
even though it is not recommended, i often throw aromatic woods right down near the burners on my weber gas grill.
if you're starting out, and you want no fuss no muss, go gas.
gas grills can come with a wider range of  accessories.
it is written, photographed, illustrated, and coded solely bymeathead .
when you cook low and slow, the smoke from charcoal is much more  noticeable.
if you have problems posting with internet explorer, please read this.
for this  reason you should use a charcoal chimney or an electric charcoal starter.
you  should read some of the slop slung on the barbecue message boards.
grillgrates are the best new product i have tested in years and the best thing to happen to beef since salt and pepper.
if you are still using a dial thermometer, please read this article about thermometers, then buy a good digital, and then, if the problem persists (chances are it won't), hit me with your questions.
a lot of the smoke you see when grilling comes from drippings from the food  hitting the hot surfaces below and from buildup on the grates and the inside of  your grill.