i do use a deluxe smoker that utilizes propane gas, however there is a cast iron wood box that sits over the flame that admits the greatest smoke ever.
i haven't noticed any candle wax leftovers so it seems to all burn off, but i've heard you can do this without the wax also although i haven't tried it like that.
try that with charcoal, it can't be done.
spaces jul. 1, 2009 1:22 pm i use lava rocks in my gas grill
i may add wood chips in 30 min or so by pulling the chip tray out and adding what i want then push the tray back in.
everyone knows the best smokers have electric heat, visit cookshack's website to see why they are the only type banned from competion cookoffs.
» - - - add a comment share on facebook - related tips & advice - tips and advice - living - father's day - july 4th - everyday cooking - memorial day - labor day - events and gatherings - everyday cooking: bbq and grilling - picnics - seasonal - bbq party battle of the barbeque: charcoal vs. gas
the chimneys last for years, you don't need anything but paper to start them, and no petro chem taste.
gas grilling gas-fired grilling has the clear benefit of being extremely convenient.
my grill has 3 large burners so after i sear the meat i cut one of the outer burners off and move the meat to that side and turn the other two down and let the meat cook sow and slow.
of course, charcoal grilling requires more time and attention than gas, from building and lighting the briquettes to waiting for the coals to get hot to managing the flame.
you can get charcoal irons, which turn red hot, and are designed for lighting the charcoal.
but i do use my gas grill for quick and easy grilling.
happy grillin everyone!
8 hours later when you get up, open your grill to perfectly smoked, fall off the bone bbq.
also you don't have to endure that nasty lighter fluid smell !!!
(of course, this can be a plus or minus, depending on  who's behind the flame.)
when we have people over or not going to games and have plenty of time to grill, charcoal is the way to go.
pm having cooked over a campfire for years, i prefer the taste of the charcoal grill, but with a family, i've settled for the convenience of a gas grill.
no need for lighter fluids!
the flavor of the seared outside goes right through the meat.
i live in az and we trimmed a mesquite tree which i kept the heavier limbs and dried them out to bank up a natural charcoal fire and got a wonderful mesquite smoke that people are still talkimg about.
the entire grill is at that temp, i used surface thermometers to check it and it's very uniform in all but the back corners that i don't use much anyway, and certainly not for steak.
friends and family still enjoy the food but they stay inside.
more how-to and recipe videos » most popular blogs - oatmeal ~ the super food!
it's the cat's whiskers.
it just depends on what i am cooking and how much time i have.
i have a charcaol chimney that i bought, you was a few sheets of newspaper in the bottom, add charcoal, light and then wait about 25 minutes.
they are not even in the same league.
charcoal grills are also less expensive than gas grills, though the cost of  charcoal will add up over the years.
chef ed aug. 5, 2010 1:16 pm we have a gas grill, large charcoal kettle and dedicated smoker, and all 3 get heavy use in our catering business.
gas grilling gas-fired grilling has the clear benefit of being extremely  convenient.
on the technical side, gas burns clean, but it doesn't impart much flavor  to grilled foods.
chimney starters are the only way to go.
but you don't have the lighter fluid taste.
you can char (burn) your food on gas or you can char (smoke)
there are several boy scout tricks which work well too.
kitcheneer aug. 14, 2011 11:08 am i hope i picked up a few good tricks reading all the comments because neither my husband nor i are very good at cooking on a fire.
ask the helpful home cooks on the recipe buzz.
there's no messing with briquettes, no stacking, no lighting, no smelly starter fluid and no waiting around for the coals to glow.
i highly recommend finding a "charcoal" that is free from oil.
i found mine at walmart for under 5 bucks.
cooking on a gas grill is easier but is like cooking indoors.
not starter fluid smell or taste.
patty jun. 28, 2009 5:37 pm
charcoal is also more portable than gas grills.
cost of the chimney is appox 12 bucks.
nothing beats the coals.
i only put the board in about 3" and the other 9" were hanging out.
as for flavor, that's another story.
pain in the butt to control the temps, but it's cheap
gas is simply easier, faster and with a little ingenuity, almost as good.
iceberg dec. 11, 2010 8:42 am well,,, i think it.s not only about gas or charcoal,, its about the meat itself,, seasening, nd resting the meat,, jmarcus2173 jan. 26, 2011 5:33 am one word------charcoal tonysteele mar. 9, 2011 1:56 pm i never cooked on a gas grill, never had anything cooked on a gas grill, and don't think i want to eat anything cooked on a gas grill.
see our complete barbeque and grilling recipe  collection.
so now i light the cherry wood chips in the chimaney, it takes a bit longer to get ready and you have to keep an eye on it
in 1/2 an hour dump the white hot coals in the grill and tart cooking.
not only does this help with the temperature control, but the wood will smoke!!!
i just ordered a new one which has a dedicated smoker box with its own burner.
light the news paper , make sure they are burning set on the grate.
i have done briskets , chicken and prime ribs like this and as long as you keep the foil packs working, they will in fact almost replace the flavor imparted by good lump charcoal.
propane scares me to death.
see our tips for successful grilling.
so now that we've settled that, what's the barbeque capital of the world?
it was nice out, so we cooked them on the grill and ate at the table outside with my grandma and brother.
i promise if you use this method, your grilled meat will never taste the same twice, and will always be great.
use a charcoal chimney and no lighter fluid, and thus, no lighter fluid taste.
davidfromkeno aug. 10, 2011 2:10 pm
then i bought a large gass grill with a smoker tray on the side.
great grilling can be had over  either gas or charcoal flames.
now we're in fl we love to gather downed orange trees and use chips on the grill.
keep the wood, coals, a1 etc, just give me a sharp knife and a fork, please.
the dry, white-hot heat of charcoal sears meat quickly, creating a crusty, caramelized exterior and smoky flavor.
and therefore add more flavor.
then i coat them with bbq sauce and cook them on high in the crock pot with nothing else until they are ready to almost fall off the bone.
kuddlkat jun. 3, 2010 12:11 pm instead of lighter fluid, make a makeshift starter with empty cardboard egg cartons, dryer lint and candle wax.
remove any outer covering on them.
so it doesn't flare up.
chef barker jun. 28, 2011 3:04 pm as far as i am concerned there is only one way to go, and that is charcoal.
he was given a gas grill for 1 fathers day.
something you can't do in your gas grill.
sort of a pita but well worth the trouble for imparting "smoke" flavor to the meats.
you really need both in my opinion.
now i understand that i'm looking at this from a food service viewpoint, and what i need from my grill may be different than for others.
mharrel aug. 10, 2011 6:51 am good article except where you say "great grilling can be had over either charcoal or gas".
there is now another method of bbq, called traeger grill, uses wood pellets, as fast as gas grills and the flavor of choice of 12 different pellet flavors.
charcoal is superior in my opinion.
they all come out good but charcoal & wood has been far the best, quoted from different guest whom i have entertained.
it simply comes down to anything you can do i can do better.
as our fires were always from cured woods, they would more resemble "lump" charcoal which is simply wood reduced to the black carbon state you see in burned out campfires.
a bag of charcoal can easily be chucked into the car and taken to the  park or beach.
related links burgers on the grill more recipes for the grill
spooscott jun. 7, 2010 9:20 am
» - - - save money with menus - plan a week of dinners and watch your food dollar go farther.
j e m jul. 30, 2009 8:56 pm july 30,2009 i hve used both also.
the verdict ultimately, any determination of what's best comes down to  considerations of convenience, cost, flavor and practicality.
simply turn a knob, and say hello to your highly adjustable heat  source.
when cooking over charcoal though, i've never used ligher fluid.
i do this in quantities, wrap each piece in plastic wrap and freeze them in a freezer bag.
happy grilling every1!!
chrisanderin jun. 21, 2009 10:16 am i learned (by mistake/trial and error, whatever you want to call it) a great way to add flavor without putting wood in with the charcoal, yet still using it.
these cool spaces allow for better control, letting you  sear food first over the hot spots before transferring it to cooler parts to  finish cooking.
you do have to be careful, though, that you take them out before the meat actually falls off the bone.
i had some untreated oak boards that had been cut to appx.
when i put several hundred dollars worth of prime beef on the grill, i can't afford to guess at the cooking times, i need to know for sure.
the main thing is, use what you like, don't listen to nay sayers and enjoy cooking out of doors.
there's no messing with briquettes, no  stacking, no lighting, no smelly starter fluid and no waiting around for the  coals to glow.
» - - - menus - quick & easy - weeknight - budget - make ahead - use leftovers - kid-friendly - gourmet - in-season - dietary menus - low fat - low calorie - low carb - low sodium - - menu planner - plan a menu - weekly menu signup more menus » - - - - - - - - - - - - - recipe buzz - need cooking tips now?
» - - - supporting membership - make cooking easier with menu planner and nutrition search.
i still have a charcoal smoaker that i use once in a while
charcoal grilling charcoal grilling might not offer the same level of convenience as gas, but it does boast one benefit that stands out above all others: smoke flavor.
i have recently aquired (for a sweet deal...nothin' sucka) a weber genesis silver lp grill.
get started with these menus.
gas grills are fueled by liquid propane stored in refillable tanks.
in summer we cook virtually everything outside to avoid heating the house.
in a topsy-turvy world, this may be the perfect dessert.
let's look at the issues that are inflaming the debate.
i have to agree with most, oak charcoal is good, as is apple wood or pecan.
this has always been at the top list of questions for grill masters.
i had the choice to light the gas grill or take a few extra minutes and light some charcoal.
jojo aug. 10, 2011 7:40 am who uses starter fluid anymore anyway?
allow it to cool and solidify, then tear apart the 12 "starters".
march 13, 2012 7:20 am - celebrating irish food march 13, 2012 9:07 pm - allrecipes/life in an rv pacific northwest beach party round-up...save the date!
clean the grates, but never the inside, just get it really hot now and again.
if you have a tiny patio, a massive gas grill just won't work.
charcoal grills are also less expensive than gas grills, though the cost of charcoal will add up over the years.
so about once a year i swap out half the lava rocks for fresh ones thus retaining that seasoned flavor all the time.
see our complete barbeque and grilling recipe collection.
the charcoal grill is hands down my favorite of the two grills, however if i am in a hurry, its hard to beat the gas.
not in my opinion but i am now using "gas"..
i decided to use one of my boards (again, not treated, i didn't wanna go poisoning anyone) to prop the lid open (it looked like a giant pac-man) to desired height by using the board as a wedge.
on the other hand on winter time you do the cooking along and here in arkansas sometime is real cold and that when the gas grill is the champ.
so we can spend more on better foods.
this is the best way to grill using charcoal and it gives your food a better flavor and no worries about carcengens that might result from using the lighter fluid.
i cut the ribs in two-bone sections and then sear them in the flame of the wood fire.
tink may 14, 2010 11:43
and last but not least, for those who have paid over $50 for a raw steak, no explanation is needed.
our grills were 55g drums sawed in half and converted.
waruikaze aug. 10, 2011 7:04 am there are electric charcoal starters that work wonders...
the wood flavor is by far my choice and my friends as well.
i like add wood to the coals and soaked wood chips for added smoke.
meat is always on the large side and the coals were always from mesquite trees we harvested from the desert.
it's really nice, but i dont ever use it.
i'm sorry that i don't know what kind of wood it was, but it adds a very light flavor that was hardly noticeable since the burgers were full of seasonings.
i still use his grilling tricks today.
the other way is to save the lint from your dryer and put it into the paper-type egg cartons.
heart of the matter dec. 23, 2011 11:23 pm my late husband had the answer to nasty un healthy lighter fluid that he was adamantly against.
it is only about the size of your hand and has a sliding lid with holes to let the smoke escape.
bigeasy aug. 28, 2010 6:02 am i think gas is easy, and leaves the kitchen clean.
if you said i had to have only one, the gas grill wins hands down, no contest.
pm since i am considered the grill master at our house, my father always insisted that grilling isn't grilling without the charcoal.
airbear oct. 28, 2011 5:18 am if you have access to hickory trees, gather a couple gallons of the fallen hickory nuts.
all of the major kamado brands recommend using lump charcoal simply because it provides the best tasting barbecue.
i thank god it's readily available in my country & not costly.
the gas upgrade, which is realized by adding an additional bag of lava rock's to the burner area, if your cooking off the heat of the rocks, your also getting the smokey flavor's when the juices hit the rocks and the smoke rises around the meat.
march 15, 2012 10:20 pm - our first of many afterschool teaparties.
on summer time because the extra day time and weather i prefer charcoal for the smoky flavor plus most of the time there friends and family around.
c o m / &# 1 3 ; & # 1 0 ;
charcoal give food a flavor that can't be beat.
take strips of newspaper about an inch and a half to two inches wide.
i have cooked on everything imaginable, my famous ribs, pork steaks, brisket have been on gas, charcoal, wood smoke.
oh, and don't forget to use your crab and lobster steamer on occasion.
plus you can always smoke your meats.
a bag of charcoal can easily be chucked into the car and taken to the park or beach.
bottom line, if you dont care about taste use gas, if you do use charcoal.
when it is wedged against the lid, it can be slid front-to-back or side-to-side to create a wider or narrower opening, helping to control temperature.
papaw jeff aug. 10, 2011 5:55 am now papabob know what he is talking about.
pack each egg section of the carton with the dryer lint and pour in melted candle wax so the lint soaks it up.
using gas is not bbq as the origian bbq was done over an open fire using the locl wood which imparted the regionl flavors.
for the most part, however, i have two cookshack smokers, (superb); one platinum weber summit gas grill, and also run a charcoal smoker when i have the chance, in addition to two portable grills.
we break it down indueling barbeques.
(of course, this can be a plus or minus, depending on who's behind the flame.)
if you want the smoky flavor of wood with the convenience of gas there is a heavy iron box that holds chips that can be placed over the gas flame.
great quick meal when you're busy or for unexpected company.
westie mom may 31, 2010 8:31
sign up for free now!
the dry, white-hot heat of charcoal sears meat quickly, creating a  crusty, caramelized exterior and smoky flavor.
when grilling lamb he would toss dried oregano or a couple fresh sprigs of rosmary on the hot coals which gave the lamb an awesome flavor.
f a n t a s t i c way to bbq or smoke edward aug. 10, 2011 4:00 pm got to agree with chef ed.
register now to save all your favorites in your recipe box.
suffice to say this, anything that alters the flavor of that meat except a good char is not welcome.
could be cause my dad used it alot when i was little in our back yard bbq.
again, you have a reliable and instantly changeable, regulated by you heat source, so your temps will stay very tight and your steaks (or whatever you cook)will be uniform, even from week to week.
of course, charcoal grilling requires more time and attention than gas,  from building and lighting the briquettes to waiting for the coals to get hot  to managing the flame.
place a few of them in your fire for a great smoky taste.
i suppose gas is easier but there's nothing like playing with fire.
really quite superior to charcoal bricketts to me..
while i personally have never grilled, i do know a great trick that my grandpa taught me.
charcoal is also more portable than gas  grills.
terry aug. 10, 2011 5:36 pm i'd say, based on papabob and his spelling, we should either use gas or be co-stars in the movie "deliverance" nh guy aug. 11, 2011 4:53 am charcoal all the way, and i use and electric starter for the charcoal not lighter fluid smell that way.
and let's face it--charcoal also involves an enticing element of danger.
prevents you from cook pork ribs to fast.
any way you like just keep on grillin'.
i only use the gas if we get home late from baseball games and need to cook somthing quick.
i think that this is the best way to get a full smoked flavor it what ever you are cooking, and the lower cooking temp.
weber's new video series, “weber grill master” touches on this subject: ht t p : / / w w w .
on the technical side, gas burns clean, but it doesn't impart much flavor to grilled foods.
thomas aug. 10, 2011 8:27 am i have found a few tricks to start charcoal, and one to improve the quality of gas grill cooking, 1st
yes it is more expensive
i love playing with different flavor wood chips and indirect cooking.
they will keep almost forever in a net type bag in a dry place.
v = v b c 3 x 4 e t e d q & a m p ; f e a t u r
searing alone at that temp produces the char flavor, no coals needed.
your food on charcoal.
related links - grilled chicken recipes - burgers on the grill - more recipes for the grill
12" x 12" laying around and was cooking pork ribs on my kettle-style grill.
so now that we've settled that, what's  the barbeque capital of the world? we break it down indueling  barbeques.
mister chops jul. 6, 2010 2:48 pm i've used both charcoal and gas grills.
try menu planner collect and create menus!
i could not do that with my old charcoal grill.
tee mar. 25, 2011 4:55 pm
the griddle at some restaurants can exceed 1500 degrees surface temp.
if you have a  tiny patio, a massive gas grill just won't work.
if i'm cooking ribs for a crowd, charcoal.
i much prefer charcoal.
marauderer may 23, 2011 5:18 am i have always used a gas grill for convienience.
but you don't get to play with firei like lump charcoal and wood bot i also understand and am ok with other people using gas time, convience, ease just include your kids spouse and get off the coauch and get outside that big orange thing in the sky is very soothing to the soul roperesq46 jun. 18, 2009 8:39
i have a gas but have not used it for 2 years the bbq i have now is a old gas one i now use charcoal in it.
tasted the difference...
but now have a gas grill.
my grandpa has a gas grill, so in order to get a little bit of a smoky flavor, he had a small tin or aluminum tray that had wood chips in it.
» - - - top-rated recipes - home cooks swear by these five-star classics.
after all, isn't a better taste what we are a looking for when cooking outdoors?
we have both a weber charcoal grill and a commercial grade gas grill and a charcoal and an electric smoker, and i use them all.
am when were out of lighter fluid my husband got the bottle of used vegetable oil we had and poured over the charcol and some paper and it lit the fire just like the lighter fluid.
add a comment recipe box menus shopping lists see something worth saving?
recipe box | shopping list | more » - avocado, tomato and mango salsa - wisconsin bratwurst - salmon dip - mom's best waffles - herb rubbed sirloin tip roast - easter lamb cake ii - beer and maple lentil
so let's try the arguments against gas.
for most masters of the grill, there is no compromising; you are either in  one camp or the other.
he then "re-gifted" it to my uncle!
in 15 min your grill is hot enough to sear meat and the wood is smoking like crazy.
you want great flavor go charcoal !!!!!
lighting charcoal without fluid is easy with a chimney.. a piece of newspaper with a bit of cooking oil works wonders..
grill on and cheers!!
i will use the example of steak to show why i feel this way.
one day, while at his house, we decided to have hamburgers for lunch.
» - - - food wish: two-ingredient dinner - see if chicken and mushrooms alone can make a meal.
» - - - how-to - appetizers - bbq and grilling - breakfast - chicken - dessert - dinner - main dish - meat - allrecipes web shows - behind the recipe - food wishes - home happy hour - kitchen gizmos & gadgets - mastered in 99 seconds - shortcut cooking - what’s cooking?
since it is all about taste, charcoal and especially lump charcoal is the logical winner.
calvinrjones29 aug. 19, 2010 5:39 pm i grill whenever i get a chance and there is nothing like that coal smoke,and the food just tast better with coal instead of gas.
start creating lists organized by grocery aisle today!
fill the carton with melted wax and let cool.
march 15, 2012 6:22 am - a fairy tale?
tomas aug. 11, 2011 8:32 am i barbeque all year long
but i will never give up my gas grill.
- - - - - - - - - - pineapple upside-down cake
and something that runs on gas or electricity to cook it with.
the lint is extremely flammable and the wax keeps the starters from burning out too quickly.
it is all ready to go, it sure is worth the extra 5 minutes for the flavor you get.
bigunn aug. 11, 2011 7:11 am i have both gas and charcoal.
i use the gas as an oven and range.
chef daddy aug. 10, 2011 8:25 am i'm ready for the "face off"...
» - - - community - recipe buzz - newest reviews - member blogs - contests and sweepstakes - - membership - free membership - supporting membership - gift membership - newsletters - allrecipes everywhere - mobile applications - allrecipes ebooks - - keeping in touch - follow us - become a fan - customer support - - - - - - - - - - - - how to make hard-boiled eggs - for easter decorating and deviling, see the best hard-boiling tips.
charcoal is the way to go hands down.
and in case there are any doubts, there is a big difference between brickettes and lump charcoal.
set a few of these starters and light the cardboard carton.
richard aug. 10, 2011 12:25 pm
if i am cooking a hamburger for 1 (me), gas.
return the switch to off, rub a metal brush over the grate and clean-up time is  over.
i have a tel-tru on my gas grill that has proven to be accurate over years of use, so i know when it says 700 that's what it means.
i always have both briquettes and lump on hand.
playing with fire is fun.
bigbuddha77 jul. 24, 2010 7:22 am i love charcoal grilling but instead of messing around with the lighter fluid i buy the instant light charcoal
ive cook a tureky on it and came out so tender.
i learned that both in science class, with a particular classmate who likes making battery acid eat through foil, and on girl scout campouts with toast on a stick.
i personaly use a gas grill and a wood only grill.
tested recipes - fresh bites blog select your version: argentina | australia & new zealand | brazil | canada | china | france | germany | india | japan | korea | mexico | netherlands | poland quebec | russia | se asia | united kingdom & ireland | united states all rights reserved
become a supporting member!
» - - - top mexican recipes treat the family to taco night.
use 4-5 of these in your charcoal pile, 2 should be plenty if you stack the charcoal in a chimney.
copyright 2012 allrecipes.com
since you can't dial down the heat of white-hot coals,  it's a good strategy to leave empty spaces on the lower grill grate (areas  without briquettes).
we have a large smoker (recycled), and cook with select scrap wood we find through the year.
start today going grocery shopping?
also have been doing your thanksgiving turkey on the grill for years and that always comes out juicy and smokin delish!!!!!
cut each egg section apart, use only 2-3, lighting the egg of the egg carton.
i gutted an old gas grill and burn wood in it.
the wood grill will light just as quickly as using charcoal.
they won't affect the temp much, especially if they are just started and not half way burned.
a small handfull of chips(you don't even have to soak them)and your in business.
before we talk about flavor and taste, let's talk about accuracy.
march 16, 2012 9:51 am read our allrecipes.com blog start a blog | read all blogs recently viewed recipes quick links:
r e l a t e d kenneth jul. 18, 2009 9:29 am i have both a gas grill and a charcoal grill and when it come to one of my favorite thinks to do cooking on a grill i have to say that charcoal is the way to go.
the thermometer doesn't lie, if they add a few degrees of heat turn the gas down a tad.
constance robison aug. 10, 2011 2:26 am we've always had charcoal grill.
jimwheeler mar. 22, 2010 2:30 am i cook using a california kamado and never have i tasted better barbecue than what i get now and i'm using lump charcoal to fuel my kamado.
make mealtime easy save our menus, tweak them, or create your own.
at the high temps needed for a quality sear, you can overcook a steak in seconds.
i have both and use both.
a year's worth of menus costs less than one take-out dinner.
if you season your foods right you dont miss any of the smoked wood flavor at all.
is there a substitute?
these cool spaces allow for better control, letting you sear food first over the hot spots before transferring it to cooler parts to finish cooking.
for those who have not, none will do it justice.
more searches: ingredient | nutrition | advanced email or user name remember me password (forgot?)
gary aug. 15, 2011 11:18 am i have just finished reading everyones comments.
and i have gas and charcoal and i love both.
it's heavy lid is great to keep smoke in!
i assume it would be nice with other meats.
great grilling can be had over either gas or charcoal flames.
catid3 may 23, 2011 4:36 pm i have grilled for many years and initially i would use briquette and lighter fluid, until i discover a charcoal chimney.
- - - - - - - - - - healthy and easy - see a 20-minute chicken dinner and other light bites.
meckie jan. 20, 2010 7:32 am i started grilling with charcoal lighting with a chimaney to lose the flavor of the lighter fluid
get a pellet pistol, set your gas to barely on (around 180 or so) lay out that brisket or boston butt and go to bed.
but i still enjoy cooking on various units.
advertise with us advertisement related videos grilling with charcoal summer isn’t summer until you’ve lit the grill.
i did the charcoal route and the taste is so much better.
they smoke nicely without flaming..
so i get the convenience of gas but a great grilled, smokey taste.
if you want true smoke flavor, use some wood chunks instead.
steak is one of the easiest things to cook and one of the hardest for many to cook properly.
yes, the gas grill does give a better flavor than cooking in the kitchen.
i prefer the convenience and ease of gas grilling over the charcoal grill, especially when entertaining.
2010 5:14 pm i just finished eating a rib eye stead.
you need quick cooking go gas.
since you can't dial down the heat of white-hot coals, it's a good strategy to leave empty spaces on the lower grill grate (areas without briquettes).
i know...sacrilge(spelling?).
you put the charcoal in the top of the chimney, then put two pieces of crumpled newspaper in the bottom.
cdub may 4, 2010 8:55 pm i have both.
what can i say except, que what you enjoy and use your grill as often as posible, and don't forget to have a cold one at the same time !
if it's char flavor you want, put a few charcoal bricks in the wood holder of your gas grill.
return the switch to off, rub a metal brush over the grate and clean-up time is over.
but i found that some of the flavor i wanted to lose was in the charcoal it self.
pat jun. 19, 2011 6:34 am i used charcoal for years and liked it.
i needed to control the temperature of heat better than just moving the pile to one half and placing the meat over the less intense side (i usually put the "pyramid" towards the hinge/back area leaving the front/handle area free of charcoal).
it's the great debate in grilling: charcoal or gas.
i use mesquite or other hardwood wrapped in aluminum foil and placed on the burners with a few holes popped in the foil.
- save favorites in your recipe box - create and save shopping lists - get cooking questions answered - become a member — free - - already a member?
» - - - comfort food five-star recipes for the dishes you crave.
» - - - dishes and meals - appetizers - breakfast - dessert - drinks - main dish - salad - side dish - soup - ingredients - beef - chicken - fruit and vegetables - pasta - pork - seafood - vegetarian - lifestyle - bbq and grilling - everyday cooking - kid friendly - healthy - holidays - international - quick and easy - slow cooker - tips and advice more recipes » - - - - - - - - - - - - low-calorie menus - it’s easy to plan a 1200-calorie day.
holla jul. 9, 2009 8:04 pm bad news about that charcoal is its made with petroleum (oil that is in your car's fuel) which cooks into your food :(.
simply turn a knob, and say hello to your highly adjustable heat source.
it's not about the work, its about the flavor.
log in - - want even more cooking power?
the lava rocks also help when doing long, slow grilling... for extra flavor just sprinkle a few hickory or mesquite wood chips on the rocks.
now we save all our coking oil for this and have never bought lighter fluid again.
elsa aug. 10, 2011 12:24 pm this comparisson metions the danger of charcoal cooking, but how about all the deaths and burnings caused by gas explosions (due to human error) when lighting a gas grill.
i hope it will help with the smokey flavor.
i'm female grill fanatic & real charcoal's always my way 2go!
i also realize that super high temps are dangerous, even scary, but consider this.
big weezy jun. 15, 2010 8:55 am i've grilled in the rain and in temps over 100 degrees.
cookie monster jun. 17, 2009 5:24 am charcoal seems to be best, love the smoky flavor but i know it has hazards such as the chemical in the lighting fluid will also ruin the bbq if not properly burned off papabob jun. 18, 2009 9:16 am use a chimaney to light the charcoal thers no fluid flavor throw a piece of dried hard wood or any fruit wood and you have extar layer of flavor just don't over do it play with your fire learn to cook indirectly and you have wonderful grilled juicy pork with a nice smokey flavor you can do all that with a gas grill also
stew - blueberry nut oat bran muffins - lacy oatmeal cookies - corned beef hash top searches - chicken - corned beef - meatloaf - banana bread - salmon - pork chops - corned beef and cabbage - lasagna - cookies - chili - cupcakes - asparagus - pasta - cabbage - irish soda bread - shrimp - chocolate chip cookies - brownies - meatballs - quinoa - allrecipes.com - contact us - advertising - newsroom - jobs - legal - privacy - site map - rss feeds - customer support - ad choices - allrecipes - youtube - food wishes - youtube - allrecipes.tv - man
i built me a brick charcoal grill a few years back and i love it.
i would agree that hardwood lump charcoal is the best, but honestly, im not sure briquttes are that much worse.
light the fire a couple hours early and wait for the burn down..
moevalley oct. 25, 2009 8:45 am gas grilling is ok if your cooking hot dog's for the kid's and that is all jeffcogreg jan. 16, 2010 5:53 pm gas grill?
oh and i have both a gas and charcoal grill and i've only used the gas grill 2 times (for nights i was short on time but didn't want to have a box pizza) in the past year, because you just can get the flavor in a charcoal grill with its coals, wood chips, or mix of both drace1 feb. 16, 2010 7:54 am i use gas at work it's fast
mr. v aug. 10, 2011 12:23 pm buy natural charcoal and use newspaper in a chimney starter.
i light it up, hang out in the back yard with our daughter, its an event , its awesome.
so i tried to cover it up by mixing cherry wood chips in with the charcoal which worked some what but not fully.
i just always find an excuse to go charcoal baby.
but i do agree it is better, for the food, to use a hot iron.
i use my weber chimney starter 2light charcoals- ready in aprox 15-20mins.
roll them up adding more strips of paper until it's about half to three quarters of an inch thick, and tie with candle wick leaving an extra 2 inches of wick.
the easy light charcoal idea came from recycling the papertowel and paperbags i use for bacon greese absorbsion, these bacon soaked paper products burn extra long when twited tight and layed under easylight charcoal, one can also fix a two briquette by what ever length of easylight charcoal::::::::::: and then place the regular charcoal over the top of the eastlight, maybe 3-5 reg-charcoal's by whatever length you anticipait you need, and the twisted bacon soaked paper goes underneth the charcoals.
look them up at : & #1 3 ; & # 1 0 ; h t t p : / / w w w .
and once dinner is over, there's no ashy mess to clean up.
i find it at my home depot :) eskcsg jul. 13, 2009 11:47 am
find out how to do it right!
i do use lighter fluid, and i like that taste.
charcoal grilling charcoal grilling might not offer the same level of convenience as  gas, but it does boast one benefit that stands out above all others: smoke  flavor.
i grill all year round (even in the snow)
dip in the wax 3-4 times for 5-10 seconds, making sure to get the extra wick too without getting your fingers in the wax.
only gas or electric heat is going to provide that level of accuracy, i'm sorry charcoalies, but it's the truth
i barely ever use my gas grill.
i particularly love the flavor of cooking on a wood fire in our charcoal grill.
my better half even prefers charcoal.
add a comment share on facebook battle of the barbeque: charcoal vs. gas
i also have five smoke houses, thats were i do my bbq also if anybody ever needs any help or advice,just email me and i will do my best to help you.davespae@att.net bigeasy edwin smith oct. 21,
charcoal/open flame purist, what can i say.
no more smelly lighter fluid, no more lighter fluid tasting food.
just add dry apple chips or your fav type wood and turn it up.
melt paraffin wax in a double boiler.
he used wood to get the coals going & paper & wood slivers to get the wood going.
the flavor gets into the food and ruins it.
for most masters of the grill, there is no compromising; you are either in one camp or the other.
it works great, hope others find this useable and perhaps stirring up some ideas of their own.
there is one thing we cook on a wood fire that we always get complements on - ribs.
anywho, cheers and happy grilling!
the verdict comments add a comment ultimately, any determination of what's best comes down to considerations of convenience, cost, flavor and practicality.
when i want grilling flavor, it's charcoal.
more videos » - - - - - - - - - - - do more — free!
yes, it is easier but the clean up is better for me.
brotherthomas randyo aug. 10, 2011 11:56 am i am from the southwest and "grilling" has been a tradition for as long as i can remember..
since i have learned this, i have tried several different woods/boards, and each time the food (as spiced or not) always tastes great and different.
i might add that there is no need to buy and use charcoal lighter fluid.
charcoal is the only way to go.
dawsonlinnk aug. 10, 2011 5:32 am they sell charcoal starter chimneys at walmart and online at many other sites.
gas grilling is clean and quick.