about.com: in this full-length review, riches rates the weber one-touch  silver a perfect 5 out of 5 stars.
walmart.com: more than 40 users rate the weber one-touch silver grill,  giving it a near-perfect average score.
a service from about.com, a part of the new york times company.
$90 3 picks including: about.com, amazon.com… weber go-anywhere  portable *est. $50 1 pick including: amazon.com… weber 751001 22.5-inch  one-touch gold charcoal grill, black from amazon.com  new:  $159.70  $149.00 in stock.
an optional side firebox is available if you'd like to use your  outlaw as a smoker.
like the weber one-touch, this portable weber charcoal grill is backed by a 10-year warranty on the exterior and a one-year warranty on the grates.
reviewers are very impressed with the weber performer's most unusual feature, a gas ignition system.
collapsesee our full review about.com:
the smokey joe gold retails for around $35 and adds a lid lock.
its sealed ceramic chamber can cook at an incredibly high heat or at low… expand temperatures for long periods without needing new coals.
expotv.com: two owners provide video reviews of the weber smokey joe here;  the specific model is not identified but both reviews appear to be of the  smokey joe silver.
this feature, as well  as the 10-year warranty on the exterior (one year for the grates) and 24-hour  customer service, helps make the weber one-touch silver one of the most  user-friendly grills available.
lou manfredini recommends the weber performer in this brief guide,  though mentioning its gas-lighting system is the extent of his description.
average customer review: weber 1520
this discussion thread on chowhound.com's cookware forum gives owners' opinions of their big green egg grills as well as advice on how to use this grill.
amazon.com: over 170 owners post reviews of either the smokey joe silver or  the smokey joe gold here.
expotv.com: michelle f. provides a short video of the weber performer charcoal grill.
critics  say it can be fragile, however, and the big green egg company only offers its  lifetime warranty for grills purchased from licensed dealers (not online).
the web site you will go to is not endorsed by consumersearch.
find a dealer at biggreenegg.com charcoal grills runners up: weber one-touch gold *est.
he rates it 5 out of 5 stars.
with a 14.5-inch-diameter cooking space, the smokey joe is large…  expandenough to grill for a small group.
buzzillions.com: over 160 buzzillions users give the performer an average score of 4.8 out of 5.
for cooking smaller portions, however, the char-griller outlaw may be unwieldy.
for more information about google's privacy policy, including how to opt out, go to www.google.com/ads/preferences.
to view this page in it's original form, please visit:
in addition to durable steel construction, a powder-coat finish  and cast-iron grilling surfaces, the outlaw is kitted out with a number of  accessories, including multiple shelves, a wooden worktable, warming rack and  thermometer.
reviewers are very  impressed with the weber performer's most unusual feature, a gas ignition  system.
the best reviewsanalyze their picksrecommend what to buylearn more see also get info about new reports and updatessubscribe to our weekly newsletter reviewers say the weber one-touch silver kettle grill is the best budget charcoal grill, thanks to its proven design, efficient heating and convenient cleaning system, which is what gives the grill its name.
weber one-touch silver *est. $70 to $90 compare prices reviewers say the weber one-touch silver kettle grill is the best budget  charcoal grill, thanks to its proven design, efficient heating and convenient  cleaning system, which is what gives the grill its name.
collapsesee our full review men's journal: adam perry lang is the author of the cookbook "serious barbecue"; for this review he tests six charcoal grills and rates each one on a score of 1 to 10.
expotv.com: michelle f. provides a short video of the weber performer  charcoal grill.
collapse see our  full review expert & user review sources: men's journal: adam perry lang is the author of the cookbook "serious  barbecue"; for this review he tests six charcoal grills and rates each one
information from this cookie may be used by google to help provide advertisers with more targeted advertising opportunities.
where to buy:see all stores barrel-style charcoal grills are ideal for cooking large amounts of food at one time, and the char-griller outlaw features a 1,000-square-inch cooking surface, making it an excellent choice for a family gathering or… expand backyard party.
this mislabeled collection actually consists of owner reviews of the weber one-touch silver 18.5-inch grill.
the 140 or so owners posting here give the weber one-touch  silver charcoal grill a very high average rating.
for cooking smaller portions, however, the char-griller  outlaw may be unwieldy.
the big green egg (large) *est. $750 learn more this kamado-style grill isn't the biggest on the market, but what it lacks  in space it makes up for in versatility and temperature control.
it's offered in two sizes: 363 square inches  (*est.
the weber performer is available in one size only -- 22.5 inches in diameter -- but three different exterior colors are offered.
this gives grillers  the option to sear or slow-cook meats.
thanks to this, they say, the performer blends the convenience of a gas  grill with the cooking characteristics of charcoal grilling that grilling  purists love.
derrick riches includes the small (13-inch)
like the weber one-touch,  this portable weber charcoal grill is backed by a 10-year warranty on the  exterior and a one-year warranty on the grates.
an optional side firebox is available if you'd like to use your outlaw as a smoker.
its short legs offer plenty of support, provided the grill is on a level surface.
its sealed  ceramic chamber can cook at an incredibly high heat or at low… expand temperatures for long periods without needing new coals.
today: this short article contains few details and includes only a few grills.
buzzillions.com: about 40 people rate and review either the smokey joe silver or the smokey joe gold in these reviews that are gathered from retail websites like homedepot.com and csgrills.com.
amazon.com: nearly 40 users at amazon.com give the char-griller outlaw an  average rating of 4.1 out of 5.
$30) gets more consistent feedback than most.
derrick riches is the guide to barbequing and grilling for  about.com.
propane gas  go-anywhere grill from amazon.com  new:  $69.99 $52.75 in stock.
derrick riches is the guide to barbeques and grilling for  about.com.
barbecuegrillsandsmokers.com:
expotv.com: two owners provide video reviews of the weber smokey joe here; the specific model is not identified but both reviews appear to be of the smokey joe silver.
amazon.com: more than 300 user reviews are available at amazon.com (there are separate listings of this grill in different colors and from different vendors); they give the performer an essentially perfect average overall rating.
lou manfredini recommends the weber performer in this brief guide, though mentioning its gas-lighting system is the extent of his description.
these listings are administered, sorted and maintained by google.
where to buy: buy from amazon  for $34.99 drillspot.c- omfor $29.99 cabela's for $39.99 sears for $34.99 luxury charcoal grill
417 magazine: brittany leckey reviews the most energy-efficient grills on the market.
buzzillions.com: about 40 people rate and review either the smokey joe  silver or the smokey joe gold in these reviews that are gathered from retail  websites like homedepot.com and csgrills.com.
the char-griller smokin' pro (*est. $200) is nearly identical save for a smaller cooking area (830 square inches), and it includes a side fire box.
its short legs offer plenty of  support, provided the grill is on a level surface.
top 5 categories top 7 categories top 5 categories top 5 categories top 5 categories top 5 categories top 6 categories top 6 categories sponsored links are keyword-targeted advertisements provided through the google adwords™ program.
where to buy:see all stores the weber performer is the most widely praised charcoal grill in reviews.
$30 to $35 compare prices compact tailgating and camping grills generally draw mixed reviews, but  the weber smokey joe silver (*est. $30) gets more consistent feedback than  most.
derrick riches is the guide to barbequing and grilling for about.com.
it combines the functional details and excellent customer service standard of less expensive weber grills with add-on features such as a worktable,… expandbuilt-in thermometer, lid catcher and storage areas.
big green egg in his list of the top 10 small grills (both gas and charcoal) and provides a full review.
expotv.com: contributor adam k. provides a video review of the weber  one-touch silver grill, calling it "way better than any gas grill."
where to buy:see all stores this kamado-style grill isn't the biggest on the market, but what it lacks in space it makes up for in versatility and temperature control.
where to buy:see all stores compact tailgating and camping grills generally draw mixed reviews, but the weber smokey joe silver (*est.
the weber performer is available in one size only -- 22.5 inches  in diameter -- but three different exterior colors are offered.
http://www.consumersearch.com/charcoal-grills © 2012.
where to buy: buy from amazon  for $268.99 j&r music and computer worldfor $299.99 target for $236.69 walmart for  $239.98 portable charcoal grill weber smokey joe *est.
ashes are…  expanddirected into a removable tray for easy clean-up.
the char-griller smokin' pro (*est. $200) is nearly  identical save for a smaller cooking area (830 square inches), and it includes  a side fire box.
417 magazine: brittany leckey reviews the most energy-efficient grills on  the market.
both weber smokey joe portable grill models get excellent user reviews.
collapse see our full review expert & user review sources: about.com:
you can buy the big green egg in four other sizes -- mini, small, medium and extra large -- ranging in price from around $250 to over $1,000.
today: this short article contains few details and includes only a few  grills.
buzzillions.com: over 160 buzzillions users give the performer an average  score of 4.8 out of 5.
$90) and 240 square inches (*est.
it combines the functional details and excellent customer service standard of  less expensive weber grills with add-on features such as a worktable,…  expandbuilt-in thermometer, lid catcher and storage areas.
amazon.com: nearly 40 users at amazon.com give the char-griller outlaw an average rating of 4.1 out of 5.
this mislabeled collection actually consists of owner  reviews of the weber one-touch silver 18.5-inch grill.
average customer review: char-griller 1224
with a 14.5-inch-diameter cooking space, the smokey joe is large… expandenough to grill for a small group.
expotv.com: contributor adam k. provides a video review of the weber one-touch silver grill, calling it "way better than any gas grill."
ashes are… expanddirected into a removable tray for easy clean-up.
it's offered in two sizes: 363 square inches (*est. $90) and 240 square inches (*est.
an unspecified group of testers rates seven portable gas, charcoal and electric grills.
the big green egg's exterior stays cool  even when grilling at temperatures as high as 750 degrees fahrenheit.
both weber smokey joe portable grill models get  excellent user reviews.
the 140 or so owners posting here give the weber one-touch silver charcoal grill a very high average rating.
collapsesee our full review slate.com:
anonymous blogger "doug" describes  himself as an avid outdoor cooker and offers opinions on a few charcoal grills,  including the outlaw.
find a dealer at biggreenegg.com charcoal grills runners up:weber one-touch gold *est.
walmart.com: about 35 owners post reviews of their char-griller grills  here, giving it an average rating of 4.4 out of 5.
this feature, as well as the 10-year warranty on the exterior (one year for the grates) and 24-hour customer service, helps make the weber one-touch silver one of the most user-friendly grills available.
for information about these google ads, go toadwords.google.com.
an unspecified group of testers rates seven portable gas,  charcoal and electric grills.
average customer review: lodge logic l410 pre-seasoned sportsman's charcoal grill from amazon.com  new:  $107.99 $64.97 in stock.
where to buy: buy from amazon  for $329.00 ebay for $399.99 home depot for $329.00 barrel-style charcoal grill char-griller outlaw *est. $150 compare prices barrel-style charcoal grills are ideal for cooking large amounts of food  at one time, and the char-griller outlaw features a 1,000-square-inch cooking  surface, making it an excellent choice for a family gathering or… expand backyard party.
walmart.com: more than 40 users rate the weber one-touch silver grill, giving it a near-perfect average score.
collapse see our full review slate.com:
by clicking on sponsored links you will leave consumersearch.com.
where to buy: buy from amazon  for $99.00 aimtofind.c- omfor $79.00 lowe's for $79.00 ace hardware for $79.00 best charcoal grill overall weber performer *est. $330 compare prices the weber performer is the most widely praised charcoal grill in reviews.
average customer review: back to top
critics say it can be fragile, however, and the big green egg company only offers its lifetime warranty for grills purchased from licensed dealers (not online).
the big green egg's exterior stays cool even when grilling at temperatures as high as 750 degrees fahrenheit.
big green egg in his  list of the top 10 small grills (both gas and charcoal) and provides a full  review.
derrick riches is the guide to barbeques and grilling for about.com.
this gives grillers the option to sear or slow-cook meats.
thanks to this, they say, the performer blends the convenience of a gas grill with the cooking characteristics of charcoal grilling that grilling purists love.
walmart.com: about 35 owners post reviews of their char-griller grills here, giving it an average rating of 4.4 out of 5.
$130 to $300 6 picks including: about.com, amazon.com… char-griller smokin'  pro *est. $200 3 picks including: about.com, walmart.com… lodge logic sportsman  hibachi grill *est.
amazon.com: more than 300 user reviews are available at amazon.com (there  are separate listings of this grill in different colors and from different  vendors); they give the performer an essentially perfect average overall rating.
about.com: in this full-length review, riches rates the weber one-touch silver a perfect 5 out of 5 stars.
anonymous blogger "doug" describes himself as an avid outdoor cooker and offers opinions on a few charcoal grills, including the outlaw.
this discussion thread on chowhound.com's cookware forum  gives owners' opinions of their big green egg grills as well as advice on how  to use this grill.
amazon.com: over 170 owners post reviews of either the smokey joe silver or the smokey joe gold here.
you  can buy the big green egg in four other sizes -- mini, small, medium and extra  large -- ranging in price from around $250 to over $1,000.
$50 1 pick including: amazon.com… back to top this consumersearch.com page has been optimized for print.
the smokey joe gold retails for  around $35 and adds a lid lock.
$130 to $300 6 picks including: about.com, amazon.com…char-griller smokin' pro *est. $200 3 picks including: about.com, walmart.com…lodge logic sportsman hibachi grill *est. $90 3 picks including: about.com, amazon.com…weber go-anywhere portable *est.
on a score of 1 to 10.
google may place or recognize a unique "cookie" on your web browser.
smokin pro 830 square inch charcoal grill  with side fire box from amazon.com  new:  $279.99 $249.00 in stock.
in addition to durable steel construction, a powder-coat finish and cast-iron grilling surfaces, the outlaw is kitted out with a number of accessories, including multiple shelves, a wooden worktable, warming rack and thermometer.