- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
sign up - barbecues & grilling - grills/smokers - grilling - barbecue/smoking discuss in my forum brinkmann triple function charcoal/gas smoker 810-3830-s about.com rating 2.5 star rating be the first to write a review
the two burner gas grill is limited in power and the air flow for smoking won't give you the kind of temperature control you need.
the brinkmann triple function grill will let you smoke ribs while you throw  steaks on a charcoal fire and burgers over gas burners.
manufacturer's site pros - charcoal and gas grill and smoker - three independent cooking zones cons - poor quality gas burners - thin metal construction - bare cast iron cooking grates - single hood for two cooking chambers - brinkmann support description - one 341 square inch charcoal cooking chamber - one 341 square inch gas cooking chamber with two 12,000 btu stainless steel tubular burners - 862 square inch total cooking area - side mounted charcoal firebox for smoking with cooking grate and removable ash catcher - charcoal grill has a front panel door to access charcoal and an adjustable coal grate - cast iron cooking grates and a porcelain coated steel wire warming grate
air flow is controlled by awkward vents on the firebox, the grill hood, and in the partition separating the gas chamber from the charcoal chamber.
so you can  access the fire while cooking.
the holland grill apex model# bh421ss5 - gas grill review derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches charcoal fire propane tank charcoal grill ash catcher gas smoker single hood explore barbecues & grilling must reads most popular - bbq recipes - best gas grill - barbecue & grilling recipe of the week - best smokers - bbq & grilling faq see more about: - top 10 bbq sauces - top 10 rub recipes - top 10 steak recipes - kansas city rib rub - buy a gas grill
this grill has three distinct chambers, a two burner gas grill,  an equally sized charcoal grill and a side mounted firebox for smoking.
this is a working configuration but, again, the components are not heavy enough to handle very high temperatures.
the instructions say you need a fireproof glove to adjust the vents while cooking.
air flow is controlled by awkward vents on the  firebox, the grill hood, and in the partition separating the gas chamber from  the charcoal chamber.
properly executed this sounds like a reasonable idea and i'm sure many people will buy this grill think this is the answer to all their needs.
for years people have tried to combine the ease of gas with the flavor of charcoal.
sounds like a versatile grill that provides for all your potential needs.
the construction of this grill is lightweight and prone to rusting.
you are asked to oil all parts of the grill and to very carefully maintain it to keep it in working condition.
- about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling barbecues & grilling search free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
the problem is, like most multifunction grills is that it doesn't do any of them well.
while this is good advice for anyone the reason is the  risk of fire and damage to the grill.
this grill has three distinct chambers, a two burner gas grill, an equally sized charcoal grill and a side mounted firebox for smoking.
mounted on the side of the grill is a firebox for you to build your fire  for smoking.
the manual warns against using lighter fluid and instead recommends a charcoal chimney or self lighting charcoal.
- two independent hood mounted thermometers - electric (aa battery) on knob igniters - propane tank and cover sold separately - manufactured in china by brinkmann exclusively for home depot guide review - brinkmann triple function charcoal/gas smoker 810-3830-s this grill has been discontinued.
brinkmann triple function charcoal/gas smoker 810-3830-s brinkmann  corporation the bottom line
on the charcoal grill side you get an adjustable cooking cooking grate so  you can adjust the cooking temperature and a front mounted door
on the gas grill side you get a dual burner cooking chamber that is low on  power (24,000 btus under 341 square inches of cooking area).
by category - gas/charcoal reviews - home depot grills - brinkmann grills - beef - fish and seafood - fruit and vegetables - grilling help - grills - lamb - meals and menus - more recipes - organizations - pork - poultry - sauces & marinades - smokers - smoking help - spices & seasonings barbecues & grilling - about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling - grills - gas/charcoal grills reviews - brinkmann triple function charcoal/gas smoker 810-3830-s (discontinued) - gas/charcoal hybrid grill also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
mounted on the side of the grill is a firebox for you to build your fire for smoking.
you are  asked to oil all parts of the grill and to very carefully maintain it to keep  it in working condition.
on the charcoal grill side you get an adjustable cooking cooking grate so you can adjust the cooking temperature and a front mounted door
# 810-3820-s (discontinued) - ... - kenmore 3-burner charcoal/gas combo grill model# 720-0718 - gas/charcoal gr... - how to buy a charcoal grill - know before you buy or you'll be buying a... - char-broil combination gas/charcoal grill model# 463724511 - gas/charcoal r... -
the two burner gas  grill is limited in power and the air flow for smoking won't give you the kind  of temperature control you need.
so you can access the fire while cooking.
manufacturer's site user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks related articles - top 10 charcoal grills - top 10 gas grills between $250 and $500 - grills, barbecues & smokers 2011 - gas/charcoal grill reviews - brinkmann gas grill reviews - brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill model
this allows the charcoal grill space to be turned into your smoking chamber.
a part of the new york times company.
while this is good advice for anyone the reason is the risk of fire and damage to the grill.
sounds like a versatile  grill that provides for all your potential needs.
properly executed this sounds like a reasonable idea and i'm sure many people  will buy this grill think this is the answer to all their needs.
the instructions say you need a fireproof glove to adjust  the vents while cooking.
for years people have tried to combine the ease of  gas with the flavor of charcoal.
the burners are  low quality stainless steel and the internal components are prone to rusting  (as is much of this unit).
sometimes it's a grill that converts from one  to the other.
the problem  is, this grill doesn't do a good job of any of these tasks.
sometimes it's a grill that converts from one to the other.
the brinkmann triple function grill will let you smoke ribs while you throw steaks on a charcoal fire and burgers over gas burners.
manufacturer's site pros charcoal and gas grill and smoker three independent cooking zones bare cast iron cooking grates single hood for two cooking chambers brinkmann support one 341 square inch charcoal cooking chamber one 341 square inch gas cooking chamber with two 12,000 btu stainless  steel tubular burners 862 square inch total cooking area side mounted charcoal firebox for smoking with cooking grate and removable  ash catcher charcoal grill has a front panel door to access charcoal and an adjustable  coal grate cast iron cooking grates and a porcelain coated steel wire warming grate two independent hood mounted thermometers electric (aa battery) on knob igniters propane tank and cover sold separately manufactured in china by brinkmann exclusively for home depot guide review - brinkmann triple function charcoal/gas smoker 810-3830-s
the manual  warns against using lighter fluid and instead recommends a charcoal chimney or  self lighting charcoal.
by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: - gas/charcoal reviews - home depot grills - brinkmann grills brinkmann triple function charcoal/gas smoker 810-3830-s brinkmann corporation the bottom line
this allows the charcoal grill space to be turned into your  smoking chamber.
there is a cooking grate in the fire box so you can grill over  charcoal while smoking, but when you lift the firebox lid you will loose smoke  and heat in the smoking chamber.
the problem is, this grill doesn't do a good job of any of these tasks.
this grill has been discontinued.
manufacturer's site user reviews write  a review be the first to write a review related guide picks top 10 gas grills between $250 and $500 grills, barbecues & smokers 2011
the burners are low quality stainless steel and the internal components are prone to rusting (as is much of this unit).
there is no similar product.
on the gas grill side you get a dual burner cooking chamber that is low on power (24,000 btus under 341 square inches of cooking area).
this is a working configuration but, again, the  components are not heavy enough to handle very high temperatures.
the problem is, like most  multifunction grills is that it doesn't do any of them well.
there is a cooking grate in the fire box so you can grill over charcoal while smoking, but when you lift the firebox lid you will loose smoke and heat in the smoking chamber.