the question you have to ask yourself is, do you really want two grills bolted together?
the char-griller duo is a combination of theirchar-griller grillin pro gas grill and a smaller version of their popular charcoal grills.
sign up - barbecues & grilling - grills/smokers - grilling - barbecue/smoking discuss in my forum char-griller duo gas/charcoal grill model #5050 about.com rating 3.5 star rating user rating 3 star rating (11 reviews) write a review
if you spend the extra money of the offset firebox you can use this unit as a smoker as well.
imagine it something really important was  missing!
other than this, it is a typical low cost gas grill.
was this review helpful to you?
a part of the new york times company.
of course with more parts you have more  to go wrong with it and since the gas grill side relies on some lightweight  components you might end up with a working charcoal grill attached to a failed  gas grill.
pros - inexpensive gas/charcoal combo - can be used as a smoker if you buy the optional side smoker box cons - lower quality gas grill components - lightweight construction description - one 438 square inch charcoal cooking chamber - one 438 square inch 3-burner, 40,800 btu maximum output gas cooking chamber - 1260 square inches of total grilling space - 12,000 btu brass capped side burner under a flush mounted lid - aa battery electronic igniters - porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates - barrel shaped thermal painted steel body and lid - hood mounted thermometers on each cooking chamber - propane tank and cover sold separately - made in china by char-griller (a&j mfg) and sold through several retailers guide review - char-griller duo gas/charcoal grill model #5050
user reviews 3 out of 5 bad  customer service,
beware of this company!
no see all 11 reviews related guide picks - top 10 charcoal grills - top 10 gas grills between $250 and $500 - grills, barbecues & smokers 2011 - gas/charcoal grill reviews similar products related articles - char-broil combination gas/charcoal grill model# 463724511 - brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill model# 810-3821-s - nexgrill 3-burner charcoal/gas combo grill model# 720-0718 - char-griller grillin pro gas grill model #3001 - char-griller outlaw charcoal grill/smoker - brinkmann dual zone charcoal gas grill model # 810-3820-s (discontinued) - ... - equipment - barbecue and grilling equipment - minden master gas grill - gas grill review - weber summit e-470 - gas grill review - weber summit e-670 - gas grill review derrick riches barbecues & grilling guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches char griller duo charcoal grills btu side burner gas charcoal charcoal grilling charcoal grill explore barbecues & grilling must reads most popular - bbq recipes - best gas grill - barbecue & grilling recipe of the week - best smokers - bbq & grilling faq see more about: - top 10 bbq sauces - top 10 rub recipes - kansas city rib rub - top 10 steak recipes - big daddy’s carolina sauce by category - gas/charcoal reviews - char-griller reviews - lowes grills - beef - fish and seafood - fruit and vegetables - grilling help - grills - lamb - meals and menus - more recipes - organizations - pork - poultry - sauces & marinades - smokers - smoking help - spices & seasonings barbecues & grilling - about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling - grills - gas/charcoal grills reviews - char-griller duo gas/charcoal grill model #5050 - charcoal/gas grill review also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
this charcoal/gas combo is exactly what it sounds like, a combination of  char-griller's gas and smallest charcoal grills mounted on a single frame.
this gives you a  3-burner gas grill and a similar sized charcoal grill mounted on a single frame  with a 12,000 btu side burner on the side.
member pndxtr1 after spending hundreds on this ""dual"" monstrosity,  and spending 2 hours assembling it, i find that it is missing a part of the  igniter.
this grill is being dumped on the market by lowes  and others for $225, not the $399 or $499 msrp.
the  char-griller duo is a combination of theirchar-griller grillin pro gas grill  and a smaller version of their popular charcoal grills.
if this works for you then this is a grill to consider at  since it sells at some locations for around $300usd (try lowes home improvement  stores) it won't put you out that much.
the attached side burner is powerful enough to heat a good sized pot though the mounting is a little weak so you can't put a lot of weight on it.
recently they introduced a small 3-burner gas grill.
the gas grill side is a nearly 40,800 btu 3-burner gas grill with medium  weight porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates.
if you add on the optional  offset firebox you can use this charcoal grill as a smoker.
char-griller duo gas/charcoal grill model #5050 char-griller the bottom line char-griller has been making charcoal grills and  smokers for a few years.
while some of these  components are not the best quality they are pretty good for the price.
if you add on the optional offset firebox you can use this charcoal grill as a smoker.
other reviews regarding rust,  dripping, and other issues are reported on other reviews of this grill.
if you spend the extra money of the  offset firebox you can use this unit as a smoker as well.
of course with more parts you have more to go wrong with it and since the gas grill side relies on some lightweight components you might end up with a working charcoal grill attached to a failed gas grill.
if you must have this grill, shop around!
other than  this, it is a typical low cost gas grill.
other reviews regarding rust, dripping, and other issues are reported on other reviews of this grill.
numerous calls to their ""customer service"" dept.  and their corporate office yielded nothing more than uncaring people who found  a need to explain their idiotic procedure that requires a week to send out a  one-ounce part costing 50 cents.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
- about.com - food & drink - barbecues & grilling barbecues & grilling search free barbecues & grilling newsletter!
typically selling for $300 to $400usd this isn't an expensive combination unit and with over 1200 square inches of cooking space it is a very large grill, though you probably will only use one side at a time.
if this works for you then this is a grill to consider at since it sells at some locations for around $300usd (try lowes home improvement stores) it won't put you out that much.
user reviews 3 out of 5 bad customer service, member pndxtr1 after spending hundreds on this ""dual"" monstrosity, and spending 2 hours assembling it, i find that it is missing a part of the igniter.
write a review 1 out of 1 people found this helpful.
the question you have to ask yourself is, do you really want two grills  bolted together?
the  cast iron cooking grates are good for heat transfer and the dual layer bottom  holds in the heat and protects the painted finish.
if you must  have this grill, shop around!
on the charcoal side you get a typical barrel shaped charcoal grill.
i probably won't purchase one of their items  again, after this frustrating customer service experience.
if  you are in the market for both gas and charcoal grilling (or you can't decide  which way to go) this is a unit to take a look at.
the  attached side burner is powerful enough to heat a good sized pot though the  mounting is a little weak so you can't put a lot of weight on it.
by derrick riches, about.com guide see more about: - gas/charcoal reviews - char-griller reviews - lowes grills char-griller duo gas/charcoal grill model #5050 char-griller the bottom line char-griller has been making charcoal grills and smokers for a few years.
while relatively small this charcoal grill gives you enough room for many grilling tasks, but is limited in indirect grilling space.
this gives you a 3-burner gas grill and a similar sized charcoal grill mounted on a single frame with a 12,000 btu side burner on the side.
if you are in the market for both gas and charcoal grilling (or you can't decide which way to go) this is a unit to take a look at.
this grill is being dumped on the market by lowes and others for $225, not the $399 or $499 msrp.
pros can be used as a smoker if you buy the optional side smoker box cons lower quality gas grill components lightweight construction one 438 square inch charcoal cooking chamber one 438 square inch 3-burner, 40,800 btu maximum output gas cooking chamber 1260 square inches of total grilling space 12,000 btu brass capped side burner under a flush mounted lid aa battery electronic igniters porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates barrel shaped thermal painted steel body and lid hood mounted thermometers on each cooking chamber propane tank and cover sold separately made in china by char-griller (a&j mfg) and sold through several  retailers guide review - char-griller duo gas/charcoal grill model #5050
no see all 11 reviews
the gas grill side is a nearly 40,800 btu 3-burner gas grill with medium weight porcelain coated cast iron cooking grates.
typically selling for $300  to $400usd this isn't an expensive combination unit and with over 1200 square  inches of cooking space it is a very large grill, though you probably will only  use one side at a time.
this charcoal/gas combo is exactly what it sounds like, a combination of char-griller's gas and smallest charcoal grills mounted on a single frame.
imagine it something really important was missing!
i probably won't purchase one of their items again, after this frustrating customer service experience.
the btu  output is a little low for the size, but the barrel shape and thicker steel  body holds in heat well enough to give you some good grilling power.
the btu output is a little low for the size, but the barrel shape and thicker steel body holds in heat well enough to give you some good grilling power.
numerous calls to their ""customer service"" dept. and their corporate office yielded nothing more than uncaring people who found a need to explain their idiotic procedure that requires a week to send out a one-ounce part costing 50 cents.
while some of these components are not the best quality they are pretty good for the price.
while relatively  small this charcoal grill gives you enough room for many grilling tasks, but is  limited in indirect grilling space.
the cast iron cooking grates are good for heat transfer and the dual layer bottom holds in the heat and protects the painted finish.