our preference is to select a smaller diameter yet thicker  (at least 20mm) piece of meat.
so,  don't go out and blow a bundle.
the instructions in your user's manual.
these are the type of steaks seen in favourite steak houses.
make sure you get a grill capable of generating at least 35,000 btu's.
so, don't go out and blow a bundle.
it should flake  easily.
chicken pieces: use a medium/hot fire.
if you cannot generate enough heat, you will be sorely disappointed in the performance.
in between size of meats, such as whole turkey breasts and chicken  quarters, then perhaps try it both ways and see what works best for you.
additionally, they come in several different types of materials.
don't forget to enjoy the process, have fun and if things  don't turnout just right, consider it a learning experience and keep on trying.
steaks: use a hot fire!
beverages are an important part of any cookout . . .
gas, unlike charcoal and wood derives its source from propane, butane or natural gas.
cook similar to chicken.
4) press the  auto light button if your grill has one.
the required temperature of the grill will vary depending upon the selection of food.
for the most part, there are only two basic styles.
www.britishbarbecue.co.uk we suggest each beginner get the grilling aspects down pat before proceeding to barbecuing.
construction: gas grills come in many different sizes and shapes.
the reason is  that to cook barbecue, one needs to use charcoal/wood coals cooking over long  periods of time (6 to 12 or more hours) in dry heat.
so make sure the favourites are within reach at all times.
always use the bi-therm instant read thermometer to determine when the  meat has reached the desired doneness.
once the burner has been lit, then turn on the other  one or two burners.
first, since many grills will not allow you to turn down the flame any lower, try to turn down the amount of gas on the propane tank itself.
cook similar to  chicken.
performance: this is sort of a "catch all" category.
the temperature of a steak before cooking may vary somewhat.
for the most part, when the lid is closed, then you are going to be cooking a little faster than with the lid open.
we hope the forgoing sets each person on the correct path to creating  great outdoor events.
for the purposes of this presentation, we will  treat all as simply "gas".
the primary choices should centre around size, construction and performance.
for information on advertising please contact  sales@britishbarbecue.co.uk
remember you are just beginning you don't need anything real fancy.
here are  some rough ideas for your use: fish: use a medium fire.
if that is not available, throw a match in near the burners.
if for some reason a thinner steak is being used (12mm), cool the steak down to where it is firm, but not frozen solid.
it is easier to get the head down instead of simply wishing that you could increase the heat.
on the ceramic grates,  follow manufactures' recommendations.
first, simply take a steel wire brush and vigorously brush/scrape all of the cooked on food off the surface.
this offers the ability to move in under the shed  from the weather, be it pouring rain or blistering heat.
if you do not have such recommendations,  then use a damp cloth and wipe them down clean.
if for some reason a thinner steak is being  used (12mm), cool the steak down to where it is firm, but not frozen solid.
the actual cooking on a gas grill is not that much different than with a  charcoal grill with one exception.
"what" is to be cooked is not nearly as important as is  "how" it is cooked.
the reason we want the grill lid to remain open is due to the simple fact that if there is a ton of gas in an enclosed chamber and you place a match in it, the we have to go find another reader.
plan your meals - decide at least several hours ahead of time what the menu will consist of.
(remember to hold the  lid open if necessary to adjust the heat levels.
then use a paper towel to remove any loose material.
if the fire is hot enough, the chicken will seize the cooking grate at first and then release when it is ready to turn.
if  not, then use a long match from the top.
if there are holes in the bottom of  your unit, then you can stick a match near the burner from that position.
4) press the auto light button if your grill has one.
there are two ways to do this.
place the seasoned chicken on the grill and  allow to brown on the first side and then the other.
you can then simply brush the food off easily.
we hope the forgoing sets each person on the correct path to creating great outdoor events.
if the meat it thicker, like a brisket whole chicken or even a pork  shoulder, then the best way would be with the lid closed.
gas grilling for beginners we suggest each beginner get the grilling aspects down pat before
this offers the ability to move in under the shed from the weather, be it pouring rain or blistering heat.
well the answer depends upon what you are cooking.
the required temperature of the grill will vary depending upon the  selection of food.
this allows for proper charring of the outside  of the meat, but still retain a juicy interior.
if you choose a grill that is convenient just for you and your significant other, then what are you going to do when i come over and want to eat too?
therefore care needs to be taken to prevent over cooking and cooking too rapidly, therefore our recommendation for mostly open lid cooking.
use the "hand" method discussed above in lesson number 3 - if a thermometer is not available.
you should be able to get it quite low.
once the burner has been lit, then turn on the other one or two burners.
our experience indicates that most users of gas grills have a tendency to have the lid closed when cooking.
simply turn on the gas near the bottle, raise the lid, turn on the gas valve on the grill and light the match!
and they simply stand there turning the meat as it cooks and letting both sides experience the flame.
the best idea we have seen are thick full deflecting shields which cover the entire flame (not just a portion which can find the flame) and are thick enough to radiate some good even heat.
this allows the meat to be grilled on each side the exact amount of time you desire and will keep the meat from being cooked too fast with temperatures that are too hot.
except with the possibility  of delicate meats such as fish, we recommend keeping the lid open.
pork and lamb chops should be close to room temperature or a little cooler before cooking.
for more information on cooking the perfect steak, please see "a steak on every grill".
we will let you determine which recipes  seem appealing and we'll show you how to cook it!
if not, then cook on.
proceeding to barbecuing.
it is easier to get  the head down instead of simply wishing that you could increase the heat.
look  for a grill offering at least dual (2) separate burners.
all right now, let's address the people who like to "light and  run".
we'll talk about that  a little later in our "techniques" area.
fish should be close to room temperature before cooking.
here are some rough ideas for your use: fish: use a medium fire.
not only do you want to eat quickly by grilling, but you are also in a hurry and don't want to waste any time waiting for the coals to get ready.
one, they prevent fat from the meat reaching the flames  which in turn create infernos inside you pit, and two, the offer a radiating of  heat which helps cook more evenly.
obviously, gas grills will not work in this manner.
you can then take a wire  brush and brush the steel grates so that they are clean.
in between size of meats, such as whole turkey breasts and chicken quarters, then perhaps try it both ways and see what works best for you.
cleaning the grill to clean a gas grill, simply turn the burners on high and allow them to burn the excess grease and food from the grates.
as we move along our journey to getting started using a gas grill, you will notice that we never refer to cooking barbecue on a gas grill.
well, we're not sure that is the best way to grill foods.
if the meat it thicker, like a brisket whole chicken or even a pork shoulder, then the best way would be with the lid closed.
a closed lid retains the heat and thus allows higher temperatures to  accumulate.
there may be  some pinkness, but all undesirable are killed at 60c. do not cook over 70c. as  you will then guarantee a dry, tough piece of meat.
now that we have our gas grill selected and lit, we are ready to begin the  process of outdoor cooking.
all right now, let's address the people who like to "light and run".
simply turn on the gas near the bottle, raise the lid, turn on the gas  valve on the grill and light the match!
there may be some pinkness, but all undesirable are killed at 60c. do not cook over 70c. as you will then guarantee a dry, tough piece of meat.
as we move along our journey to getting started using a gas grill, you will  notice that we never refer to cooking barbecue on a gas grill.
chicken should be close to  room temperature before cooking.
the primary choices should  centre around size, construction and performance.
if you choose a  grill that is convenient just for you and your significant other, then what are  you going to do when i come over and want to eat too?
we choose not to discuss the ones constructed out of sheet metal, unless price is more important that longevity.
well, we're not sure that is the best way to  grill foods.
secondly, before you begin to cook the next time, heat the grill to  high temperature to cook the food off.
this www site is constructed, maintained and copyrighted by: oscar enterprises uk.
hint: if it is real  windy, have someone hold up a shield of some kind or move the grill to an area  where it is less windy to keep the wind from blowing out the flame or match.
this will burn off any remaining food and grease accumulations on the  diffusers below.
we separate gas grilling from charcoal because, really, they are two  different animals.
size: choose a grill which is large enough to cook for a relatively nice size party.
always use the bi-therm instant read thermometer to determine when the meat has reached the desired doneness.
this allows for proper charring of the outside of the meat, but still retain a juicy interior.
both will  offer you long life and superior performance.
but the great  majority have the lid open
coat the fish with a light coating of oil and turn often.
you should be able to get it  quite low.
the result will be a charred outside and juicy inside!
also,  we recommend portability.
chicken will be done once it reaches 75c. use the bi-therm instant thermometer to verify it is done.
stainless  steel, solid steel and cast aluminium.
getting there is most of the fun!
both will offer you long life and superior performance.
do the shopping early and have each item planned and set out for easy access.
a closed lid retains the heat and thus allows higher temperatures to accumulate.
this will provide for charring on the outside while the inside is spending most  of the time just thawing.
allow the entire grill to burn for about 5 to 10 minutes on high.
pork and lamb chops should be  close to room temperature or a little cooler before cooking.
make sure you get a grill  capable of generating at least 35,000 btu's.
since you people are in such a hurry, we shall move on along .
these are the type of steaks  seen in favourite steak houses.
don't forget to enjoy the process, have fun and if things don't turnout just right, consider it a learning experience and keep on trying.
remember, you are grilling with hotter temperatures and not barbecuing.
prices will vary  from £150.00 to £800.00 and more.
first, since many  grills will not allow you to turn down the flame any lower, try to turn down  the amount of gas on the propane tank itself.
prices will vary from £150.00 to £800.00 and more.
3) turn on one of the gas burners on the grill.
usually if turned on high, the burners will remove most particles in 5 to 10 minutes.
gas, unlike charcoal and wood derives its source from  propane, butane or natural gas.
so, our objective, as well as our intent, is to teach each  person to cook anything and everything.
first, simply take a steel wire brush and vigorously brush/scrape all of the  cooked on food off the surface.
once the smoke subsides and it appears to be burning smoother and cleaner, then you can turn the burners back down to low and get ready to do some cooking!remember, always keep the lid raised when lighting the grill!
once the smoke subsides and it appears to be burning smoother  and cleaner, then you can turn the burners back down to low and get ready to do  some cooking!remember, always keep the lid raised when lighting the grill!
the rest is window dressing and depending upon the depth of your pocket,  are or are not necessary.
many want to know "do i cook with the lid open or closed?".
do not light or use in an enclosed area!
season the meat and  allow it to sit for at least an hour before cooking begins.
you can then take a wire brush and brush the steel grates so that they are clean.
i believe a good quality grill can be purchased for £150.00 to £200.00 that will last 10 to 15 years with proper maintenance and care.
you be the judge on accessories.
there, you have received the complete  course.
chicken should be close to room temperature before cooking.
fish should be close to room temperature  before cooking.
so, our objective, as well as our intent, is to teach each person to cook anything and everything.
the actual cooking on a gas grill is not that much different than with a charcoal grill with one exception.
for the most  part, there are only two basic styles.
if you do not have such recommendations, then use a damp cloth and wipe them down clean.
hint: if it is real windy, have someone hold up a shield of some kind or move the grill to an area where it is less windy to keep the wind from blowing out the flame or match.
this will burn off any remaining food and grease accumulations on the diffusers below.
chicken will be done once it reaches 75c. use the bi-therm  instant thermometer to verify it is done.
a juicy hamburger is better any day than a char-dead steak!
then use a paper towel to remove any loose  material.
lava rocks, flavoured briquettes, metal deflectors, basically they all serve the same purpose, some better than others.
usually if turned on high, the  burners will remove most particles in 5 to 10 minutes.
for example, fish will need a  medium fire 200c to 210c while a steak will need a hot fire 375c+.
to determine when fish is done, use a  fork and attempt to break it apart in the thickest portion.
now that we have our gas grill selected and lit, we are ready to begin the process of outdoor cooking.
we will let you determine which recipes seem appealing and we'll show you how to cook it!
do the shopping early  and have each item planned and set out for easy access.
i believe a good quality grill  can be purchased for £150.00 to £200.00 that will last 10 to 15  years with proper maintenance and care.
not only do you want to eat quickly by grilling, but you are also in  a hurry and don't want to waste any time waiting for the coals to get ready.
so choose a grill that will handle the action.
remember, fish cooks easily and quickly.
secondly, before you begin to cook the next time, heat the grill to high temperature to cook the food off.
the reason we want the grill lid to  remain open is due to the simple fact that if there is a ton of gas in an  enclosed chamber and you place a match in it, the we have to go find another  reader.
to determine when fish is done, use a fork and attempt to break it apart in the thickest portion.
stainless steel, solid steel and cast aluminium.
and they simply stand there turning the meat as it  cooks and letting both sides experience the flame.
there, you have received the complete course.
for example, fish will need a medium fire 200c to 210c while a steak will need a hot fire 375c+.
besides, a gas grill is  always capable of cooking smaller quantities just nicely.
but, of course, there is more to turning out great food than that.
we say that, because we are simply sticking to the basics here.
as for the grates, again let the grill cool.
simply put, 1) raise the lid of your gas grill.
get ready to fend off the neighbours when the food begins sizzling and smelling up the neighbourhood!
cleaning the grill to clean a gas grill, simply turn the burners on high and allow them to  burn the excess grease and food from the grates.
if that is not available, throw a  match in near the burners.
besides, a gas grill is always capable of cooking smaller quantities just nicely.
for example, how many times have you been to a outdoor fair or even a restaurant and seen the lid closed?
for the purposes of this presentation, we will treat all as simply "gas".
on the ceramic grates, follow manufactures' recommendations.
get ready to fend off the neighbours when the food  begins sizzling and smelling up the neighbourhood!
'cause you aren't going to be around here any more.
once you get the hang of outdoor cooking, you are going to want to invite your friends, and heaven forbid, your relatives over for some great food.
season the meat and allow it to sit for at least an hour before cooking begins.
our preference is to select a smaller diameter yet thicker (at least 20mm) piece of meat.
our experience indicates that most users of gas grills have a tendency to  have the lid closed when cooking.
in contrast to the charcoal grill, a gas grill offers convenience above everything else.
meat, veggies, appetisers and dessert.
a gas grill has the tendency to get too hot.
and follow the instructions in your user's manual.
use the "hand" method discussed above in lesson  number 3 - if a thermometer is not available.
for example, how many times have you been to a outdoor fair or  even a restaurant and seen the lid closed?
both of these materials resist rust, corrosion and general deterioration.
we separate gas grilling from charcoal because, really, they are two different animals.
for the most part, when the lid  is closed, then you are going to be cooking a little faster than with the lid  open.
we say that,  because we are simply sticking to the basics here.
once you get the hang of outdoor cooking, you are going to  want to invite your friends, and heaven forbid, your relatives over for some  great food.
2) turn on the gas at the  propane bottle.
in this  section, we will be discussing the following points: choices of gas grills, basic features, lighting the grill, getting started,  methods of cooking various meats, cleaning the grill.
the temperature of a steak before cooking  may vary somewhat.
also, we recommend portability.
so make sure the favourites are within  reach at all times.
beginners should concentrate on performance over convenience.
do  not light or use in an enclosed area!
this www site is constructed, maintained and copyrighted by:
if this doesn't work, then take a piece of wood or metal and place it between the lid's top and bottom thus forcing the lid to stay open and let some of the excess heat out.
start with something simple.
but the great majority have the lid open
first, forget the fancy options.
2) turn on the gas at the propane bottle.
well  the answer depends upon what you are cooking.
beverages are an  important part of any cookout . . .
the best idea we have seen are thick full  deflecting shields which cover the entire flame (not just a portion which can  find the flame) and are thick enough to radiate some good even heat.
"what" is to be cooked is not nearly as important as is "how" it is cooked.
this allows  the meat to be grilled on each side the exact amount of time you desire and  will keep the meat from being cooked too fast with temperatures that are too  hot.
you can then simply brush the food off  easily.
if there are holes in the bottom of your unit, then you can stick a match near the burner from that position.
we choose not to discuss the ones  constructed out of sheet metal, unless price is more important that longevity.
plan your meals - decide at least several hours ahead of time what the menu  will consist of.
(remember to hold the lid open if necessary to adjust the heat levels.
our first choice is split between stainless steel and cast aluminium.
the rest is window dressing and depending upon the depth of your pocket, are or are not necessary.
except with the possibility of delicate meats such as fish, we recommend keeping the lid open.
one, they prevent fat from the meat reaching the flames which in turn create infernos inside you pit, and two, the offer a radiating of heat which helps cook more evenly.
first, always keep the lid raised when lighting the grill!
for more information on cooking the perfect steak, please see "a  steak on every grill".
a juicy hamburger is better any day than a  char-dead steak!
the result will be a charred outside and juicy  inside!
size: choose a grill which is large enough to cook for a relatively  nice size party.
when i am asked "do i need a window in my gas  grill?", i reply "the meet doesn't need to see out and with all the  smoke, you can't see in!".
therefore care needs to be taken to prevent over cooking and cooking too  rapidly, therefore our recommendation for mostly open lid cooking.
if the fire is hot enough,  the chicken will seize the cooking grate at first and then release when it is  ready to turn.
place the seasoned chicken on the grill and allow to brown on the first side and then the other.
it should flake easily.
we'll talk about that a little later in our "techniques" area.
if you cannot generate enough  heat, you will be sorely disappointed in the performance.
if this doesn't work, then take a piece of wood or metal and place  it between the lid's top and bottom thus forcing the lid to stay open and let  some of the excess heat out.
for information on advertising please contact sales@britishbarbecue.co.uk
to alleviate the problem, you can try two alternatives.
and there are many types of gas grills which to choose from.
pork is done when the internal temperature reaches 65c.
both  of these materials resist rust, corrosion and general deterioration.
allow the entire grill to burn for about 5 to 10 minutes on  high.
in  contrast to the charcoal grill, a gas grill offers convenience above everything  else.
the reason is that to cook barbecue, one needs to use charcoal/wood coals cooking over long periods of time (6 to 12 or more hours) in dry heat.
in this section, we will be discussing the following points: choices of gas grills, basic features, lighting the grill, getting started, methods of cooking various meats, cleaning the grill.
this will provide for charring on the outside while the inside is spending most of the time just thawing.
obviously, gas grills will  not work in this manner.
look for a grill offering at least dual (2) separate burners.
when i am asked "do i need a window in my gas grill?", i reply "the meet doesn't need to see out and with all the smoke, you can't see in!".
oscar  enterprises uk.
pork chops: use a medium/hot fire.
lava rocks, flavoured  briquettes, metal deflectors, basically they all serve the same purpose, some  better than others.
if not, then use a long match from the top.