first it's a matter of choosing the right day.
if you have over catered, simply store the surplus in the fridge or freezer for another time or cook it all up, barbecued food is delicious in sandwiches or as light bites, whatever the weather.
you can cook any food on a charcoal barbecue that you would cook on a gas  barbeque and some people prefer the smokier taste that a charcoal barbecue  produces.
no, they are very different types of barbecue and you are likely to damage  the gas burners if you burn charcoal on them.
invite the right group of people and give them plenty of notice to ensure they'll be able to make it.
how does a charcoal barbecue work?
then unscrew the pipe from the canister and remove it from the barbecue.
why use the barbecue lid when cooking?
combine this with a non-abrasive detergent or soap and rinse with water until the grill is free from food debris and grease.
charcoal barbecues work in much the same way as fires do; air is drawn up through the coal which helps to breathe life into the flames.
ensure that the gas is flowing and the regulator is switched to the ‘on'  position, turn up the burner to a low flow of gas and light it using big k's  big matches or an oven lighter.
you can cook any food on a gas barbecue that you would cook on a charcoal barbecue.
take this opportunity to empty the grill pit of ash and debris, this will ensure trouble free fire lighting for your next barbecue party.
they are ready to cook on sooner than charcoal barbecues, and they are cleaner as they do not produce as much soot and smoke.
then it's all about the  catering; the beauty of barbecuing is that you can never have too much food or  drink.
they are ready to  cook on sooner than charcoal barbecues, and they are cleaner as they do not  produce as much soot and smoke.
ensure that the gas is flowing and the regulator is switched to the ‘on' position, turn up the burner to a low flow of gas and light it using big k's big matches or an oven lighter.
leave the grill surface in place whilst you brush it, that way any food debris or grease can be freed from the grill and left to burn away in the grill pit.
ensure that the barbecue flame is extinguished, close the tap on the gas canister and switch the gas regulator to the 'off' position.
there are a number of different types of barbecue available, including  disposable barbecues, traditionalcharcoal barbecues and gas barbecue grills.
this is a sign that your charcoal barbeque is ready to cook on.
what food can i cook on a gas barbecue?
leave the grill surface in  place whilst you brush it, that way any food debris or grease can be freed from  the grill and left to burn away in the grill pit.
which type of bbq is more environmentally friendly, gas or charcoal?
both gas barbecues and charcoal bbqs are environmentally friendly but with a charcoal barbecue, it is important to burn smokeless fuels.
enter your email address here to subscribe to our offer emails charcoal barbecues & gas barbecue grills - faq's here at big k we are often asked which is best; charcoal barbeques or gas  barbecue grills?
closing the lid when cooking on a barbecue will keep the heat in and keep  the barbecue at a constant temperature.
gas barbecues  produce less smoke and soot than charcoal, wood or coal fired barbecues but  there are environmental issues with regard the production and transport of the  gas.
this is a sign that your charcoal  barbeque is ready to cook on.
take this opportunity to empty the grill pit  of ash and debris, this will ensure trouble free fire lighting for your next  barbecue party.
you can then regulate the amount of heat produced using the gas supply regulators.
how do you clean a gas barbecue?
this means that gas barbecues  are ready to cook more quickly.
wait until the gas barbecue has cooled sufficiently to touch it and then  clean the grill using a non-abrasive cleaning material such as a soft sponge or  cloth.
what food can i cook on a charcoal barbecue?
how does a gas barbecue work?
the burners on a gas barbecue are also evenly  spaced giving an all over, even heat.
the burners on a gas barbecue are also evenly spaced giving an all over, even heat.
the best way to clean a charcoal barbeque is to brush the grilling surface down with a wire brush whilst it is still quite hot.
you can then regulate the amount of heat  produced using the gas supply regulators.
charcoal barbecues  work in much the same way as fires do; air is drawn up through the coal which  helps to breathe life into the flames.
charcoal barbecues create a 'smoky'  taste, it is easier to manage the temperature of the coals but you do have to  wait for the coals to heat up until they are ready to cook on.
once alight, spread them evenly across the face of the barbeque so as to produce as even a flame as possible.
gas barbecues produce less smoke and soot than charcoal, wood or coal fired barbecues but there are environmental issues with regard the production and transport of the gas.
when hot enough, the coals will turn white on top whilst glowing red underneath.
gas barbecue grills are easy to light and you can control the heat easily.
first it's a  matter of choosing the right day.
if you have over catered, simply store the surplus in the fridge or  freezer for another time or cook it all up, barbecued food is delicious in  sandwiches or as light bites, whatever the weather.
planning a great barbecue or garden party can be lots of fun.
charcoal barbecues burn charcoal to generate their heat.
then, when the barbecue grill surface has completely cooled, remove it to the sink and wash it down with a cloth and soapy water, then rinse.
this means that gas barbecues are ready to cook more quickly.
can i use charcoal in my gas barbecue?
use big k's big matches or big k's firelighters and kindling to get the charcoal briquettes burning.
you can cook any food on a charcoal barbecue that you would cook on a gas barbeque and some people prefer the smokier taste that a charcoal barbecue produces.
the best way to clean a charcoal barbeque is to brush the grilling surface  down with a wire brush whilst it is still quite hot.
use big k's big matches or big k's firelighters and kindling to get the  charcoal briquettes burning.
then, when the barbecue grill  surface has completely cooled, remove it to the sink and wash it down with a  cloth and soapy water, then rinse.
gas barbecues burn gas from a gas cylinder.
how do i light a gas barbecue?
what are the different types of barbecue?
e.g.'n17 9qu' enter your email address here to subscribe to our offer emails here at big k we are often asked which is best; charcoal barbeques or gas barbecue grills?
how do i plan a great barbecue party?
there are a number of different types of barbecue available, including disposable barbecues, traditionalcharcoal barbecues and gas barbecue grills.
lighting a gas barbecue is as simple as lighting a gas hob in the kitchen.
we have produced the following faq section to help you make your own mind up, as to which type of barbecue is best suited to you.
wait until the gas barbecue has cooled sufficiently to touch it and then clean the grill using a non-abrasive cleaning material such as a soft sponge or cloth.
we have produced the following faq section to help you make  your own mind up, as to which type of barbecue is best suited to you.
the weather plays an important role in the  success and enjoyment of a barbeque party so try to choose a day which is  likely to be warm and sunny.
invite the right group of people and give them  plenty of notice to ensure they'll be able to make it.
disposable barbecues are easy to use, highly portable and cheap, but they are only for single use and you have very little control over the cooking temperature.
combine this with a non-abrasive detergent or soap and rinse with water  until the grill is free from food debris and grease.
each has its own advantages.
charcoal barbecues create a 'smoky' taste, it is easier to manage the temperature of the coals but you do have to wait for the coals to heat up until they are ready to cook on.
a gas barbecue can also be extinguished immediately by turning off the gas supply and stopping the flow of gas to the burners.
gas barbecue  grills are easy to light and you can control the heat easily.
how do i light a charcoal barbecue?
disposable barbecues are easy to use, highly  portable and cheap, but they are only for single use and you have very little  control over the cooking temperature.
please enter your full postcode to check if we deliver to your area.
how do i clean a charcoal barbecue?
both gas barbecues and charcoal bbqs are environmentally friendly but with  a charcoal barbecue, it is important to burn smokeless fuels.
a gas barbecue can also be extinguished  immediately by turning off the gas supply and stopping the flow of gas to the  burners.
the weather plays an important role in the success and enjoyment of a barbeque party so try to choose a day which is likely to be warm and sunny.
then it's all about the catering; the beauty of barbecuing is that you can never have too much food or drink.
this will ensure the food is cooked thoroughly and evenly.
then unscrew the  pipe from the canister and remove it from the barbecue.
this will ensure the food is cooked  thoroughly and evenly.
when hot enough, the coals will turn  white on top whilst glowing red underneath.
how do i disconnect a gas canister from a barbecue?
ensure that the barbecue flame is extinguished, close the tap on the gas  canister and switch the gas regulator to the 'off' position.
closing the lid when cooking on a barbecue will keep the heat in and keep the barbecue at a constant temperature.
once alight, spread them evenly across the face of  the barbeque so as to produce as even a flame as possible.
you can cook any food on a gas barbecue that you would cook on a charcoal  barbecue.
no, they are very different types of barbecue and you are likely to damage the gas burners if you burn charcoal on them.