leica earned this reputation by taking a lead in all areas of lens creation back in the 1950’s and never relinquishing that lead over the decades.
with fewer elements and fewer glass  surfaces these lenses are much more flare resistant.
(the m8 begs to  shoot inraw only.)
the photographs that result have a much more sophisticated edginess about them that translates into more visual excitement.
considering all that java.
the first thing  you’ll notice about the kodak 10.3mp sensor is how much dynamic range it  has.
leica chose to go only with an infra-red  blocking filter in front of their m sensor and the results can be wonderful.
while high speed glass with sharp maximum apertures provides a look and feel to images that can rarely be equaled by competitors, there are many situations in which high performance at large apertures is not necessary.
anything wider than the 21mm would require a separate viewfinder.
but the m8 was revealed just two years ago.
the first thing you’ll notice about the kodak 10.3mp sensor is how much dynamic range it has.
nice to read an article from a shooters point of view.
the marketing people were looking for a very unobstrusive approach defined by using only natural light.
i was able to shoot the d700 at 3200 iso with files that were similar in quality to leica m8 files shot at 1200iso.
torben daltoft , october 23, 2008; 12:39 a.m.
they also made incredible lenses to go with their camera bodies.
i will be buying an m8 over the next week or so to take advantage of the new $1500 rebate from leica.
if we never compare the zoom lenses to anything else we generally find the  performance convincing (or like so many aspects of digital images, we find it  to be “good enough”).
the differences between traditional slr's and the leica m cameras is fleshed out in a little more detail.
in my nikon system  there is an inertia toward using zoom lenses.
i shot one test of a model using the leica 50mm at f/5.6 and the new, nikon  60mmafs micro at f/5.6 and they were very close.
i was making photographs of doctors interacting with their  patients and with nurses interacting with chemotherapy patients.
big thumbs up for design and the integration of new digital components into a trusted body style.
over the last year they have introduced four new lenses for the m cameras.
i love photographing with this camera.
it would make the process of buying cameras so much easier.
very neutral and believable images from raw files.
the m8 does a small handful of things really well.
in a bare bones summary it is a digital version of the leica m7 rangefinder camera with a few added attractions.
but i wonder if the performance of all digital cameras wouldn't be improved with this method under incandescent light?
leica 50mm f/2.5 summarit-m, (compare prices) leica 75mm f/2.5 summarit-m, (compare prices) leica 90mm f/2.5 summarit-m, (compare prices)
i don't have a clue what other photographers will think, but me personally i'd read any article with such a pretty model :) john lambert , october 22, 2008;
does it translate  at all in the finished images?
the results have been interesting,  frustrating, fascinating and amazing.
i can see these effects when i compare a lens like thenikon 50mm f/1.8d
leica m8, (compare prices) (review) leica 35mm f/2.5 summarit-m, (compare prices)
series 1: example images showing the different focal lengths on the same  scene.
by contrast, the leica is a 2.5-inch screen with fewer  than 300,000 pixels of resolution.
the camera had the latest firmware and frame lines.
the m8, like all the ms except the horrible m-5, immediately find "home" in your hand and are a joy to use.
the kodak ccd’s pixels measure 6.8  microns and are not in the same league for low noise as the latest generation cmos chips used in the nikons and canons.
in my opinion, the 35mm summarit is slightly superior to  the 35mm summicron, but it does give up nearly 2/3rds of a stop.
the detail in the leica files was marginally better.
one of the advantages of prime lenses is their much simpler construction.
jon butterwick , october 28, 2008; 06:05 p.m. i can't second the comments about the d700 3200 and the m8 1250.
i quickly fashioned a makeshift blimp out of some zing  neoprene pouches and gaffers tape
nikon started the ball rolling in 1959 with the well received nikon f. pentax added a system that allowed metering through the lens for greater exposure accuracy.
absolutely no magenta or fringing.
i was making photographs of doctors interacting with their patients and with nurses interacting with chemotherapy patients.
i quickly fashioned a makeshift blimp out of some zing neoprene pouches and gaffers tape
thanks, paul kirk tuck , november 28, 2008; 11:56 p.m. i played with an 8.2 and fell in love with it.
all four of the summarit lenses share the same neutral color and contrast characteristics.
he has two more books in production and has recently turned his attention to writing about medium format digital cameras.
this is exactly why i find a full frame slr and prime lenses a sounder proposition.
the bottom of the camera must be removed in order to change the battery or  swap out the sd memory card.
for years, leica enthusiasts have hammered away at leica trying to  convince them to make a line of more modestly specified lenses at a much lower  cost.
the m8 lacks a frame showing the 21mm's field of view, and it's more than the m8's entire viewfinder shows.
kirk tuck leica 35mm f/2.5 summarit-m (review), iso 160 kirk tuck leica 50mm f/2.5 summarit-m (review), iso 160 kirk tuck leica 75mm f/2.5 summarit-m (review), iso 160 kirk tuck leica 90mm f/2.5 summarit-m (review), iso 160 my favorite two new lenses.
if you have the extra cash and you are the kind of photographer who loves  street photography and documentary styles of photography, this is a must have  camera system.
and, yes, a very lovely model!
one thing about leica m lenses is the relaxed life they have relative to slr's opening and closing diaphragms on each shot.
75mm summarit-m. (starbucks) when kodak designed this sensor chip for leica they had to take into  consideration just how close the back of a leica wide angle lens could sit in  relationship to the sensor.
the leica m8 kirk tuck they took the time-proven m series camera body and redesigned the guts to  bring us a unique digital photographic tool.
some of what i see as noise in the m8 is a result of a less deep black than that produced by the nikon d700 and d3.
when i say they are sharp i mean that even my best and latest nikkors can’t compare.
the m8 is a really mature shooter’s camera, especially at the wide end.
on a more prosaic note, the low profile and low noise attributes of the leica helped the doctors and patients ignore my presence to a much greater extent than the noise and profile of a d700 with its loud, clacking mirror.
except for the angle of coverage you would be hard pressed to believe that you were seeing images from four different lenses!
the construction is flawless and each lens has a heft that belies its size.
the kodak ccd’s pixels measure 6.8 microns and are not in the same league for low noise as the latest generation cmos chips used in the nikons and canons.
working the sports photographer's angle latest equipment articles olympus om-d e-m5 announcement and preview olympus today announced a new micro four thirds body, the e-m5.
and i was trying to be as discrete as possible.
nikon started the ball rolling in 1959 with the  well received nikon f. pentax added a system that allowed metering through the  lens for greater exposure accuracy.
it’s frustrating to note just how much better the leica could be.
nate johnson , december 16, 2008; 09:52
but many people did write to say that the effects of the leica glass were “special”, “had a three dimensional quality”, “added a special feel”, etc.
p.m. very well and honestly written.
the leica m9 (i've only played with one, i didn't get on a list early enough!!!)
kirk tuck , november 01, 2008; 12:56 p.m. one of the features i like best about the m8.2 is that the shutter charge can be delayed (and is less noisy) than the original m8.
by better photo i mean  a photo that is seen and captured with less space between intention and  reality.
as i mentioned earlier in the article, i felt like i was able to pick up two stops of “vibration reduction” because the m camera had less vibration during its operation.
as a long time user of leica lenses i am really positive that with an m6 this 75 is not of the same league as the 35, 50, summicrons or 28 90 elmarits that i used a lot, sharpness was not as good, full stop!
more » text ©2008 kirk tuck.
in 1954, at photokina, leica introduced a new style of rangefinder  camera based on a new lens mount that has lived on relatively unchanged for  over 58 years.
also, auto wb is pretty bad, as you point out.
a camera body honed to ergonomic perfection lenses that set a standard for sharpness and contrast.
it was always easier to focus fast, wide  angle lenses with the m cameras and few machines beat them when it comes to  quiet and unobtrusive operation.
(i've owned every m-model over the last 45 years, so i guess i just have to keep up my record.
i think that over the span of two years the team at leica have been hellbent on fixing as many of the design flaws as possible in each successive run of cameras.
i have used most of the 50's for nikon and leica.
they just don't embed exif data in the image files.
granted, most photographers don’t work with the highest level of technique that would make the differences between brands of lenses immediately apparent (tripod mounting, exact exposures, critical focusing, etc.)
tweet you’ve probably heard all kinds of opinions about the leica m8  digital camera but most of them were likely based on conjecture, and on the  widely circulated stories about the tendency of the camera’s sensor to  turn certain polyester products purple when photographed in bright light.
50mm summarit-m i shot with the lenses for a month in the bright texas sun and never saw  even the slightest hint of flare.
it is also much smaller and lighter  than other professional camera and lens combinations.
when we switch over to theraw arena things even out nicely.
when they finish getting all the little “gotchas” right it will be a formidable image maker.
and when i did my post processing it was easier to make a neutral and  pleasing image from the leica!
many people use dslrs like mini view cameras, checking every change of exposure, composition or menu parameter between every shot.
if i owned one i would probably spot weld the 35mm to the mount.
the only way the m8 can shoot 1250 clean like the d700 (at 3200) is during daylight or failing light.
of course, we weren’t comparing apples to apples as the leica had the advantage of drawing on a sensor that didn’t have an anti-aliasing filter dumbing down the detail.
(you’ll either be shootingraw or you can  set a custom white balance with relative ease, so this one is not a deal  breaker.)
but now we have cameras  like the nikon d3 and d700 and the canon 5d to compare it to.
will these pre 6 bit lenses work on the m8?
the 35 and the 50 are both very reminiscent of  leica lenses in the same range, designed in the 1970’s and 1980’s.
their emphasis is on high apparent sharpness and great rendering of micro fine detail.
i  would also miss the close focusing of my macro lenses and the tight flash  control of the nikon ittl system.
powerful differentiators in what is otherwise a very homogeneous marketplace.
i shot personal pics of the christmas revels stage production with the m8 and 35 f/2 asph, 50mm f/1.4, and 90mm f/2.8 tele-elmarit.
in fact, the complexity of a lens design generally is thought to increase by a factor of four for a one stop speed increase.finger grip on the summarit-m 35mm part of the increase in complexity and cost in lens design is the need for extremely high manufacturing tolerances as the diameter of lens elements increases.
the marketing  people were looking for a very unobstrusive approach defined by using only  natural light.
this  capturing technique, similar to the way we used to handle color negative film,  also yields much cleaner shadow detail because it is captured much further up  the curve where there are many more steps of shadow information.
kirk tuck started his photography career after teaching as a specialist lecturer in the university of texas at austin college of fine arts.
had i been shooting with the m8 i doubt the ceo’s bat-like ears would have even registered the sound!
while current competitors talk about shutters constructed to go up to  150,000 or 250,000 exposures before failure, stories are legions of leica m  shutters going strong at a million or more actuations!
granted, most photographers don’t work with the highest level of  technique that would make the differences between brands of lenses immediately  apparent (tripod mounting, exact exposures, critical focusing, etc.)
since leica lenses don’t have to be designed  to compensate for the space required for a moving mirror they could optimize  their designs and have the back of the lenses close to the film plane.
about the point of the hand held photography i think though that 1/45 isn't that much of a big deal as 1/30 is no problem with the nikons at all (it helps that they are very, very heavy) and you can do 1/15 most of the time.
even so, the entire quartet of lenses and an m8 body together will tip the scales at only around 2.5 kilograms!
for me, on a 13x19 inch print the noise from the cameras seems to be how i described it.
if you try to make do with any of the  compact point-and-shoots on the market, you will inevitably be disappointed.
while i would have to step outside the summarit family to put together a  totally useful kit i would have the satisfaction of saving over $2,000 on two  of the lenses!
as usual, the m8 viewfinder has the marvelous quality of showing the area outside of the chosen frame.
very large quality prints are routine with both.
during this transitional period in photography i found myself  constantly pining for a leica “version” of digital.
in the new m8 leica switched to a metal  and carbon fiber composite focal plane shutter offering the same high  reliability but giving users a top shutter speed of 1/8000th of a second (the  previous shutter topped out at 1/1000th of a second) and a flash  synchronization speed of 1/250th of a second, which is very competitive.
this is a design that they got “just right” over fifty years ago.
if you have the extra cash and you are the kind of photographer who loves street photography and documentary styles of photography, this is a must have camera system.
my statement was that the implementation of the sensor would have been state of the art five years ago.
i am mostly going to be shooting asa 400 and in raw if i get a m8.
i love the feel and the ergonomics of the bodies and i’m very comfortable with rangefinder focusing.
and i still have an m-7 and, of course, all the modern versions of standard leica lenses from 21 through 135 (except the summarits which attracted me to this article.)
all of the highlight detail was easily captured when converting the industry standard .dng files in adobe camera raw.
the m8 is a really mature shooter’s camera, especially at the  wide end.
i used the leica m8 with the  35mm, 50mm and the 75mm summarits and i used the nikon d700 with several primes  including the 28/2.0, the eight element 35/2.0, the 50/1.2 and the 85/1.4.
if you are willing to put up with film you can save a bundle by  choosing a good, used m6 leica instead.
mark bohrer , january 22, 2009; 11:02 p.m. kirk: you're probably right.
but it is still quite low when compared to the obtrusively dynamic shutter noises that thunder out of my d700 body—and there is no mirror slap to add to the sound.
kirk jorge diaz , october 22, 2008; 12:39 p.m. excellent review.
it is the first in what olympus is calling it's om-d line of micro four thirds bodies.
no mods needed, just replace your leica ir cut filter with an actual ir filter (like the leica ir or a very deep red or opaque filter).
cpeter jørgensen , october 26, 2008; 12:54 a.m.
he is also a master swimmer in austin, texas.
where to buy if you’re anxious to get your own leica set for hands-on experiments  while you read this review, photo.net’s partners have the leica m8 and  summarit-m lenses available.
i'm also starting to prefer m8 and leica primes to the 24-70mm f/2.8l on my eos 1d mk ii.
a child's first year leica m8 and summarit-m lenses review a working photographer's review by kirk tuck, september 2008 (updated  february 2011)
it's  a six-car pileup at the intersection of art and commerce and the amount of  opinion and hyperbole that is somehow labeled as... dslrs in the movies: 'hellbent' the ten best action films of 2011 understanding dpi: the solution to resolution ready, set, go:
nice model and nice treatment, especially using low iso to force wider apertures and bring out the lens qualities.
it happened on the same week that i took  possession of my first nikon d700.
my m8 goes with me everywhere.
christopher moss , october 22, 2008; 08:40
last january, i photographed a corporate meeting, at the breakers hotel in  west palm beach, with 80 top executives from a very large company.
while leica’s lenses are traditionally three, four or five times as expensive as lenses from their competitors, generations of working photographers (and very discerning amateurs) have not hesitated to buy them, knowing that the unique characteristics of these optics can be
gautam biswas , december 02, 2009; 03:28 a.m. great review.
leica also took a good, hard look at the prevailing practice of putting  “anti-aliasing” filters in front of camera sensors to reduce or  illuminate moire patterns in the final files.
rangefinder cameras were  the gold standard because they offered very bright viewfinders and very  accurate focusing for wide angle to moderate telephoto lenses.
i might have missed this in your article, but can one use the older m lenses that are not cpu or 6 bit coded?
photo tags equipment store home > equipment > leica m8 and summarit-m lenses review read a complete review of the latest version of lightroom: lightroom 3.
the current nikon d700 is a wonderful camera which produces remarkably good files.
in fact, since there is no mirror to release the triggering of the shutter is almost instantaneous.
it would have been interesting, but outside the scope of my capabilities, to adapt the lenses so that they worked on each company’s camera bodies for the sake of comparison.
the best compliment i can give to this family of lenses is that in most  cases, they are as good as their much more expensive summicron and summilux  brothers and sisters.
while moire patterns do show up from time to time, these cameras have the appearance of producing image files with much greater amounts of fine and micro fine detail which, in turn, allows for greater enlarge-ability and a greater overall perception of quality.
nuno borges , november 19, 2008; 03:53
i see the differences between the two when i look at the files on my monitor but the disconnection for me is how close many cameras with disparate noise signatures look when i print them.
that is the way they will be used.
which camera creates a better photo?
the leica m8 has maintained its  (admittedly niche) relevance in spite of its less than cutting edge technology.
it is amazing to consider how far digital photography has come in such a  short time and how nice the files look.
benjamin tuck @ asti trattoria, 35mm  summarit-m when i sat down to edit the images in photoshop cs3, i noticed that the  nikon files were a bit cleaner where noise was concerned but that the color was  more neutral with the leica camera.
film doesn’t care about the angle that like strikes.
two years ago he started writing books about photography for amherst media.
the leica/kodak sensor is not a low noise champion.
the m introduced a new lens mount that allowed photographers to change out lenses very quickly, with less than a quarter rotation of the lens.
over the last year  they have introduced four new lenses for the m cameras.
matt from sydney wesley swan , october 21, 2008; 07:35 p.m. the parts of the article i read were great.
i would be very happy to make the 75mm my longest focal length, an equivalent of approximately 100 mm.
less time lag means more direct control, more pure reaction.
the coincidental appearance of the two cameras together led me to test them against each other in “real world” shooting situations.
i now need to find the cash.
the leica m8 has maintained its (admittedly niche) relevance in spite of its less than cutting edge technology.
no doubt that doing business exclusively with the leica m8 would be very difficult.
the best compliment i can give to this family of lenses is that in most cases, they are as good as their much more expensive summicron and summilux brothers and sisters.
my ee background tells me you don't want to get anywhere close to overloading the amplifier for any rgb channel.
the  interesting aspect of lens design is that it is much easier and much less  expensive to design and produce lenses with less ambitious apertures.
summicron from the late 1950’s on my leica m6 film cameras to this day with results that rival the best current lenses from japanese companies.
imho, notwithstanding the nikon's much newer sensor, the two cameras produce comparable image quality.
he was  absolutely serious.
i can also wear it  all day long with the 35mm lens without noticing the weight.
your filter reduces the input signal enough to keep that from happening.
the leica/kodak  sensor is not a low noise champion.
af nikkor, (compare prices) with the  nikon 24-70mm f/2.8g ed af-s, (compare prices).
kirk’s final analysis summarit-m 75mm
i was able to shoot the d700 at 3200 iso with files that were similar in  quality to leica m8 files shot at 1200iso.
of course, the whole paradigm of hand-holdability would change in favor of the nikons if they were to implement their vr2 in their prime lenses.
the next biggest reason to own a leica rangefinder has always been the  glass.
i also wanted to try out the summarit-m series of lenses, as they are a  more reasonably-priced series of quality lenses from leica.
during this transitional period in photography i found myself constantly pining for a leica “version” of digital.
it’s an attribute of bright line rangefinder cameras that is a good aid to both composition and to being able to anticipate objects moving into the prescribed frame.
this limits the number of people who can afford to use the leica  as a system.
the second attribute of the sensor is the very neutral, very film like rendering of color and tonal relationships.
for a limited range of capabilities it is a frightfully  expensive system.
there are other differences between the two cameras that i need to mention.
the typical photographer in the 1950’s got along very well with lenses in the 28mm to 90mm range.
john fleshin , october 23, 2008; 01:34 p.m. good review, glad i caught it, just had mine serviced and upgraded.
image attachment: fileghz9u5.jpg kirk tuck , october 29, 2008; 11:36 a.m. john, i'm always a bit divided when i talk about noise and cameras.
and when i did my post processing it was easier to make a neutral and pleasing image from the leica!
the nikon lenses are  also very good.
however, when reviewing digital cameras and lenses it is important to change one’s mindset and evaluate the body and lenses together as a unified system.
beautiful depth of field scales on each of the lenses.
my first adventure with the camera came while photographing a cancer clinic  in austin, texas.
am afraid i have quite a mixture of vintage glass, so your conclusions about the blue shift might well be a problem solved with new lenses?
i can see these effects when  i compare a lens like thenikon 50mm f/1.8d
their solution was to add micro lenses over the pixel wells to focus and deliver light energy in a more direct fashion.
theleica 75mm f/2  summicron-m, (compare prices), is highly corrected across the frame at f/2  giving up only in the area of close focusing.
the feeling of sharpness and detail is wonderful.
a soft touch turns on the meter while a bit more pressure triggers the shutter.
here’s what leica has done for us lately.
the older leica lenses (including screw mounts) work fine on the m8 and m8.2.
that’s the name leica uses for lenses that have maximum  apertures of f/2.5.
while current competitors talk about shutters constructed to go up to 150,000 or 250,000 exposures before failure, stories are legions of leica m shutters going strong at a million or more actuations!
so, what are the inevitable trade offs in this sensor design?
typically, the depth of field at full aperture is razor thin, limiting the usefulness when more than one subject needs to be sharply focused.
but the pictures have that leica look, and the m8 and lenses are much easier on my back.
but many  people did write to say that the effects of the leica glass were  “special”, “had a three dimensional quality”,  “added a special feel”, etc.
you’ll have both hands full when you attempt  either operation.
i will say that it's great to get discussion from a photographer like yourself who actually shoots both.
they also insisted on not posing people.
four lenses and one body in the space usually take up by one body and one  normal zoom lens.
theleica 75mm f/2 summicron-m, (compare prices), is highly corrected across the frame at f/2 giving up only in the area of close focusing.
the newer model also has revised frame lines which supposedly address the minor framing accuracy issue you describe.
most leica  users are documenters; they use their cameras to record, tending to capture  more and chimp less.
like all new cameras, leica is still working some kinks out of this one.
by the 1970’s, nikon, canon, pentax, olympus and minolta had pushed the entire market for cameras away from the rangefinder paradigm and drove consumers steadfastly into the arena of theslr.
but now we have cameras like the nikon d3 and d700 and the canon 5d to compare it to.
leica has always made the finest high speed lenses in the 35mm market but the trade-off has always been the ruinously high cost of those lenses.
this means that the camera is making up information to give me the impression of sharpness.
lenses that can be used wide open without a care (and focused with greater  accuracy.)
the prime lenses have much better performance at wider apertures than most  of the more commonly used high quality “pro” zoom lenses from canon  and nikon, adding another two stops to the mix.
the trade off was a  very slow 1/50th of a second electronic flash sync speed and a top shutter  speed of 1/1000th of a second.
they took the time-proven m series camera body and redesigned the guts to bring us a unique digital photographic tool.
it’s all a matter or working styles.
since digital routed film, i’ve been photographing with a constantly  evolving assortment of nikon and kodakslr cameras.
as i moved through the  main room where chemotherapy was delivered i realized that some patients were  in pain, others quite nauseous, so i tried to be as quiet and discrete as i  could be.
that makes it a hand built, high precision rangefinder camera that takes a range of very well designed and produced lenses.
it feels perfect in the hand and  once you get the hang of the rangefinder and the clear, clean viewfinder  you’ll be spoiled for using slrs.
their prices are fair and you help to support  photo.net.
as i mentioned earlier in the article, i felt like i was able to pick up two  stops of “vibration reduction” because the m camera had less  vibration during its operation.
it would have been interesting, but outside the scope  of my capabilities, to adapt the lenses so that they worked on each  company’s camera bodies for the sake of comparison.
on a more prosaic note, the low profile and low noise  attributes of the leica helped the doctors and patients ignore my presence to a  much greater extent than the noise and profile of a d700 with its loud,  clacking mirror.
but the nicer screens are much better for  evaluating results in the field.
the screens are bright and detailed with over 900,000  pixels to play with.
there is no moving mirror in front of the sensor plane, and rather than focusing through the lenses all composition and focusing is done through a viewfinder frame that shows the boundaries of attached lenses with bright frame lines projected into the viewfinder.
but it is important to understand that the point at which the shutter releases has a distinct feel that gives the photographer perfect feedback.
the trade off is a bit more mechanical noise from the shutter.
were you able to use the dual range 50mm with it?
it lasted forever and was very quiet in operation.
if i had a product this important i would certainly not sit on my hands when it came to improvements.
only problem is that my wife doesn't share the same dilemma!
this is especially critical with wide angle lenses which already have a tendency to vignette as a result of their designs.
i captured samples of noellia hernandez drinking coffee and deliberately overexposed by one full stop.
if you are a high-end wedding photographer who needs great focusing in low light and dramatically good lenses, this is the camera for you.
welcome to photo.net:
i wasn’t happy again with the d700 until i reduced the saturation settings and started using profiles that were custom produced for that camera.
the opinions that i have heard have come from people who own(ed)
i looked for a smile and one was not forthcoming.
the way the camera is set up the images experience a 1.33x crop factor.
the 35mm with the crop factor would be a  46.55mm lens.
the good points about the leica m8 and the summarit lenses depth of  field scale on the 50mm summarit-m more fun to compose through a bright line finder with moderate focal  length lenses.
kirk tuck , october 22, 2008; 02:40 p.m. robin, i did not use uv filters and i never encounter the dreaded ir effect.
the frame lines are very approximate and i found, routinely, that the  subject on screen contained more area than was shown in the finder.
at  iso’s over 1200 it starts to become noisier and the old kodak “blue  channel”noise starts to intrude.
less time lag means more  direct control, more pure reaction.
the nikon sensor is remarkable in its low light performance.
the leica had a certain impression of sharpness that, to quote many leicaphiles over the years, actually looked, “three dimensional”.
i sometimes use a summar (circa 1932) on my m8 for definitely different photographic qualities.
what a wonderful tool.
i would like a wider lens as well  and would choose the 21mm, which acts like a 28mm.
regards, john kirk tuck , october 23, 2008; 01:42 p.m. john.
in the days before slrs with “instant return” mirrors, leica made the finest rangefinders available.
leica has always made the finest high speed lenses  in the 35mm market but the trade-off has always been the ruinously high cost of  those lenses.
i grab the m8 almost exclusively when i head out the door now and  find it much more fun than any of my other cameras to shoot.
not all cameras need to have every feature available.
the photographs that result  have a much more sophisticated edginess about them that translates into more  visual excitement.
they also  made incredible lenses to go with their camera bodies.
now i finally understand its benefits and associated issues.
i own both and the m8 at 1250 is nowhere near the d700 at 3200.
the pictures you took with the 50mm look to me to have a more creamy bokeh.
david w. griffin , july 27, 2011; 01:19 p.m. nowadays, the m8 has a slightly different role.
even so, the entire quartet of lenses and an m8 body together will tip the  scales at only around 2.5 kilograms!
the 35mm needs f/5.6 to achieve highest sharpness, the 50mm is eyeball slicing sharp at f/4 and the two longer lenses are just right by f/3.5.
in fact,  the complexity of a lens design generally is thought to increase by a factor of  four for a one stop speed increase.
leica sold millions of m3’s and later variants of the body style but  they made a few missteps during the early years of the 1960’s that left  them in a precarious situation from which they have never fully recovered.
contributed content used with permission.
the leica company was “the” camera company in the world right up until the 1960’s.
at iso’s over 1200 it starts to become noisier and the old kodak “blue channel”noise starts to intrude.
i've tried the manual nikon lenses on a d200, but the sharpness couldn't be optimally focussed.
the bottom line is, which camera helps you shoot with better composition and better timing?
if you are willing to put up with film you can save a bundle by choosing a good, used m6 leica instead.
it will engage  at most any angle or direction.
i can also wear it all day long with the 35mm lens without noticing the weight.
on the other end of the scale, i would have problems composing in the tiny frame provided for the 90mm lens.
most of their competitors  build lenses with high apertures that could only be used in the direst of  photographic emergencies and then with mediocre results.
on turning the m8 on the red light flashes for a second, but you can take photographs before it finishes flashing.
i shot in all kinds of light and with different kinds of fabrics but nothing happened.
i've wondered a few times the last couple years if you made the switch to the m8.
what do you expect from a limited edition, hand-built, german  camera?
you give up the use of lenses longer than 90mm (framing a 135mm would be  very dicey.)
the more experienced photographer is not satisfied with high color saturation at the expense of fine gradations of tone and color.
i would be very happy to  make the 75mm my longest focal length, an equivalent of approximately 100 mm.
the lenses are all called summarits.
with fewer elements and fewer glass surfaces these lenses are much more flare resistant.
the achilles heel of the m8 (in my humble opinion) is the high iso performance.
you’ve probably heard all kinds of opinions about the leica m8 digital camera but most of them were likely based on conjecture, and on the widely circulated stories about the tendency of the camera’s sensor to turn certain polyester products purple when photographed in bright light.
if there is  flare a complex zoom lens will find it.
if you read my m6 review you'd know the first lens i would recommend to anyone would be the 50mm.
if i were restricted to shooting jpegs with the leica i would never take it out of the bag.
in some cases this works well.
leica sold millions of m3’s and later variants of the body style but they made a few missteps during the early years of the 1960’s that left them in a precarious situation from which they have never fully recovered.
i don’t want to send my evaluation equipment back.
i keep hoping someone will call from leica and say, “the shipping is way too expensive, why don’t you just keep the system and enjoy it!”
when they finish getting all the little “gotchas” right it will be  a formidable image maker.
(for background information about the leica rangefinder m series cameras, please see my 2001 article on theleica m6.)
i've tried a sigma sd10 which is kind of a no-nonsense camera with some good features like seeing more in the viewfinder than the actual frame only, like leica.
had i  been shooting with the m8 i doubt the ceo’s bat-like ears would have even  registered the sound!
thank you very much !!
at iso’s up to 1200 it is very well  behaved and few would have issue with it’s noise performance.
when  digital came along one of the obvious design issues was the difference between  the way film and digital respond to the light coming through lenses.
this is the leica’s true high performance characteristic.
there was nothing wrong with the rendition of the nikon lens but its interpretation seemed clinical and lackluster in direct comparison with the leica 5o.
if i were restricted to shooting jpegs with the leica i would never take it  out of the bag.
it’s smaller and lighter than it’sslr competitors and will turn in  just as good (or better) a performance.
in a recent trip to chaco canyon and santa fe using the m8, i found myself shooting ruins and urban scenes with 50mm f/1.4 (non-asph) and 35mm f/2 asph much more than 21mm asph.
the jpeg files are not as good as their competitors files.
you have almost made me a convert.
that said, i've never encountered the color shift problems that upset so many people.
the more experienced photographer  is not satisfied with high color saturation at the expense of fine gradations  of tone and color.
what did leica get just right?
the results from my nikon d700 are also very good, but they are, to a certain extent, interpolated data.
i grab the m8 almost exclusively when i head out the door now and find it much more fun than any of my other cameras to shoot.
any amount of flare  degrades sharpness, contrast and color saturation.
jon butterwick , october 29, 2008; 09:40 p.m. might i also add that in a year of professional, daily use my m8 never failed.
mostly it was different failures of the camera, especially the shutter, which caused a trip to service, and a long (2 or more monthes) stay.
people have written about this before in regards to the kodak slr/n camera.
the typical  photographer in the 1950’s got along very well with lenses in the 28mm to  90mm range.
the m8 is no  exception.
most leica users are documenters; they use their cameras to record, tending to capture more and chimp less.
as an adjunct to my existing system i can certainly see many applications, such as shooting in board room situations, where this camera would excel.
an initial attenuation is much better than trying to reduce the signal at the output.
i wasn’t happy again with the d700 until i reduced the  saturation settings and started using profiles that were custom produced for  that camera.
stopping down one or two stops only serves to sharpen up the extreme corners of the lens.
and since the camera is manually focused there is never a time lag while the camera tries to figure stuff out.
part of that was lack of ir-cut filter for the 21mm, but the rest was the need for the shoe-mount leica 28-24-21 finder.
i had the pleasure of working with an m6 several years ago, and have wanted an 'm' ever since.
leica makes the finest lenses for 35 mm and you pay a hefty premium for them.
last january, i photographed a corporate meeting, at the breakers hotel in west palm beach, with 80 top executives from a very large company.
a  new lineup that is intended to attract a more... pentax k-01 preview eight neat products from ces 2012 latest learning articles three tips for selling/showing your photos in a gallery
there are trade offs everywhere.
leica does have an upgrade program where one can send in their original m8 and have those items replaced with the newer components.
the .dng file represents an open standard and enhances the archival  capabilities of the files.
it is the  first in what olympus is calling it's om-d line of micro four thirds bodies.
i used to shoot a lot with kodak's slr/n and found that i could subdue the blue channel noise to a great degree by actually using color filters (80a, b, c) to pull the color temperature into a range that would not cause the camera's electronics to boost the blue channel.
i would also miss the close focusing of my macro lenses and the tight flash control of the nikon ittl system.
in fact, since  there is no mirror to release the triggering of the shutter is almost  instantaneous.
it feels perfect in the hand and once you get the hang of the rangefinder and the clear, clean viewfinder you’ll be spoiled for using slrs.
i find the rangefinder focusing to be the second biggest selling  point of these cameras, right after my regard for their astonishingly good  lenses.
the lens should be sharp and usable at its widest aperture!
this is not just seen in  the absence of classic diaphragm reflections in the images it also makes a lens  much clearer and more “contrasty” by eliminating the  “veiling” effects of less dramatic flare.
m8 with summarit-m lenses: 35mm, 50mm, 75mm, 90mm
(for background information about the leica rangefinder m series cameras,  please see my 2001 article on theleica m6.)
i was using  several d300s
if they have to sacrifice things like extreme corner resolution or ultimate resolution, they will do so.
i got a jolt just by looking.
i find the rangefinder focusing to be the second biggest selling point of these cameras, right after my regard for their astonishingly good lenses.
photos ©2008 kirk tuck.
was this because it is a non-issue for you?
still need the 1d mk ii and 20d for 400mm and 500mm shots of wildlife.
they offer so much flexibility.
digital sensors are a bit more finicky and require light to come into their pixel wells at a much less severe angle than can be handled by film.
i would have to start with the design philosophy they’ve espoused for  decades.
does it translate at all in the finished images?
they were the cameras of choice for top photographers like: henri cartier bresson, robert frank, william klein, lee freidlander, sebastio salgado and many others.
the camera has its own proprietary battery, which is small and would be  incredibly hard to find in any secondary market.
we’ll cover these issues in the course of this review.
are you shooting the auto spot on or adjusting a mite?
fact that the camera was changed for a new one by sigma didn't change a thing.
leica is one of the acknowledged leaders in the world when it comes to designing and building lenses for cameras (and microscopes).
this is the leica’s true high  performance characteristic.
i keep hoping someone will call from leica and say, “the shipping  is way too expensive, why don’t you just keep the system and enjoy  it!”
if you are a high-end wedding photographer who needs great focusing in low  light and dramatically good lenses, this is the camera for you.
a filter is less convenient up-front, but you'd spend less time in photoshop later - if you have a single type of light to worry about.
from tap to snap the time elapsed is no more than 25 milliseconds.
they worked with kodak to include  a very good sensor that yields some interesting trade-offs.
i must also say that no matter how good engineers are at softening the  momentum of the mirror mechanisms in slrs, the rangefinder cameras will always  have less vibration, which translates into better images in the shutter range  from 1/4 to 1/125s.
a soft touch turns on the meter while a bit more pressure triggers  the shutter.
fortunately my decades of experience with other m series cameras helped me quickly flatten out the learning curve.
i shot one test of a model using the leica 50mm at f/5.6 and the new, nikon 60mmafs micro at f/5.6 and they were very close.
the coincidental appearance of the two  cameras together led me to test them against each other in “real  world” shooting situations.
while i would have to step outside the summarit family to put together a totally useful kit i would have the satisfaction of saving over $2,000 on two of the lenses!
their prices are fair and you help to support photo.net.
they are easily two generations apart.
af nikkor, (compare prices) with the nikon 24-70mm f/2.8g ed af-s, (compare prices).
the screens are bright and detailed with over 900,000 pixels to play with.
beyond that it is an excellent camera capable of stunning prints with loads of detail.
mark bohrer mountain and desert photography www.mountain-and-desert.com kirk tuck , january 15, 2009; 10:29 a.m. i'm always a bit curious about color balance.
during one break,  theceo of the company came up to me and said, “your camera is too  loud!”
all previous generations of  leica m cameras used a very simple and very robustly built, cloth focal plane  shutter.
most of their competitors build lenses with high apertures that could only be used in the direst of photographic emergencies and then with mediocre results.
leica chose to go only with an infra-red blocking filter in front of their m sensor and the results can be wonderful.
also, i have to say that the shutter sound of the d700 and the m8 are different in tone and quality, but hardly different in volume to warrant using one over the other.
that stood out to me.
their emphasis is  on high apparent sharpness and great rendering of micro fine detail.
except for the angle of coverage you would be hard pressed to  believe that you were seeing images from four different lenses!
compared toslr lenses all four of the  summarits are tiny; the 35mm and 50mm especially so.
i alternated between two cameras for my work, using them  interchangeably over a period of about nine hours.
that wasn’t really a big deal.
the second attribute of the sensor is the very neutral, very film like  rendering of color and tonal relationships.
that focal length just resonates with me.
it’s smaller and lighter than it’sslr competitors and will turn in just as good (or better) a performance.
the 35 and the 50 are both very reminiscent of leica lenses in the same range, designed in the 1970’s and 1980’s.
at which time the 5d had already been around for quite a while.
any amount of flare degrades sharpness, contrast and color saturation.
the detail in the leica files was  marginally better.
when i wrote an article about theleica m6, (compare prices) (review), for this site back in 2001, many readers posted opinions about the relative value of the brand but few refuted the technical sophistication and superiority of their lenses.
they each have a protrusion, or a “finger grip” that provides a good purchase on the focusing ring to facilitate easy focusing in-spite of a fairly narrow, metal focusing ring.
mark bohrer www.mountain-and-desert.com mark bohrer , january 07, 2009; 05:13 p.m. ir filter use - shoot outdoor christmas lights with an m8 without an ir filter on the lens.
the result is a sensor that, in conjunction with software enhancements, yields files that are very even across the frame.
the camera is slow to start up when turned on.
i also wanted to try out the summarit-m series of lenses, as they are a more reasonably-priced series of quality lenses from leica.
his first book, kirk-tuck_minimalist-lighting, was published in may 2008 and rose to #19 on the amazon bestseller’s list within a week of publication.
the short version is that it’s possible to make very high performance lenses with more modest apertures, at a fraction of the cost of more esoteric lenses!
you will see a difference.
add a comment matt sutton , october 21, 2008; 07:09 p.m. brilliant article.
mark bohrer mountain and desert photography www.mountain-and-desert.com michael c , march 29, 2009; 03:13 p.m. kirk, just ran across your article in scrolling though leica info.
you answered a lot of questions that had been floating around in the back of my mind.
ultra fast shutter reaction time.
it is a camera meant to fill a niche, not to compete with dslr's already in the market.
the results can be quite satisfying.
mark bohrer , january 07, 2009; 04:58 p.m. kirk: thanks for the useful comparison of focal lengths on the m8.
leica’s  designers also design for the way people look at photographs.
big thumbs up for design  and the integration of new digital components into a trusted body style.
leica tried to gain back market share with severalslr product introductions but by the time they hit the market their offerings were perceived to be very expensive and a few years behind their competitors when it came to features.
in fact, with an unmodified m8 you get more than the frame-lines show with any focal length.
most of my lenses are not 6-bit encoded but again, i can't detect any perceptible deficiencies in the wide angle lenses under common shooting conditions.
the lack of mirror movement somewhat makes up for the lack of vr in the body.
did you use the ir filters?
my point, and really the only point a reviewer can offer, is that the above review is based on the camera in my hand.
in | site map | article archive | author index | about us | faq | register | subscribe | support photo.net | contact us | advertise | careers | terms of use | privacy
the  barrel designs of the 75 and the 90 are very similar to the leica r lenses and  include rubber focusing rings.
i would guess that the newest lenses have coatings with stronger uv resistance than previous ones which might serve to obviate the use of the filters.
as usual, the m8 viewfinder has the marvelous quality of  showing the area outside of the chosen frame.
when you hit the limits of the image buffer some of the frames get  corrupted and are unreadable (very bad).
violent disagreement?
no springs to fatigue.
the result is a sensor that, in  conjunction with software enhancements, yields files that are very even across  the frame.
of course, the whole paradigm of hand-holdability would  change in favor of the nikons if they were to implement their vr2 in their  prime lenses.
this is what has kept me away from purchasing it.
with  each passing week, i found my camera skills sharpening up and my reflexes  improving.
all of the highlight detail was easily captured  when converting the industry standard .dng files in adobe camera raw.
50mm summarit-m a month is barely enough time to say “hello” to a camera, much  less become proficient in its use.
i alternated between two cameras for my work, using them interchangeably over a period of about nine hours.
this capturing technique, similar to the way we used to handle color negative film, also yields much cleaner shadow detail because it is captured much further up the curve where there are many more steps of shadow information.
if i bought an m8, i would probably restrict myself to just three lenses: leica 21mm f/2.8 elmarit-m, $3,995, leica 35mm f/2.5 summarit-m, (compare prices ), and theleica 75mm f/2.5 summarit-m, (compare prices).
the trade off was a very slow 1/50th of a second electronic flash sync speed and a top shutter speed of 1/1000th of a second.
do you see any reason to shoot raw + jpeg?
they are lenses that are meant to be used rather than tested on optical test benches (although the high level of implementation also enables them to perform well in those arenas as well).
i wish there were a site we could all go to and find the real failure rate for cameras.
article revised february 2011.
was your sample with the new firmware and/or frame lines?
more another opinion: leica m8 review by josh root leica web site
one of the advantages of prime lenses  is their much simpler construction.
in fact, after spending several weeks with the m8 i  couldn’t stand to look at files shot at “standard” settings  on the nikon d700.
i still use a dual  range 50mm
as an adjunct to my existing system i can  certainly see many applications, such as shooting in board room situations,  where this camera would excel.
all previous generations of leica m cameras used a very simple and very robustly built, cloth focal plane shutter.
while leica’s lenses are traditionally three, four or five times as  expensive as lenses from their competitors, generations of working  photographers (and very discerning amateurs) have not hesitated to buy them,  knowing that the unique characteristics of these optics can be powerful  differentiators in what is otherwise a very homogeneous marketplace.
the review includes a simple tutorial on noise reduction.
it is the extension of the leica “m” franchise that has continued its relevance in the world of photography for over five decades.
however, in one part of the market, the leica continued to be popular with street photographers and artists who needed a highly capable imaging machine that was both stealthy and quiet.
digital sensors are a bit more finicky and  require light to come into their pixel wells at a much less severe angle than  can be handled by film.
gadge a , october 22, 2008; 09:28 a.m. 10/10 - first article i have read that fully explains the positioning and design philosophy of this camera.
while moire patterns do show up from time to time, these cameras  have the appearance of producing image files with much greater amounts of fine  and micro fine detail which, in turn, allows for greater enlarge-ability and a  greater overall perception of quality.
that’s close enough to my favorite focal length, which is the traditional 50mm, to make me very happy.
is superb and the leica we've mostly been looking for since digital took over.
the reality is that the large number of elements in a modern zoom makes them flare “magnets”.
the color can be all over the map!
in other cases, not so well.75mm summarit-m. (starbucks) when kodak designed this sensor chip for leica they had to take into consideration just how close the back of a leica wide angle lens could sit in relationship to the sensor.
it is the extension of the leica  “m” franchise that has continued its relevance in the world of  photography for over five decades.
stopping down one or two stops  only serves to sharpen up the extreme corners of the lens.
in other cases, not so well.
this is especially critical with wide angle  lenses which already have a tendency to vignette as a result of their designs.
that is  the way they will be used.
the m8 is hopelessly  outclassed by the nikon d700.
the leica had a certain  impression of sharpness that, to quote many leicaphiles over the years,  actually looked, “three dimensional”.
battery location on the m8
very well written and informative.
when i use curves to equalize the black levels between the cameras the apparent noise drops in the m8 and makes the files look much closer to the d700.
leica earned  this reputation by taking a lead in all areas of lens creation back in the  1950’s and never relinquishing that lead over the decades.
i prefer or (understand) film, but must use the digital world to keep a living.
the new lenses include: 35mm, 50mm, 75mm and 90mm.
as you mention, the one area the nikon is head and shoulders above the leica is high iso performance.
by better photo i mean a photo that is seen and captured with less space between intention and reality.
they totally missed the idea that consumers would throng to slr’s to gain features like, a much wider range of available focal lengths, the ability to compose and focus through the taking lens and, of course, the lower price of the new generation of cameras.
summicron from the late 1950’s on my leica m6 film cameras to  this day with results that rival the best current lenses from japanese  companies.
the battery charger has a nice dual light indicator showing that a battery  is charged or is in process but the charger takes three hours to charge one  battery, which is less than optimal for a $5500 camera.
and a handful of their sterling lenses along the way, of course.
a month is barely enough time to say “hello” to a camera, much less become proficient in its use.
if you like to work with mid-range prime lenses and are about to take a trip around the world with very limited luggage, this system is ideal for you.
i must also say that no matter how good engineers are at softening the momentum of the mirror mechanisms in slrs, the rangefinder cameras will always have less vibration, which translates into better images in the shutter range from 1/4 to 1/125s.
fortunately my decades of experience with  other m series cameras helped me quickly flatten out the learning curve.
when digital came along one of the obvious design issues was the difference between the way film and digital respond to the light coming through lenses.
i used my dual range summicron on it without any issues.
if you  build an f/1.4 lens it should be usable at f/1.4.
compared to my nikon d700, i would say the auto white balance of the m8 is better, particularly in incandescent lighting.
here are the family characteristics: high sharpness across the full frame at full aperture, even higher sharpness when stopped down!
while high speed glass with sharp maximum apertures provides a look and  feel to images that can rarely be equaled by competitors, there are many  situations in which high performance at large apertures is not necessary.
leica’s designers also design for the way people look at photographs.
however, in one part of the market, the leica continued to be popular with  street photographers and artists who needed a highly capable imaging machine  that was both stealthy and quiet.
i  captured samples of noellia hernandez drinking coffee and deliberately  overexposed by one full stop.
of course, we weren’t comparing apples to apples as the leica had the  advantage of drawing on a sensor that didn’t have an anti-aliasing filter  dumbing down the detail.
i am using the filters leica sent on two lenses, but i don't notice any differences.
a community of photographers search all of  photo.net photo captions photo tags equipment store home > equipment > leica m8 and summarit-m lenses review most popular lenses popular articles adobe lightroom 3 review read a complete review of the latest version of lightroom: lightroom 3.
in the days before slrs with “instant  return” mirrors, leica made the finest rangefinders available.
if i bought an m8, i would probably restrict myself to just three lenses:  leica 21mm f/2.8 elmarit-m, $3,995, leica 35mm f/2.5 summarit-m, (compare prices ), and theleica 75mm f/2.5 summarit-m, (compare prices).
in fact, famous leica enthusiast sees the "no frills" m cameras as a simplification back to basics and makes the case that the streamlined approach benefits seeing.
add a comment notify me of comments © 1996-2011 namemedia, inc. and contributors.
with multiple light-temperatured sources, you're going to play with it in photoshop later anyway, though filtering for the one you want to dominate might help.
robin smith , october 22, 2008; 01:55 p.m. kirk, i like the review, but you say nothing about the dreaded ir issue.
this limits the number of people who can afford to use the leica as a system.
my first adventure with the camera came while photographing a cancer clinic in austin, texas.
it happened on the same week that i took possession of my first nikon d700.
then, with the advent of the m8, it's been about more than i can stand to not place an order.
second, i've been shooting with an m8 since a month or so after they first came out, and plan to upgrade to an m8-2 when they are available.
using auto wb, you'll get magenta-white lights instead of colored ones: http://tinyurl.com/9rdkml that's one of the effects of not using ir filters.
the ir magenta was a small point of their disappointment.
i generally try to limit my m8 to iso 640 - an upper boundary in which it produces very clean images.
i love the feel and the  ergonomics of the bodies and i’m very comfortable with rangefinder  focusing.
for example: a fast aperture, wide angle lens like the leica 28mm f/2 summicron-m, (compare prices) (review), is highly usable at f/2 with the center two-thirds of the frame being critically sharp.
the nikon d700 does everything well.
thanks to all for the positive feedback i've received on the article so far.
you do need a 28mm finder to see what you're getting with any 21mm lens on the m8.
i know it's not as convenient
they  totally missed the idea that consumers would throng to slr’s to gain  features like, a much wider range of available focal lengths, the ability to  compose and focus through the taking lens and, of course, the lower price of  the new generation of cameras.
a community of photographerssearch all of photo.net photo captions
hands-on experience.
the finder is optically superb, but it's tough to frame tightly with it.
the d3, conversely, i feel comfortable taking all the way up to 6400.
in order to keep the information of the sides and in  the corners of the frames from falling off too quickly leica and kodak needed  to come up with a way to compensate for the severe angles with which light  strikes the edges of the frame.
here are the  family characteristics: high sharpness 50mm summarit-m. (downtown in austin) high sharpness across the full frame at full aperture, even higher  sharpness when stopped down!
it’s an attribute of bright  line rangefinder cameras that is a good aid to both composition and to being  able to anticipate objects moving into the prescribed frame.
the barrel designs of the 75 and the 90 are very similar to the leica r lenses and include rubber focusing rings.
in many instances you can see a  noticeable increase in lens performance with just the addition of an efficient  lens hood.
a new lineup that is intended to attract a more... there are few industries as heart-wrenching as the fine art business.
thankfully, i was shooting raw with both  cameras.
if i were to distill what it is about leica lenses that make them superior i would have to start with the design philosophy they’ve espoused for decades.
he was absolutely serious.
i gave it up in favour to my nikon f2 and nikkormat ftn because of it's bad af, terrible battery life, bad awb and bad lens.
take it from someone who buys every “remarkably new compact camera guaranteed to compete with slrs”, this system is in an entirely different universe when compared with cameras like the sigma dp-1, etc.
that’s close enough to my favorite focal length, which is  the traditional 50mm, to make me very happy.
forget about using one of those shutters for  fill flash in just about any situation!
the leica m remains far and away my favorite camera system.
like most kodak sensors the m8 sensor has different levels of performance based on how much of the scene is shadow and how much is mid tone and highlight.
kodak has a history of producing cameras (like the kodakslr/n) that use no anti-aliasing filters in front of their sensors.
so i turned back to film with my nikons, olympus 35lc rangefinder, rolleiflex, agfa isolette l and so on.
the 35mm with the crop factor would be a 46.55mm lens.
in 1954, at photokina, leica introduced a new style of rangefinder camera based on a new lens mount that has lived on relatively unchanged for over 58 years.
the m8 makes pictures from my fiancee's canon g10 look like cheap snapshots (no surprise, really).
since your review the model m8.2 has been released and the m9 announced.
in my mind this is not a deal breaker  for two important reasons: the camera doesn’t vibrate like cameras with moving mirrors, which  gives about two stops more hand holding ability.
the results have been interesting, frustrating, fascinating and amazing.
compared toslr lenses all four of the summarits are tiny; the 35mm and 50mm especially so.
i used the leica m8 with the 35mm, 50mm and the 75mm summarits and i used the nikon d700 with several primes including the 28/2.0, the eight element 35/2.0, the 50/1.2 and the 85/1.4.
i also have an 18 mm zeiss distagon f4 that produces superb results without encoding or filters.
lol michael kirk tuck , october 05, 2009; 02:41 p.m. so happy to have kept some great m glass on hand.
i shot with the lenses for a month in the bright texas sun and never saw even the slightest hint of flare.
the m introduced a new  lens mount that allowed photographers to change out lenses very quickly, with  less than a quarter rotation of the lens.
they worked with kodak to include a very good sensor that yields some interesting trade-offs.
and to be fair, my list of gripes about the camera (no gripes about the  lenses!!)
thelcd on the back of the nikon d700, d300 and d3 cameras is 3 inches of  glorious technology.
about a month  ago a box arrived at my house and i found myself with a loaner leica m8 and  four of their new summarit-m lenses.
thanks again for the very nice review.
that makes it a hand built, high precision rangefinder camera that  takes a range of very well designed and produced lenses.
laurent vuillard , november 25, 2008; 03:14 p.m. a subjective but out of experience comment/ i bought a summarit 75 nt willing to pay2400euros for the summicron.
in my mind this is not a deal breaker for two important reasons:
leica also took a good, hard look at the prevailing practice of putting “anti-aliasing” filters in front of camera sensors to reduce or illuminate moire patterns in the final files.
i don’t want to send my evaluation equipment  back.
my konica revio kd420z p&s digital was way better before it was wrecked, but i want to do some creative photograhy myself too and don't leave everything to the camera.
it will engage at most any angle or direction.
i was using several d300s
the new mount also gave lens  designers more room to work their magic with new generations of optics that, to  professional photographers in that era, were amazingly good.
we’ll also  take a good, hard look at four new lenses that leica recently introduced that  nicely rebute the idea that all leica glass is only affordable by investment  bankers, surgeons and oil sheiks.
my only dilemma now is which summarit-m lens to get first, the 35mm (46mm) or the 50mm (66mm).
if i were to distill what it is about leica lenses that make them superior
i look forward to your comments on these two models.
nearly twice as fast as the nikon d700!
his clients have included: dell, motorola,ibm, time warner, texas monthly magazine, elle magazine and many others.
for years, leica enthusiasts have hammered away at leica trying to convince them to make a line of more modestly specified lenses at a much lower cost.
i  wanted to do a hands-on evaluation because i’ve used leica products since  1980 and i’ve found their optics second to none.
if you find that hard to believe how could we ever rely on products such as microsoft vista.
the auto white balance is not in the same league as the current top of the  line canon and nikon cameras.
there is no moving mirror in front of the sensor plane, and rather than  focusing through the lenses all composition and focusing is done through a  viewfinder frame that shows the boundaries of attached lenses with bright frame  lines projected into the viewfinder.
well, five years ago we would have pronounced this camera and it’s sensors performance as “state of the art”.
the just-released m8.2 reportedly has a much quieter shutter, albeit one with a top speed of 1/4000.
when we switch over to theraw arena things even  out nicely.
i used the camera for six weeks and it did not fail or need life support.
the first model was called the m3 and that camera is still much  sought after today because of its high magnification viewfinder, its relatively  silent shutter and its bullet proof mechanical construction.
otherwise a nice and practical review.
the shutter release on leicas has always been exemplary.
the camera, not based on conjecture.
it's the best camera i've ever owned.
it is amazing to consider how far digital photography has come in such a short time and how nice the files look.
it's a six-car pileup at the intersection of art and commerce and the amount of opinion and hyperbole that is somehow labeled as... a working photographer's review by kirk tuck, september 2008 (updated february 2011)
the interesting aspect of lens design is that it is much easier and much less expensive to design and produce lenses with less ambitious apertures.
i still can't afford one though :-) kirk tuck , october 22, 2008; 11:39 a.m. gadge, if you want more information about what makes all m cameras a more compelling choice you might want to take a moment and read my review on the leica m6 that is also located somewhere on photo.net.
leica got their new series of summarit-m lenses just right.
if you get your hands on a m8.2 or m8 with the upgrade, please write a short review of them as well.
if you build an f/1.4 lens it should be usable at f/1.4.
these artists looked to the leica m series rangefinder for three attributes: the bright, easy to use, always in focus, viewfinder the high level of mechanical reliability the low aural and visual profile of the cameras, which helped the  photographer work in a very candid manner 75mm summarit-m. iso 640  (medici coffee house, austin)
the short version is that it’s possible to make very high  performance lenses with more modest apertures, at a fraction of the cost of  more esoteric lenses!
image is from velvet revolution prague 1989 © n johnson robert gordon , december 17, 2008; 05:11
the shutter fires exactly when you are ready to fire and not a microsecond before or after.
p.m. hello kirk: good review,straight forward.
i wouldn’t hesitate for a moment to use any one of these lenses instead of the high-priced spread.
first, the model certainly captured my attention and got me into reading the review.
it’s hard to blow out highlight detail with this piece of silicon.
if we never compare the zoom lenses to anything else we generally find the performance convincing (or like so many aspects of digital images, we find it to be “good enough”).
i shoot now with m6's, film tri x not pushed and lenses are 35,50,21,(1990's lenses) you can see some of the work here on photonet or on flicker@ photo league thanks please let me know about the older lenses (1990's).
i've also experienced flesh tones and fabric colors that were slightly off.
very low noise shutter with no mirror noise.
benjamin tuck @ asti trattoria, 35mm summarit-m when i sat down to edit the images in photoshop cs3, i noticed that the nikon files were a bit cleaner where noise was concerned but that the color was more neutral with the leica camera.
(i just took 10 pictures with each comparing them in my deserted kitchen and they're hardly different).
the reality is that the large number of  elements in a modern zoom makes them flare “magnets”.
leica tried to gain back market share with severalslr product introductions but  by the time they hit the market their offerings were perceived to be very  expensive and a few years behind their competitors when it came to features.
leica lenses are usually more expensive but they have superior longevity built in too.
with each passing week, i found my camera skills sharpening up and my reflexes improving.
this means that the camera is making up information to give me the impression  of sharpness.
in a further enhancement the micro lenses over the outer areas of the sensor are increasingly offset to cope with the increasing angles of light.
a lot of wear and tear is avoided.
for example: a fast aperture, wide angle lens like the leica 28mm f/2  summicron-m, (compare prices) (review), is highly usable at f/2 with the center  two-thirds of the frame being critically sharp.
when i first played with the camera and lenses i was not impressed.
but it is important to understand that the point at which the  shutter releases has a distinct feel that gives the photographer perfect  feedback.
leica is one of the acknowledged leaders in the world when it comes  to designing and building lenses for cameras (and microscopes).
kodak has a history of producing  cameras (like the kodakslr/n) that use no anti-aliasing filters in front of  their sensors.
if they  have to sacrifice things like extreme corner resolution or ultimate resolution,  they will do so.
the first model was called the m3 and that camera is still much sought after today because of its high magnification viewfinder, its relatively silent shutter and its bullet proof mechanical construction.
kirk tuck , october 29, 2008; 06:00 p.m. i can understand that lots of early failures took the shine off owning the m8.
they are lenses that are meant to be used rather than tested  on optical test benches (although the high level of implementation also enables  them to perform well in those arenas as well).
jeff hughes , november 01, 2008; 09:00 a.m. hello kirk.
i also own a nikon d3 and so can appreciate the comparisons you draw.
for a non-pro and a not-rich-guy, it's been an expensive journey, but ultimately a transforming one.
this is a design that they got  “just right” over fifty years ago.
typically, the depth of field at full aperture is razor thin, limiting the  usefulness when more than one subject needs to be sharply focused.
these artists looked to the leica m series rangefinder for three attributes: the next biggest reason to own a leica rangefinder has always been the glass.
thankfully, i was shooting raw with both cameras.
using this  camera will change your approach to wedding photography, which will make your  work look different from your competitors, which will give you effective market  differentiation and may increase your bookings.
finger grip on the summarit-m 35mm part of the increase in complexity and cost in lens design is the need for  extremely high manufacturing tolerances as the diameter of lens elements  increases.
no doubt that doing business exclusively with the leica m8 would be very  difficult.
you might like to know that it was your very compelling review of the m6 back in 2001 which prompted me to buy my first leica.
but the nicer screens are much better for evaluating results in the field.
in the new m8 leica switched to a metal and carbon fiber composite focal plane shutter offering the same high reliability but giving users a top shutter speed of 1/8000th of a second (the previous shutter topped out at 1/1000th of a second) and a flash synchronization speed of 1/250th of a second, which is very competitive.
i’ve begun to understand the way its raw files work and when i take  advantage of its monstrously large dynamic range by “over-exposing”  and then drawing back the highlights in theraw conversion software i’ve  been able to make gorgeous files with open, noiseless shadows at isos up to 640.
olympus today announced a new micro four thirds body, the e-m5.
the new mount also gave lens designers more room to work their magic with new generations of optics that, to professional photographers in that era, were amazingly good.
is it too much to believe that a product can be "fixed" during its production cycle?
in many instances you can see a noticeable increase in lens performance with just the addition of an efficient lens hood.
the m8 is hopelessly outclassed by the nikon d700.
it was always easier to focus fast, wide angle lenses with the m cameras and few machines beat them when it comes to quiet and unobtrusive operation.
looking at the images you included in your review, it appears your demo unit is the original, classic m8.
i use nikons for some client work and editorial work but prefer the ease of the m system.
normally you will need a tripod for this, but some shots can be taken handheld.
the shutter fires exactly when you are ready to fire and not a  microsecond before or after.
there was nothing wrong with  the rendition of the nikon lens but its interpretation seemed clinical and  lackluster in direct comparison with the leica 5o.
a 5d even takes and values leica glass for whoever feels the urge.
m8 with  summarit-m lenses: 35mm, 50mm, 75mm, 90mm
take it from someone who buys every “remarkably new compact camera  guaranteed to compete with slrs”, this system is in an entirely different  universe when compared with cameras like the sigma dp-1, etc.
this "review" is neglecting that the competitors have image stabilisation, plus a handful of other essential features (think of sensor cleaning)....and thus shows its value kirk tuck , october 23, 2008; 11:35 a.m. wrong.
thelcd on the back of the nikon d700, d300 and d3 cameras is 3 inches of glorious technology.
if you like to work with mid-range prime lenses and are about to take a  trip around the world with very limited luggage, this system is ideal for you.
i covered the benefits of no moving mirror mass and how it relates, shutter speed setting-wise, to the more conventional cameras.
the  m8 does a small handful of things really well.
but i was mortified by his critique.
second as a dedicated ir camera.
forget about using one of those shutters for fill flash in just about any situation!
from tap to snap the time elapsed is no more than 25  milliseconds.
the lenses are all  called summarits.
it is also much smaller and lighter than other professional camera and lens combinations.
and since the camera is manually focused there is  never a time lag while the camera tries to figure stuff out.
they were the cameras of choice for top  photographers like: henri cartier bresson, robert frank, william klein, lee  freidlander, sebastio salgado and many others.
the results from my nikon  d700 are also very good, but they are, to a certain extent, interpolated data.
i think they got the shutter itself just right.
5 entry level dslr camera kits nikon digital slr cameras and lenses super bowl 2009:
their solution was to add micro lenses over the pixel wells to focus and  deliver light energy in a more direct fashion.
at iso’s up to 1200 it is very well behaved and few would have issue with it’s noise performance.
first as the cheaper way into the leica digital world at about $2500 give or take (rather than $7000 for the m9).
paul wolossow , november 28, 2008; 03:45 p.m. kirk, a first rate hands-on review.
the 35mm needs f/5.6 to achieve highest sharpness,  the 50mm is eyeball slicing sharp at f/4 and the two longer lenses are just  right by f/3.5.
seeing beyond the edges of the frames spurs much more compositional experimentation than the tunnel effect of theslr.
the leica company was “the” camera company in the world right  up until the 1960’s.
but it is still  quite low when compared to the obtrusively dynamic shutter noises that thunder  out of my d700 body—and there is no mirror slap to add to the sound.
that’s the name leica uses for lenses that have maximum apertures of f/2.5.
in a bare bones summary it is a  digital version of the leica m7 rangefinder camera with a few added  attractions.
since digital routed film, i’ve been photographing with a constantly evolving assortment of nikon and kodakslr cameras.
in fact, after spending several weeks with the m8 i couldn’t stand to look at files shot at “standard” settings on the nikon d700.
in a further enhancement the  micro lenses over the outer areas of the sensor are increasingly offset to cope  with the increasing angles of light.
i understand that the canon 5d is three years old.
the way the camera is  set up the images experience a 1.33x crop factor.
one thing i should make clear right off the bat is that the  nikon auto white balance runs rings around the auto white balance in the m8.
i  wouldn’t hesitate for a moment to use any one of these lenses instead of  the high-priced spread.
many people use dslrs like mini view cameras, checking  every change of exposure, composition or menu parameter between every shot.
i understand the flexibility of raw and the ability to "assign" a color balance but i often wonder if the "old fashioned" way of actually filtering or partiallly filtering the lens would actually improve the image by adding back some of the missing color from the scene.
if there is flare a complex zoom lens will find it.
the current nikon d700 is a  wonderful camera which produces remarkably good files.
this makes  tight composition much harder.
i've never been a fan of shooting raw+jpeg as i end up just using the raws in most cases.
on the other  end of the scale, i would have problems composing in the tiny frame provided  for the 90mm lens.
it will be ready as soon as you are.
there are few industries as heart-wrenching as the fine art business.
rangefinder cameras were the gold standard because they offered very bright viewfinders and very accurate focusing for wide angle to moderate telephoto lenses.
i picked up the m6ttl that year, the m7 a couple years after that, and the m8 two years ago.
i would like to stay with manual because af don't seem to work for me and then leica & epson are the only options.
in my nikon system there is an inertia toward using zoom lenses.
i still use a dual range 50mm
in order to keep the information of the sides and in the corners of the frames from falling off too quickly leica and kodak needed to come up with a way to compensate for the severe angles with which light strikes the edges of the frame.
the m8 is no exception.
m8-three important features
about a month ago a box arrived at my house and i found myself with a loaner leica m8 and four of their new summarit-m lenses.
the bottom line is, which camera helps you shoot with better composition  and better timing?
when i wrote  an article about theleica m6, (compare prices) (review), for this site back in  2001, many readers posted opinions about the relative value of the brand but  few refuted the technical sophistication and superiority of their lenses.
during one break, theceo of the company came up to me and said, “your camera is too loud!”
however, when  reviewing digital cameras and lenses it is important to change one’s  mindset and evaluate the body and lenses together as a unified system.
if you’re anxious to get your own leica set for hands-on experiments while you read this review, photo.net’s partners have the leica m8 and summarit-m lenses available.
if you try to make do with any of the compact point-and-shoots on the market, you will inevitably be disappointed.
the nikon lenses are also very good.
this is not just seen in the absence of classic diaphragm reflections in the images it also makes a lens much clearer and more “contrasty” by eliminating the “veiling” effects of less dramatic flare.
i wanted to do a hands-on evaluation because i’ve used leica products since 1980 and i’ve found their optics second to none.
this means that each lens acts like a lens 1.33 times longer.
i would miss my access to lenses with focal lengths up to 400mm.
if you haven’t shot with an m series camera you certainly should seek out a dealer and play with one of these bodies.
i’ve begun to understand the way its raw files work and when i take advantage of its monstrously large dynamic range by “over-exposing” and then drawing back the highlights in theraw conversion software i’ve been able to make gorgeous files with open, noiseless shadows at isos up to 640.
this means that each lens  acts like a lens 1.33 times longer.
the  review includes a simple tutorial on noise reduction.
well, five years ago we would have pronounced this camera and it’s  sensors performance as “state of the art”.
l dasousa , october 29, 2008; 05:33 p.m. you’ve probably heard all kinds of opinions about the leica m8 digital camera but most of them were likely based on conjecture, and on the widely circulated stories about the tendency of the camera’s sensor to turn certain polyester products purple when photographed in bright light.
seeing beyond the edges of the frames spurs much more compositional  experimentation than the tunnel effect of theslr.
i would like a wider lens as well and would choose the 21mm, which acts like a 28mm.
by contrast, the leica is a 2.5-inch screen with fewer than 300,000 pixels of resolution.
in my opinion, the 35mm summarit is slightly superior to the 35mm summicron, but it does give up nearly 2/3rds of a stop.
by the 1970’s, nikon, canon, pentax,  olympus and minolta had pushed the entire market for cameras away from the  rangefinder paradigm and drove consumers steadfastly into the arena of theslr.
how the summarit-m lenses stack up all four of the summarit lenses share the same neutral color and contrast  characteristics.
kirk author: minimalist lighting arne h. heeringa , october 25, 2008; 07:51 p.m. great article, though i might prefer the r-d1s because of its price.
one thing i should make clear right off the bat is that the nikon auto white balance runs rings around the auto white balance in the m8.
12:15 a.m. had difficulty reading the article about the leica with such a luscious little hottie in sight.
that is just what leica has done.
jordan g. , october 30, 2008; 02:36 a.m. version 2 firmware for the leica m8 greatly improves the white balance.
since leica lenses don’t have to be designed to compensate for the space required for a moving mirror they could optimize their designs and have the back of the lenses close to the film plane.
if you haven’t shot with an m series camera you certainly should seek  out a dealer and play with one of these bodies.
they each have a protrusion, or a “finger grip” that provides a  good purchase on the focusing ring to facilitate easy focusing in-spite of a  fairly narrow, metal focusing ring.
kirk tuck leica 35mm f/2.5 summarit-m (review), iso 160 kirk tuck leica 50mm f/2.5 summarit-m (review), iso 160 kirk tuck leica 75mm f/2.5 summarit-m (review), iso 160 kirk tuck leica 90mm f/2.5 summarit-m (review), iso 160 series 2: example images showing the different focal lengths on the same  scene.
we’ll also take a good, hard look at four new lenses that leica recently introduced that nicely rebute the idea that all leica glass is only affordable by investment bankers, surgeons and oil sheiks.
so, what’s the leica m8 all about?
as i moved through the main room where chemotherapy was delivered i realized that some patients were in pain, others quite nauseous, so i tried to be as quiet and discrete as i could be.
using this camera will change your approach to wedding photography, which will make your work look different from your competitors, which will give you effective market differentiation and may increase your bookings.
the 90mm was tough to frame and use wide-open for stage shots in oakland, california's scottish rite temple.
when i say they are sharp i mean that even my best and latest  nikkors can’t compare.
let’s start with a little background series 3: 35mm summarit-m  (fair bean coffee house)
for the ftn i can use the abrahamson softrelease for leicas too, and then 1/8 works well too if you're carefull.