11:58 yes, but in the early days xml's "draconian" error handling was a vaunted feature (so the implication was: w/f or die) #xmlprague february 11.
and so if i’m not imagining all this, in some ways (whisper it) i might even prefer the look i can get from the earlier camera … bam!
on a recent trip to norfolk, i forgot to take a camera battery charger and  so after my trustynikon d300 ran down i was forced to resort to my vintage  (well, 2005)nikon d50 as backup.
now, i’ve had the d300 for over a year and still feel i’m  coming to terms with it.
10:58 xml + css in the browser: so near and yet
the  nikon d50 delivering obvious, saturated colours tags: nikon, color, colour, d50, d300, dxo, andy_f submit to dotnetkicks... permalink | comments (0) related posts what colour are rose hips?
yet somehow the  original character of the sensor seems to come through.
individual national bodies are also permitted to sell iso standards and this money is used to fund their own national standards activities, e.g., pay for offices and executive staff in their capital.
- andy updegrove - adventures in self-publ... - the lafayette deception... - adventures in self-publ... - david carlisle - doug mahugh - fake steve jobs - one last thing: r.i.p.,... - i’m totally fine, but g... - apology - frank furedi - hating bankers a global... - more students and more... - review: together: the r... - gareth horton - microsoft voicemail tra... - why do we need serial d... - on the scalability of a... - inigo surguy - james clark - jeni tennison - jesper lund stocholm - will you be my friend t... - moving towards ooxml(s)...
i have been using a nikon d300 now for six months, and one of the characteristics i have had to ge...
14:10 decidedly chimerical #xmlprague february 11.
the d50, in contrast, seems to produce punchier, vidid (and not‑so‑serious images).
at its best with cooler, softer, almost pastel‑like scenes – which  it renders with a painterly subtlety.
and it turns out serious‑looking images; in particular, when it comes to colour it’s
bling quotable note that everyone directly involved in the development of iso standards is a volunteer or funded by outside sponsors.
the editors, technical experts, etc., get none of this money.
— rob weir search include comments in search blogroll download opml file - alex hudson - “dart” out in the open... - is package management f... - speculation on google’s...
where a n...[more] - pathology (8) simon wrote: what a relief that is, especially for sarah.
the author's views contained in this weblog are his, and not necessarily of any organisation.
what you see below is straight out of the  camera converted from raw to jpeg usingdxo optics pro and dxo user  andy_f’s default settings (check out the forums to find andy’s  excellent work on better colour accuracy from raw conversions).
related posts what colour are rose hips?
the problem first surfaced in prague, and has happened a couple of times since.
[more] - pathology (8) alex wrote:
alex brown's weblog filter by apml - home - archive - contact - subscribe - log in >
as i've written before, it’s possible to do something about this.
of course, we must also consider the considerable expense of maintaining offices and executive staff in geneva.
@simon - yes i must admit rea...
follow me on twitter recentcomments comment rss - pathology (8) murata wrote: you once said that every thing became easy after t...[more] - pathology (8) ctrambler wrote: sorry for missing you in the hospital.
alex brown's weblog >
so far #xmlprague february 10.
nikon colour character by alex brown 9.
[more] - going under the knife (4) mrs g wrote: hope you're okay
hmm, the nikon d800 high iso samples look greathttp://t.co/dqzddwl8 february 10.
what you see below is straight out of the camera converted from raw to jpeg usingdxo optics pro and dxo user andy_f’s default settings (check out the forums to find andy’s excellent work on better colour accuracy from raw conversions).
at its best with cooler, softer, almost pastel‑like scenes – which it renders with a painterly subtlety.
thinking about you and lo...
nikon d300 woes  the problem first surfaced in prague, and has happened a  couple of times since.
[more] - pathology (8) sarah wrote: i think this was the kind of appointment
comments are closed powered by blogengine.
i might even prefer  the look i can get from the earlier camera … bam!
now, i’ve had the d300 for over a year and still feel i’m coming to terms with it.
where is there an end of it?
- correct according to sp... - jirka kosek - lars marius garshol - mohamed zergaoui - norm walsh - norman geras - patrick durusau -
when it comes to attempting warmth, it seems to me to to veer off course and crash into a citrus palette.
gareth [more] - pathology (8) tug wrote: that's really excellent news for you and the famil...
- putting knowledge into... - thorsten behrens - libreoffice in hamburg - licensing questions and... - email, and the unix des... - tim bray twitter february 11.
[more] - pathology (8) gareth wrote: trebles all round!
net 1.6.1.0 theme by mads kristensen about the author links www.flickr .com - my old blog (now retired) - where i work - pope's shakespeare (ph.d. thesis) - a mere sequence (my best photos) - intp (my type, apparently) - flickr photostream (most interesting) legal
[more] - pathology (8) simon wrote: still, your score is the best news: 44 not out ...
- sarah annes brown - stuck in customs - talkstandards - a “single market for in... - a single market for ipr...
wondering if it's a good or bad thing that i've managed to avoid json completely so far february 11.
i have been using a nikon  d300 now for six months, and one of the characteristics i have had to ge...
but none of this money seems to flow down to the people who makes the standards.
notes on document conformance and  portability #1  richard gillam’s handy book, unicode demystified: a  practical programmers guide to the encod...
07:19 follow up on tale of stolen camera bought in amazon marketplace: vendor refund with no quibble (and amazon said they would if vendor didn't)
yet somehow the original character of the sensor seems to come through.
and so if  i’m not imagining all this, in some ways (whisper it)
notes on document conformance and portability #1 richard gillam’s handy book, unicode demystified: a practical programmers guide to the encod...
the quackometer - rex jaeschke - rick jelliffe - rob weir - ending the symphony for... - first release of the ap... - shakespeare to tim tebo...
on be...[more] - going under the knife (4) front load washer wrote: it's actually a great and helpful piece of info.
the d50, in contrast, seems to produce punchier, vidid (and  not‑so‑serious images).
when it comes to attempting warmth, it  seems to me to to veer off course and crash into a citrus palette.
april 2010 18:25 classic nikon d300 territory: soft light, cool palette
on a recent trip to norfolk, i forgot to take a camera battery charger and so after my trustynikon d300 ran down i was forced to resort to my vintage (well, 2005)nikon d50 as backup.
this weblog’s written content is governed by a creative commons licence.
it’s somehow a serious camera
third-party contributions are the responsibility of the contributor.
the nikon d50 delivering obvious, saturated colours tags: nikon, color, colour, d50, d300, dxo, andy_f submit to dotnetkicks... permalink | comments (0)