each & every camera was built & produced top class.
is my first dslr and i love it.
all my photos are saved on a dedicated hard drive partition and down loaded directly from the camera soon after the shots.
weaknesses:some functions are very awkward like starting and stopping movie mode.
is all but impossible to beat the quality for the money nikon will give you.
i had also baught a few books on how the nikon d90 works and functions.
the basic xp platform will 'see' the camera as another hard drive where you can copy and paste from the camera to the computer and do what ever.
with that and also comparisons to other friends’ equivalent canon and sony systems, i’d only ever consider upgrading to a full-frame sensor model as i reckon this is about as good as dx sensors can get without squuzing yet more pixels on and creating noise issues.
so the nikon has far superior lenses.
so when they get full i format them and start again.
overall rating 5 of 5 value rating 4 of 5 used product for 3 months to 1 year visitors rate this review 3.71 of 5, 24 votes price paid: $70.00 from andhrapradesh
to recharge a battery it has to be taken out, another work load.
it also has a great depth of controls and features, so you can tailor it to your needs and preferences, and i’ve done a3 prints from it with stunning quality.
but then that just encourages good technique!); and the video mode is too limited to be really fun or useful.
this is pretty much a good all 'round lens but others are definately needed for more cultured shots.
the nikon i bought came with an 18 mm to 105 mm lens.
sony movies are fine in mpeg format, the eaze of the sony makes it a far better choice but if you want quality of image the nikon of course is the better choice.
weaknesses:since i am not a hard core professional neither i am able  to find any weakness nor any faults with the d90 similar products used:early days i had used rolliechord, rollieflex,  (twin lens reflex), canon ae1 slr & olympus om2 slr customer service:i am in india & when i visited my son in  australia bought me the d90 in melbourne in may 2010.
the sony makes taking movies such a simple task!
the settings are in easy to reach places and the camera is not that heavy.
so nothing to fret about since the d90 is again a  classic & top quality camera in all respects.
i’ve compared results to a friend’s d300 images and we really can’t tell any difference, though the d700 images have a bit more to them.
would  you like to comment?
i suppose pro want the most mega pixels, but i don't.
it feels a bit light and small to my taste, especially with larger lenses, but that's soon fixed with a battery grip.
weaknesses:af-tracking struggles with fast-moving subjects (the 11 af points can constantly hunt and fail to maintain any useful lock...
any where in australia what ever u buy anything for the matter the customer service is #1.
the response i am getting by d90 is very good.
the old one has some great attributes the new one does not have.
i am taking an on line course to learn how to make photographs.
as far as i am concerned it is very high quality, it's got the lamborgani power & rolls royce smoothness.
one in particular is super, is a semi fish eye that is fabulous for inside shots where it will take your subject, floor, ceiling and walls side to side getting the whole thing, if that is what you want.
the sony will allow you to set your pic size from about 80k standard/160k fine on the low end to 5 meg in 1 meg incraments giving you allot of choices.
yet what ever you get on your nikon you will have a superior product that will last you many years.
i use the low end fine for almost all shots and that works fine.
especially the build quality is matchless.
it replaces the sony mvc cd500.
i use compupic which works quite well.
just twist the dial on top of the camera to movie and snap away!
the sony has a lag of about a second and that makes some difficult shots hard unless you use burst.
i had to uninstall all the nikon software where it simply took over my computer for photos and i have other things i use that work just fine, some basic ones are from microsoft!
especialy if i use the large mega pix size you should be able to count the cells on a person's arm from 200 feet!
the avi the nikon takes is extremely sharp, like a high end movie camera so in that aspect it is better than the sony but that is the only advantage.
and if you shoot inside, you need the double shoe option so the infrared that sits in the flash shoe can occupy one shoe while the flash the other.
strengths:features; build; design; performance; image quality; and also price when you consider how much more you'd have to spend to notice any significant difference.
so this limits your size capabilities without resizing every shot.
i will have to resize all the nikon shots to compress storage size on the hard drive.
i have purchased vr lens 18mm-105mm.
one is the self timer where i can set the camera on a tripod, set the timer and stand back to take a pic of myself or something.
the sony requires allot of set up for manual shots, the nikon is only a flick of a switch and away you go!
for all 'round use the sony takes the cake.
any fish eye will distort the image but this one does not do a terrible job of it leaving the picture as is with distortion all but beyond notice.
another thing is the nikon offers only 3 different size pictures, 3, 6, and 12 meg size in either jpg format or the nikon nkx (or something like that).
i have used only two cds the whole 4 years i have used the sony, they are cd-rw
the 12 meg will make poster size but also will use up a ton of disk space to save the pics.
especially all the camera dealers, established & authorized camera dealers are 200% friendly, pleasant & enterprising persons.
you get what you pay for but where the competition can do it, why not nikon?
i think this nikon d90 is awesome .it
another is the format type.
the sony uses mini cds which in time will wear out and need expensive service.
rev. j. gordon bengtson aarrow-ranch aviation mechanicsville, virginia 23111 strengths:superior image quality, hardware durability, support from nikon.
is not photo shop but does everything i want!
join photographyreview for a free account, or  login if you are already a member.
my pic's are tack sharp and the hd feature is awesome.
the camera is used for that, on the nikon i use a flash drive adapter in a usb port to format the cards.
the nikon has the advanage but the sony has definite qualities that do not throw it out of the park.
strengths:i cannot comment to the pro's level.
summary:hi readers& viewers i am using d90 camera.
so of the two which is the better?
it just always performs and is completely intuitive to use.
the consumer review.com network: advertise with us | about us | contact us | privacy policy | terms of usethe consumer review.com network: advertise with us | about us | contact us | privacy policy | terms of use
review 1 of 17 price paid: $1475.00 summary:from my 1st film nikon nikkormat,f80,f100, d70s,d50 to d90  each & every camera was built & produced top class.
the only feature i’ve ‘missed’ is a more advanced af (like the d300’s 51-point af system) to help with tracking fast-moving wildlife, but that’s on 1% of the time.
especially  all the camera dealers, established & authorized camera dealers are 200%  friendly, pleasant & enterprising persons.
set up in the camera is in cmos so nothing is lost when the battery is removed but is a bit awkward.
the sony in full auto works perfectly as does the nikon.
so nothing to fret about since the d90 is again a classic & top quality camera in all respects.
yet the lesser brands will give you options and attributes as standard function nikon will charge you dearly for.
the nikon shutter launches almost in a nano second taking a picture.
the nikon has a small wall powered charger but the battery has to come out of the camera.
the sony is manual but not to the extent the nikon is.
especially the  build quality is matchless.
weaknesses:none so far similar products used:i dont have any other nikon products this is my first and i will be buying more.
either jpg or the nikon file type.
any where in australia  what ever u buy anything for the matter the customer service is #1.
the picture and the quality is very good.
and anything in-between would be money better spent on lenses.
one is the infrared trigger to set the camera off.
smaller sizes work just fine and even make quite attractive 8 x 10 blow ups.
i have several add on lenses for the sony and they work great for me.
the sony is a great amature camera.
first snap starts the movie and second stops it giving you total control.
the sony has a wall powerd charger to a small 'brick' transformer you plug directly into the camera.
if you use the nikon file type you can use their software to manipulate the picture, but a good jpg picture program, and there are many even free ones, that will do an excellent job of the same basic thing so nikon format is not needed.
from my 1st film nikon nikkormat,f80,f100, d70s,d50 to d90
this product is a 5 star in my book awesome camera strengths:quick auto foucus nice "tack sharp " photos easy to understand and to use.
similar products used:d70, d200, d300, d700,;canon eos 40d and 50d; sony alpha 350 (horrible noise issues at medium-high isos and in poor light) and alpha 700 customer service:not needed.
the nikon software is not needed so i got rid of it.
the nikon is better of course because of the speed.
the nikon does not have this unless you buy at least one option.
again, the sony is best for the amature and the nikon is for the pro where it has all the stuff in a camera a pro will need.
the nikon uses sd flash cards for storage which is fast and no moving parts.
overall rating 5 of 5 value rating 5 of 5 used product for 3 months to 1 year visitors rate this review 4.86 of 5, 22 votes price paid: $1475.00 summary:
nikon makes a really good product overall rating 5 of 5 value rating 5 of 5 used product for more than 1 year visitors rate this review 4.82 of 5, 28 votes price paid: $660.00 from mifsuds summary:i've used it for over a year now, mainly for outdoor and wildlife photography, in the uk, the falklands, and antarctica, and it's hardly ever fallen short.
the lens is very good.
weaknesses:since i am not a hard core professional neither i am able to find any weakness nor any faults with the d90 similar products used:early days i had used rolliechord, rollieflex, (twin lens reflex), canon ae1 slr & olympus om2 slr customer service:i am in india & when i visited my son in australia bought me the d90 in melbourne in may 2010.
batteries are another issue.
technology has come a very long way.
pictures are sharp as a razor and color is more than perfect.
the nikon is totally manual as were the 35 mm cameras if you choose as well as manual.
nikon has burst also so both work fine.
haven't sent any nikon pics to the printer, but i have a very high end printer so they should come out better than kodak right here in the house.
overall rating 5 of 5 value rating 5 of 5 used product for less than 1 month visitors rate this review 3.86 of 5, 35 votes price paid: $1089.00 from camerta summary:the nikon d90 camera is the best one i have ever bought and have had some very high end stuff in my life.
for more professional, accurate and detailed shots the nikon takes that one.
i don't see any advantage on editing raw format for the jpg editors that are out there.
as far as i am  concerned it is very high quality, it's got the lamborgani power & rolls  royce smoothness.
the nikon needs several buttons to start the movie and they are on the back of the camera making manipulation of movie start and stop a chore that could easily, way too easily mess up start and stop portion of the movie.
the nikon offers a huge variety of lenses, the sony has the built in plus a few external filter thread screw on aux lenses which work fine for the amature photog, the pro of course would frown deeply at that and dive for the nikon.
summary:i am a new photographer and i had done alot of reasearch an both canon and nikon
overall rating 5 of 5 value rating 5 of 5 used product for 1 to 3 months visitors rate this review 4.38 of 5, 21 votes price paid: $899.00 from primo camera
not too heavy and is pretty well made.