the  essentials are scope, camera, adapter and cable release, if you are serious  about digiscoping there is really no point in using a camera hand held to the  eyepiece.
digiscoping via digital slr cameras which one is the better fit for you 0 0.0 (0)
i have also used a manfrotto car clamp for digiscoping from my car with some success.
of course digiscoping is possible with a dslr and these cameras certainly will capture and write raw files very quickly.
what sort of digiscoping  equipment you would buy?
its  always best to keep everything low down to avoid shake especially in the wind,  crouch down and use the tripod without the legs extended, or use the old trick  of hanging you kit bag (or anything with a bit of weight to it) from the tripod  to keep it rooted to the ground.
do you use alternative heads for your pods?
i do use both dslr and  digiscoping for bird and wildlife photography though rarely together, there is  only so much kit i can carry around at one time.
stonechat - digiscoped with canon a95 on swarovski st80hd good detail is visible in the feathers here.
of course digiscoping is possible with a dslr and  these cameras certainly will capture and write raw files very quickly.
pretty soon it will be one in ten and so on.
it is often necessary to tweak digiscoped images a little, brightening them up and using a little sharpening is normal.
there are rarely situations where i feel i need to use any other method.
white birds like egrets and gulls are very difficult to expose for correctly on a sunny day in harsh sunlight, getting detail rather than blown out white areas of reflection with no detail is difficult.
other p&s cameras may now be faster at writing raw files, i certainly hope so.
its also available used for around £100 now.
the high definition glass in this and other scopes is likely to produce the best result with digiscoping.
i  always seem to prefer images out of a canon camera.
but a dslr and a good macro lens can transport you into a new world you'll discover on your hands and knees.
pretty soon it will be  one in ten and so on.
good  detail is visible in the feathers here.
results can be good but for me it took a  lot more effort than with the usual methods and cameras.
st80hd scope using tube style adapter canon a95 connected to swarovski
but you could look at other well respected and more expensive digiscoping cameras like the nikon coolpix 8400 and the nwere p5000 which i have already mentioned.
as with any photography the main factors we battle against are weather conditions.
11- there are many digital cameras that are suitable for digiscoping  but don't have raw output.
luckily i have come to i point where i have exactly what i want from a  digiscoping setup.
jpgs don't let you to adjust your photos like it was in capture time, how do you deal with that?
photoshop is brilliant and may well come with your camera, the elements  version has most of what you need.
i keep the f-number  low and leave the camera to give the highest shutter speed available.
digiscoping with a dslr is possible though my experience is that you need  far more light than with the usual p&s style cameras, this can be overcome  to an extent by using higher iso settings and noise levels at higher iso's are  getting lower with every new camera.
having said that this  camera has everything most people would want from a digiscoping camera.
copyright © richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk from left to right is a canon powershott a95 with a standard cable release mounted over the shutter button using a bracket.
i have a couple of step rings that change the thread size from 28mm to 37mm or 52mm this way i can fit it to most digital cameras that have a filter thread.
this feature would be nice in a digiscoping camera and is available on only a few cameras that are digiscoping friendly.
we believe you are a professional in what you do, let us know more about you.
other scopes from  swarovski, leica, zeiss and other manufactures will give good results.
on a low budget, the canon a95 is available at around £100 used; an  adapter and mechanical cable release could be another £100.
i also own a nikon coolpix p5000, which has some nice features over the a95 such as 10 million pixels, a nice big clear screen and vibration reduction (vr) built in.
you can often get close enough for a good image  and still be at a distance where they are comfortable to continue feeding  singing or whatever.
but a dslr and a good macro lens can transport you into  a new world you'll discover on your hands and knees.
i may set up  a hide or attempt to go for a specific picture or subject.
i got into digiscoping 7 years ago and dslr photography quickly afterwards.
i have  a couple of step rings that change the thread size from 28mm to 37mm or 52mm  this way i can fit it to most digital cameras that have a filter thread.
practice, its as simple as that, i have spent many, many hours in the field  looking for subjects, playing with setting and photographing anything that  gives you the chance to get close enough to it.
do you change your metering often or you stay  loyal to one metering mode?
i often found that i could hold the shutter release like a trigger under my thumb and move the scope around with the same hand, while focusing the scope with the other, only possible because of the arrangement of the setup.
practice, its as simple as that, i have spent many, many hours in the field looking for subjects, playing with setting and photographing anything that gives you the chance to get close enough to it.
i also use a sliding plate made by swarovski to fit on manfrotto heads.
flight photography is not something i have  done a lot of, but is a challenge i am looking forward to getting my teeth  into.
those that if one lacks, it'll be hardly possible to produce  quality photos.
|for digiscoping the first time a saw images from andy bright these were the ones that inspired me to explore this area of bird photography, i don't think he does a lot of digiscoping now, these days he is an excellent dslr photographer.
digiscoping birds in flight with the digiscoping gear i have is near impossible, there are a few chances of course like a hovering kestrel which may stay still long enough for a shot, and those that are experimenting with dslr digiscoping are managing flight shot as well.
13- what do you think has made your photos superb, your proficiency,  your talent, or your equipment?
mine is  on older swarovski model but still highly regarded amongst digiscopers.
hare - digiscoped with a nikon coolpix 8400 copyright © richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk
i have been  interested in nature all my life and photography for much of it.
stonechat - digiscoped with canon a95 on swarovski st80hd
depth of field (dof) is minimal with digiscoping, which makes focusing crucial, and the high magnifications involved mean that freezing the movement of both of the bird and setup in very important.
there is a large range  now of digital point and shoot style cameras that are suitable fordigiscoping our featured photographer of this month is richard ford from  www.digitalwildlife.co.uk.
do you use a monopod as well?
many scopes are available and work well for digiscoping my personal choice  is a swarovski st 80hd
if true  then what models and brands works for you?
you won't just wake up one  morning with the skills you require it takes time.
there is also less to go wrong.
i use a tube style adapter that is made for the eyepiece and has three  plastic screws to lock it in place.
11- there are many digital cameras that are suitable for digiscoping but don't have raw output.
unfortunately the perfect digiscoping camera doesn't exist as there aren't any specifically designed for the purpose.
do you change your metering often or you stay loyal to one metering mode?for digiscoping i generally use the aperture priority mode, and keep the f-number as low as possible typically below f5.6.
i produces sharp images to the point that if used correctly you can see detail in the feather barbs of the birds you are photographing.
digiscoping is a high  power form of photography, which i think is best used in a casual manner.
that's what i love about this hobby, there is always a new avenue to explore, and always something to photograph, be it in your garden at a local nature reserve or abroad.
how often do  you change eyepieces for different cases?
i have taken a lot of macro images over the last couple of years, some thing that many of the digiscoping cameras can manage quite well, the coolpix 4500 if a well-respected camera in this respect.
are you planning for an upgrade?
what sort of digiscoping equipment you would buy?
hare - digiscoped with a nikon coolpix 8400 copyright ©  richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk
13- what do you think has made your photos superb, your proficiency, your talent, or your equipment?
for digiscoping i generally use  the aperture priority mode, and keep the f-number as low as possible typically  below f5.6.
if you are interested in macro photography and want to know the best macro lens, read our macro and close up photography on opendp and leave us feedback.
3- what adapters do you use with your digiscope set?
9- what type of accessories are a must to have on the field when you are out for digiscoping?
i honestly think the canon powershott a95 is the best digiscoping camera i have use.
how about using a dslr camera with a digiscoping?i do use both dslr and digiscoping for bird and wildlife photography though rarely together, there is only so much kit i can carry around at one time.
in this  way it's possible to use the car as i hide and get even closer to your subject.
shades and magnifier held you to see the screen and are useful on sunny days and help accurately focus.
how about using  a dslr camera with a digiscoping?
above all the images are sharp when focused correctly and at iso50  (another feature not available on many other cameras) there is very little  noise.
i have plenty of pictures of trees and water with specs you can just about make out as birds from my film slr days.
results can be good but for me it took a lot more effort than with the usual methods and cameras.
the top end swarovski, leica and zeiss scopes with high definition glass, are around the £1000 mark and will all do a good job, which you use is probably a matter of personal preference.
this picture shoes a complete setup mounted on a 128rc manfrotto head using a swarovski sliding plate to move the center of gravity of the setup and keep it balenced.
we believe you are a  professional in what you do, let us know more about you.
i have only used one camera for digiscoping that would capture raw files, the nikon coolpix 8400 and it was painfully slow at writing them to the card.
what software you use and how  they help you to improve your artwork?
however sometime birds are very difficult to find in bunches or  on the sea where there are no markers.
copyright © richard ford -  www.digitalwildlife.co.uk
what  if he is on a tight budget?
please give us your reasons why you've chosen this equipment and not other brands that come close to yours.
many variations on the theme are  available now from companies that specialize in this sort of equipment.
canon filter adapter ladc52d attached to the camera giving a 52mm female thread, attached to this via a male 52mm thread, a tube style adapter fitted over the swarovski 20-60x eyepiece and sucured with one plastic screw, swarovski st80hd.
i would take out the digiscoping setup and walk around a nature reserve taking advantage of whatever subjects are available, you don't need to get as close so you don't need to worry so much about field craft and being conspicuous to your subjects.
all of my supports are made by manfrotto, i use the  fairly basic and freely available 128rc head on a standard tripod similar to  the manfrotto 190v for digiscoping.
look at and try before you buy, if you can, ask other  digiscopers/birders you see what they are using, and if you can have a look  through there scopes, most are happy to help.
in which situations you would use which set-up for wildlife and  bird photography; digiscoping or dslr?
luckily i have come to i point where i have exactly what i want from a digiscoping setup.
i use a monopod for dslr telephoto photography and find it invaluable.
i also own a nikon coolpix p5000, which has some nice features over the  a95 such as 10 million pixels, a nice big clear screen and vibration reduction  (vr) built in.
if yes  then let us know in what condition you prefer monopod over tripod?
on a low budget, the canon a95 is available at around £100 used; an adapter and mechanical cable release could be another £100.
or a combination of all?
those that if one lacks, it'll be hardly possible to produce quality photos.
mine is on older swarovski model but still highly regarded amongst digiscopers.
i have plenty  of pictures of trees and water with specs you can just about make out as birds  from my film slr days.
what are those items that one should bring with her in order to take quality photos and not to miss a scene?the essentials are scope, camera, adapter and cable release, if you are serious about digiscoping there is really no point in using a camera hand held to the eyepiece.
swarovski eyepiece, but often stay faithful to the 20-60x eyepiece which is very good.
how often do you use post processing?
i have taken a  lot of macro images over the last couple of years, some thing that many of the  digiscoping cameras can manage quite well, the coolpix 4500 if a well-respected  camera in this respect.
8- what is your best offer for a beginner if he wants to gather his/her  first set of digiscoping equipment for birds?
i use a  monopod for dslr telephoto photography and find it invaluable.
please name the whole set.
there are some interesting developments happening in this area though with high magnification digiscoped flight shots becoming achievable.
if you're anything like me  you will enjoy the challenge.
shades and magnifier held you to see the  screen and are useful on sunny days and help accurately focus.
i am not a professional but do sell images quite regularly for various uses and publication.
various other  accessories are available for digiscopers, such as monitor shades and  magnifiers, and locating sights.
this interview is a great resource  for those stuck wether tobuy digiscoping gear for those long  shots or stick with dslr cameras for wildlife and outdoor photography.
you can visit richard's artwork at  his websitedigital photography of british wildlife.
hoopoe digiscoped using a canon a95 copyright © richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk
do you use both dslr and digiscoping on the field?
there are  rarely situations where i feel i need to use any other method.
have look at different tripod heads too if you can, because you will often  find that you need three hands.
copyright © richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk from left to right is a canon powershott a95 with a standard cable release  mounted over the shutter button using a bracket.
how long you've been  in to this, what are your favorite books and photographers and what camera you  started with at the very beginning.
having said that this camera has everything most people would want from a digiscoping camera.
its often useful to take quick burst of jpg images however, rather than one every 2-3 seconds if you are lucky, which was the experience i had with the nikon 8400.
digiscoping with a dslr is possible though my experience is that you need far more light than with the usual p&s style cameras, this can be overcome to an extent by using higher iso settings and noise levels at higher iso's are getting lower with every new camera.
if true please let us know why and your brand of choice?all of my supports are made by manfrotto, i use the fairly basic and freely available 128rc head on a standard tripod similar to the manfrotto 190v for digiscoping.
your artworks  are mostly related to wildlife photography, macro and specially birds.
the chances are you will get used to yours and find a way to do something  similar.
you can often get close enough for a good image and still be at a distance where they are comfortable to continue feeding singing or whatever.
this picture shoes a complete setup mounted on a 128rc manfrotto head  using a swarovski sliding plate to move the center of gravity of the setup and  keep it balenced.
8- what is your best offer for a beginner if he wants to gather his/her first set of digiscoping equipment for birds?
if you use multiple scopes/cameras on the field can you explain why  you chose one over another in different cases?
the chances are you will get used to yours and find a way to do something similar.
starling digiscoped using a nikon coolpix p5000 copyright © richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk 15.
i have no plans to change my scope, but am always on the  lookout for cameras that may have something else to offer.
i use a tube style adapter that is made for the eyepiece and has three plastic screws to lock it in place.
a dull windy day makes it very difficult to get enough light for a fast shutter speed and if the setup is moving around in the wind digiscoping is next to impossible.
5- if there was no limit on your budget then
if you are using  multiple scopes and digital cameras can you give us the purpose of each and  which one works best in what condition for you?
i have been interested in nature all my life and photography for much of it.
for now at least i will be sticking with my p&s style cameras for digiscoping.
the high definition glass in this and other scopes is  likely to produce the best result with digiscoping.
to reduce camera shake three things are a  must, in many cases the cause of blurred images when digiscoping is the result  of camera shake rather than poor focusing.
look at he kowa and opticron range of scopes, there are second hand models around very cheap perhaps just a few hundred pounds, and they produce good results.
it also gives flexibility for framing as you can zoom in and out using the eyepiece as well as the camera, though i rarely use it above 20x as the more magnification you use the more light you need or to put it another way the lower you shutter speed will need to be for the correct exposure.
nuthatch taken using a canon 350d dslr and a canon 100-400mm from a hide at a feeding station.
if you use multiple scopes/cameras on the field can you explain why you chose one over another in different cases?
to reduce camera shake three things are a must, in many cases the cause of blurred images when digiscoping is the result of camera shake rather than poor focusing.
practice is the key, get out there and take pictures loads of picture.
4- what is your favorite tripod?
i also use a sliding plate made by  swarovski to fit on manfrotto heads.
12- can you give us the major techniques that one should use with the  digiscope's digital camera set on the field to able to produce robust images  like yours?
look at and try before you buy, if you can, ask other digiscopers/birders you see what they are using, and if you can have a look through there scopes, most are happy to help.
canon filter adapter ladc52d  attached to the camera giving a 52mm female thread, attached to this via a male  52mm thread, a tube style adapter fitted over the swarovski 20-60x eyepiece and  sucured with one plastic screw, swarovski st80hd.
st80hd scope using tube style adapter canon a95 connected to  swarovski
|for digiscoping the first time a saw  images from andy bright these were the ones that inspired me to explore this  area of bird photography, i don't think he does a lot of digiscoping now, these  days he is an excellent dslr photographer.
i always seem to prefer images out of a canon camera.
now what  scope do you use?
swarovski eyepiece, but often stay faithful to the 20-60x  eyepiece which is very good.
2- do you use digital camera for digiscoping or 35mm or both?
for general wildlife photographers how could you not think of andy rouse, just do and internet search or buy any of his books i have found his case studies particularly useful.
unfortunately the  perfect digiscoping camera doesn't exist as there aren't any specifically  designed for the purpose.
one to focus the scope one to hold the handle  of the tripod head and follow the bird of compose the shot and another to press  the button.
this sites the scope further forward on the head counterbalancing the wait  of a camera on the back end and helps to stop the whole setup being off  balance, it also has a shallow grove that the scope sits in and stops it  twisting around on the tripod, which suits my style of carrying the whole setup  around on my shoulder.
electronic cable releases are available for some models, i have always got on fine with an old mechanical cable release that simple depresses the button and is mounted on a bracket.
for a tripod look for something  sturdy but also bear in mind that these setups can be heavy especially if  carried around for long periods, some new tripods are light and made of carbon  fiber, which may just save you some back pain.
i have used a digiscoping setup to photograph many animals from mammals like deer and hare to insects like dragonflies copyright © richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk my first digital camera was a nikon coolpix 4500 for digiscoping, though i had played around with a borrowed digital camera (i honestly can't remember what it was) for some time before that.
they say digiscoping is a weak practice when flight photography and  avian subjects comes into account, how do you overcome this issue and what are  your suggestions?
digiscoped with canon
for now at least i  will be sticking with my p&s style cameras for digiscoping.
i have also used  a manfrotto car clamp for digiscoping from my car with some success.
above all the images are sharp when focused correctly and at iso50 (another feature not available on many other cameras) there is very little noise.
however sometime birds are very difficult to find in bunches or on the sea where there are no markers.
electronic cable releases are available for some models, i have always got  on fine with an old mechanical cable release that simple depresses the button  and is mounted on a bracket.
many scopes are available and work well for digiscoping my personal choice is a swarovski st 80hd
12- can you give us the major techniques that one should use with the digiscope's digital camera set on the field to able to produce robust images like yours?
if yes then let us know in what condition you prefer monopod over tripod?
i was missing to many shots  and reverted to jpg.
you must use an adapter to firmly connect the camera to the scope, you must use a cable release to reduce movement and you must use a sturdy tripod.
there is a large range now of digital point and shoot style cameras that  are suitable for digiscoping i have used several models mostly canon and the  nikon coolpix range, currently i have a canon powershott a95 which for me is  the benchmark for all other digiscoping cameras.
i often found that i could hold the shutter release like a trigger  under my thumb and move the scope around with the same hand, while focusing the  scope with the other, only possible because of the arrangement of the setup.
if you're anything like me you will enjoy the challenge.
depth of field (dof) is minimal with digiscoping, which makes  focusing crucial, and the high magnifications involved mean that freezing the  movement of both of the bird and setup in very important.
really however this is the domain of the dslr and a telephoto lens.
9- what type of accessories are a must to have on the field when you  are out for digiscoping?
i would take out the digiscoping setup and walk around a nature reserve  taking advantage of whatever subjects are available, you don't need to get as  close so you don't need to worry so much about field craft and being  conspicuous to your subjects.
a monopod but be no good for digiscoping as the magnification involved is to high for this style of support the setup always needs to be kept rock steady, this is essentially when digiscoping.
i have no plans to change my scope, but am always on the lookout for cameras that may have something else to offer.
vignetting (dark corners to the image caused by the eyepiece, a sort of keyhole effect) disappears with the 20-60x eyepiece after just a few clicks on the camera zoom.
what software you use and how they help you to improve your artwork?
user reviews there are no user reviews for this listing.
what if he is on a tight budget?
a95 digiscoping can by used for general wildlife photography as well as birds.
personally i  have never felt the need for a locating site as i prefer to rely on my hand eye  coordination.
personally i have never felt the need for a locating site as i prefer to rely on my hand eye coordination.
this feature would be nice in a digiscoping camera and is available on only a  few cameras that are digiscoping friendly.
are you planning for an  upgrade?
look at he  kowa and opticron range of scopes, there are second hand models around very  cheap perhaps just a few hundred pounds, and they produce good results.
one of the best bird photographers  of today to my mind is nigel blake his owl photography is just stunning and  involves time, skill and a knowledge of your subject that he has perfected.
there are some  interesting developments happening in this area though with high magnification  digiscoped flight shots becoming achievable.
how often do you change eyepieces for different cases?
copyright © richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk
i was missing to many shots and reverted to jpg.
i honestly think the canon powershott a95 is the best  digiscoping camera i have use.
your artworks are mostly related to wildlife photography, macro and specially birds.
now what scope do you use?
its often useful to take quick burst  of jpg images however, rather than one every 2-3 seconds if you are lucky,  which was the experience i had with the nikon 8400.
various other accessories are available for digiscopers, such as monitor shades and magnifiers, and locating sights.
i keep the f-number low and leave the camera to give the highest shutter speed available.
certain good equipment helps but excellent pictures can  come from the cheapest of cameras, photography is much more about technique and  patience both with yourself and your subjects.
vignetting (dark corners to  the image caused by the eyepiece, a sort of keyhole effect) disappears with the  20-60x eyepiece after just a few clicks on the camera zoom.
the new swarovski eyepieces can be used with this older scope, i own and use the new 30x wd (wide angle)
photoshop is brilliant and may well come with your camera, the elements version has most of what you need.
there is a large range now of digital point and shoot style cameras that are suitable for digiscoping i have used several models mostly canon and the nikon coolpix range, currently i have a canon powershott a95 which for me is the benchmark for all other digiscoping cameras.
as with any photography the main factors we battle against are weather  conditions.
the best chance to digiscope warblers is when they are singing, this is  about the only time they stay still enough.
6- what is the most difficult situation in digiscoping of birds and wildlife?
i only use one screw since then it can be easily removed to use the scope for viewing.
1- we believe that your area of specialty is digiscoping.
but you could look at  other well respected and more expensive digiscoping cameras like the nikon  coolpix 8400 and the nwere p5000 which i have already mentioned.
to my knowledge there is yet to be a book published on digiscoping, but  there are plenty of websites with useful information and forums with friendly  likeminded memberswww.birdforum.net  is probably the best.
please  advice for both conditions.
nuthatch taken using a canon 350d dslr and a canon 100-400mm from  a hide at a feeding station.
it also gives flexibility for framing as you can zoom in and out using the  eyepiece as well as the camera, though i rarely use it above 20x as the more  magnification you use the more light you need or to put it another way the  lower you shutter speed will need to be for the correct exposure.
is there any book you might want to  suggest to beginners and pros alike in this field?
have look at different tripod heads too if you can, because you will often find that you need three hands.
a basic manfrotto tripod and head will coast about £200 but can be picked up second hand and other cheaper makes will do the job, a sturdy tripod is very important though, there is not point spending large sums on equipment if you are going to put it on a cheap wobbly tripod.
do you use  alternative heads for your pods?
and what if he is not on a tight budget?
i have only used one camera for digiscoping that would capture raw files,  the nikon coolpix 8400 and it was painfully slow at writing them to the card.
a basic  manfrotto tripod and head will coast about £200 but can be picked up  second hand and other cheaper makes will do the job, a sturdy tripod is very  important though, there is not point spending large sums on equipment if you  are going to put it on a cheap wobbly tripod.
6- what is the most difficult situation in digiscoping of birds and  wildlife?
not only he is a pro digiscoping enthusiast but also an avid dslr photographer.
for a tripod look for something sturdy but also bear in mind that these setups can be heavy especially if carried around for long periods, some new tripods are light and made of carbon fiber, which may just save you some back pain.
its always best to keep everything low down to avoid shake especially in the wind, crouch down and use the tripod without the legs extended, or use the old trick of hanging you kit bag (or anything with a bit of weight to it) from the tripod to keep it rooted to the ground.
i am not a professional but do  sell images quite regularly for various uses and publication.
many variations on the theme are available now from companies that specialize in this sort of equipment.
one of the best bird photographers of today to my mind is nigel blake his owl photography is just stunning and involves time, skill and a knowledge of your subject that he has perfected.
i only use one screw since then it can be  easily removed to use the scope for viewing.
what are those items that one should bring with her in  order to take quality photos and not to miss a scene?
our featured photographer of this month is richard ford from www.digitalwildlife.co.uk.
you must use an adapter to firmly  connect the camera to the scope, you must use a cable release to reduce  movement and you must use a sturdy tripod.
please give us your reasons why you've  chosen this equipment and not other brands that come close to yours.
for  general wildlife photographers how could you not think of andy rouse, just do  and internet search or buy any of his books i have found his case studies  particularly useful.
if money is no object i would still go for canon a95
the top end  swarovski, leica and zeiss scopes with high definition glass, are around the  £1000 mark and will all do a good job, which you use is probably a matter  of personal preference.
really however this is the domain  of the dslr and a telephoto lens.
this sites the scope further forward on the head counterbalancing the wait of a camera on the back end and helps to stop the whole setup being off balance, it also has a shallow grove that the scope sits in and stops it twisting around on the tripod, which suits my style of carrying the whole setup around on my shoulder.
other scopes from swarovski, leica, zeiss and other manufactures will give good results.
digiscoping birds in flight with the digiscoping gear i have is near  impossible, there are a few chances of course like a hovering kestrel which may  stay still long enough for a shot, and those that are experimenting with dslr  digiscoping are managing flight shot as well.
if true then what models and brands works for you?
its easier to use  than many others and has a very useful flip out screen and a built in  magnifier.
in which situations you would use which set-up for wildlife and bird photography; digiscoping or dslr?digiscoping is a high power form of photography, which i think is best used in a casual manner.
you can visit richard's artwork at his websitedigital photography of british wildlife.
what about other wildlife scenes?
that's what i love about this hobby, there is always a new avenue to  explore, and always something to photograph, be it in your garden at a local  nature reserve or abroad.
it is often necessary to tweak digiscoped  images a little, brightening them up and using a little sharpening is normal.
i always have my eyes open for the next suitable camera available but at the moment there is nothing that has tempted me to change either of the two mentioned.
there is something i don't like about the representation of  colour in this camera and other nikon p&s (point and shot) cameras.
i think dslr photography takes more planning.
i always have my eyes open for the next suitable camera available but at  the moment there is nothing that has tempted me to change either of the two  mentioned.
other p&s cameras may now be faster at writing raw  files, i certainly hope so.
please advice for both conditions.
this interview is a great resource for those stuck wether tobuy digiscoping gear for those long shots or stick with dslr cameras for wildlife and outdoor photography.
please name the whole equipment and brands.
they say digiscoping is a weak practice when flight photography and avian subjects comes into account, how do you overcome this issue and what are your suggestions?
the new  swarovski eyepieces can be used with this older scope, i own and use the new  30x wd (wide angle)
in this way it's possible to use the car as i hide and get even closer to your subject.
i have used a digiscoping setup to photograph many animals from mammals  like deer and hare to insects like dragonflies copyright © richard ford - www.digitalwildlife.co.uk my first digital camera was a nikon coolpix 4500 for digiscoping, though i  had played around with a borrowed digital camera (i honestly can't remember  what it was) for some time before that.
how long you've been in to this, what are your favorite books and photographers and what camera you started with at the very beginning.
is there any book you might want to suggest to beginners and pros alike in this field?
if you are using multiple scopes and digital cameras can you give us the purpose of each and which one works best in what condition for you?
a monopod but be no good for digiscoping as the  magnification involved is to high for this style of support the setup always  needs to be kept rock steady, this is essentially when digiscoping.
jpgs don't let you to adjust your photos like it was  in capture time, how do you deal with that?
a dull windy day  makes it very difficult to get enough light for a fast shutter speed and if the  setup is moving around in the wind digiscoping is next to impossible.
7- what metering you use most of the time for digiscoping small birds?
white birds like egrets and gulls are very difficult to expose for  correctly on a sunny day in harsh sunlight, getting detail rather than blown  out white areas of reflection with no detail is difficult.
do you use different scopes for different scenarios?
you need more light with the 30x so staying at 20x will give you better shutter speeds for freezing movement.
its easier to use than many others and has a very useful flip out screen and a built in magnifier.
certain good equipment helps but excellent pictures can come from the cheapest of cameras, photography is much more about technique and patience both with yourself and your subjects.
you need more  light with the 30x so staying at 20x will give you better shutter speeds for  freezing movement.
i may set up a hide or attempt to go for a specific picture or subject.
the best chance to digiscope warblers is when they are singing, this is about the only time they stay still enough.
you won't just wake up one morning with the skills you require it takes time.
flight photography is not something i have done a lot of, but is a challenge i am looking forward to getting my teeth into.
i got into digiscoping 7 years ago and dslr photography  quickly afterwards.
to my knowledge there is yet to be a book published on digiscoping, but there are plenty of websites with useful information and forums with friendly likeminded memberswww.birdforum.net is probably the best.
i produces sharp images to the point that if  used correctly you can see detail in the feather barbs of the birds you are  photographing.
and how do you over come it?
one to focus the scope one to hold the handle of the tripod head and follow the bird of compose the shot and another to press the button.
at first you may find only one in hundred are any good.
if true please let us know why and your brand  of choice?
there is something i don't like about the representation of colour in this camera and other nikon p&s (point and shot) cameras.
a95 digiscoping can by used for general wildlife photography as well as  birds.