i hardly ever shoot raw.
for me the greater dof is an advantage.
leica - are you listening?
but a manual-focus “feature” buried somewhere in the electronics is simply not in the same league as a focus ring on the lens that can be set with a flick of the finger even before the camera is powered up.
i do realize i could somehow improve my technique and 'learn' to work the d2, however, there was just this nagging disappointment in this otherwise gorgeous camera.
and a leica is a leica, and i carry my leica around the same way i carry my rolex: with great pleasure, because i like it, and because i feel good ...and because i have the dough to afford it.
unfortunately, it removes a lot of fine detail as well.
these pictures show my personalized pair.
alas, it too is already showing signs of the metallic finish wearing  through to a very unattractive white underneath.
didn’t like being limited to one or two focal  lengths; didn’t like the parallax error; didn’t like the big lens  protuding into the viewfinder corner; didn’t like the extra bulk on top.
so while others are shooting at f2.8 (with a 17mm) at iso 400 the leica shoots at iso 200, or as the article suggests iso 100 and pulled a couple of stops with the lens no longer at open aperture.
the bokeh is quite  beautiful.
anthony brookes , september 30, 2004; 04:40 a.m. having looked at a number of cumbersome large digital cameras the prospect  of having one near m6 size with more conventional controls is attractive.
this is probably as good a place as any to say that i did not buy the  digilux 2 for the leica nameplate.
and in most cases, simply touching the shutter button will “clear” all menus/functions and take you directly back to shooting.
however, when you move from manual to af, the ring can easily be turned one more step to af-macro.
some digilux 2 images andy piper , august 19, 2004; 02:45 a.m. just thought i'd add an update re the focusing problems mentioned.
it is to say that this  camera is not up to the standards that we have come to expect of that great  company.
richard clark , january 11, 2007; 03:20 a.m.
i found an intersection where a building blocked my view of oncoming  cross-traffic, so that i couldn’t anticipate when a car would enter the  scene.
filters: a big blunder is offering a sophisticated and costly lens with bizarre  69mm filter threads and not even offer filters for sale at the time of the  camera's introduction.
but with its squared-off ends and large (69mm diameter) lens - it reminds me more of a canon 7 wearing the legendary 50mm f/0.95, or perhaps a nikon sp with a nikkor 50 f/1.1 mounted, especially if the nikkor and the vario-summicron have their massive lens shades attached.
the most basic shows you nothing but the image and the af ‘box’  - until you touch the shutter button, at which point the aperture and shutter  speed appear, along with a “match-needle” scale if you’re  setting exposure manually.
due to the meter’s habit of protecting the highlights, changing the contrast when using autoexposure has the effect of lightening or darkening the shadows - moving only the left end of the histogram.
i simply find that i am becoming more interested in  creating wider angled images and therefore want to explore beyond the field of  view provided with a 28mm lens.
adam s , june 07, 2004; 01:06 a.m. great review !!
in the image above, the bottom row shows straight exposures at iso  100/200/400.
the program mode can be biased  towards either fast shutter speeds/large apertures or slow shutter speeds/small  apertures by thumbing the serrated silver wheel on the camera back.
i love the 4:3 format and  despite the modest 5 mp resolution, no one has complained about the file size  since the quality of the lens and the spectacular quality of its jpeg  rendition.
in high continuous shooting mode, you subject will ask if you have taken  the picture yet while you've already grabbed a dozen shots (read that  somewhere).
compared to a dslr the  d2 is smaller, lighter, much quieter, more discrete, less attention getting.
the d2 lens is  worth a fortune in equivalent leica m glass.
does that lend some  credibility to this camera or are the dima judges just nincompoops?
darker skin tones are rendered in browns instead of purples.
these modes are set via the aperture ring and shutter dial.
press the  button again, and the base pops up another 60 degrees, pointing the flash at  the subject.
andy piper , march 09, 2005; 02:09 a.m. john's post regarding leica's financial position has several inaccuracies  that need correcting (it must be those almost-spring breezes off the santa  catalinas making him dizzy): "my june 6 2004 observation was correct...(june
overall a  very interested review and very well done ( i do review myself as well ) -
better than a videophone broadcast from baghdad.
i could wish for an 8mp sensor to capture more of the lens’s abilities.
the d2 is larger than camera a (your pick of p&s's), the ccd is smaller than camera b (dslr's), the megapixels are fewer than camera c (current crop of 8mp digicams), the evf is inferior to camera d (minolta a2).
like other tools, it is appropriate to use the d2 in  situations where it's strengths will be apparent.
anyone who has ever used a nikon f2 or canon f1 or pentax spotmatic (or - yes, a leica rangefinder) already knows where everything is and what it does.
to be honest...i have always been  mesmirised by the little red dot...so i have been doing some research and i  have managed to locate a mint unused digilux 1 and 2...there is
that does not mean i  won't buy this camera (wife's approval pending).
it’s jittery and grainy.
but on rare occasions (twice in 6 weeks) it has “forgotten” to do this.
since the true focal-length range is 7mm-22.5mm, depth of field is  extensive.
in the meantime for my travel, family, street  shooting the d2 is a much welcome relief from a dslr and big bag of lenses.
i discredit reviewers that negatively latch onto one or another feature and declare the camera a failure because of it.
and there’s a rather tacky  seam down the middle of the bottom plate.
"darn - i wish i'd had the digilux to shoot this with" is what usually springs to mind.
if leica sees fit to change the firmware and make the jpeg noise-reduction  “user-adjustable” - or if one works from raw originals - better  results may be possible.
this  camera fills a gap for me, and should be a good carry around camera for general  use.
but i am tired of holding cameras that feel like a plastic toy.
another reason why i shoot more or less everything on 120/220 film - there is no digital camera (yet) available which can beat roll film performance.
caucasian  skin tones in sunset light tend towards golden, not ruddy.
a  (your pick of p&s's), the ccd is smaller than camera b (dslr's), the  megapixels are fewer than camera c (current crop of 8mp digicams), the evf is  inferior to camera d (minolta a2).
my other comment is concerned with the camera's  small sensor and the resulting lack of dof control.
of course, sound has to be turned off.
it’s still ugly -  especially when sitting on the sofa and “fondling” the little  beast.
the actual blue channel looks like a  kodalith image of out-of-focus oatmeal - no fine details, no tonality.
it retains some of the classic look  of m cameras.
in my opinion this camera will probably not do well for the leica legend of excellence.
07:25 p.m. there is one flaw with the d2 which has not been discussed.
whilst the camera has many other impressive qualities, it is this first major drawback which compels me to hang on to my money.
but hey, if i feel good about my camera, i will be using it more and should statistically end up with more good shots :)
it just plain fits into my life much more compatibly than any dslr.
to many photographers owning a leica is worth the price.
i  hope to use the panasonic to do test shots to support the big fujis, and i  should be able to do less bracketing after going through a learning curve.
however, there is an innate charm to the lc1 (or digilux 2), with all the manual or auto controls you need in 3 rings around the lens, and the build quality is the most refined in any digital camera i have seen (dslrs included).
i don't know if the quatilly loss it  gives is a problem for professionals, but it solved my needs as an amateur...:-)
i've had my d2 for a couple of months now and it is definitely my  favourite 'real' digital rangefinder camera vs digital appliance.
when she was good, she was very very good - and when  she was bad, she was horrid.”
there’s a big difference between ‘apparently sharp” and really sharp.
- bottomline was that i was perhaps happy with just 5% of  the results, which is not what i would expect from such an expensive camera.
if you have a good name, you've got to keep it good.
still, it has a great  memory buffer and basically no lag time, even in raw mode.
the technical theorising concerned the speed and range of the lens, i.e. f/2 was faster than any other digicam offering and i was happy that the 28-90mm could provide a general purpose range for what might be termed as a 'normalised' field of view.
flash: built in bounce flash - who would have thunk it?
i tried it myself - and went back to just  using the built-in finder.
it will be interesting when the epson ships with a  real optical viewfinder and leica lens mount compatibility.
since my “push-processed” images from iso 100 to 400 worked pretty well, i also experimented with underexposing and “pushing” iso 400 images to higher eis.
to quote leica again: "sales of the leica compact cameras, among them the digital leica digilux 2 model, grew by 40.2 % to euros 13.7 million.
read on... guide to nikon ttl flashes cliff mautner wedding photography workshop expecting the unexpected latest equipment articles incase ari marcopoulos camera bag review back when i was in my late teens/early 20's and breaking into the  "extreme sports" photograph world, i first set my sights on being a  snowboard photographer.
since it is all digital anyways they should be able  to have digitally projected infinatly variable frame lines, and a digital range  finder "cam" system to go with the zoom.
and when i factor in the accessories and glass that i've accumulated, the nikon is no cheaper than the leica.
that’s 60 rolls of film - or $660 in film/processing costs.
i've been the second brazillian to get a digilux 2 in the  authorized leica dealer.
no other digicam has a lens this valuable and leica is renown for premium quality premium priced optics.
works very well except if subject is too close to fall under the bounced light.
peter smirnoff , june 04, 2004; 08:32 a.m. i quote: "...i wanted a digital camera that could do better than the 2700-ppi scans i was getting from iso 100/160 color negative films..." what a joke.
since april, i''ve taken 22000 (yes, twelve two tousend) photos and for sure it really paid for itself... peter bilitch , november 10, 2004; 03:20 a.m.
they should  have built a camera with a built in lens that used an aps sized digital sensor  and a digital rangefinder.
otherwise, once the light drops below what f/2 and iso  400 can handle, it’s time for an f/1.4 lens - on an slr with a bigger  chip and less noise reduction, or a film rangefinder.
gives 28mm-80mm equivalent 3.5-5.6 (slow..but per above, so what?), and it works really well despite being.. er cheap.
got rid of my d200 with all the lenses, whew!
unless the camera comes equipped with user- or factory-upgradable sensors (now there's an idea), i am not sure if i would be willing to pay through the nose for such a "durable" camera.
but i can wait till the next model comes out.
i use three fuji medium format manual cameras, and i hope this digital will be a perfect companion to them.
the lens is very sharp, has crisp edge definition, and does a superb job of separating and defining colors and tones.
had it been a panasonic i would have paid a substantial sum for a re-do which would not have been covered by insurance.
it’s also  possible to resize and crop images, set up dpof info for requesting prints from  a mini-lab, play slide shows and video, and some other stuff - none of which i  use.
i wouldn’t swear to any part of the body being metal, although some controls probably are.
: total time to turn on the camera, turn on “manual  focus” and set 6 feet on the lcd readout - 5 seconds on the g5: total time to turn on the camera, turn on “manual  focus” and set 6 feet on the lcd’s “thermometer” focus  scale - 6-7 seconds not to pick on the canon and sony, which do pretty well as digicams go.
however, i found the camera incredibly easy to work with, and the photos were  clearly better than any i've ever taken with my nikon.
this review has added many many new points about the d2 not mentioned previously and is a significant contribution to our understanding of this camera.
the  iso 100 image quality is extremely good - challenging the results from film  scans with twice as many pixels due to the lens’s outstanding resolution.
jpeg files are actually  monochrome rgbs, not grayscale.
even at iso 400 the b&w .jpg's look quite good and seem to me to have less noise than color .jpg's.
at iso 100 the images are very smooth and clean - not quite as sharp as velvia, but a good match for the average 35mm 100 slide film.
well, this was my first experience with leica and not a very memorable one at that.
thanks - i learnt something today!!
" leica suffered a 35% decline in income from sales of its interchangeable-lens ("system") 35mm film cameras, i.e. the m and r lines.
the iq quality is very close to the film, also the operation is good, few  weakness, but as old says "if i can live with it".
anybody who tells you that their dslr takes better photos than the  leica/panasonic has never compared the results.
the lcd gives me the opportunity to see the picture before it is taken and that is something marvellous.
the downside: at the long end, the v-s is barely a portrait lens - a “long” normal.
so you might save by  buying cheap in the first place, but will end up paying for it in the end!
i bought the d2 in april and it paid for itself (2 times over) the first  job i used it on.
looks great on the bluish lcd when reviewing pictures, but too yellow once the pictures are loaded into photoshop.
personally, i love wide (my main film lens is a 21mm) - so i found this a  pleasant surprise.
-dave- jim koral , june 17, 2004;
or at least the option to choose for myself.
the focal lengths are accurate if you crop the digilux’s 4:3 “ideal” format to the shape of a 35mm frame.
i discredit reviewers that negatively latch  onto one or another feature and declare the camera a failure because of it.
but i found that while not great it really wasn't that bad.
leica followed this design in all later models and although modern lenses could not be collapsed, the design reminded functional and the styling great.
leica will not sell many.
the most startling thing about digital color is that, properly white balanced, it is remarkably clean and free from color casts compared to chemical imaging/scanning.
it does slightly reduce the stretching of faces and  heads into football shapes (american football - rugby-ball elsewhere) near the  corners, so it’s a mild plus in “people” pictures.)
this means that if you shoot as soon as you see the green dot, you may be  shooting an unfocused picture.
that said, in my opinion the d2 has been of great value to me.
i had seen examples of this before i bought the camera, but the vast  majority of images posted, whether on the forums or on website reviews, were  shot with the ccd exposure rated at 100 iso, so i incorrectly assumed that the  f/2 lens overcame the need for such a frequent use of higher iso rates.
leica m's don't compete on price alone.
i also  compared the images and musings visible on the forums for the various 8  megapixel offerings, such as the minolta a2, the olympus c-8080 and the canon  powershot pro1.
i own and believe i know how to use autofocus cameras.
the camera is still much happier with full-spectrum light (daylight, flash or blue photofloods).
i'm glad i bought the olympus c-8080.
nothing like it anywhere.
i bought it for the straightforward analog  controls.
at iso 100 the images are very smooth and clean - not quite as sharp as  velvia, but a good match for the average 35mm 100 slide film.
s g , july 12, 2004; 09:22 a.m. very helpful review by andy.
i can't put my  finger on it but it's there.
for me, there are three issues with the d2: 1) auto-macro mode on lens.
brian edwards , february 19, 2005; 06:32 p.m. i wonder who would be willing to pay for a camera body that will last for  50 years but whose technology (i.e., sensor) will be essentially obsolete in  one or two years.
and does lots photos for commercial work, like print out on the large wall...
unless the camera comes equipped with user- or  factory-upgradable sensors (now there's an idea), i am not sure if i would be  willing to pay through the nose for such a "durable" camera.
the big-light-high  definition-etc lcd screen.
comparing a “b&w” shot of a gretag colorchecker to a color image converted via the channel-mixer, the camera’s internal channel-mix is roughly red 35%/green 55%/blue 10%.
david kieltyka , june 16, 2004; 10:14 p.m.
"making junk and hoping the good name will obfuscate that its junk  just doesn't work in the technology world.
the iso 400 images are the best in its size class.
300 pounds  difference between the two...iam familiar with the 1 and think that it takes  good shots at 100asa...
no pc outlet -  you’d need some kind of adapter (radio, slave) for work with studio  strobes.
i could wish for an alternative to the video viewfinder, so long as it  retained the manual focusing, silence, and accurate framing.
focus/zoom feel - not as  silky smooth as i'd like and a little lightwieght for my taste.
i would have been better off with a $50 p&s camera in those cases.
the traffic was moving at 20 mph (i  drove the street 3 times to check this) - which is 30 feet per second.
as an operating tool in the hand, the digilux 2 is almost exactly what i  wanted in a digital camera.
but for me,  it's all about the photos.
the leica digilux 2 - a review most popular lenses popular articles nikon j1 review photo.net nikon editor shun cheung reviews the new nikon j1 camera system.
sort of like a parent calling the kid at college and saying "we aren't sending another check until you tell us how you spent the last one."
in which case there is simply a viewfinder black-out of 1 second while  the camera starts to save the image.
since i don't use af much, i missed this potential problem in the original  review.
user manual: the panasonic lc1 manual is available for download on the web and is far more useful compared to the leica d2 manual http://im2.onecall.com/image_products/panasonic/dmclc1_man.pdf another interesting link: http://panasonic.co.jp/pavc/global/lumix/lc1/index.html d2 and m3: the m3 was, in 1954, a revolution in rangefinder camera design and ergonomics.
the leica m6s live on b&w and the once-a-year  roll of 400 color - the digilux gets the rest.
i did my best to really like this camera and even thought of holding on to  it, but in the very end i just could not convince myself to keep the camera.
blue lights bloom excessively in night exposures (see section below on night/time exposures) let’s make it simple.
if you change the  colour-management than you change automatically other settings or if you reduce  the noise it could be that the images will not have the typical leica  sharpness.
3) evf - enough  said!!
richard clark , october 07, 2008; 03:07 a.m. it was 11th january 2007 when i wrote about my love of the d2 . . . .
i’ve discovered that: 1) 4x really isn’t enough enlargement for most critical focusing, and 2) holding the shutter button down lightly will turn off the magnification temporarily to allow a quick check of overall framing anyway (a nice “undocumented” feature).
we wouldn't expect to use a clawhammer to remove an allenhead  screw, would we?
seamus phan , march 14, 2005; 12:59 p.m.
they'd sell a zillion d3s at 3x canon's price if they just managed to equal canon g6.
maybe some of the details of the film image are not visible on the web, but overall, having seen these comparison photos, i am asking myself why spending thousands of dollars for the leica m6 lenses if that digital camera can do it almost better.
i fell over with my digilux 2 (composing a shot, missed a step but got the shot in the end).
i have always enjoyed "limitations"  as the fuel for creativity (or - is there some other way i can get there?).
all of which gets you to the important thing - pushing the shutter release - in the shortest time possible.
this has great benefits for right-eyed photographers: you  don’t have to balance the camera on the tip of your nose (firmer  support), people can see your face while you’re shooting (a good way to  establish and maintain trust), and, in the case of the digilux, you  aren’t constantly planting nose-grease on the rear lcd.
like other tools, it is appropriate to use the d2 in situations where it's strengths will be apparent.
i love it and it really changed my way of  photographing.
as of this writing (late april 2004)
the analog controls, with each control handling one function, are very fast  and very transparent.
the viewfinder is electronic - a tv set behind an eyepiece.
don't know if it's the best that technology permits to be done, but is the best compared to any digital camera.
i would rather spend $600 on a  used canon eos d60 (which, from what i've just read and seen, outperforms this  camera by a mile) and then spend the difference in price choosing from the vast  array of fantastic eos lenses available.
plus my reaction time -
the zoom range became something of a limitation, but this was the lesser of any issues for me.
this, of course, is  due to handheld photography and varying light conditions; however, when i have  taken similar photos with a 35mm contax slr with 100 speed film, almost all  photos were tack sharp.
they all have a mechanical feel - though most obviously connect to electronics beneath the surface.
in the image above, the bottom row shows straight exposures at iso 100/200/400.
also, can you say  "steel me".
i would mention,  somewhat randomly, these verbose opinions: aethetics: the d2 is in my humble opinion the best looking camera ever.
since my “push-processed”  images from iso 100 to 400 worked pretty well, i also experimented with  underexposing and “pushing” iso 400 images to higher eis.
my shoulder loves it - my hands might wish for an ounce or two more heft at slow shutter speeds.
john thawley , february 05, 2009; 09:22 p.m. i'm head over heels about this camera.
i don't exactly see folks standing in line to buy the  company, and there's a reason for that..soon it might be much, much cheaper to  buy leica.. juan monino , may 23, 2005; 02:08 p.m.
great dof is good for some situation but it cripples the camera for others, when one needs bokeh and the 3d effects it creates.
my criteria for aesthetic concerns, were won over by the colour rendition  that i could see in the images i had seen.
auto, sunny, cloudy, tungsten,  electronic flash, manual - and black-and-white.
we are aware that noise is an issue so that we try more than our best to improve the technological and optical performance in future.”
the lens is a non-interchangeable 7mm-22.5mm f/2.0-2.4 vario-summicron zoom, equivalent to a 28mm-90mm zoom for 35mm film.
as a long time user of the leica m system, i knew going in that any leica camera would carry a premium price.
tri-x film, introduced 50 years ago in1954, has a grain size that is much more prominent than chromagenic films yet plenty of people like it and use it and refrain from bashing the grain level as unacceptable.
i wouldn’t swear to any part of the body  being metal, although some controls probably are.
for motion and action shots, the jpeg high works rather well, and the  pictures always retain that illusive and hard-to-explain leica quality.
i’ll just mention two other nice touches.
(has anyone ever built a camera that favors left-eyed photography? -  seems unfair).
gavin sterrett , december 24, 2004; 01:14
finally,  you can add a live histogram (brightness only, not colors) to the “las  vegas” view.
i've read the review twice now and can't imagine why anyone who  doesn't have money to burn would by such a hunk of junk.
when she was good, she was very very good - and when she was bad, she was horrid.”
banks  withold credit for a reason, and leica's ability to manage itself financially  have a poor track record.
i won’t go into all the possible menus that can be brought up on the screens - every possible control from setting the internal clock/calendar to choosing how many prints to order.
less grain than most 400 color negs i’ve scanned, a bit worse than provia 400f, especially in the shadows.
i weep trying to scan my few "legacy" color slides.
i would rather spend $600 on a used canon eos d60 (which, from what i've just read and seen, outperforms this camera by a mile) and then spend the difference in price choosing from the vast array of fantastic eos lenses available.
for me the major issues are quality in the optics rather than post-process correction and the simplicity/user-friendliness of the tool.
but a digilux raw file is 9.6  megabytes, so it fills that memory with one picture, requiring a pause after  every exposure.
i have the same  feeling with the digilux 2, but in a better way.
sharpness is a tiny bit lower, and the overall feel of grainless highlights and a touch of grain/noise in the shadows comes closest to chromogenic b&w films such as ilford xp2.
(pause while the “expose to the right” fans stop choking and get their hearts started again).
i didn't use any nd filters, use the raw to  save lots detail back from the sky and the shadow, the raw was very good at the  time, but the raw is better now in any cameras, but still good enough, i can  live with it and happy.
the digital zoom is okay for amateur use and can be used on some rare  occassions.
it is much easier to  visualize real-time b&w on the lcd screen compared to the dslr's  always-in-color viewfinder.
i decided upon the lc1 largely from reading the personal experiences of  people on the dpreview forums and seeing the images that they displayed.
as i started to use it, i got really impressed with some attributes and  disapointed with others.
using photoshop you can increase resolution to 5120x3852 pixels with minor losses.
another 2-3 months of shooting, and i’ll be able to slap a  “don’t laugh -
fast forward to 2007.
image quality depends from the  adjustments (colour, contrast, noise, sharpness).
i could obtain noise free images from exposures recorded by the ccd at iso  100, but everything else displayed a level of grain that i did not wish to see  and more to the point, was something that i never learned to accept.
making junk and hoping the good name will obfuscate that its junk just doesn't work in the technology world.
btw my german is fluent, i read the  company's financial report as well...
with its centered lens, it is  easier to hold, and much easier to hold steady, than the “l” shape  used for most other top-end digicams, because the left palm has a corner to  provide mutual support, instead of thin air.
andy piper , march 09, 2005; 02:09 a.m. john's post regarding leica's financial position has several inaccuracies that need correcting (it must be those almost-spring breezes off the santa catalinas making him dizzy): "my june 6 2004 observation was correct...(june
it doesn't have a usable  iso 1600 or available iso 6400 setting.
there's a sucker born every minute, not to mention two con men ready to take  advantage of him.
i did use the camera extensively for  the 2 weeks so here are my comments / observations: - the design is beautiful  and the camera just has a unique style to it - exposures for the most part were  fine, 90% of the time as i would want them to be although some results were  very disappointing - focus was the most disappointing for me, since of the more  than 200 or 300 photos i took, about 75% were not focussed.
reading a review that points both sides is a real pleasure.
that’s  60 rolls of film - or $660 in film/processing costs.
under lighting short in blue wavelengths - tungsten, fluorescent, sodium vapor - even when “white-balanced”, the blue channel develops large blobby noise, which shows up as an “underpainting” of yellow patches at all isos, but especially 400.
just served for picture identification while in play mode and framing when shooting.
the upper images were shot with the camera set to iso 100 but  underexposed 1 and 2 stops and lightened in photoshop.
strong points full set of manual/analog photographic controls - even the  “auto” settings are via dials, rings and levers.
the wonky blue channel shows its stuff.
leica, dudes: get with it.
to quote leica again: "sales of the leica compact cameras, among them  the digital leica digilux 2 model, grew by 40.2 % to euros 13.7 million.
on a trip, who want to carry a big backpack with a bunch of equipment (dslr and 2.8 lenses along with tripod that will support them both).
but there is occasionally a cyan-red patchiness (chrominance noise?) in dark grays or blue-green areas like architectural glass.
like others i sometimes find that the  focus ring slips from af to af-macro accidentally.
peter smirnoff , june 04, 2004; 08:32 a.m. i quote: "...i wanted a digital camera that could do better than the  2700-ppi scans i was getting from iso 100/160 color negative films..." what a joke.
before i bought the d70, i borrowed a coworker's panasonic lc1 for some quick photos i needed.
i don’t see much noise beyond the normal  amounts for iso 100 or 400 in an 8-second exposure - perhaps 50 specks out of 5  million pixels that might be under- or over-corrected hot pixels.
the program mode can be biased towards either fast shutter speeds/large apertures or slow shutter speeds/small apertures by thumbing the serrated silver wheel on the camera back.
you can get close to medium format results with stitching software.
the  d2 is not that much lighter, it is not that much smaller, and though the lens  is fast, a camera like the 10d can gain 2-3 stops simply by having useable iso  200, 400, 800, and sometimes 1600.. or 3200 in a pinch.
john falkenstine , march 07, 2005; 12:52 a.m. my june 6 2004 observation was correct "leica ist kaputt" now going into receivership as credit has been withdrawn from the company.
under lighting short in blue wavelengths - tungsten, fluorescent, sodium  vapor - even when “white-balanced”, the blue channel develops large  blobby noise, which shows up as an “underpainting” of yellow  patches at all isos, but especially 400.
all of the “photographic” controls (exposure, focus, focal length, metering pattern, etc.) are analog dials, rings and levers.
lens: it is simply unbeatable.
i wish that a third push of the evf/lcd button would turn both off to save power.
- after i’ve already nailed a dozen candid moments and expressions from 4 feet away.
i wanted a digital camera that could do better  than the 2700-ppi scans i was getting from iso 100/160 color negative films.
i know it depends on what you're using the camera  for, but for me, the digilux/lc1 works.
when using manual focus, the viewfinder can be set to magnify the center of the image when the focus ring is touched.
i generally work with sharpness set to “low” and the other two  set to “std.”
night shots speaking of tripods (which i normally use about once a year)
i do like being able to compose in b&w mode and still shoot colour  raw though.
evergreen trees are green, not brown or gray.
p.m. i find the most interesting part of the review is the fact that there is a tutorial on how to take acceptable iso 400 images (that circumvent the in-built shortcomings) with a 1300 uk pound camera.
ccd image sensor - bayer rgbg pattern 7mm-22.5mm f/2.0-2.4 zoom lens (35mm “equivalent”: 28-90mm)
graham welland , june 07, 2004; 04:55 a.m. thanks for a balanced review that actually gave me some valuable user advice (iso 400 shooting technique).
again, the logic of the analog controls comes into play.
just held my first exhibition in new zealand, leica photography.
they are the sam  camera, if there is any differences, but if you can't see the differences on  the iq, what's the point to care the "differences", i just love both  of them.
this business of dogging the d2 for its weaknesses is akin to saying that  my deardorff 8x10 is no good because it cannot be hand-held, or that a  hasselblad is no good because its lenses aren't as fast as a 35mm or dslr.
(having an f/2 aperture helps, of course).
so while  others are shooting at f2.8 (with a 17mm) at iso 400 the leica shoots at iso  200, or as the article suggests iso 100 and pulled a couple of stops with the  lens no longer at open aperture.
1) testing color rendition with the colorchecker, most colors are rendered quite well, but blues - especially dark “nylon sportswear” blues - and to a lesser extent, yellows, tend to hypersaturate.
it can't shoot real macro, or sports or vr zooms or 300mm f2.8 teles.
sharpness is a tiny bit lower, and the  overall feel of grainless highlights and a touch of grain/noise in the shadows  comes closest to chromogenic b&w films such as ilford xp2.
but a digilux raw file is 9.6 megabytes, so it fills that memory with one picture, requiring a pause after every exposure.
try that with a dslr.
strong points weak points additional functions that i don’t use, but may be of interest: video with sound at 10 or 30 fps, 320 x 240 resolution, about 8 minutes worth per 256 mb of memory at 30 fps; stop-animation, (a series of “still” pictures that end up as a video file, for claymation™-type animations); sound recording that can be appended to still pictures (news photographers could use this to have subjects spell their names, i guess); dpof settings for ordering prints from a digital minilab; down-sampling and/or cropping of pictures in the camera; showing pictures as a timed ‘slide show’ on the lcd or a tv (camera comes with an a/v outlet and mini-plug/rca cord); remote control from a computer via usb connection; direct printing to a usb-direct-print-compatible (whew!) printer.
about on the level of the quietest leaf shutters, at most.
sort of like a parent calling the kid at college  and saying "we aren't sending another check until you tell us how you  spent the last one."
this greatly reduces post-processing &  tweaking.
so i always use the 8x setting.
the lenses, awesome; 16/18/21, 50, 90 and now i am looking for an  m6 body and a 28mm lens, after that maybe a noblex, maybe.
i hope to use the panasonic to do test shots to support the big fujis, and i should be able to do less bracketing after going through a learning curve.
simon lamb , june 09, 2004; 07:09
the camera also has a standard hot-shoe, with dedicated contacts for use with leica/metz flashes.
tungsten does ok, but undercorrects a bit,  leaving some residual yellow under house lights.
on the other hand, the digilux 2’s jpeg images are somewhat  “brittle”.
since i don't use af much, i missed this potential problem in the original review.
the camera can be set to magnify the center of the image 4x or 8x for manual focus (the magnification turns on when the focus ring is touched, and turns off a couple of seconds later), but even using this focus-assist, focusing at “28mm” is still troublesome.
i don't like menus  and not in your face composition of viewscreens or bulk of the high quality  systems.
and i will still have the analog controls, comfortable ergonomics, and really impressive leica lens to keep using forever - or what passes for “forever” in the world of digital photography.
i've read the review twice now and can't imagine why anyone who doesn't have money to burn would by such a hunk of junk.
however, when you move from manual to af, the  ring can easily be turned one more step to af-macro.
by making massive repetitive errors like this, leica shows  some classic business mis-steps that could lead to its demise.
my shoulder loves it - my hands might wish for an ounce or  two more heft at slow shutter speeds.
i own these lenses and when i need them i happily pull out my dslr.
the d2 isn't a camera for me (i have used one)
11:43 p.m. i can't wait to buy an improved, better version a few years from now.
it helped me a lot in my decision process, buying my digital camera.
jurgen brett s , january 02, 2005; 05:04 p.m. here's my attempt to throw a little more kerosene on the d2 vs. dslr flame  war...
it is possible to see an "auto review" of each picture in the  viewfinder after every shot, for 1 or 3 seconds.
i hate testing; thanks for doing so for the community.
at 100 the digilux is a bit ahead of “traditional” iso 100/125 silver films in terms of grain/noise, but not tmax/delta or iso 50 film.
and water reflecting sky, or  sky-lit shadows/shade, are rendered as cyan-blue, not purple-blue.
leica m's don't compete on price  alone.
however, i found the camera incredibly easy to work with, and the photos were clearly better than any i've ever taken with my nikon.
the electronic viewfinder despite the digilux 2’s vague resemblance to a classic rangefinder  camera, it is not a rangefinder.
autofocus is fairly good and fast, but in low light situations, the camera often is unable to focus at all, forcing me to switch to manual mode, and often causing me to miss shots entirely.
the digilux 2 has a built-in pop-up flash.
it should require another press of the small button to move to macro mode in my opinion.
robert schellhammer , october 05, 2008; 05:23 p.m. it has been almost 4 years since i purchased the panasonic version of the digilux 2.
i wasn't familiar with his camera at all,  and wasn't aware of its pedigree.
it  strips away magenta casts from sky and clouds.
the ccd dislocated itself and the camera had to go back for a  new one.
it should require another press of the small button to move to macro  mode in my opinion.
it is not a effect of jpeg  compression.
in manual mode you set both the shutter and aperture yourself, using the internal meter readout’s “needle” as a guide, or using a hand-held meter, or even just using the old “sunny-16” rule-of-thumb.
the premium demanded by leica was not earned in one day.
well, this  was my first experience with leica and not a very memorable one at that.
i bought the panasonic lumix dmc-lc1 (the cousin to digilux 2) a month back, after a long deliberation, and lots of "jeers" from other users who insisted i should spend the same amount and get something like a nikon d70, or simply go for the much cheaper cousin, the fz20.
there  is now a new version with interchangeable lenses or the new m8, beyond my range  today but if i hadn't bought the d200 i would be an m8 sort of guy, so there,  bugger me but leica is good.
but in this view, touching the shutter does turn on  a “live” scale and readouts for manual metering that stay on for 10  seconds, or as long as you keep moving the aperture/shutter controls.
large 2.5” lcd screen on the back file formats: raw, jpeg (3 levels of compression); 2560 x 1920, 2048  x1536, 1600 x 1200, 1280 x 960, 640 x 480, 1920 x 1080 (hdtv-format), 320 x 240  video memory card: secure digital (sd) or multi-media (mm): 5 raw or 15  “finest” jpeg files (approx.) per 64mb of card capacity.
and it's so cheap now as 2nd in the turn's of the overall quality.
here is an admittedly unfair comparison of noise results, but i think that they are interesting representations, and anyway i currently have no other more relevant images stored here at photo.net: panasonic lc1 @ iso 100 nikon d70 @ iso 1600 peter robert schellhammer , december 06, 2004; 08:00
however, digital of any kind is not my cup of tea and despite what some other people say regarding the availibility of processing outlets and photoshop, i just don't like the process.
the brunt of the joke is unfortunately  leica itself.
it does slightly reduce the stretching of faces and heads into football shapes (american football - rugby-ball elsewhere) near the corners, so it’s a mild plus in “people” pictures.)
once they resolve the snaggles of bad high iso in-camera jpegs and the truly, truly sad unacceptable spec of a 1 frame raw burst rate...
viewfinder: the evf is easily the d2's weakest feature.
jeff from taiwan jeff chen , july 11, 2008; 11:16 a.m. very one should know where  it is_taken by d2 i love the density of the camera, really love it jeff chen , july 11, 2008; 11:18 a.m. no nd filter was taken some where in nice_
for travel, personal, street shooting it is the perfect range and speed.
otherwise, once the light drops below what f/2 and iso 400 can handle, it’s time for an f/1.4 lens - on an slr with a bigger chip and less noise reduction, or a film rangefinder.
a red dot for "no focus" would have been a better warning than a flashing green dot, which can look like a "good focus" indicator for the first .5 second.
set the  aperture to “a” and the camera will choose the aperture as you  choose the shutter speed.
funny how often people eventually asked “when are you going to take the picture?”
a bit like early cars, which looked like horse carriages.
in addition to the 3.2x mechanical zoom range, the digilux 2 offers a 2x/3x “digital” zoom which transforms the lens into a “56-180mm” or “85-270mm”.
i've probably taken about 1200 shots with it so far, and find that's it's pretty easy to use once you get acclimated to its setup.
one can buy a sigma 20mm f1.8  which gives about 30mm but it's massive and it's a sigma.
what i was measuring was shutter lag
in leica's words (3-q report march 1, 2005): "these reductions of  credit lines do not as yet endanger the company?s solvency.
the digilux has been out over a year, with no replacement on the horizon -  hardly a "short life" in the digital world (where, for example,  leica's partner panasonic went from the fz1 through the fz10 to the fz20 in a  year).
“sunny” is generally too blue (especially here in denver, where  there is a lot of extra uv light at a mile high).
but i certainly appreciate  the thoroughness of andy's evaluation.
on the other hand, the  biggest positive i take away is that i find myself taking more pictures again.
the  money i saved will go towards a leica mp body.
it is the ideal  compromise!
at  which point the digilux will be the same price as any other well-used digital  camera - free.
john falkenstine , may 29, 2005; 05:14
not to pick on the canon and sony, which do pretty well as digicams go.
compared to a dslr the d2 is smaller, lighter, much quieter, more discrete, less attention getting.
despite the long time needed to save raw files, when shooting fine jpegs, the lag between exposures is 1 to 1.5 seconds, about the same as thumb-winding a film camera.
well, first i must admit, i did not read all comments before i started writing mine.
despite the  following i really enjoy using mine.
i would not give up any of its attributes to obtain a bigger ccd and modest image quality gain.
(has anyone ever built a camera that favors left-eyed photography? - seems unfair).
image attachment: filezb33tc.jpg add a comment notify me of comments © 1996-2011 namemedia, inc. and contributors.
the rear finder is almost as large as a 645 film frame, but is not hinged for low/high-angle shots.
despite the long time needed to save raw files, when shooting fine jpegs,  the lag between exposures is 1 to 1.5 seconds, about the same as thumb-winding  a film camera.
the manual controls, quick start-up, and short  shutter lag simply outperform anything less than an slr (and even a few of  those) when it comes to fast work on the street, or wherever the action is.
the blue channel has some issues, at least in jpegs.
(moire, moray - hmmmm....never mind).
as i got used to it, the thing that got me really in love with it was the lcd screen.
taking into account the average digital slr (or the epson rangefinder) magnification of 1.6 one needs a 17.5mm f2 err, which doesn't exist so for the wide angle digital user this camera is unique.
filtration over the bayer pattern - a route that kodak, in the 14n/pron/proc,  and nikon, in the new d70, also seem to have followed.
just held my first exhibition in new zealand, leica  photography.
(btw, in the film/digital comparisons here, the digilux 2 images were upsampled about 40% to match image size with the film scans.
altho it has more versatility.
btw my german is fluent, i read the company's financial report as well...
in manual mode you set both the shutter and aperture yourself, using the  internal meter readout’s “needle” as a guide, or using a  hand-held meter, or even just using the old “sunny-16”  rule-of-thumb.
for me this review was especially interesting, since it came out at the  same time as i posted my panasonic lumix dmc-lc1 for sale on ebay, which is in  turn about five months after i originally purchased it.
normally i am wary of new products but yours is the second review i have read  which suggests the digilux 2 is well worth looking at.
i bought the d2 in april and it paid for itself (2 times over) the first job i used it on.
the d2 won the dima contest.
i do not have a lot of time to sit at a computer and use programs like photo shop (i lack the computer skills anyway.)being that i travel quite a bit in my work.
so when you get right down to it, it's a $600 sony 717 with a $1200 leica price sticker added and without the innovative features like laser af assist and nightshot.
autofocus is fairly good and fast, but in low light  situations, the camera often is unable to focus at all, forcing me to switch to  manual mode, and often causing me to miss shots entirely.
the size of  the focus area has two settings - a “spot” area smaller than 1% of  the image, and a larger “box” about 1/5th the height and width of  the screen.
i have read all the reports as to what the leicas  can and can't do and my position today is that they give me a sense of
it’s the best choice under non-daylight light  sources, but needs to have a lot of blue compensation dialed in if the light is  short on blue wavelengths (see blue-channel issues below).
sounds just  like rfdr vs slr debates for film cameras.
but to use them you must also put up with a loud “beep” that plays when the af locks, and every time you press a button on the back: choosing from menus, setting functions, scrolling through pictures, deleting pictures, confirming deletes, switching viewfinders.
correct autofocus is indicated by a green dot that lights up in the viewfinder.
and when the final pictures are this clear  and detailed, the fact that the viewfinder image is grainy becomes a minor  issue.
a raw workflow is like the zone system - a brilliant tool for some kinds of photography, just not mine.
the d2, on the 50th anniversary of the m3, is a similar breakthrough in the way serious photographers interact with their digital cameras.
one of the reasons i bought a digital camera with fixed lens in place of and dslr (i used a great canon a-1 that belonged to my father since 1979 and was given to me in 2000 and my first idea when moving to digital was getting a dslr, probably rebel or d70)is because i can't stand the idea of having to clean the sensor once a year or so.
another  reason why i shoot more or less everything on 120/220 film - there is no  digital camera (yet) available which can beat roll film performance.
shooting  at ei 100, manually white balancing, adjusting the white balance as far to the  blue side as possible, and being generous with exposure (+1 ev) will boost the  blue exposure to a reasonable level - pictures still need some photoshop work  to fix color balance and saturation, but at least the blue channel contains  detail.
but hey, if i  feel good about my camera, i will be using it more and should statistically end  up with more good shots :)
if leica sees fit to change the firmware and make the jpeg noise-reduction “user-adjustable” - or if one works from raw originals - better results may be possible.
i fell over with my digilux 2 (composing a shot, missed a step but got the  shot in the end).
and they really  don't make things like this camera anymore.
one very smart feature is that the viewfinder of choice  can be set separately for shooting or reviewing pictures.
not as good as a dslr: the d2 has more noise than a larger format dslr.
the d2, on the 50th anniversary of the m3, is a similar  breakthrough in the way serious photographers interact with their digital  cameras.
i am not a techy so decided not to dismantle but sent  it to germany where after 2 goes thay got it right.
but in this view, touching the shutter does turn on a “live” scale and readouts for manual metering that stay on for 10 seconds, or as long as you keep moving the aperture/shutter controls.
the  dark-frame exposure is not user-adjustable, and kicks in at 1/2 second - which  snuck up on me a couple of times when i was making hand-held 1/2-sec.
as i got used to it, the thing that got me really in love with it was the  lcd screen.
i could wish for an alternative to the video viewfinder, so long as it retained the manual focusing, silence, and accurate framing.
and it mostly affects  the lighter tones, whereas the strongest noise is in the shadows.
flash the digilux 2 has a built-in pop-up flash.
it doesn't have a usable iso 1600 or available iso 6400 setting.
then i lighten the resulting dark images in photoshop (after converting to  16/48-bits and upsampling to avoid posterizing/combing the histogram as much as  possible) using curves and levels.
but i'm planning to purchase either the panasonic or leica for all  my other needs.
shouldn’t take more than 100 lines of code.
if its resale value  holds up when the inevitable 10mp version arrives then the initial cost of the  d2 may be acceptable.
if the d2 had an aps sized sensor then the lens would be either impossibly huge or worse - limited in focal length and/or aperture.
the control wheel on the back was very slippery and hard to turn with gloves, but fortunately most of its functions can be handled by the 4-way button inside it, which worked fine.
pointing the camera at something dark and trying again cleared the problem each time.
after all, i'm getting a leica-designed vario-summicron that covers the fields of view of a 28mm, 35mm, 50mm, 75mm and 90mm, plus a camera that produces magical image files in both jpg and raw formats, for less than the price of a current m6 or m7 body (or most single lenses for the m system).
i have found that the only  way i can get acceptable photos is by shooting in the 'm' manual mode, setting  all controls myself.
taken by d2 simply to say~!i love the camera, bring me back to the old day.
that does not mean i won't buy this camera (wife's approval pending).
of course it isn't perfect and even doesn't work well in all conditions.
don't regret to spend the 1850 usd in it at all.
or at  least the option to choose for myself.
tri-x film, introduced 50 years ago in1954, has a  grain size that is much more prominent than chromagenic films yet plenty of  people like it and use it and refrain from bashing the grain level as  unacceptable.
however, there is an innate charm to the lc1 (or digilux 2), with all the  manual or auto controls you need in 3 rings around the lens, and the build  quality is the most refined in any digital camera i have seen (dslrs included).
andy piper add a comment adam eberbach , june 04, 2004; 01:52 a.m. nice thorough review, and it looks like a nice camera - but is it really worth $1300 more than a canon g5?
i know that 5mp is less that the lenses "deserve" but raw mode makes this a minor problem.
will the compact large-sensor j1 perform well or fall down?
as i started to use it, i got really impressed with some attributes and disapointed with others.
evergreen trees are green, not brown  or gray.
being used to the  a-1, the digilux 2 manual operations made the decision easy, even with the high  price compared to other cameras.
still, it has a great memory buffer and basically no lag time, even in raw mode.
we tried to get a perfect colour management, sharpness and contrast but it is impossible to avoid completely noise....
the “hang time” varies according to the capacity and speed of the memory card in use: 5 seconds or so for a fast type ii 512mb sd card, up to as long as 13 seconds on the 64mb sd card that comes with the camera.
i've had my d2 for a couple of months now and it is definitely my favourite 'real' digital rangefinder camera vs digital appliance.
i shoot mostly architecture and  have been quite happy stitching together several images when i need either more  resolution or wider perspective.
i don't hear much bashing of 35mm image  quality compared to 6x6 or 4x5 formats because everyone recognizes that  different film format sizes have different trade-offs.
it changes drastically the approach to photography, the way the photographer interacts with the subject and widens the possibilities a lot.
if i weren’t primarily an iso 100  photographer, and willing to use creative workarounds on the few occasions i  need 400, i would not be nearly so happy.
second: in really bright light the camera stops down the aperture to help  control screen brightness.
the focusing ring is slightly “light” in touch, but  allows one-finger focusing.
clearly less “grainy” noise than scans from color negs.
i use both dslrs, the d2 and film cameras (35mm, medium format and large format) in my business.
other than its twin (panosonci lc1) the d2 is the only digital camera i'm aware of that allows the photographer to set all the shooting controls (aperture, zoom, focus, shutter speed, etc.) without powering on and entering various levels of level.
it’s also possible to resize and crop images, set up dpof info for requesting prints from a mini-lab, play slide shows and video, and some other stuff - none of which i use.
but hey that's also my view of every leica m camera.
blue lights bloom excessively in night exposures (see section below on  night/time exposures) overall image quality let’s make it simple.
using  photoshop you can increase resolution to 5120x3852 pixels with minor losses.
like others i sometimes find that the focus ring slips from af to af-macro accidentally.
i  would have liked custom settings as in some other digicams where i would  combine b&w/raw/iso400 as well as a-color/jpg/iso100, etc.
jens evensen , march 20, 2005; 07:48 p.m. i think this is a very good camera!
the evf combines rangefinder quiet and smoothness with slr-like framing, focus range, and zoom capability - at the cost of an unpleasant view and slow (if eventually accurate) visual focusing.
the  rear finder is almost as large as a 645 film frame, but is not hinged for  low/high-angle shots.
the  camera also has a standard hot-shoe, with dedicated contacts for use with  leica/metz flashes.
i did my best to really like this camera and even thought of holding on to it, but in the very end i just could not convince myself to keep the camera.
but i was surprised how good that camera performs regarding image  quality compared to the leica m6 with the 1,4/35mm lens.
before i bought the d70, i borrowed a coworker's panasonic  lc1 for some quick photos i needed.
in addition to its general ugliness, the evf also has three specific operational issues.
every viewfinder  ever conceived has been a faustian bargain - there is always a trade-off  between things it does well and things it does poorly.
denis waugh , january 21, 2005; 11:50 a.m. after the disappointment of seeing the silver 'metal' finish being rapidly  worn on my leica digilux 1, i had hoped for an improvement with the digilux 2  finish.
the focal lengths are accurate if you crop the  digilux’s 4:3 “ideal” format to the shape of a 35mm frame.
great for previewing image while analyzing the histogram.
i am able to focus quickly and i have a pre-focus technique using the numbers on the focus ring :-)
the on/off switch on the panasonic lc1 verson of the d2 is more  ergonomic as it lies closer to the thumb than the d2 plus pushing the lever up  for on and down for off makes more sense.
i intend to keep the nikon around for telephoto and  macro work.
raw buffer inexistence is the common complaint in all i've read and i can't disagree with that.
in april 2005 i sold my venice beach house and took off looking for zane grey's america, i had all my digital video cameras but wanted a reasonable digital still camera with a good lens, singular, didn't want digital and dust, so bought the digilux 2 from samy's in venice.
the only redeeming factor i can see in this overpriced, outperformed dinosaur is its lens, which appears to be fabulous (as are all leica lenses).
there are few industries as heart-wrenching as the fine art business.
i know this won't make you a better photographer
as a photojournalist, i’d prefer  “sharp and noisy” to “blurry and noiseless”.
another 2-3 months of shooting, and i’ll be able to slap a “don’t laugh -
i am considering pairing up  the d2 with a 4mp panasonic dmc-fz10's leica designed 35-420mm (equiv) f2.8 -  what a light weight killer combo that would be... cost: i don't complain about the premium cost of the d2 compared to the other  digicams because i don't think any other digicam is comparable.
dan john falkenstine , june 06, 2004; 03:13 p.m. the camera reminds me strongly of english cars of years gone  by...rationalization is required to oversee the fact that its an overpriced,  outdated dud.
as with most rangefinder cameras, the viewfinder eyepiece is in the top left corner.
as a photojournalist, i’d rather shoot jpegs anyway, as much for the  time savings at the computer after the fact as those during shooting.
i liked the one  commentator's analogy comparing it to a british car!
the iq quality is very close to the film, also the operation is good, few weakness, but as old says "if i can live with it".
i’ve discovered that: 1) 4x really isn’t enough  enlargement for most critical focusing, and 2) holding the shutter button down  lightly will turn off the magnification temporarily to allow a quick check of  overall framing anyway (a nice “undocumented” feature).
caucasian skin tones in sunset light tend towards golden, not ruddy.
as an operating tool in the hand, the digilux 2 is very successful.
many accolades are  already rolling in.
the sales volume of such  solutions, however, could not make up for the declines in the analogue  business."
another touch, and you get information overload: exposure info, battery status, focus/flash/iso/white-balance mode icons, remaining exposures, etc. etc.
the price difference is non-existent if you factor in the need to increase the warranty to 3 years and buy raw conversion software for the panasonic.
shutter lag i compared the shutter lag of the digilux 2 to a leica m6.
this is a point that i've never seen anybody talk about and it's a real  good thing that the digital world has given me.
hell with a setup like this they could even make a new digital mount for lenses designed with digital cameras in mind.
the photos you get with the leica/panasonic really are special.
there is one bug using manual exposure in this view:  the needle and numerical readouts won’t change in real time as you change  apertures or shutter speeds.
at 35mm and 28mm, i use scale-focusing for most fast work.
the d2/lc1 sounds nice, but this size thing.. it's just splitting hairs.
i have been using it (the panasonic  lc1) since sept. 04.
the large lovely lcd makes up in good measure for the  deficiencies of the evf.
great optics and intuitive analog controls do not by themselves make  for great shooting.
and it's so cheap now  as 2nd in the turn's of the overall quality.
sounds just like rfdr vs slr debates for film cameras.
a touch of the ‘display’ button overlays a “rule of  thirds” grid on the basic image.
smallest aperture: f/11 closest focus distance (all focal lengths): .3m  (about 1 foot) filter size: 69mm internal electronic lcd viewfinder.
prices on the digilux are already  tumbling=no buyers.
since the true focal-length range is 7mm-22.5mm, depth of field is extensive.
other flashes with safe trigger voltages can be used, but must depend on their built-in automation rather than ttl.
and there’s a rather tacky seam down the middle of the bottom plate.
that concept tempts  me greatly.
“pushing” digilux images beyond 400 the digilux 2 is limited to iso settings of 100/200/400.
with the digilux, i shot two series, one using the internal  viewfinder, and one where i watched the scene directly, to see if the evf had  any additional lag.
the traffic was moving at 20 mph (i drove the street 3 times to check this) - which is 30 feet per second.
then when they fix the issue with w/a lenses they could have the new cameras use a mount that accepts both lenses, even if the m lenses needed an adaptor (kinda like the m can use screw mount lenses via an adaptor).
(pause while the “expose to the right” fans stop choking and  get their hearts started again).
back to the drawing board, folks.
if you get past these and are still interested, then we can have fun with the camera’s good side - which is occasionally amazing.
andy piper incase ari marcopoulos camera bag review olympus om-d e-m5 announcement and preview nikon d800
only one or the  other is on at any time, and a button on the back toggles between them.
don’t see  any way to do it without giving up something else, though.
the internal viewfinder and rear lcd show identical views.
that concept tempts me greatly.
i hate the look of the a2, but it seems to have top-notch features.
the attached image is a crop, but not a 100% view of the pixels.
it's size, shape, and weight are ideal and thus, makes it very versatile.
each photo i take with this camera will feel  special...a word i would hardly use for cameras such as nikon d70, minolta a2,  etc.
i had a ball, loved the camera  for it's point and shoot, me not being a pro.
but combined with the next issue, the lack of a fast raw buffer has been a “deal-killer” for many photographers who might really like to work with the camera otherwise.
all material ©copyright 2004
there are many shooting situations where being able to scale-focus the lens, or set the shutter speed on a dial - even before the camera has been turned on - greatly simplify and speed up operation, compared to the push-here-while-twirling-that-and-watching-the-lcd controls common on most non-slr digicams.
the lens is very sharp, has crisp edge definition, and does a superb job of  separating and defining colors and tones.
thanks for that excellent review!
but if you’re used to the crisp texture of an slr screen or the brilliant clarity of a good window viewfinder, it’s unlovely.
you must lift your finger and touch the shutter  again to get an update on the “new” actual settings and metering.
things to think about: can you really see the extra shadow detail in your  prints (i.e. matte prints from an epson 2200)?
for slower,  critical manual-focus at f/2, i use the old film-maker’s trick of zooming  in to focus and zooming out to frame.
of course the d2 can't mount a 10.5mm  fisheye, 12-24 zoom, or 28f1.4/50f1.4/85f1.4.
is  this a $200 fisher price toy camera for the kids?
i weep trying to scan my few  "legacy" color slides.
put simply - the jpeg noise reduction at iso 400 has already fouled the image so badly that it can’t hold up to any further strain on the pixels.
brian wright , february 03, 2008; 04:27 p.m. i,m just getting back into photography after 20 odd years...used to be a big canon man a1,ae1-prog..
after reading the  review, i purchased the panasonic version for under $1,100.
the d2 is a digicam camouflaged as a film camera.
in picture review mode, the camera can show your collected images as a 3x3  array of thumbnails, for fast navigation, or one image full-screen, or a zoomed  view into that single image up to 16x.
no kidding around, though.
blue lights ‘bloom’ like a 7-pixel gaussian blur, and over the rest of the picture the blue channel is essentially black.
the lens is a non-interchangeable 7mm-22.5mm f/2.0-2.4 vario-summicron  zoom, equivalent to a 28mm-90mm zoom for 35mm film.
jpeg files are actually monochrome rgbs, not grayscale.
other than that - no significant additional news.
following three months of shooting with the digilux 2, i find myself sharing many of the same conclusions.
gives 28mm-80mm equivalent 3.5-5.6 (slow..but per above, so  what?), and it works really well despite being.. er cheap.
there are many shooting situations where being  able to scale-focus the lens, or set the shutter speed on a dial - even before  the camera has been turned on - greatly simplify and speed up operation,  compared to the push-here-while-twirling-that-and-watching-the-lcd controls  common on most non-slr digicams.
the  low compression jpegs are remarkably detailed.
if you want to get the best  this lens can produce - you won’t count too much on dof.
i compared the shutter lag of the digilux 2 to a leica m6.
and in most cases, simply touching the shutter  button will “clear” all menus/functions and take you directly back  to shooting.
i, for one, would like to  state that i will buy this camera for the leica brandname and the accompanying  legend and quality.
also, for those in favor of film leica cameras but not the d2, can't you take good photos with other fine, cheaper film cameras (nikon, canon, etc., ) -- why leica?
but i'm planning to purchase either the panasonic or leica for all my other needs.
build quality is average.
i bought it with the 18-70mm kit lens, and have purchased a few other lenses and filters to round out the package.
i've  bought mine in april 2004 and till that date, had only found one single review  which was good, but focused a bit on the good side.
let’s turn on the camera and set the lens to 6 feet for a quick “scale-focused” street photography grab shot.
disadvantages: evf, poor performance when camera is set to higher sensitivities, no raw buffer.
a 10d with a 24mm 2.8 prime for instance, is  a nice compact camera.
i chose the leica over its panasonic twin because it was available.
jamie w , june 04, 2004; 03:40 p.m. here is my summary of the d2.
the digilux can expose in the standard 4 modes - manual, aperture-priority,  shutter-priority, or program.
and i can just use a light weight and sharp prime if i want.
within each series, the variation is  likely a combination of my reaction time and small changes in traffic speeds.
i have had the opportunity to handle the d2's  in person, clearly the evf is the biggest negative to me.
my street shooting style is to hold the camera to eyelevel for  the briefest amount of time to frame the shot so the quality of the evf image  is less important.
reading a review that  points both sides is a real pleasure.
with the digilux 2, things are different.
i dropped it in a nz river, on rocks, dried it off and it worked  fine, seriously, but then i noticed a water spot in the centre of the lens  where it dried, bugger!
the iso 100 image quality is extremely good - challenging the results from film scans with twice as many pixels due to the lens’s outstanding resolution.
brian wright , february 03, 2008; 04:27 p.m. i,m just getting back into photography after 20 odd years...used to be a  big canon man a1,ae1-prog..
in which case there is simply a viewfinder black-out of 1 second while the camera starts to save the image.
and a leica is a leica, and i  carry my leica around the same way i carry my rolex: with great pleasure,  because i like it, and because i feel good ...and because i have the dough to  afford it.
the b&w mode is interesting, and i like to use it if i am looking for  b&w pictures.
i am now in new zealand i used the digi2 today, i love it.
" leica suffered a 35% decline in income from sales of its  interchangeable-lens ("system") 35mm film cameras, i.e. the m and r  lines.
i bought a nikon d200 plus all  the lenses and gear but for me, i would get rid of it all and keep the  digilux2.
as i mentioned in discussing the lens, the sharpness and occasional moire patterns in fine details lead me to believe that leica/panasonic have chosen to limit the amount of low-pass filtration over the bayer pattern - a route that kodak, in the 14n/pron/proc, and nikon, in the new d70, also seem to have followed.
few by  now bother to criticize leica m prices compared to vc bessa, hexar af, or  minolta cle.
i can only speak for myself, but for me the price seems fair.
i have never been able to  adapt to gadget cameras very well.
so i always  use the 8x setting.
some people are saying it's like looking into view camera.
the big-light-high definition-etc lcd screen.
i have read all the reports as to what the leicas can and can't do and my position today is that they give me a sense of image capturing where what i see is what i get, not what a camera/computer interprets.
leica has done it again.
in high continuous shooting mode, you subject will ask if you have taken the picture yet while you've already grabbed a dozen shots (read that somewhere).
heliopan filters are only now starting to  trickle in.
when using manual focus, the viewfinder can be set to magnify the  center of the image when the focus ring is touched.
this fact alone was enough for me  to go with it.
being able to see the image prior to taking the shot, and not just an authopsy  of the picture taken as with any dslr, is really a bonus i didn't expect.
they sort of ignored the fact that i was asking about the noise reduction, not noise per se.
so it's not a magical leica lens, but it's working with the magical canon cmos sensor, it's a tradeoff until i want (if ever) to buy an "l" lens.
but then you have to add a supplementary  lens.
even louis daguerre would recognize it as a camera.
enough to handle a burst of three  “finest” jpegs (3.4 mb each) in a little over a second before it  has to pause and write to the memory card.
red and yellow lights bloom a bit, green lights the least.
reading between the lines, i get the impression that leica (or panasonic, or both) was overly concerned with noise.
the analog controls, with each control handling one function, are very fast and very transparent.
i know it depends on what you're trying to do, but there seems to be nothing the d2/lc1 can do that a 10d or other dslr can't do as well or better, but the equation doesn't necessarily work out the other way around.
so my feelings about my nikon d70 are mixed.
i love the 4:3 format and despite the modest 5 mp resolution, no one has complained about the file size since the quality of the lens and the spectacular quality of its jpeg rendition.
essentially useless for anything other than 4x6 prints or video,  imho - and at 3x, don’t expect to use the resulting images to prove you  actually saw “bigfoot” or “nessie”.
like others i find that this moves too easily.
i appreciated your balanced review.
but to use them you must also put up with a loud  “beep” that plays when the af locks, and every time you press a  button on the back: choosing from menus, setting functions, scrolling through  pictures, deleting pictures, confirming deletes, switching viewfinders.
other than its twin (panosonci lc1) the d2 is the only digital camera i'm  aware of that allows the photographer to set all the shooting controls  (aperture, zoom, focus, shutter speed, etc.) without powering on and entering  various levels of level.
this camera has come  into its own and time has revealed some genuine leica dna.
dean g , june 07, 2004; 05:03 p.m. so much is made out the "big dslr and bag of lenses".
it is not quite fair to criticize the noise level compared to a larger aps sized sensor.
the most startling thing about digital color is that, properly white  balanced, it is remarkably clean and free from color casts compared to chemical  imaging/scanning.
the price difference  is non-existent if you factor in the need to increase the warranty to 3 years  and buy raw conversion software for the panasonic.
for zone  focusing street shooters this is a big advantage further reducing the lag time  and making the d2 feel even more m-like.
the focusing ring is slightly “light” in touch, but allows one-finger focusing.
another touch, and you get information overload: exposure info, battery  status, focus/flash/iso/white-balance mode icons, remaining exposures, etc.  etc.
the vario-summicron “shoots” wider than its “28-90mm” rating.
read on... back when i was in my late teens/early 20's and breaking into the "extreme sports" photograph world, i first set my sights on being a snowboard photographer.
i've had leica m6s for years and they do not wear.
then i shot a series of pictures with each camera, pressing the shutter as soon as i saw a car bumper appear from behind the building.
for travel, personal,  street shooting it is the perfect range and speed.
there are users who say that the smooth gradation of the speckled grain from the noise produced by this camera, lends an air of character to the final image.
or to put it another way, worth the same as a nikon d70 + two good lenses and a big cf card?
it is to say that this camera is not up to the standards that we have come to expect of that great company.
in most of my comparison images with film it has held its own alongside one of leica’s “signature” film lenses: the 35 f/1.4 summilux-asph.
one more thing is about the resolution.
he is currently a presentation editor with the rocky mountain news in denver, colorado (winner of the 1999 and 2002 pulitzer prizes for news photography), and a free-lance travel photographer/writer.
it pins the  brightest pixels to about a level of 245-248 on the histogram, preventing  burned-out whites.
since the zooming is mechanical, it does not have to extend or retract during startup/shutdown, saving seconds.
very strange - since i use the same finders, with the same limitations, all the  time for film photography.
in the resulting snaps, i marked how far the car bumpers  had moved by the time the shutter actually exposed the picture.
it's a good camera, but shame about the  price.
p.m. god bless the marketing of a myth....and those who need the myth to be wyth.
but it eliminates the option of playing with  photoshop’s “channel-mixer” after the fact to darken skies  and such.
on a trip, who want to carry a big backpack with a bunch of equipment  (dslr and 2.8 lenses along with tripod that will support them both).
don't know if it's the best that  technology permits to be done, but is the best compared to any digital camera.
rangefinder cameras can’t frame accurately, can’t focus closer than a couple of feet, have trouble aligning near and far parts of the subject precisely (parallax), and won’t work with zoom lenses - but are very quiet and smooth.
even at ei 800 the results are as ugly as the average iso 3200 film.
jurgen banda-hansmann , january 02, 2005;
i am unsure what malady plagues my digilux 2, but i have had more than my share of misfocused pictures.
to be honest...i have always been mesmirised by the little red dot...so i have been doing some research and i have managed to locate a mint unused digilux 1 and 2...there is 300 pounds difference between the two...iam familiar with the 1 and think that it takes good shots at 100asa...so the question is since im just getting back into it..is the extrs for the 2 worth it as really all i need is auto with option for manual.
this greatly reduces post-processing & tweaking.
even  at iso 400 the b&w .jpg's look quite good and seem to me to have less noise  than color .jpg's.
really expected the autofocus to be faster, for example.
i hoped wistfully for a camera that could come close to scans from iso 100 slide films.
the digilux 2 is limited to iso settings of 100/200/400.
i don't know if the quatilly loss it gives is a problem for professionals, but it solved my needs as an amateur...:-)
if i had to name one aspect of the camera which most needed improvement, it would be one which was expressed earlier by s.g., namely, the focusing.
closest focus is about 1 foot (.3 meters) -  which covers an area of about 4.5 x 6 inches (11cm x 16cm) at 90mm - hardly  macro, but tighter than most non-macro lenses, and much tighter than almost any  rangefinder lens.
a community of photographerssearch all of photo.net photo captions
did i mention it's a shame about the price... stephen w. , june 04, 2004; 09:03 p.m. andy, as expected from your history within the leica photography forum, your's  is a great review; probably the best review i've read anywhere.
needless to say, the images are great, and like many other reviewers and  users acclaimed, the image is the key, and a bit of noise can always be cleared  up with a variety of tools, including noise ninja, kodak gem pro, and others.
i “gelled” my flash for  that warm “sunset light” look, and to balance with tungsten lights  indoors, by the simple expedient of coloring a piece of translucent office tape  with an orange marker and sticking it on the front.
so it's not a  magical leica lens, but it's working with the magical canon cmos sensor, it's a  tradeoff until i want (if ever) to buy an "l" lens.
you must lift your finger and touch the shutter again to get an update on the “new” actual settings and metering.
focus was set  manually.
speaking of tripods (which i normally use about once a year) - i did try a few long exposures.
one advantage of a “shutterless” digicam is that the exposure can be metered directly from the live image sensor voltages instead of through a surrogate metering circuit/sensor.
the digilux 2 body is a basic bauhaus “form-follows-function”  box, with a lens on one side and a light-sensitive surface on the other.
i have had no problems, but others have mentioned them here and elsewhere,  so they're real.
2) there is a conceptual flaw in the d2/lc-1 af indicator.
outside of iso speed, there are 4 main “digital” image controls for jpeg shooting (they have no effect on raw files).
search for similar products on pricegrabber results bypricegrabber.com about the author andy piper has been a medical photographer, newspaper photojournalist,  graphic designer, and assistant managing editor/graphics for the san juan  (puerto rico)
which is why i find myself reading this review.
reading between the lines, i get the impression that leica (or panasonic,  or both) was overly concerned with noise.
there’s a big difference between  ‘apparently sharp” and really sharp.
it’s paid for” sticker on the leica.
i liked the one commentator's analogy comparing it to a british car!
of course, there are other reasons i chose the digilux 2 (desing, retro style, manual controls, leica lenses, etc) but the "sealed body" was a strong point in my decision.
the leica-designed lens is almost supernatural in its ability to define details and separate tones and colors, and pushes right to the limits of what 5 megapixels can record - a bonus i wasn’t even expecting.
the lens barrel and rings are aluminum or some other light metal, not brass.
when i can afford it i will go for a d3, not least as it takes m lnses, of which i have several!
digilux 2 gallery richard clark , january 11, 2007; 03:20 a.m.
if you’re going to  shoot in cold weather - start with an ‘empty’ memory card so you  won’t need to replace it - or bring tweezers.
the digilux 2 uses this ability to “protect” the highlights  when set to multi-area or centerweighted metering patterns.
in general, it was easy to handle all the controls (analog and digital) smoothly and without affecting neighboring buttons/rings/dials.
on the flip side, at iso 100 the digilux 2 produces jpeg images at the rate of 1 per second-and-a-half even in single-shot mode that are not just very, very good - they are astonishing.
the vario-summicron shares this tendency.
of course, there are other reasons i chose  the digilux 2 (desing, retro style, manual controls, leica lenses, etc) but the  "sealed body" was a strong point in my decision.
if you want to get the best this lens can produce - you won’t count too much on dof.
if it seems odd to ask for a manufacturer’s comment in a review, i guess it’s just my journalistic background - you always try to get both sides.
but if you use the entire digilux image, the results look more like  8x10’s (a4s) cropped from a 24-75mm zoom.
seems as though leica/panasonic have subdued or left out the “low-pass” filter in order to maximize sharpness, even at the risk of the occasional “eel”.
the  better price and included accessories made the decision for me.
set both to “a”, and you are in program mode.
6 quote: "i predict that it will have a very short life.)
i dropped it in a nz river, on rocks, dried it off and it worked fine, seriously, but then i noticed a water spot in the centre of the lens where it dried, bugger!
in the meantime for my travel, family, street shooting the d2 is a much welcome relief from a dslr and big bag of lenses.
thanks for the really good review.
i have yet to see a dmc/lc-1 in the flesh,  whereas i’ve already shot 2200 exposures with the digilux.
“sunny” is generally too blue (especially here in denver, where there is a lot of extra uv light at a mile high).
a bit  like early cars, which looked like horse carriages.
the d2 is not that much lighter, it is not that much smaller, and though the lens is fast, a camera like the 10d can gain 2-3 stops simply by having useable iso 200, 400, 800, and sometimes 1600.. or 3200 in a pinch.
don't regret to spend the 1850 usd in it at  all.
the spot meter reads about 1% of the image area - roughly 2 degrees at “90mm” and 6 degrees at “28mm”.
but hey, i guess i just wouldn't look as cool walking around with my canon as i would with a leica!
i shoot mostly architecture and have been quite happy stitching together several images when i need either more resolution or wider perspective.
dan john falkenstine , june 25, 2004; 04:03 p.m. my original posting was accurate.
we wouldn't expect to use a clawhammer to remove an allenhead screw, would we?
if sony/olympus/hp/fuji/canon/nikon had a similar digicam for far  less i might buy one but for now d2 is unique and i am able and willing to pay  for it.
i intend to keep the nikon around for telephoto and macro work.
set both to  “a”, and you are in program mode.
if you have a good name,  you've got to keep it good.
they will work in similar ways with similar capabilities.
las vegas in a camera.
while i make my living shooting with canon kit, my digilux 2(s) are never out of reach.
it changes drastically the  approach to photography, the way the photographer interacts with the subject  and widens the possibilities a lot.
my main reason for buying the d2 is that i know
a leica  should last forever!
- nursery rhyme the leica digilux 2, and its panasonic twin, the dmc-lc1, are an  interesting exercise in digital camera design and ergonomics - in essence, a  throwback to the shape and handling and analog controls of mechanical 35mm  cameras from the last half of the 1900s.
connections: usb 2.0, a/v out/remote release, dc power in.
i would have a difficult  time believing that the out-of-focus shots are primarily due to operator error  such as not properly aiming at the intended subject or forgetting to pre-focus  while composing.
we are aware that noise is an issue so that we try more than our  best to    improve the technological and optical performance in  future.”
the fact is that all cameras are tools and have both strengths and weaknesses.
" not as good as this or that: the d2 has its detractors.
a warranty fix, and easy to test for.
where to buy the leica digilux 2 can be obtained from many of the photo.net affiliate  stores listed below.
and does lots photos for commercial work, like print out on  the large wall...
the much larger variation for the m6 is interesting, and could be due to the  mechanical linkage-chain in the shutter.
for many photographers, that’s not enough.
i am not a techy so decided not to dismantle but sent it to germany where after 2 goes thay got it right.
i bought a nikon d200 plus all the lenses and gear but for me, i would get rid of it all and keep the digilux2.
and i’ll acknowledge the usefulness of a bigger buffer for raw  shooters - though i personally wouldn’t use it much.
we’ll use the digilux 2, and a couple of other popular digicams, the canon g5 and the sony 828, which i tested at the local electronics-appliance store.
this, i think, was sacrificed  for marketing reasons, a pity.
i’ve seen comments that it is “styled” to look like a leica rangefinder.
all this would not be important in the least, but the camera lacks functionality, it needs a grip and a movable lcd.
from what i,ve seen the 1 does take natural 35mm type shots...iam not an experienced digital user.
i also keep a native version and a pansonic lc1.
then i lighten the resulting dark images in photoshop (after converting to 16/48-bits and upsampling to avoid posterizing/combing the histogram as much as possible) using curves and levels.
i predict that it will have a very short life.
i didn't use any nd filters, use the raw to save lots detail back from the sky and the shadow, the raw was very good at the time, but the raw is better now in any cameras, but still good enough, i can live with it and happy.
in addition to the 3.2x mechanical zoom range, the digilux 2 offers a 2x/3x  “digital” zoom which transforms the lens into a  “56-180mm” or “85-270mm”.
the leica digilux 2 can be obtained from many of the photo.net affiliate stores listed below.
it's a good camera, but shame about the price.
i tried it myself - and went back to just using the built-in finder.
i wanted a digital camera that could do better than the 2700-ppi scans i was getting from iso 100/160 color negative films.
leica’s film lenses have a slight bias towards cyan-green - or more accurately, away from magenta/red.
don’t see any way to do it without giving up something else, though.
featured merchants andy piper has been a medical photographer, newspaper photojournalist, graphic designer, and assistant managing editor/graphics for the san juan (puerto rico) star.
but with its  squared-off ends and large (69mm diameter) lens - it reminds me more of a canon  7 wearing the legendary 50mm f/0.95, or perhaps a nikon sp with a nikkor 50  f/1.1 mounted, especially if the nikkor and the vario-summicron have their  massive lens shades attached.
george n. nyman phd. http://www.gnyman.com paul reading , september 04, 2004;
it is possible to see an "auto review" of each picture in the viewfinder after every shot, for 1 or 3 seconds.
of course, many rangefinder photographers  don’t shoot longer than 50mm or 75mm anyway - so it fits into the  “rangefinder” ethos.
would critics who declare the d2 at iso 400 unusable similarly  say that tri-x is unusable as well?
well, this is more of  a “cezanne filter” - as though a palette knife had been scraped  over the light tones in the image.
anthony brookes , september 30, 2004; 04:40 a.m. having looked at a number of cumbersome large digital cameras the prospect of having one near m6 size with more conventional controls is attractive.
in a  “news emergency” i could get a publishable newspaper picture at 800  or 1600, but not something i’d want to hang on the wall.
this is a point that i've never seen anybody talk about and it's a real good thing that the digital world has given me.
all of the “photographic” controls (exposure, focus, focal  length, metering pattern, etc.) are analog dials, rings and levers.
what i was  measuring was shutter lag plus my reaction time - but it’s still possible  to compare relative lag times.
as with most rangefinder cameras, the viewfinder eyepiece is in the top  left corner.
i  hate the look of the a2, but it seems to have top-notch features.
slow raw  processing, slow and unsure focusing, and an electronic viewfinder really  should not exist on a camera in this price range - digital or not (for another  $5 they could have quadrupled the size of the buffer).
if i weren’t primarily an iso 100 photographer, and willing to use creative workarounds on the few occasions i need 400, i would not be nearly so happy.
jurgen brett s , january 02, 2005; 05:04 p.m. here's my attempt to throw a little more kerosene on the d2 vs. dslr flame war...
you could use a  tilt & shift lens on a dslr but there is more weight in your camera bag and  you don't have the zoom.
it’s still ugly - especially when sitting on the sofa and “fondling” the little beast.
it is not a effect of jpeg compression.
thanks for a look into the future, just not my future.
using leica digilux-2 jpeg mode, no editing, 50% scaled.
it is very easy to get  less-than-sharp pictures even at the “28mm” setting if you  don’t focus carefully.
in photo.net’s review of the digilux 1 people spoke of a “seurat filter”.
but i certainly appreciate the thoroughness of andy's evaluation.
it's hard to find the d2 and lc1 on the net,( i am from taiwan ).
with the digilux 2 using the evf, the cars had moved yet another 2.5 feet,  on average, for an additional “viewfinder” lag of 83 msec., and an  overall lag of 153 msecs.
after all, i loved to snowboard and i...
note especially the  faint rays in the top of the label - erased in the 200/400 exposures, retained  in the “pushed” iso 100 shots.
or my preferred technique when i need iso 400 jpegs: set the camera to iso  100, contrast and saturation settings to “low”, and underexpose 2  stops (ei 400 instead of iso 400).
here are some sample photos i took with the d2: http://www.pbase.com/sxgautam/leica_digilux_2_gallery steve bingham , august 10, 2004; 09:29 a.m. what a great review.
a touch of the ‘display’ button overlays a “rule of thirds” grid on the basic image.
as an operating tool in the hand, the  digilux 2 is very successful.
that’s the bad news.
contrast, saturation, and  sharpness can be set to “std.”, “low” or  “high”.
so i leave the noises off.
11:29 a.m. i have been an m-6 user for the past 10 years.
or to put it another way, worth the same as a  nikon d70 + two good lenses and a big cf card?
well, after reading this excellent review and all its critics, i still went  and bought the d2 for $1279 including tax and s/h. i could buy the panasonic version or even a nikon d-70 for much less, but  i decided to purchase a leica d2, and i will tell you guys the reason why: the same reason i bought a rolex watch instead of a seiko or a timex: even  thought the seiko or the timex watch offer better features than a rolex and  they are even more precise...a rolex is a rolex.
landrum kelly , june 11, 2005; 07:50 a.m. to juan morino: you may have the dough to buy a rolex, but if you think  that a camera with the capacity to save one (1) raw file at a time is the  photographic equivalent of a rolex, then by all means spread the wealth around.
(a note on barrel distortion - obviously a bad  thing in many pictures.
settings can be set with little practice without looking at the evf/lcd.
i get nicely exposed  bounce shots even at iso 100 in settings where my “film” flash  (vivitar 2800) often poops out on slide film.
closest focus is about 1 foot (.3 meters) - which covers an area of about 4.5 x 6 inches (11cm x 16cm) at 90mm - hardly macro, but tighter than most non-macro lenses, and much tighter than almost any rangefinder lens.
after you have used the on-screen menu lists to set up your major shooting preferences (raw or jpeg, image size/compression, saturation/contrast/sharpness, etc.) and minor shooting preferences (color or b&w, iso speed), it is possible to take pictures for hours, or even days, in all the automatic or manual modes, without ever again looking at a menu or lcd read-out, or touching a push-button - except, of course, the shutter release.
in the d2-only  examples, the pixels are 100% as they came from the camera unless noted  otherwise.)
i would have a difficult time believing that the out-of-focus shots are primarily due to operator error such as not properly aiming at the intended subject or forgetting to pre-focus while composing.
i've seen previous digital cameras from friends, but the lcd screen thay had were really bad.
phil dan wajnman , june 25, 2004; 08:29 a.m. "the digilux 2 body is a basic bauhaus "form-follows-function" box" the original barnack's leica was a functional design, it accommodated two film-rolls and between them a lens, in a smallest possible shape.
the digilux 2 is limited to an 8-second maximum exposure  time, and uses a ‘dark-frame’ second exposure to map and subdue  ‘hot’ pixels.
jay dougherty , september 23, 2004; 12:08 p.m. the price tag is a joke, a bad joke.
the switch also changes the flash firmware to  “external-flash” mode - no pre-flash, but otherwise the same  options as using the internal flash.
one excellent feature is that with the functon button the iso and wb
first: even at “90mm”, precise manual focusing is essentially impossible on the unmagnified screen.
the d2/lc1 sounds nice, but this size thing.. it's just  splitting hairs.
jeff from taiwan jeff chen , july 11, 2008; 11:16 a.m. i love the density of the camera, really love it jeff chen , july 11, 2008; 11:18 a.m. was taken some where in nice_
polarisor is mega bucks and unobtainium too.
i know you mention "paid for", but where's the pleasure of the process?
i am considering pairing up the d2 with a 4mp panasonic dmc-fz10's leica designed 35-420mm (equiv) f2.8 - what a light weight killer combo that would be... cost: i don't complain about the premium cost of the d2 compared to the other digicams because i don't think any other digicam is comparable.
it does satisfy my search for less noise and yet i am quite sure that it will be replaced within two years from now, due to the current trend of digital slr camera production to bring out new models every two years, which in turn is due to the relative immaturity and rapid advances in the digital technology.
every viewfinder ever conceived has been a faustian bargain - there is always a trade-off between things it does well and things it does poorly.
i’ve seen comments that it  is “styled” to look like a leica rangefinder.
the digilux 2 body is a basic bauhaus “form-follows-function” box, with a lens on one side and a light-sensitive surface on the other.
i  was almost considering the purchase of a canon eos 10d, but since the good  lenses are way too expensive and the whole kit makes for a heavy load, i have  decided to get a minolta a2, which is about 1/2 the price of the digilux.
one  being a technical [theoretical] consideration, while the other was an more  aesthetic [subjective] approach.
the sales volume of such solutions, however, could not make up for the declines in the analogue business."
the fact is that all cameras are tools and have both strengths and  weaknesses.
so ideally, i’d start this review with the controls and handling and  lens, because they are so distinctive.
good of course for vibrationless shutter release.
6 quote: "i  predict that it will have a very short life.)
which is why i find  myself reading this review.
if nikon or canon or minolta had produced a camera as  ‘manual’ as the digilux 2, i would have bought  nikon/equipment/canon/minolta - whichever came first.
no focusing sound - manual or auto.
what failed to satisfy after almost half a year of daily use, was the frequent presence of noise, even in images that had been brightly lit at the time of exposure.
the control wheel on the back was very slippery and hard to turn  with gloves, but fortunately most of its functions can be handled by the 4-way  button inside it, which worked fine.
perhaps they were panicked by the hits the sony 828 has taken on the subject - and overdid the noise suppression as a result.
auto, sunny, cloudy, tungsten, electronic flash, manual - and black-and-white.
being used to the a-1, the digilux 2 manual operations made the decision easy, even with the high price compared to other cameras.
robert schellhammer , october 05, 2008; 05:25 p.m. it has been almost 4 years since i purchased the panasonic version of the  digilux 2.
the lag time finally closes the books.
after you have used the on-screen menu lists to set up your major shooting  preferences (raw or jpeg, image size/compression,  saturation/contrast/sharpness, etc.) and minor shooting preferences (color or  b&w, iso speed), it is possible to take pictures for hours, or even days,  in all the automatic or manual modes, without ever again looking at a menu or  lcd read-out, or touching a push-button - except, of course, the shutter  release.
the viewfinders and focusing i’ve already touched on the major flaws of the evf.
an overall look a lot like ektachrome 100vs with some kodachrome and velvia touches thrown in - and with adjustable saturation and contrast.
but combined with the next issue, the lack of a  fast raw buffer has been a “deal-killer” for many photographers who  might really like to work with the camera otherwise.
for my work they hold their  own against my 6mp nikon dslr at iso 100.
but get you back to the long delays between exposures.
when it does, the “bokeh” is  about the prettiest i’ve ever seen - the image just melts away from  “sharp” with a soft and delicate contrast, and no hint of bright  rings or double images.
and the b&w setting doesn’t affect  raw files, which by their nature still contain the full color data from the  original bayer pattern of the pixels.
if you’re going to shoot in cold weather - start with an ‘empty’ memory card so you won’t need to replace it - or bring tweezers.
the filter situation is unforgiveable.
and it does have built-in memory of about 11 megabytes or so.
who wants to pay for film and  processing?
set the shutter dial to “a”, and the camera will choose the shutter speed as you change apertures.
slow raw processing, slow and unsure focusing, and an electronic viewfinder really should not exist on a camera in this price range - digital or not (for another $5 they could have quadrupled the size of the buffer).
due to the 60-degree bounce angle, the flash provides a small amount  of ‘kick’ light directly at the subject as well as bounce - but  also sets a limit on how close you can shoot.
one very smart feature is that the viewfinder of choice can be set separately for shooting or reviewing pictures.
i doubt if the d2 bashers are not not guilty of succumbing to some premium brand name items.
08:04 a.m. having spent nearly two years with the digilux 2, i've come to find that with all it's perceived shortcomings, this camera is still a joy to use.
the ccd dislocated itself and the camera had to go back for a new one.
this means that if you shoot as soon as you see the green dot, you may be shooting an unfocused picture.
better that the leica d2 be compared to other upscale point and shoots, or perhaps the oly e1 2/3 camera, but the aps sized dslrs are in a class by themselves imo.
the ergonomics of the digilux are superb.
occasionally the focus would shift a bit when turning the aperture ring.
since the d2 arrived the dslr has seen very little use.
since it is all digital anyways they should be able to have digitally projected infinatly variable frame lines, and a digital range finder "cam" system to go with the zoom.
it's  a six-car pileup at the intersection of art and commerce and the amount of  opinion and hyperbole that is somehow labeled as... dslrs in the movies: 'hellbent' the ten best action films of 2011 understanding dpi: the solution to resolution ready, set, go:
added to the  leica’s 20 msecs., that makes a shutter lag of about 70 msecs.
the digilux 2 uses this ability to “protect” the highlights when set to multi-area or centerweighted metering patterns.
the camera(s) may be the same but the backup is  different.
at 400 iso there is a higher sensitivity.
it's a six-car pileup at the intersection of art and commerce and the amount of opinion and hyperbole that is somehow labeled as... by andy piper, 2004
the camera is still in use, since i haven't found a suitable replacement and it has certainly paid for itself.
as the  a-1 is manual focus, it doesn't matter.
there are workarounds, which i’ll  get into later.
these images consistently displayed the warm tones of the familiar leica hue.
i was so happy with it.
slrs  solve the problems of the rangefinder - at the cost of noise, shake and bulk.
these images consistently displayed  the warm tones of the familiar leica hue.
lines mark the actual bumper positions, the  arrows mark the average for each group.
see what happens  when you pull out that dslr with a big lens attached.
zooming  in to 90mm to set focus and then zooming out for framing also works well.
even with it's quirky technical shortcomings, it is a camera that makes me want to go out and take pictures.
it seems to me to offer 28/35/50mm summicrons, 90mm  elmarit, and 28-35-50 tri-elmar lenses all rolled into one.
simon randall shafer , june 15, 2004; 11:52 a.m.
i have  waited to buy a digital camera until someone manafactured a camera much like my  leica.
great dof is good for some  situation but it cripples the camera for others, when one needs bokeh and the  3d effects it creates.
in april 2005 i sold my venice beach house and took off looking for zane  grey's america, i had all my digital video cameras but wanted a reasonable  digital still camera with a good lens, singular, didn't want digital and dust,  so bought the digilux 2 from samy's in venice.
banks withold credit for a reason, and leica's ability to manage itself financially have a poor track record.
at its peak apertures (f/4-5.6) it is projecting details so fine that they start interacting with the bayer pattern on the image sensor, producing moires - witness the clothing textures and ebony tooling in the bagpiper picture - and dropping out fine details against the sky - see the tail-less bird below.
there is something to be said for working directly from the subject’s original color wavelengths, rather than an image ‘filtered’ through various stages of chemical dyes and scanner/enlarger optics.
and i’ll acknowledge the usefulness of a bigger buffer for raw shooters - though i personally wouldn’t use it much.
filters: a big blunder is offering a sophisticated and costly lens with bizarre 69mm filter threads and not even offer filters for sale at the time of the camera's introduction.
raw  buffer inexistence is the common complaint in all i've read and i can't  disagree with that.
also, can you say "steel me".
it is my first digital, so i was kind of a newbie in  the subject.
after all,  i'm getting a leica-designed vario-summicron that covers the fields of view of  a 28mm, 35mm, 50mm, 75mm and 90mm, plus a camera that produces magical image  files in both jpg and raw formats, for less than the price of a current m6 or  m7 body (or most single lenses for the m system).
they sort of ignored the fact that i  was asking about the noise reduction, not noise per se.
from what i,ve seen the 1 does take natural 35mm type shots...iam  not an experienced digital user.
has hot shoe and tripod socket that's located on same axis as the center of the lens (good features when you are trying to take panoramic photographs).
john kelly , may 29, 2005; 08:10 p.m. on another forum its said that pansonic is now going entirely 4/3... about time.
cheers brian jeff chen , july 11, 2008; 11:07 a.m. france_provence_
as for the slow raw processing without a built-in buffer, i use the raw  mode primarily for stills and scenics, and so the slow processing means  nothing, since i shoot with a tripod and the cable release (remote), and take  my time.
- nursery rhyme the leica digilux 2, and its panasonic twin, the dmc-lc1, are an interesting exercise in digital camera design and ergonomics - in essence, a throwback to the shape and handling and analog controls of mechanical 35mm cameras from the last half of the 1900s.
on the other hand, the biggest positive i take away is that i find myself taking more pictures again.
(a note on barrel distortion - obviously a bad thing in many pictures.
red and yellow lights bloom a bit, green lights the  least.
the bulk is just inside the large end of my comfort zone - about the same as a small motor-incorporated film slr (nikon n/f80, contax aria).
the evf combines rangefinder quiet and smoothness with slr-like framing,  focus range, and zoom capability - at the cost of an unpleasant view and slow  (if eventually accurate) visual focusing.
the d2 is larger than camera
blue lights ‘bloom’  like a 7-pixel gaussian blur, and over the rest of the picture the blue channel
is this a $200 fisher price toy camera for the kids?
user manual: the panasonic lc1 manual is available for download on the web and is far  more useful compared to the leica d2 manual http://im2.onecall.com/image_products/panasonic/dmclc1_man.pdf another  interesting link:
combine these with it's well placed controls a seasoned photographer would feel immediately comfortable using, and the digilux 2 is without comparison in the digital realm.
when you  sleep through a technology change, you pays the price.
not any uglier than other evf cameras (except the new konica/minolta a2 - which is a big leap forward).
phil shima , june 18, 2004; 04:58 p.m. andy - great and thorough review.
other points: evf is not so bad as people make it out to be, but i did find myself using the lcd to compose photos a fair number of times since it is just awesome.
if it seems odd to ask for a manufacturer’s  comment in a review, i guess it’s just my journalistic background - you  always try to get both sides.
the digilux 2, for all it's imperfections and idiosyncrasies, is a joy to use.
i could obtain noise free images from exposures recorded by the ccd at iso 100, but everything else displayed a level of grain that i did not wish to see and more to the point, was something that i never learned to accept.
using iso 100 and a high shutter speed, this left me shooting at f/2.4  while trying to focus at f/5.6 (the reverse of an slr, where you focus at f/1.4  and shoot at f/5.6).
set the camera contrast to “high” - which increases local  contrasts enough to “burn through” a lot of the noise smoothing,  but drops out a lot of shadow detail.
there are users who say that the smooth gradation of the speckled grain  from the noise produced by this camera, lends an air of character to the final  image.
put simply - the jpeg noise reduction at iso 400 has already fouled the  image so badly that it can’t hold up to any further strain on the pixels.
the motive i'm writing this is because, albeit is a great review, it lacks the same point all others do so:
a red dot for "no focus" would have been a better warning than a  flashing green dot, which can look like a "good focus" indicator for  the first .5 second.
when you have a chance, i would appreciate if you can clarify this point.
cloudy and flash go a bit  overboard in adding yellow/red.
although the lens has a minimum aperture of f/11, diffraction begins to soften  the image visibly below f/8.
it is the ideal compromise!
i haven't yet gone to the trouble of  acquiring in raw partially because the quality of the .jpg's is for me quite  good.
in general, it was easy to handle all the controls  (analog and digital) smoothly and without affecting neighboring  buttons/rings/dials.
by making massive repetitive errors like this, leica shows some classic business mis-steps that could lead to its demise.
for motion and action shots, the jpeg high works rather well, and the pictures always retain that illusive and hard-to-explain leica quality.
as told in the review, i could have bought the  lumix lc-1, but i live in brasil and there's no authorized lumix dealear that  sells that model.
plastic, surely not, not for leica, not at this price!
my dslr can't provide real-time histograms.
so i had low expectations for the results.
clearly less “grainy”  noise than scans from color negs.
few by now bother to criticize leica m prices compared to vc bessa, hexar af, or minolta cle.
disadvantages: evf, poor performance when camera is set to higher  sensitivities, no raw buffer.
pointing the camera at something dark and trying again cleared the  problem each time.
when you sleep through a technology change, you pays the price.
at 4x, the magnified view  appears in a box within the full-frame image, which supposedly allows one to  keep track of the overall picture while focusing.
of course, many rangefinder photographers don’t shoot longer than 50mm or 75mm anyway - so it fits into the “rangefinder” ethos.
i know it depends on what you're using the camera for, but for me, the digilux/lc1 works.
things to think about: can you really see the extra shadow detail in your prints (i.e. matte prints from an epson 2200)?
making junk and hoping the good name will obfuscate  that its junk just doesn't work in the technology world.
battery:  proprietary 7.2v, 1400 mah lithium-ion (leica bp-dc1-u, same as used in the  digilux 1) comes with: battery, charger/ac power supply + cords, 64mb sd card, a/v  cord, usb cord, strap, lens hood, hood cap, lens cap, cd-roms with photoshop  elements, acdsee, and silverfast (for raw processing).
for slower, critical manual-focus at f/2, i use the old film-maker’s trick of zooming in to focus and zooming out to frame.
there is a physical lock/switch in the shoe that will turn off and  lock down the pop-up flash if anything - even an accesory viewfinder - is  mounted in the shoe.
nice crisp  clear “iso 400” pictures.
first: even at “90mm”, precise manual focusing is essentially  impossible on the unmagnified screen.
the bounce flash is surprisingly powerful.
the lens was collapsible, making the camera wonderfully pocketable.
people always amazed the photo's were taken by this old and  only 5mg pix camera.
1) some d2/lc-1s apparently have poorly aligned sensors, so that pictures shot at "infinity" or elsewhere on the focusing ring are not actually focused there.
i wasn't familiar with his camera at all, and wasn't aware of its pedigree.
the resulting images are very different to the ones captured on film or large sensors.
but  i found that while not great it really wasn't that bad.
the digital zoom is okay for amateur use and can be used on some rare occassions.
one excellent feature is that with the functon button the iso and wb settings can be set with little practice without looking at the evf/lcd.
that is more resolution anyone could ask.
i use three fuji  medium format manual cameras, and i hope this digital will be a perfect  companion to them.
the d2 has an  af lens and to move to or from manual focusing you need to depress a small  button, this is a good feature.
b&w: i love this option which is lacking on my dslr.
the digilux is heavier than a leica  rangefinder wearing a tiny 35mm summicron, and lighter than the same leica with  a 35 summilux asph.
as i wrote earlier,  i am taking more pictures again.
there is a separate “flash” white-balance setting to compensate  for the coolish color of the flashtube.
but for me, it's all about the photos.
i agree with most of the points.
on the flip side, at iso 100 the digilux 2 produces jpeg images at the rate  of 1 per second-and-a-half even in single-shot mode that are not just very,  very good - they are astonishing.
why attempt to  discuss when you can pontificate instead!
rangefinder cameras  can’t frame accurately, can’t focus closer than a couple of feet,  have trouble aligning near and far parts of the subject precisely (parallax),  and won’t work with zoom lenses - but are very quiet and smooth.
this fact alone was enough for me to go with it.
this difference is in my opinion far more significant that the minute differences in noise and definition.
they all  have a mechanical feel - though most obviously connect to electronics beneath  the surface.
it's  late to the digital dinner table, its offerings are nothing special.
i think it's a great camera  that takes very good photos.
got rid of my d200  with all the lenses, whew!
it's the photographer and  not always the camera.
polarisor is mega bucks and unobtainium  too.
despite the digilux 2’s vague resemblance to a classic rangefinder camera, it is not a rangefinder.
i would have been  better off with a $50 p&s camera in those cases.
s g , july 28, 2004; 03:45 p.m. after my earlier comments (see above), i actually did purchase a digilux 2, tried it for 2 weeks and then returned it.
the digilux 2 is essentially silent.
as an operating tool in the hand, the digilux 2 is almost exactly what i wanted in a digital camera.
since april, i''ve taken 22000 (yes, twelve two tousend) photos and for  sure it really paid for itself... peter bilitch , november 10, 2004; 03:20 a.m.
the zoom range became something of a limitation, but this was the lesser  of any issues for me.
this difference is in my opinion far more  significant that the minute differences in noise and definition.
except that i've quit  shooting slow color film.
on the other hand, the digilux 2’s jpeg images are somewhat “brittle”.
i am able to  focus quickly and i have a pre-focus technique using the numbers on the focus  ring :-)
incorrect or failed af is indicated by a green dot that lights up -and then flashes.
you can tell if you missed the moment, or if the exposure  or focus were really off.
then i shot a series of pictures with each camera, pressing the shutter  as soon as i saw a car bumper appear from behind the building.
yup i'm wrong on everything right?
cheers brian jeff chen , july 11, 2008;
if you are  unwilling to pay that price go for the sony/kodak/etc but you don't need to  criticize leica cameras as not worth it.
third: the viewfinder lags behind reality by about 1/12th second (80 milliseconds +/-).
it  just plain fits into my life much more compatibly than any dslr.
and they really don't make things like this camera anymore.
they should have built a camera with a built in lens that used an aps sized digital sensor and a digital rangefinder.
finally, you can add a live histogram (brightness only, not colors) to the “las vegas” view.
the leica digilux 2 puts the fun back in making pictures.
brilliant and pioneering.
no leica m or dslr  has a single lens like this available.
i could wish very strongly for an upgrade to the camera’s software  that would make it possible to turn off the noise-suppression at iso 200/400  via a menu selection similar to the color and saturation settings.
black & white photos come out great in this camera, which i  have found to be generally quite difficult with film cameras.
neither viewfinder is especially good for critical evaluation of exposure,  color, or sharpness.
of course the d2 can't mount a 10.5mm fisheye, 12-24 zoom, or 28f1.4/50f1.4/85f1.4.
12:45 a.m. andy, the japanese website of panasonic seem to indicate that all the so-called leica lenses in the panasonic cameras are actually designed by panasonic and quality-controlled using leica standard equipment and processes and that the designs of the lenses are approved by leica ag.
in manual focus the lock release button can be used to set the  distance by feel without looking, similar to tabbed leica m lenses.
the digilux is heavier than a leica rangefinder wearing a tiny 35mm summicron, and lighter than the same leica with a 35 summilux asph.
but as a reviewer, i have an obligation to point out the worst features of the digilux first - the horrids.
using direct flash, the huge lens shade will cast a shadow in the bottom of pictures shot at “28mm” - but the lens alone will not.
an overall look a  lot like ektachrome 100vs with some kodachrome and velvia touches thrown in -  and with adjustable saturation and contrast.
spot focusing helps somewhat, but it's not easy to judge until  the image is viewed on a proper computer monitor.
in other words, leica did not design the lumix lenses at all, let alone  manufacturing them.
image attachment: nova_scotia_2 043a.jpg dave leung , february 13, 2006; 08:04 a.m. having spent nearly two years with the digilux 2, i've come to find that  with all it's perceived shortcomings, this camera is still a joy to use.
the styling is nice and everybody can recognize it as a horse carriage - sorry, as a film camera, which it is not.
it does  satisfy my search for less noise and yet i am quite sure that it will be  replaced within two years from now, due to the current trend of digital slr  camera production to bring out new models every two years, which in turn is due  to the relative immaturity and rapid advances in the digital technology.
set the aperture to “a” and the camera will choose the aperture as you choose the shutter speed.
john falkenstine , march 07, 2005; 12:52 a.m. my june 6 2004 observation was correct "leica ist kaputt" now  going into receivership as credit has been withdrawn from the company.
my dslr can't provide real-time  histograms.
i do like being able to compose in b&w mode and still shoot colour raw though.
who wants to look back at all those angry people waiting while  security has to hand check each roll of film at an airport?
in shooting mode, four levels of information can be shown in the viewfinder.
and when i factor in the  accessories and glass that i've accumulated, the nikon is no cheaper than the  leica.
contributed content used  with permission.
they have always been somewhat confusing for  me and seemed to take away most of the personal touch in photography.
the deciding factors for me to buy the lc1 were largely two-fold.
leica had a gain of 40% in income from sales of compact cameras - which  includes the digilux 2.
b&w pictures follow the same pattern.
from the point of view of the company?s board of management, these facts prove leica?s ability to offer attractive digital solutions.
needless to say, the images are great, and like many other reviewers and users acclaimed, the image is the key, and a bit of noise can always be cleared up with a variety of tools, including noise ninja, kodak gem pro, and others.
(btw, in the film/digital comparisons here, the digilux 2 images were  upsampled about 40% to match image size with the film scans.
the resulting images are very different to the ones  captured on film or large sensors.
the size of the focus area has two settings - a “spot” area smaller than 1% of the image, and a larger “box” about 1/5th the height and width of the screen.
not any uglier than other evf  cameras (except the new konica/minolta a2 - which is a big leap forward).
black & white photos come out great in this camera, which i have found to be generally quite difficult with film cameras.
the spot af also did not always seem to find the targeted spot.
the vario-summicron will blur backgrounds and foregrounds when used near  its minimum focus at maximum aperture.
the areas of  critique are valid, though i got accustomed to the electronic viewfinder.
i have yet to see the perfect camera for all situations.
i don’t see much noise beyond the normal amounts for iso 100 or 400 in an 8-second exposure - perhaps 50 specks out of 5 million pixels that might be under- or over-corrected hot pixels.
leica is not even close to receivership.
i had a ball, loved the camera for it's point and shoot, me not being a pro.
-  other points: evf is not so bad as people make it out to be, but i did find  myself using the lcd to compose photos a fair number of times since it is just  awesome.
and it does have built-in  memory of about 11 megabytes or so.
i doubt  if the d2 bashers are not not guilty of succumbing to some premium brand name  items.
many accolades are already rolling in.
"darn - i wish i'd had the digilux to  shoot this with" is what usually springs to mind.
11:50 a.m. andy, great article.
advantages (my opinion): fast lens with lots of dof.
controls are in the right place.
second: in really bright light the camera stops down the aperture to help control screen brightness.
best regards, steve dan barthel , june 05, 2004; 09:17 a.m. evf's thank you, no way.
alas, it too is already showing signs of the metallic finish wearing through to a very unattractive white underneath.
it's a  tool which does nothing perfectly, but most things well.
i do realize i could somehow improve my technique and  'learn' to work the d2, however, there was just this nagging disappointment in  this otherwise gorgeous camera.
i do have a question that perhaps  someone could answer.
i have waited to buy a digital camera until someone manafactured a camera much like my leica.
the d2 has an af lens and to move to or from manual focusing you need to depress a small button, this is a good feature.
after reading the review, i purchased the panasonic version for under $1,100.
the upper images were shot with the camera set to iso 100 but underexposed 1 and 2 stops and lightened in photoshop.
robert schellhammer , october 05, 2008; 05:25 p.m. it has been almost 4 years since i purchased the panasonic version of the digilux 2.
i despise it so much...
i continue on manual.
it will be interesting when the epson ships with a real optical viewfinder and leica lens mount compatibility.
you  end up with smeared highlights, noisy shadows, and a weird transition area  between the two.
in addition to its general ugliness, the evf also has three specific  operational issues.
with the digilux 2 and direct viewing, the cars had, on average, moved an  additional 1.5 feet, or an additonal lag of 50 msecs.
i have the same feeling with the digilux 2, but in a better way.
although the lens has a minimum aperture of f/11, diffraction begins to soften the image visibly below f/8.
what a great revelation!
the camera can be set to magnify the  center of the image 4x or 8x for manual focus (the magnification turns on when  the focus ring is touched, and turns off a couple of seconds later), but even  using this focus-assist, focusing at “28mm” is still troublesome.
the company's income is not sufficient to support its continuing operation..
generally, i find the auto setting to be most reliable for daylight use.
there are  obviously disparate views on the digilux 2.
contrast, saturation, and sharpness can be set to “std.”, “low” or “high”.
a great camera, a great pal to travel with, always loved.
bottom line for me is that the d2 has let me get photographs in situations  when i would not have otherwise gotten them with other available equipment.
1) testing color rendition with the colorchecker, most colors are rendered  quite well, but blues - especially dark “nylon sportswear” blues -  and to a lesser extent, yellows, tend to hypersaturate.
for zone focusing street shooters this is a big advantage further reducing the lag time and making the d2 feel even more m-like.
setting contrast and saturation to “low”  results in very softly toned images, with histograms that end well short of  black and white, and the appearance of a freshly-born tiff from a raw file.
the lcd gives me the  opportunity to see the picture before it is taken and that is something  marvellous.
i would concur that many controls can be manipulated by feel alone such as the metering pattern switch.
shifting to shooting aperture).
the  company's income is not sufficient to support its continuing operation..
imo  the d2's compromises and combination of features are ideal for my style of  photography.
the diagram shows the results.
well, this is more of a “cezanne filter” - as though a palette knife had been scraped over the light tones in the image.
andy piper , august 19, 2004; 02:45 a.m. just thought i'd add an update re the focusing problems mentioned.
even with it's quirky technical  shortcomings, it is a camera that makes me want to go out and take pictures.
in picture review mode, the camera can show your collected images as a 3x3 array of thumbnails, for fast navigation, or one image full-screen, or a zoomed view into that single image up to 16x.
you can select your 4 most often-used controls - perhaps iso, contrast, white balance and auto-focus area - and assign them to a “quick function” list that can be accessed via the 4-way toggle button, saving a lot of scrolling through menus.
you have to wait an extra moment to see if the dot remains steady - or flashes.
i wish there was focus confirmation in manual focus and a distance read-out would be useful.
price: $1850.00 us additional functions that i don’t use, but may be of interest: video with sound at 10 or 30 fps, 320 x 240 resolution, about 8 minutes  worth per 256 mb of memory at 30 fps; stop-animation, (a series of  “still” pictures that end up as a video file, for  claymation™-type animations); sound recording that can be appended to  still pictures (news photographers could use this to have subjects spell their  names, i guess); dpof settings for ordering prints from a digital minilab;  down-sampling and/or cropping of pictures in the camera; showing pictures as a  timed ‘slide show’ on the lcd or a tv (camera comes with an a/v  outlet and mini-plug/rca cord); remote control from a computer via usb  connection; direct printing to a usb-direct-print-compatible (whew!) printer.
the viewfinder of the leica digilux 2 is lousy.
when the shutter is pressed, there is  a faint internal “tic-tic” (i think it’s the aperture blades
enough to handle a burst of three “finest” jpegs (3.4 mb each) in a little over a second before it has to pause and write to the memory card.
joseph coalter , october 20, 2004; 10:03 p.m. this is a great review, just what i've been looking for.
and while it was easy to slide open the door for the memory card and press/release it - it was then impossible to get a grip on the card and remove it the rest of the way.
i found an intersection where a building blocked my view of oncoming cross-traffic, so that i couldn’t anticipate when a car would enter the scene.
as a long  time user of the leica m system, i knew going in that any leica camera would  carry a premium price.
http://panasonic.co.jp/pavc/global/lumix/lc1/index.html d2 and m3: the m3 was, in 1954, a revolution in rangefinder camera design and  ergonomics.
sure, with a dslr, i wouldn't have to worry about the slow raw recording and limited iso, but the smaller size gave me oppurtunity to take pictures, i would not have been able to do with a bigger dslr.
i was almost considering the purchase of a canon eos 10d, but since the good lenses are way too expensive and the whole kit makes for a heavy load, i have decided to get a minolta a2, which is about 1/2 the price of the digilux.
i am now in  new zealand i used the digi2 today, i love it.
of  course it isn't perfect and even doesn't work well in all conditions.
come on leica, make you digital cameras with a better finish than this.
at  “90mm”-f/2.4 the image starts to degrade visibly within 1.5 inches  either side of correct focus.
as i wrote earlier, i am taking more pictures again.
third: the viewfinder lags behind reality by about 1/12th second (80  milliseconds +/-).
looks great  on the bluish lcd when reviewing pictures, but too yellow once the pictures are  loaded into photoshop.
it might not be as  easy to throw a background out of focus but you won't get blurry photographs  like those taken with some dslrs with fast heavy lenses attached.
the camera is still in use, since i haven't found a suitable  replacement and it has certainly paid for itself.
but i am tired of holding cameras that feel like  a plastic toy.
image attachment: filezb33tc.jpg notify me of comments © 1996-2011 namemedia, inc. and contributors.
no raw buffer the digilux 2 can save pictures in a raw format.
at 28mm - barrel distortion is obvious, about 3-4% at the corners, and  there is a moderate amount of purple/green color fringing (3 pixels-worth at  the corners) in many pictures, light fall-off is about 1.5 f/stops at the  corners and is rather abrupt.
the most obvious one is to shoot raw files, which bypass all “in-camera” firmware processing, and thus the noise supression.
the digilux 2 is his first, and only, digital camera.
d2 ccd vs the world: the d2's 5mp sensor creates wonderful images.
the shutter lag on the digilux 2 is pretty minimal, but the viewfinder lag has cost me ‘moments’.
however,  digital of any kind is not my cup of tea and despite what some other people say  regarding the availibility of processing outlets and photoshop, i just don't  like the process.
even at “90mm” and with the magnification  turned on, the dof was so wide that an “infinity” subject still  looked sharp with the lens set as close as 4 feet - a recipe for fuzzy  pictures.
and the “tic-tic” is enough to tell me the shutter fired.
it is not quite fair to criticize the noise level compared to a  larger aps sized sensor.
that is what the digilux 2 delivers.
heliopan filters are only now starting to trickle in.
also, think about all that extra glass you are carrying that your dslr's sensor isn't utilizing.
perhaps they were  panicked by the hits the sony 828 has taken on the subject - and overdid the  noise suppression as a result.
a community of photographers search all of  photo.net photo captions photo tags equipment store home > equipment >
but as a reviewer, i have an obligation to point out the worst features of  the digilux first - the horrids.
gianfranco ceccolini , october 31, 2004; 05:09 p.m. first of all, i'd like to say that's a very good review of the camera.
an  excellent starting place for some kinds of landscape work, with a long tonal  range (but obviously not sharpness) that approaches large-format images.
outcome: almost no smoothing, at least a 4x increase in resolution over the  “smoothed” parts of a straight iso 400 picture, an increase in  noise (probably to about where it would have been at 400 if leicasonic  weren’t smoothing it), and a slight increase in saturation.
deal breaker for some  but not for me.
i don't miss changing lenses or missing  shots because i had the wrong lens on the camera.
i do have a question that perhaps someone could answer.
i am wondering if a hasselblad reflex viewfinder rmfx can be rigged to view the lcd from above.
press a button on the back once,  and the flash head pops up to a 60-degree angle for bounce flash.
i would concur that many  controls can be manipulated by feel alone such as the metering pattern switch.
but then you have to add a supplementary lens.
i have use  one digilux2 and 4 panasonic lc1, there were all sold, but i just miss the  camera so much, and also bought one 2nd few days ago.
both can be very fast to focus and provide clear (if different) views of the  world.
it strips away magenta casts from sky and clouds.
i take with this camera will feel special...a word i would hardly use for cameras such as nikon d70, minolta a2, etc.
for me this review was especially interesting, since it came out at the same time as i posted my panasonic lumix dmc-lc1 for sale on ebay, which is in turn about five months after i originally purchased it.
compare specs all you want.
i decided upon the lc1 largely from reading the personal experiences of people on the dpreview forums and seeing the images that they displayed.
but at least the country club set will no longer have to be embarrassed hauling around a canon, nikon or ugh--- hp.
six seconds on my “regular” 256mb lexars.
sure,  with a dslr, i wouldn't have to worry about the slow raw recording and limited  iso, but the smaller size gave me oppurtunity to take pictures, i would not  have been able to do with a bigger dslr.
at 8x, the magnified area  fills the screen.
slrs solve the problems of the rangefinder - at the cost of noise, shake and bulk.
it’s possible to  dial up one of three “hollywood” shutter sounds  (“clack”, “click”, or “cluck”) that play  when you fire the shutter.
maybe so, maybe... it is interesting to note that despite the high level of manual operation available with this camera, even when the aperture ring is turned to the f/2 setting, that the user is very often comprimised [forced] by the camera into accepting a f/2.4 aperture rating.
i generally work with sharpness set to “low” and the other two set to “std.”
the vario-summicron “shoots” wider than its  “28-90mm” rating.
in others words - it was the high-quality lines with the "good  name" that went into the tank - and it's the so-called "junk"  digilux 2 that's saved leica's bacon - or at least slowed the decline.
at 100 the digilux is a bit ahead  of “traditional” iso 100/125 silver films in terms of grain/noise,  but not tmax/delta or iso 50 film.
the image  seen in my computer's monitor is way better, but my eyes are learning to see  the real photo through the lcd.
lens is permanently attached to camera so you won't get dust on the sensor  (can be costly to fix on dslrs).
only one or the other is on at any time, and a button on the back toggles between them.
didn’t like being limited to one or two focal lengths; didn’t like the parallax error; didn’t like the big lens protuding into the viewfinder corner; didn’t like the extra bulk on top.
steven chen , november 16, 2005; 04:10 p.m. sample shot at halifax, canada.
in photo.net’s review of the  digilux 1 people spoke of a “seurat filter”.
you can select your 4 most often-used controls - perhaps iso,  contrast, white balance and auto-focus area - and assign them to a “quick  function” list that can be accessed via the 4-way toggle button, saving a  lot of scrolling through menus.
dave leung , august 16, 2004; 02:21 a.m. thank you, andy, for such a concise and well written opinion of leica's  latest digital camera.
the lenses, awesome; 16/18/21, 50, 90 and now i am looking for an m6 body and a 28mm lens, after that maybe a noblex, maybe.
whilst the camera has many other impressive qualities, it is this first major  drawback which compels me to hang on to my money.
seems as though leica/panasonic have subdued or left out the  “low-pass” filter in order to maximize sharpness, even at the risk  of the occasional “eel”.
a raw  workflow is like the zone system - a brilliant tool for some kinds of  photography, just not mine.
brian edwards , february 19, 2005; 06:32 p.m. i wonder who would be willing to pay for a camera body that will last for 50 years but whose technology (i.e., sensor) will be essentially obsolete in one or two years.
the areas of critique are valid, though i got accustomed to the electronic viewfinder.
but it’s funny - once i start shooting and paying attention to the  world and the moments around me - how quickly the ugliness fades into the  background.
none of which affects the capabilities or limitations of the camera as  described.
but my digilux took a 3-foot fall out of my camera bag onto carpeted concrete the first night i had it, and survived with no marks or damage.
my criteria for aesthetic concerns, were won over by the colour rendition that i could see in the images i had seen.
i simply find that i am becoming more interested in creating wider angled images and therefore want to explore beyond the field of view provided with a 28mm lens.
now whose going to test this out for the group them ?
my other comment is concerned with the camera's small sensor and the resulting lack of dof control.
taking into account the average digital slr (or the epson rangefinder)  magnification of 1.6 one needs a 17.5mm f2 err, which doesn't exist so for the  wide angle digital user this camera is unique.
the switch also changes the flash firmware to “external-flash” mode - no pre-flash, but otherwise the same options as using the internal flash.
the widest apertures at the  marked focal lengths: 28mm f/2; 35mm f/2; 50mm f/2.1; 70mm f/2.2; 90mm f/2.4.
incorrect or failed af is indicated by a green dot that lights up -and then  flashes.
beautiful it is,  as are all leicas (including my old but still functioning iiic).
the lance is really very good quality, see what it does to  the 5mg iq, i really don't know what to complain about.
this, i think, was sacrificed for marketing reasons, a pity.
i've  got a rolleyflex from a friend for some time and was realy interested in seeing  the picture that would be taken on the unpolished glass.
i immediately turned this off, since i am far more interested in the next picture than the one i've already taken.
the meter can be set to center-weighted, spot metering, and “multi-area” patterns.
also, it's hard for a dslr to take shots in low light with as much dof.
for my work they hold their own against my 6mp nikon dslr at iso 100.
although this is currently a mute point with my new dslr, because i have an f/2.8 20-35mm zoom lens which is transformed into an effective 30-52.5mm lens due to the 1.5x factoring by the ccd.
pictures have a quality to them that is special.
i took a low light shot of a band and a large crowd  all inside a tent that came out amazing.
to add just one comment about the d70 and why i chose this model.
in other words, i wanted the nikon d2h, but i decided to save myself 2000 euros, at least for now that is...
had it been a panasonic i would have paid a substantial sum for  a re-do which would not have been covered by insurance.
at 4 feet and f/2 there is clear softening of the image from peak performance within 4 inches either side of correct focus.
the very, very good (and the merely nice)
spot focusing helps somewhat, but it's not easy to judge until the image is viewed on a proper computer monitor.
and the b&w setting doesn’t affect raw files, which by their nature still contain the full color data from the original bayer pattern of the pixels.
but  a manual-focus “feature” buried somewhere in the electronics is  simply not in the same league as a focus ring on the lens that can be set with  a flick of the finger even before the camera is powered up.
i only want a step-up ring and even this is still not generally available.
i did use the camera extensively for the 2 weeks so here are my comments / observations: - the design is beautiful and the camera just has a unique style to it - exposures for the most part were fine, 90% of the time as i would want them to be although some results were very disappointing - focus was the most disappointing for me, since of the more than 200 or 300 photos i took, about 75% were not focussed.
and i can just  use a light weight and sharp prime if i want.
comparing a “b&w” shot of a gretag colorchecker to a  color image converted via the channel-mixer, the camera’s internal  channel-mix is roughly red 35%/green 55%/blue 10%.
one of the reasons i bought a digital camera with fixed lens in place of  and dslr (i used a great canon a-1 that belonged to my father since 1979 and  was given to me in 2000 and my first idea when moving to digital was getting a  dslr, probably rebel or d70)is because i can't stand the idea of having to  clean the sensor once a year or so.
i luckily purchased my d2 in april from a seller who  included a 69mm panasonic mc filter (as well as a panasonic remote release and  sandisk ultra ii sd card for cheap).
one can buy a sigma 20mm f1.8 which gives about 30mm but it's massive and it's a sigma.
ergonomics: i agree with everyone that egonomics are superb.
basic specs 5 megapixel 2/3rd”
lens is permanently attached to camera so you won't get dust on the sensor (can be costly to fix on dslrs).
i wish that a third push of the evf/lcd button would  turn both off to save power.
they'd sell a zillion d3s at 3x canon's price  if they just managed to equal canon g6.
since people vary, there is no perfect size and weight for a camera.
if you shoot leica, your standards are  high, and to reach those standards, you'll need to tweak the images in  photoshop to make them be the best they can be.
as a leica m user, am i really meant to be seduced by the digilux 2 styling?
white lights show purple fringes - red and blue blooming combined.
the vario-summicron will blur backgrounds and foregrounds when used near its minimum focus at maximum aperture.
i have yet to see a dmc/lc-1 in the flesh, whereas i’ve already shot 2200 exposures with the digilux.
tungsten does ok, but undercorrects a bit, leaving some residual yellow under house lights.
it’s the best choice under non-daylight light sources, but needs to have a lot of blue compensation dialed in if the light is short on blue wavelengths (see blue-channel issues below).
one advantage of a “shutterless” digicam is  that the exposure can be metered directly from the live image sensor voltages  instead of through a surrogate metering circuit/sensor.
for many  photographers, that’s not enough.
this camera fills a gap for me, and should be a good carry around camera for general use.
etc. kevin parratt , july 27, 2004; 11:14 a.m. this is the year 2004.
function button: i have mine set for wb, iso, cine, and (playing with it for now) digital zoom.
in that case i put my left hand in front of the flash to bounce the light more vertically and off a nearby wall behind me (i've only tried this so far in b&w to avoid potential color casts).
leica’s film lenses have a slight bias towards cyan-green - or more  accurately, away from magenta/red.
btw, my first computer class was in 1975.
small cameras are winning photo competitions.
so i’ve already recovered more than the leica/panasonic price difference.
the digilux has been out over a year, with no replacement on the horizon - hardly a "short life" in the digital world (where, for example, leica's partner panasonic went from the fz1 through the fz10 to the fz20 in a year).
in leica's words (3-q report march 1, 2005): "these reductions of credit lines do not as yet endanger the company?s solvency.
in manual focus the lock release button can be used to set the distance by feel without looking, similar to tabbed leica m lenses.
as i mentioned in discussing the  lens, the sharpness and occasional moire patterns in fine details lead me to  believe that leica/panasonic have chosen to limit the amount of low-pass
it is my first digital, so i was kind of a newbie in the subject.
i’m too busy seeing pictures to notice.
i do wish that the on/off switch was in the locaton of the meter pattern switch and vice versa since all my nikons have the power switch around the shutter release button.
if the d2 is disappointing in quality, then leica will have much to lose.
the spot meter reads about 1% of the image  area - roughly 2 degrees at “90mm” and 6 degrees at  “28mm”.
so the question is since im just getting back into  it..is the extrs for the 2 worth it as really all i need is auto with option  for manual.
but i use manual focus when i don’t  want the focus point to shift between shots, or when i’m using  “trap-focus” for action - or simply to avoid the af lag when the  “moment” finally happens.
more about the digilux 2 on my blog at http://www.johnthawley.com great review... though i think times have changed.
the leather treatment was done by cameraleather.com and the bags by m-classics.com.
i have had no problems, but others have mentioned them here and elsewhere, so they're real.
the lens barrel and rings are  aluminum or some other light metal, not brass.
following three months of shooting with the digilux 2, i  find myself sharing many of the same conclusions.
philip clarke , august 29, 2005; 07:28 p.m. one thing that should be noted is 28mm f2, no other digital that i know of does this, canon g5 goes down to 35 f2
the brunt of the joke is unfortunately leica itself.
films, and can’t go places that tri-x and an f/1.4  lens can go.
as a leica m user, am i  really meant to be seduced by the digilux 2 styling?
and while rangefinders and even slr  screens can get out of alignment, with the evf you are focusing using the  actual pixels that will make up the final picture - the image sensor  can’t ever get out of alignment with itself.
at focal lengths above “50mm”, autofocus is usually fastest  (the af lock time is about 1 second).
anyone who has ever used a nikon f2 or canon f1 or pentax spotmatic (or -  yes, a leica rangefinder) already knows where everything is and what it does.
outside of iso speed, there are 4 main “digital” image controls  for jpeg shooting (they have no effect on raw files).
due to the 60-degree bounce angle, the flash provides a small amount of ‘kick’ light directly at the subject as well as bounce - but also sets a limit on how close you can shoot.
preview eight neat products from ces 2012 three tips for selling/showing your photos in a gallery nikon d4 preview dslrs in the movies: 'hellbent' the ten best action films of 2011 animoto online video slideshow maker user profile readers' comments add a comment adam eberbach , june 04, 2004; 01:52 a.m. nice thorough review, and it looks like a nice camera - but is it really  worth $1300 more than a canon g5?
i could wish very strongly for an upgrade to the camera’s software that would make it possible to turn off the noise-suppression at iso 200/400 via a menu selection similar to the color and saturation settings.
press the button again, and the base pops up another 60 degrees, pointing the flash at the subject.
normally i am wary of new products but yours is the second review i have read which suggests the digilux 2 is well worth looking at.
jim simmons , june 04, 2004; 01:45 p.m. jon guss, i think you'll still need to spend some time with photoshop to  get the most out of these d2 images.
i would mention, somewhat randomly, these verbose opinions: aethetics: the d2 is in my humble opinion the best looking camera ever.
see what happens when you pull out that dslr with a big lens attached.
the b&w mode is interesting, and i like to use it if i am looking for b&w pictures.
there is something to be said for working directly from the  subject’s original color wavelengths, rather than an image  ‘filtered’ through various stages of chemical dyes and  scanner/enlarger optics.
i have found that the only way i can get acceptable photos is by shooting in the 'm' manual mode, setting all controls myself.
you could use a tilt & shift lens on a dslr but there is more weight in your camera bag and you don't have the zoom.
it's not hard to learn, as  you'll only be using a small portion of all that photoshop was designed to do,  but once there, you'll love the things that you can do that you could never do  in traditional silver/dye photography - regional contrast control, manipulation  of particular colors within the image, etc.
i've seen previous digital cameras from friends, but the lcd screen  thay had were really bad.
david haynes , august 12, 2004; 12:02 p.m. excellent review!
the styling is nice and  everybody can recognize it as a horse carriage - sorry, as a film camera, which  it is not.
i absolutely hate planned obsolescence being an engineer and designer.
i find it amusing that so many people see this review as an opportunity to polemicize about a camera they don't own and have never used.
so far as i can tell, the digilux has about every possible flash capability  generally available - normal sync up to 1/2000th second (yes, 3 zeroes is  correct!); slow-speed sync; sync at the beginning or end of the exposure (i  refuse to call it “second-curtain-sync” when the camera has no  shutter curtains); flash exposure compensation of +/- 2 stops for fill.
but it eliminates the option of playing with photoshop’s “channel-mixer” after the fact to darken skies and such.
but it’s funny - once i start shooting and paying attention to the world and the moments around me - how quickly the ugliness fades into the background.
great optics and intuitive analog controls do not by themselves make for great shooting.
it helped me a lot  in my decision process, buying my digital camera.
it has been pointed out elsewhere on the web that chip  size is similar to film format size.
it's the photographer and not always the camera.
less grain than most 400 color negs  i’ve scanned, a bit worse than provia 400f, especially in the shadows.
i don't miss changing lenses or missing shots because i had the wrong lens on the camera.
otherwise i save my editing for the computer monitor, where the images are generally sharper, warmer, and darker than the camera displays them.
i know you mention "paid for", but where's the pleasure of the  process?
in fact, there have been times when i've set up for a shot by feel alone, without even looking at the camera controls.
very strange - since i use the same finders, with the same limitations, all the time for film photography.
a 10d with a 24mm 2.8 prime for instance, is a nice compact camera.
total lag (including my reaction  time) was 233 msecs.
none of this is express disrespect for leica.
so ideally, i’d start this review with the controls and handling and lens, because they are so distinctive.
although this is currently a mute point with my  new dslr, because i have an f/2.8 20-35mm zoom lens which is transformed into  an effective 30-52.5mm lens due to the 1.5x factoring by the ccd.
correct  autofocus is indicated by a green dot that lights up in the viewfinder.
if you bring a "bag of lenses", it's only because you want to, not because you have to, for crying out loud.
cloudy and flash go a bit overboard in adding yellow/red.
anybody who tells you that their dslr takes better photos than the leica/panasonic has never compared the results.
and if a camera has a bug that requires workarounds - it’s still a  bug.
for me the major  issues are quality in the optics rather than post-process correction and the  simplicity/user-friendliness of the tool.
now whose going to test this out for  the group them ?
i find it amusing that so many people see this review as an opportunity to  polemicize about a camera they don't own and have never used.
featured merchants leica digilux 2 digital camera vendor vendor rating availability price
and while it was easy to slide open the  door for the memory card and press/release it - it was then impossible to get a  grip on the card and remove it the rest of the way.
all this would not be important in the least, but the camera lacks  functionality, it needs a grip and a movable lcd.
darker skin tones  are rendered in browns instead of purples.
i also keep a native  version and a pansonic lc1.
the d2 is also missing the power-on led of the lc1.
the bokeh is quite beautiful.
how about a 4000-6000ppi scans, huh? jon guss , june 04, 2004;
it has been pointed out elsewhere on the web that chip size is similar to film format size.
workarounds for using iso 400 shoot raw and accept the lag between shots add some “grain” in photoshop to fill in the  ‘smoothed’ areas, and the results are still nearly as sharp as some  “old technology” 400 b&w films.
almost any individual feature of a camera can be criticized as being inferior to another.
one being a technical [theoretical] consideration, while the other was an more aesthetic [subjective] approach.
and while rangefinders and even slr screens can get out of alignment, with the evf you are focusing using the actual pixels that will make up the final picture - the image sensor can’t ever get out of alignment with itself.
i've used dslrs and other digicams, but this is the first digital  camera which i enjoy using and find myself wanting to use.
i have been using it (the panasonic lc1) since sept. 04.
you can compare the effect with a 400 or 800 iso film at the 35mm  format.
of the 3 reviews i have read, this is the most  complete.
focus: in manual focus i agree that mf2 (8x) setting works better for me.
i have had the opportunity to handle the d2's in person, clearly the evf is the biggest negative to me.
at its peak apertures (f/4-5.6) it is  projecting details so fine that they start interacting with the bayer pattern  on the image sensor, producing moires - witness the clothing textures and ebony  tooling in the bagpiper picture - and dropping out fine details against the sky  - see the tail-less bird below.
in a “news emergency” i could get a publishable newspaper picture at 800 or 1600, but not something i’d want to hang on the wall.
at which point the digilux will be the same price as any other well-used digital camera - free.
the viewfinder is electronic - a tv set behind  an eyepiece.
as with all digital zooms, it  simply magnifies the image from the middle of the sensor, without gathering any  more detail.
i have always enjoyed "limitations" as the fuel for creativity (or - is there some other way i can get there?).
but there is occasionally a cyan-red  patchiness (chrominance noise?) in dark grays or blue-green areas like  architectural glass.
better that the leica  d2 be compared to other upscale point and shoots, or perhaps the oly e1 2/3  camera, but the aps sized dslrs are in a class by themselves imo.
is this the panasonic effect?
with the digilux, i shot two series, one using the internal viewfinder, and one where i watched the scene directly, to see if the evf had any additional lag.
i hear that one can visualize and shoot b&w in  raw mode and retain the option of color images later using the raw file.
but i use manual focus when i don’t want the focus point to shift between shots, or when i’m using “trap-focus” for action - or simply to avoid the af lag when the “moment” finally happens.
when the shutter is pressed, there is a faint internal “tic-tic” (i think it’s the aperture blades shifting to shooting aperture).
after all, i loved to snowboard and i... olympus om-d e-m5 announcement and preview pentax k-01 preview latest learning articles three tips for selling/showing your photos in a gallery there are few industries as heart-wrenching as the fine art business.
remote: the remote cable threaded down my shirt sleeve and switch in left hand  combined with 1930's aufsu waist level finder makes a very stealthy outfit.
beep beepbeep beepbeepbeep.
comfortable “35mm camera” ergonomics the “wideness” of the zoom at “28mm” dead silence and smoothness of shutter release short shutter lag 100% framing without parallax problems extremely good “off the sensor” exposures, that protect the  highlights in multi-spot mode viewfinder and rear lcd separately assignable to shooting and review modes  (1-switch changeover) automatic ‘escape’ from most menus by touching the shutter  button automatic ‘escape’ from focus magnification for framing by  holding the shutter button built-in bounce-flash capability excessive noise-smoothing at iso 200 and 400, with no user control  available long delays between shots when shooting raw viewfinder “lag” the “ugliness” of evf/lcd viewing/focusing in general too much dof (on occasion) for reliable focusing with the evf at 90mm and  large apertures in bright light chip resolution that doesn’t fully support the abilities of the lens long end of the zoom range a bit short some often-accessed controls (e.g. focus magnification on/off) not  available through the “quick set” of 4 custom functions and (yes!), digital image quality that is “only” better than  most 35mm color neg.
and the “tic-tic” is enough to  tell me the shutter fired.
i  wish there was focus confirmation in manual focus and a distance read-out would  be useful.
as a photojournalist, i’d prefer “sharp and noisy” to “blurry and noiseless”.
the on/off switch on the panasonic lc1 verson of the d2 is more ergonomic as it lies closer to the thumb than the d2 plus pushing the lever up for on and down for off makes more sense.
but if you use the entire digilux image, the results look more like 8x10’s (a4s) cropped from a 24-75mm zoom.
imo the d2's compromises and combination of features are ideal for my style of photography.
outcome: almost no smoothing, at least a 4x increase in resolution over the “smoothed” parts of a straight iso 400 picture, an increase in noise (probably to about where it would have been at 400 if leicasonic weren’t smoothing it), and a slight increase in saturation.
flame me but  i think so.
here  are some sample photos i took with the d2: http://www.pbase.com/sxgautam/leica_digilux_2_gallery steve bingham , august 10, 2004; 09:29 a.m. what a great review.
the camera(s) may be the same but the backup is different.
focusing and zooming are internal - so the lens never changes shape or size.
the digilux can expose in the standard 4 modes - manual, aperture-priority, shutter-priority, or program.
once  they resolve the snaggles of bad high iso in-camera jpegs and the truly, truly  sad unacceptable spec of a 1 frame raw burst rate...
focus/zoom feel - not as silky smooth as i'd like and a little lightwieght for my taste.
i bought it for the straightforward analog controls.
i bought the panasonic lumix dmc-lc1 (the cousin to digilux 2) a month  back, after a long deliberation, and lots of "jeers" from other users  who insisted i should spend the same amount and get something like a nikon d70,  or simply go for the much cheaper cousin, the fz20.
if you shoot leica, your standards are high, and to reach those standards, you'll need to tweak the images in photoshop to make them be the best they can be.
12:45 a.m. andy, the japanese website of panasonic seem to indicate that all the so-called  leica lenses in the panasonic cameras are actually designed by panasonic and  quality-controlled using leica standard equipment and processes and that the  designs of the lenses are approved by leica ag.
4/3 will enable much smaller lenses (far smaller diagonal than 2x3)and in  turn a much smaller body...presumably 8mp, like olympus.
there are also seven white-balance settings:
philips, the ostrich from eindhoven is next...
an excellent starting place for some kinds of landscape work, with a long tonal range (but obviously not sharpness) that approaches large-format images.
if the d2 had an aps  sized sensor then the lens would be either impossibly huge or worse - limited  in focal length and/or aperture.
and apparently this is the sole difference (except  cosmetics) between the leica and panasonic cameras - the panasonic’s  settings are all a bit ‘higher’ than the leica’s.
at 28mm - barrel distortion is obvious, about 3-4% at the corners, and there is a moderate amount of purple/green color fringing (3 pixels-worth at the corners) in many pictures, light fall-off is about 1.5 f/stops at the corners and is rather abrupt.
about on the level of the quietest leaf  shutters, at most.
i like the compact, grippable ergonomics.
did i mention it's a shame about the price... stephen w. , june 04, 2004; 09:03 p.m. andy, as expected from your history within the leica photography forum, your's is a great review; probably the best review i've read anywhere.
in  other words, i wanted the nikon d2h, but i decided to save myself 2000 euros,  at least for now that is... here is an admittedly unfair comparison of noise results, but i think that  they are interesting representations, and anyway i currently have no other more  relevant images stored here at photo.net: panasonic lc1 @ iso 100 peter robert schellhammer , december 06, 2004; 08:00
i’ll just mention two other nice  touches.
has hot shoe and tripod socket that's located on same axis as the center  of the lens (good features when you are trying to take panoramic photographs).
(having an f/2 aperture helps, of  course).
so when you get right down to it, it's a $600 sony 717 with a $1200 leica  price sticker added and without the innovative features like laser af assist  and nightshot.
in | site map | article archive | author index |  about us | faq | register | subscribe | support photo.net | contact us |  advertise | careers | terms of use |
you end up with smeared highlights, noisy shadows, and a weird transition area between the two.
there is a physical lock/switch in the shoe that will turn off and lock down the pop-up flash if anything - even an accesory viewfinder - is mounted in the shoe.
i know that 5mp is less that the  lenses "deserve" but raw mode makes this a minor problem.
i have had  them all.
as the a-1 is manual focus, it doesn't matter.
it’s scary when you open a color image and all the grays have identical amounts of rgb - 160/161/160 or 120/119/120 or the like.
just served for picture identification while in play  mode and framing when shooting.
i had seen examples of this before i bought the camera, but the vast majority of images posted, whether on the forums or on website reviews, were shot with the ccd exposure rated at 100 iso, so i incorrectly assumed that the f/2 lens overcame the need for such a frequent use of higher iso rates.
well, first i must admit, i did not read all comments before i started  writing mine.
setting contrast and saturation to “low” results in very softly toned images, with histograms that end well short of black and white, and the appearance of a freshly-born tiff from a raw file.
i can't put my finger on it but it's there.
using direct flash, the huge lens  shade will cast a shadow in the bottom of pictures shot at “28mm” -  but the lens alone will not.
i only want a step-up ring and even  this is still not generally available.
when i can afford it i will go for a d3, not least as it takes m lnses, of  which i have several!
despite the following i really enjoy using mine.
left-eyed shooters end up the same place they do with most camera designs - out in the cold.
i get nicely exposed bounce shots even at iso 100 in settings where my “film” flash (vivitar 2800) often poops out on slide film.
since the zooming is mechanical, it does not have to extend or retract during  startup/shutdown, saving seconds.
plastic, surely not, not for  leica, not at this price!
- after i’ve already nailed a dozen candid moments  and expressions from 4 feet away.
the downside: at the long end, the v-s is barely a portrait  lens - a “long” normal.
so - you can  shoot fast, or you can shoot raw.
beautiful it is, as are all leicas (including my old but still functioning iiic).
if sony/olympus/hp/fuji/canon/nikon had a similar digicam for far less i might buy one but for now d2 is unique and i am able and willing to pay for it.
4/3 will enable much smaller lenses (far smaller diagonal than 2x3)and in turn a much smaller body...presumably 8mp, like olympus.
i am not dismayed that a leica is very expensive.
just for grins, i put on a heavy set of ragg-wool gloves and tried operating the digilux.
the d2 iso 400 images have a not unappealling noise level, like film grain.
dan john falkenstine , june 06, 2004; 03:13 p.m. the camera reminds me strongly of english cars of years gone by...rationalization is required to oversee the fact that its an overpriced, outdated dud.
other flashes with safe trigger voltages can be used, but  must depend on their built-in automation rather than ttl.
some people have experimented with using accessory viewfinders,  rangefinder-style, to avoid the evf.
it's late to the digital dinner table, its offerings are nothing special.
i've bought mine in april 2004 and till that date, had only found one single review which was good, but focused a bit on the good side.
under an average ceiling, once  you get closer than about 5 feet, the “pool” of bounced light is  directly above, or even behind, your subject.
not only can you set them with the power off, you can set  two or three things simultaneously: left hand setting focus or aperture or  focal length while the right hand is thumbing on the power and setting the  shutter or meter pattern.
i luckily purchased my d2 in april from a seller who included a 69mm panasonic mc filter (as well as a panasonic remote release and sandisk ultra ii sd card for cheap).
landrum kelly , june 11, 2005; 07:50 a.m. to juan morino: you may have the dough to buy a rolex, but if you think that a camera with the capacity to save one (1) raw file at a time is the photographic equivalent of a rolex, then by all means spread the wealth around.
there is now a new version with interchangeable lenses or the new m8, beyond my range today but if i hadn't bought the d200 i would be an m8 sort of guy, so there, bugger me but leica is good.
with two rings  side-by-side on the lens, it is simple and fast to change focal lengths and  click between manual and autofocus without taking my hand off the lens or the  camera away from my eye.
as with all digital zooms, it simply magnifies the image from the middle of the sensor, without gathering any more detail.
if the d2 is  disappointing in quality, then leica will have much to lose.
there are obviously disparate views on the digilux 2.
the leather treatment was done  by cameraleather.com and the bags by m-classics.com.
i ended up with the lc 1.
within each series, the variation is likely a combination of my reaction time and small changes in traffic speeds.
neither viewfinder is especially good for critical evaluation of exposure, color, or sharpness.
and is much more expensive than the panasonic lc1.
essentially useless for anything other than 4x6 prints or video, imho - and at 3x, don’t expect to use the resulting images to prove you actually saw “bigfoot” or “nessie”.
also, it's  hard for a dslr to take shots in low light with as much dof.
while i make my living shooting with canon kit, my digilux 2(s) are never out  of reach.
due to the meter’s habit of protecting the highlights, changing the  contrast when using autoexposure has the effect of lightening or darkening the  shadows - moving only the left end of the histogram.
you can compare the effect with a 400 or 800 iso film at the 35mm format.
image  capturing where what i see is what i get, not what a camera/computer  interprets.
well, after reading this excellent review and all its critics, i still went and bought the d2 for $1279 including tax and s/h. i could buy the panasonic version or even a nikon d-70 for much less, but i decided to purchase a leica d2, and i will tell you guys the reason why: the same reason i bought a rolex watch instead of a seiko or a timex: even thought the seiko or the timex watch offer better features than a rolex and they are even more precise...a rolex is a rolex.
the d2 iso 400 images have a not unappealling  noise level, like film grain.
there are workarounds, which i’ll get into later.
as of  this writing (late april 2004)
this has great benefits for right-eyed photographers: you don’t have to balance the camera on the tip of your nose (firmer support), people can see your face while you’re shooting (a good way to establish and maintain trust), and, in the case of the digilux, you aren’t constantly planting nose-grease on the rear lcd.
i do not have a lot of time to sit at a computer and use programs like  photo shop (i lack the computer skills anyway.)being that i travel quite a bit  in my work.
3) evf - enough said!!
p.m. i find the most interesting part of the review is the fact that there is a  tutorial on how to take acceptable iso 400 images (that circumvent the in-built  shortcomings) with a 1300 uk pound camera.
arthur yeo , august 25, 2005;
the digilux 2 or can i say panasonic lc1.... is a great camera.
i could wish for an 8mp sensor to capture more of the lens’s
i love the silence and stillness.
i  have never owned a leica before
robert schellhammer , october 05, 2008; 05:23 p.m. it has been almost 4 years since i purchased the panasonic version of the  digilux 2.
since people vary, there is no  perfect size and weight for a camera.
i would have liked custom settings as in some other digicams where i would combine b&w/raw/iso400 as well as a-color/jpg/iso100, etc.
my main reason  for buying the d2 is that i know
occasionally the focus would shift a bit when turning the  aperture ring.
hell with a setup like this  they could even make a new digital mount for lenses designed with digital  cameras in mind.
i've had strangers ask "isn't that a really old camera?
the widest apertures at the marked focal lengths: 28mm f/2; 35mm f/2; 50mm f/2.1; 70mm f/2.2; 90mm f/2.4.
shooting at ei 100, manually white balancing, adjusting the white balance as far to the blue side as possible, and being generous with exposure (+1 ev) will boost the blue exposure to a reasonable level - pictures still need some photoshop work to fix color balance and saturation, but at least the blue channel contains detail.
i use both dslrs, the d2 and film cameras (35mm, medium format and large  format) in my business.
if you change the colour-management than you change automatically other settings or if you reduce the noise it could be that the images will not have the typical leica sharpness.
i queried leica about what was going on here: intentional noise reduction?
in accordance with german  business law, banks have frozen some credit lines because leica expects a big  loss for 2004-05 (euros 10 million against assets of euros 83 million), and the  banks want to know how leica plans to stem the losses (to be revealed in a  stockholders' meeting may 1).
leica followed this design in all later models and  although modern lenses could not be collapsed, the design reminded functional  and the styling great.
no pc outlet - you’d need some kind of adapter (radio, slave) for work with studio strobes.
the only redeeming factor  i can see in this overpriced, outperformed dinosaur is its lens, which appears  to be fabulous (as are all leica lenses).
as told in the review, i could have bought the lumix lc-1, but i live in brasil and there's no authorized lumix dealear that sells that model.
beep  beepbeep beepbeepbeep.
the shutter dial rotation is oriented to match a leica m6ttl or m7, rather than the ‘opposite’ design of older leicas or the mp.
if you don’t nail exposure, white balance,  saturation and contrast in the camera, and have to start making major  corrections in post-processing, they can fall apart rather quickly.
bottom line for me is that the d2 has let me get photographs in situations when i would not have otherwise gotten them with other available equipment.
judging from the review, the camera will cover my need for great pictures while still retaining the basic feel of my m-6.
this is probably as good a place as any to say that i did not buy the digilux 2 for the leica nameplate.
the digilux 2 is limited to an 8-second maximum exposure time, and uses a ‘dark-frame’ second exposure to map and subdue ‘hot’ pixels.
the manual setting also tends to run a bit on the yellow side.
if its resale value holds up when the inevitable 10mp version arrives then the initial cost of the d2 may be acceptable.
i won’t go into all the possible menus that can be brought up on the  screens - every possible control from setting the internal clock/calendar to  choosing how many prints to order.
this isn't really a vs dslr thing, but it keeps coming up, and i don't see the point.
------- "leica ist kaputt" now going into receivership as credit has been withdrawn from the company.
it looks like the time has finally arrived to buy my first digital camera although i will feel guilty about leaving my m-6 behind.
same concept applies to exotic cars, timepieces, and other  fine items - there are always cheaper and high quality items available.
in the d2-only examples, the pixels are 100% as they came from the camera unless noted otherwise.)
the better price and included accessories made the decision for me.
the colors are very good!
note especially the faint rays in the top of the label - erased in the 200/400 exposures, retained in the “pushed” iso 100 shots.
- i did try a  few long exposures.
using iso 100 and a high shutter speed, this left me shooting at f/2.4 while trying to focus at f/5.6 (the reverse of an slr, where you focus at f/1.4 and shoot at f/5.6).
but it’s still possible to compare relative lag times.
but i was surprised how good that camera performs regarding image quality compared to the leica m6 with the 1,4/35mm lens.
the image seen in my computer's monitor is way better, but my eyes are learning to see the real photo through the lcd.
i have use one digilux2 and 4 panasonic lc1, there were all sold, but i just miss the camera so much, and also bought one 2nd few days ago.
phil dan wajnman , june 25, 2004; 08:29 a.m. "the digilux 2 body is a basic bauhaus  "form-follows-function" box" the original barnack's leica was a  functional design, it accommodated two film-rolls and between them a lens, in a  smallest possible shape.
i am considering the digilux 3 or the olympus e-3.
i would not give up any of its attributes to obtain a bigger ccd and  modest image quality gain.
we’ll use the  digilux 2, and a couple of other popular digicams, the canon g5 and the sony  828, which i tested at the local electronics-appliance store.
the lcd quality is very good.
the digilux  2 is his first, and only, digital camera.
in the resulting snaps, i marked how far the car bumpers had moved by the time the shutter actually exposed the picture.
this, of course, is due to handheld photography and varying light conditions; however, when i have taken similar photos with a 35mm contax slr with 100 speed film, almost all photos were tack sharp.
it seems to me to offer 28/35/50mm summicrons, 90mm elmarit, and 28-35-50 tri-elmar lenses all rolled into one.
and when the final pictures are this clear and detailed, the fact that the viewfinder image is grainy becomes a minor issue.
does a great job at removing noise.
the photos you get with the  leica/panasonic really are special.
both can be very fast to focus and provide clear (if different) views of the world.
nonetheless it will have its fans.
i shot jpeg before i discovered  raw and posted shots to my blog at kiwicafe.com.
purchasing from these stores via these links helps support photo.net.
in fact, there have been times when i've set up for a  shot by feel alone, without even looking at the camera controls.
if i had to name one aspect  of the camera which most needed improvement, it would be one which was  expressed earlier by s.g., namely, the focusing.
none of which affects the capabilities or limitations of the camera as described.
welcome to photo.net:
except that i've quit shooting slow color film.
who wants to look back at all those angry people waiting while security has to hand check each roll of film at an airport?
i've been the second brazillian to get a digilux 2 in the authorized leica dealer.
it pins the brightest pixels to about a level of 245-248 on the histogram, preventing burned-out whites.
the digilux has a single af point in the middle of the frame.
though my 20d is probably technically superior, the leica sees far more playing time.
btw, my first  computer class was in 1975.
the most obvious one is to shoot raw files, which bypass all  “in-camera” firmware processing, and thus the noise supression.
and it mostly affects the lighter tones, whereas the strongest noise is in the shadows.
i sure hope they do it soon.
and i will still have the analog controls, comfortable  ergonomics, and really impressive leica lens to keep using forever - or what  passes for “forever” in the world of digital photography.
in my opinion this  camera will probably not do well for the leica legend of excellence.
at “90mm”-f/2.4 the image starts to degrade visibly within 1.5 inches either side of correct focus.
“there was a little girl, and she had a little curl, right in the middle of her forehead.
a leica should last forever!
i have a 18-50mm sigma dc zoom lens, compact and designed for aps sized sensors, barely larger than the 50mm 1.8 prime.
at the end of the day, it is decision  of personal preferences and style.
some people have experimented with using accessory viewfinders, rangefinder-style, to avoid the evf.
but  get you back to the long delays between exposures.
of the 3 reviews i have read, this is the most complete.
i am now going out to try one as a result of your  comprehensive review.
but on rare occasions (twice in 6 weeks) it has “forgotten” to do  this.
on many occasions i have used the camera only to find that the af mode has slipped into the macro mode in error.
is essentially black.
function button: i have mine set for wb, iso, cine, and (playing with it for now) digital  zoom.
nice crisp clear “iso 400” pictures.
personally, i love wide (my main film lens is a 21mm) - so i found this a pleasant surprise.
but - it isn’t infinite.
the dark-frame exposure is not user-adjustable, and kicks in at 1/2 second - which snuck up on me a couple of times when i was making hand-held 1/2-sec.
this camera has come into its own and time has revealed some genuine leica dna.
the large lovely lcd makes up in good measure for the deficiencies of the evf.
philips, the ostrich  from eindhoven is next...
we  tried to get a perfect colour management, sharpness and contrast but it is  impossible to avoid completely noise....
you have to wait an extra moment to see if the  dot remains steady - or flashes.
the “hang time” varies according to the capacity  and speed of the memory card in use: 5 seconds or so for a fast type ii 512mb  sd card, up to as long as 13 seconds on the 64mb sd card that comes with the  camera.
but i am afraid that doesn't come  close to justifying its cost or shortcomings.
philip clarke , august 29, 2005; 07:28 p.m. one thing that should be noted is 28mm f2, no other digital that i know of  does this, canon g5 goes down to 35 f2
so now that i have mentioned my new venturing into digital slr territory, i will satisfy the curious about which model of dslr i purchased.
- bottomline was that i was perhaps happy with just 5% of the results, which is not what i would expect from such an expensive camera.
left-eyed  shooters end up the same place they do with most camera designs - out in the  cold.
so i’ve already  recovered more than the leica/panasonic price difference.
same concept applies to exotic cars, timepieces, and other fine items - there are always cheaper and high quality items available.
p.m. i bought the panasonic version for cosmetic reasons.
the d2 is also missing the power-on  led of the lc1.
i am now going out to try one as a result of your comprehensive review.
denis waugh , january 21, 2005; 11:50 a.m. after the disappointment of seeing the silver 'metal' finish being rapidly worn on my leica digilux 1, i had hoped for an improvement with the digilux 2 finish.
using leica digilux-2 jpeg mode, no  editing, 50% scaled.
the spot af also did not always seem to find  the targeted spot.
it might not be as easy to throw a background out of focus but you won't get blurry photographs like those taken with some dslrs with fast heavy lenses attached.
but if you’re used to  the crisp texture of an slr screen or the brilliant clarity of a good window  viewfinder, it’s unlovely.
camera is small enough where people don't get intimated.
when it does, the “bokeh” is about the prettiest i’ve ever seen - the image just melts away from “sharp” with a soft and delicate contrast, and no hint of bright rings or double images.
it looks like the time  has finally arrived to buy my first digital camera although i will feel guilty  about leaving my m-6 behind.
i shot jpeg before i discovered raw and posted shots to my blog at kiwicafe.com.
the low compression jpegs are remarkably detailed.
there's a sucker born every minute, not to mention two con men ready to take advantage of him.
but hey, i guess i just wouldn't look  as cool walking around with my canon as i would with a leica!
lines mark the actual bumper positions, the arrows mark the average for each group.
otherwise i save my editing for the computer monitor,  where the images are generally sharper, warmer, and darker than the camera  displays them.
here are the key points of their response, edited for space: “some noise at iso 400 is not unusual for digital cameras.
at 90mm - no distortion i could measure, occasional purple fringing in dark objects against the sky, very low vignetting (looks like about 1/2 stop at its worst).
why attempt to discuss when you can pontificate instead!
so you might save by buying cheap in the first place, but will end up paying for it in the end!
image attachment: nova_scotia_2 043a.jpg dave leung , february 13, 2006;
combine these with it's well  placed controls a seasoned photographer would feel immediately comfortable  using, and the digilux 2 is without comparison in the digital realm.
i've owned a nikon d70 for about 4 months.
i have never owned a leica before
john falkenstine , march 27, 2005; 12:13 p.m. yup,
the meter can be set to center-weighted, spot metering, and  “multi-area” patterns.
being able to see the image prior to taking the shot, and not just an authopsy of the picture taken as with any dslr, is really a bonus i didn't expect.
this business of dogging the d2 for its weaknesses is akin to saying that my deardorff 8x10 is no good because it cannot be hand-held, or that a hasselblad is no good because its lenses aren't as fast as a 35mm or dslr.
this review has added many many new points about the d2 not  mentioned previously and is a significant contribution to our understanding of  this camera.
so that flipping the  shoot/review lever automatically switches you to your preferred viewfinder with  one motion.
the lag time finally  closes the books.
at the end of the day, it is decision of personal preferences and style.
in most of my comparison images with  film it has held its own alongside one of leica’s “signature”  film lenses: the 35 f/1.4 summilux-asph.
if you  bring a "bag of lenses", it's only because you want to, not because  you have to, for crying out loud.
then when they fix the issue with w/a lenses they could have  the new cameras use a mount that accepts both lenses, even if the m lenses  needed an adaptor (kinda like the m can use screw mount lenses via an adaptor).
i hear that one can visualize and shoot b&w in raw mode and retain the option of color images later using the raw file.
all of which gets you to the important thing -  pushing the shutter release - in the shortest time possible.
the leica-designed lens is almost supernatural  in its ability to define details and separate tones and colors, and pushes  right to the limits of what 5 megapixels can record - a bonus i wasn’t  even expecting.
i may getting the d2 as will.
altho it has more  versatility.
but i can wait till the next  model comes out.
but i do understand its appeal.
excessive noise reduction in iso 200/400 jpegs when shooting jpegs at iso 200/400, the digilux 2 employs a rather  heavy-handed noise reduction routine.
the bulk is just inside the large end of  my comfort zone - about the same as a small motor-incorporated film slr (nikon  n/f80, contax aria).
if you are unwilling to pay that price go for the sony/kodak/etc but you don't need to criticize leica cameras as not worth it.
and water reflecting sky, or sky-lit shadows/shade, are rendered as cyan-blue, not purple-blue.
in others words - it was the high-quality lines with the "good name" that went into the tank - and it's the so-called "junk" digilux 2 that's saved leica's bacon - or at least slowed the decline.
dave leung , august 16, 2004; 02:21 a.m. thank you, andy, for such a concise and well written opinion of leica's latest digital camera.
i also compared the images and musings visible on the forums for the various 8 megapixel offerings, such as the minolta a2, the olympus c-8080 and the canon powershot pro1.
exposure and image controls
contributed content used with permission.
each foot of movement thus equals about 33.3 milliseconds.
image quality depends from the adjustments (colour, contrast, noise, sharpness).
if you don’t nail exposure, white balance, saturation and contrast in the camera, and have to start making major corrections in post-processing, they can fall apart rather quickly.
at focal lengths above “50mm”, autofocus is usually fastest (the af lock time is about 1 second).
it's a tool which does nothing perfectly, but most things well.
also, for  those in favor of film leica cameras but not the d2, can't you take good photos  with other fine, cheaper film cameras (nikon, canon, etc., ) -- why leica?
it is sad to see leica produce such an inferior product.
with the m6 (which has a known shutter lag of about 20 milliseconds), the  average total distance traveled was 7 feet.
leica had a gain of 40% in income from sales of compact cameras - which includes the digilux 2.
i re-iterate what i said above.
graham welland , june 07, 2004; 04:55 a.m. thanks for a balanced review that actually gave me some valuable user  advice (iso 400 shooting technique).
people always amazed the photo's were taken by this old and only 5mg pix camera.
the money i saved will go towards a leica mp body.
if you get past these and are still  interested, then we can have fun with the camera’s good side - which is  occasionally amazing.
that said, however, i think henri cartier-bresson would have disliked  this camera - as i do.
so now that i have mentioned my new venturing into digital slr territory,  i will satisfy the curious about which model of dslr i purchased.
but i am afraid that doesn't come close to justifying its cost or shortcomings.
it’s possible to dial up one of three “hollywood” shutter sounds (“clack”, “click”, or “cluck”) that play when you fire the shutter.
i  hoped wistfully for a camera that could come close to scans from iso 100 slide  films.
i've used dslrs and other digicams, but this is the first digital camera which i enjoy using and find myself wanting to use.
i've got a rolleyflex from a friend for some time and was realy interested in seeing the picture that would be taken on the unpolished glass.
not only can you set them with the power off, you can set two or three things simultaneously: left hand setting focus or aperture or focal length while the right hand is thumbing on the power and setting the shutter or meter pattern.
------- "leica ist kaputt" now going into receivership as credit has  been withdrawn from the company.
set the shutter dial to “a”, and the  camera will choose the shutter speed as you change apertures.
i don't like menus and not in your face composition of viewscreens or bulk of the high quality systems.
there is a separate “flash” white-balance setting to compensate for the coolish color of the flashtube.
so far as i can tell, the digilux has about every possible flash capability generally available - normal sync up to 1/2000th second (yes, 3 zeroes is correct!); slow-speed sync; sync at the beginning or end of the exposure (i refuse to call it “second-curtain-sync” when the camera has no shutter curtains); flash exposure compensation of +/- 2 stops for fill.
i use all the camera’s focusing modes, depending on the situation.
and if a camera has a bug that requires workarounds - it’s still a bug.
the leica m6s live on b&w and the once-a-year roll of 400 color - the digilux gets the rest.
really looking forward to the digital back for the leica slr coming this  fall - as a preview for how the digital m will perform.
sorry for the long post and the bad grammar.
s g , july 28, 2004; 03:45 p.m. after my earlier comments (see above), i actually did purchase a digilux 2,  tried it for 2 weeks and then returned it.
they are the sam camera, if there is any differences, but if you can't see the differences on the iq, what's the point to care the "differences", i just love both of them.
the glove test just for grins, i put on a heavy set of ragg-wool gloves and tried  operating the digilux.
though  my 20d is probably technically superior, the leica sees far more playing time.
so - you can shoot fast, or you can shoot raw.
i know it depends on what you're trying to do, but there seems  to be nothing the d2/lc1 can do that a 10d or other dslr can't do as well or  better, but the equation doesn't necessarily work out the other way around.
you don't need an external flash to get shots that look like they were taken in daylight (fantastic bounce flash feature).
i am unsure what malady  plagues my digilux 2, but i have had more than my share of misfocused pictures.
at 4x, the magnified view appears in a box within the full-frame image, which supposedly allows one to keep track of the overall picture while focusing.
here are the key points of their response, edited  for space: “some noise at iso 400 is not unusual for digital cameras.
with two rings side-by-side on the lens, it is simple and fast to change focal lengths and click between manual and autofocus without taking my hand off the lens or the camera away from my eye.
focus was set manually.
the much larger variation for the m6 is interesting, and could be due to the mechanical linkage-chain in the shutter.
you don't need an external flash to get shots that look like they were  taken in daylight (fantastic bounce flash feature).
i like the  compact, grippable ergonomics.
no leica m or dslr has a single lens like this available.
not necessarily a digliux 2 issues >>
1) some d2/lc-1s apparently have poorly aligned sensors, so that pictures  shot at "infinity" or elsewhere on the focusing ring are not actually  focused there.
in accordance with german business law, banks have frozen some credit lines because leica expects a big loss for 2004-05 (euros 10 million against assets of euros 83 million), and the banks want to know how leica plans to stem the losses (to be revealed in a stockholders' meeting may 1).
three levels of picture information can be displayed in the single  picture/1x view: nothing but the image; basic picture info (frame number,  date/time of exposure, file size/type); and the basics plus detailed exposure  info (histogram, aperture/shutter speed, metering mode, etc.).
georg nyman , august 20, 2004; 12:44 p.m.
i, for one, would like to state that i will buy this camera for the leica brandname and the accompanying legend and quality.
each  foot of movement thus equals about 33.3 milliseconds.
turn-on lag time let’s turn on the camera and set the lens to 6 feet for a quick  “scale-focused” street photography grab shot.
when shooting jpegs at iso 200/400, the digilux 2 employs a rather heavy-handed noise reduction routine.
i have a 18-50mm sigma  dc zoom lens, compact and designed for aps sized sensors, barely larger than  the 50mm 1.8 prime.
in other words, leica did not design the lumix lenses at all, let alone manufacturing them.
all cameras are combinations of features that are compromises based on the designer's goals and their perceived niche for the camera in the marketplace.
does that lend some credibility to this camera or are the dima judges just nincompoops?
what failed to satisfy after almost half a year of daily use, was the  frequent presence of noise, even in images that had been brightly lit at the  time of exposure.
even  louis daguerre would recognize it as a camera.
you can tell if you missed the moment, or if the exposure or focus were really off.
that said, however, i think henri cartier-bresson would have disliked this camera - as i do.
i took a low light shot of a band and a large crowd all inside a tent that came out amazing.
if nikon or canon or minolta had produced a camera as ‘manual’ as the digilux 2, i would have bought nikon/equipment/canon/minolta - whichever came first.
my street shooting style is to hold the camera to eyelevel for the briefest amount of time to frame the shot so the quality of the evf image is less important.
it is very easy to get less-than-sharp pictures even at the “28mm” setting if you don’t focus carefully.
three levels of picture information can be displayed in the single picture/1x view: nothing but the image; basic picture info (frame number, date/time of exposure, file size/type); and the basics plus detailed exposure info (histogram, aperture/shutter speed, metering mode, etc.).
but “bokeh” is obviously a non-factor in  most digilux 2 pictures.
i have never been able to adapt to gadget cameras very well.
i don't exactly see folks standing in line to buy the company, and there's a reason for that..soon it might be much, much cheaper to buy leica.. juan monino , may 23, 2005; 02:08 p.m.
and so time marches on, the older i get the less i am prepared to buy crap, no more nikon, my digilux2 has converted me to leica big time, now i have the d2 and also an m8 with 3 lenses.
also,  think about all that extra glass you are carrying that your dslr's sensor isn't
i love it and it really changed my way of photographing.
really looking forward to the digital back for the leica slr coming this fall - as a preview for how the digital m will perform.
on many occasions i have  used the camera only to find that the af mode has slipped into the macro mode  in error.
it’s scary when you open a color image and all  the grays have identical amounts of rgb - 160/161/160 or 120/119/120 or the  like.
all cameras are combinations of features  that are compromises based on the designer's goals and their perceived niche  for the camera in the marketplace.
prices on the digilux are already tumbling=no buyers.
i was sure i would hate it
but “bokeh” is obviously a non-factor in most digilux 2 pictures.
the shutter dial rotation is oriented to match a  leica m6ttl or m7, rather than the ‘opposite’ design of older  leicas or the mp.
the lance is really very good quality, see what it does to the 5mg iq, i really don't know what to complain about.
it is much easier to visualize real-time b&w on the lcd screen compared to the dslr's always-in-color viewfinder.
the motive i'm writing this is because, albeit is a great review, it lacks  the same point all others do so:
as a photojournalist, i’d rather shoot jpegs anyway, as much for the time savings at the computer after the fact as those during shooting.
as for the slow raw processing without a built-in buffer, i use the raw mode primarily for stills and scenics, and so the slow processing means nothing, since i shoot with a tripod and the cable release (remote), and take my time.
11:07 a.m. simply to say~!i love the camera, bring me back to the old day.
"making junk and hoping the good name will obfuscate that its junk just doesn't work in the technology world.
judging from the review, the camera will cover my need for great  pictures while still retaining the basic feel of my m-6.
r quan , june 04, 2004; 06:03 a.m. an excellent review of the d2 from a known leica expert.
deal breaker for some but not for me.
in | site map | article archive | author index | about us | faq | register | subscribe | support photo.net | contact us | advertise | careers | terms of use | privacy
i “gelled” my flash for that warm “sunset light” look, and to balance with tungsten lights indoors, by the simple expedient of coloring a piece of translucent office tape with an orange marker and sticking it on the front.
the camera is still much happier with full-spectrum light (daylight,  flash or blue photofloods).
usually - it opens back up for focusing (af or mf).
there are currently no  sellers for this product.
he is currently a presentation editor with the rocky  mountain news in denver, colorado (winner of the 1999 and 2002 pulitzer prizes  for news photography), and a free-lance travel photographer/writer.
a child's first year the leica digilux 2 - a review by andy piper, 2004 tweet introduction “there was a little girl, and she had a little curl, right in the  middle of her forehead.
remote: the remote cable threaded down my shirt sleeve and switch in left hand combined with 1930's aufsu waist level finder makes a very stealthy outfit.
i have yet to see the perfect  camera for all situations.
at 90mm - no distortion i could measure, occasional purple fringing in dark  objects against the sky, very low vignetting (looks like about 1/2 stop at its  worst).
i've  probably taken about 1200 shots with it so far, and find that's it's pretty  easy to use once you get acclimated to its setup.
the lens was collapsible, making the camera  wonderfully pocketable.
no other digicam has a lens this valuable and leica is renown  for premium quality premium priced optics.
it's not hard to learn, as you'll only be using a small portion of all that photoshop was designed to do, but once there, you'll love the things that you can do that you could never do in traditional silver/dye photography - regional contrast control, manipulation of particular colors within the image, etc.
maybe so, maybe... it is interesting to note that despite the high level of manual operation  available with this camera, even when the aperture ring is turned to the f/2  setting, that the user is very often comprimised [forced] by the camera into  accepting a f/2.4 aperture rating.
it retains some of the classic look of m cameras.
the leica digilux 2 - a review photo.net nikon editor shun cheung reviews the new nikon j1 camera system.
but at least the country club set will no longer have to  be embarrassed hauling around a canon, nikon or ugh--- hp.
at 4 feet and f/2 there is clear softening of the  image from peak performance within 4 inches either side of correct focus.
zooming in to 90mm to set focus and then zooming out for framing also works well.
it can't shoot real macro, or  sports or vr zooms or 300mm f2.8 teles.
maybe some of the  details of the film image are not visible on the web, but overall, having seen  these comparison photos, i am asking myself why spending thousands of dollars  for the leica m6 lenses if that digital camera can do it almost better.
but my digilux took a 3-foot fall out  of my camera bag onto carpeted concrete the first night i had it, and survived  with no marks or damage.
under an average ceiling, once you get closer than about 5 feet, the “pool” of bounced light is directly above, or even behind, your subject.
i bought it with the 18-70mm kit lens, and have  purchased a few other lenses and filters to round out the package.
i do wish that the on/off switch was in the locaton of the meter pattern switch  and vice versa since all my nikons have the power switch around the shutter  release button.
i’ve already touched on the major flaws of the evf.
almost any individual feature of a camera can  be criticized as being inferior to another.
they have always been somewhat confusing for me and seemed to take away most of the personal touch in photography.
i am wondering if a hasselblad reflex viewfinder  rmfx can be rigged to view the lcd from above.
even at “90mm” and with the magnification turned on, the dof was so wide that an “infinity” subject still looked sharp with the lens set as close as 4 feet - a recipe for fuzzy pictures.
accidental jpeg artifacts?
i think it's a great camera that takes very good photos.
funny how often people eventually asked “when are you going to take  the picture?”
the most basic shows you nothing but the image and the af ‘box’ - until you touch the shutter button, at which point the aperture and shutter speed appear, along with a “match-needle” scale if you’re setting exposure manually.
i own these lenses and when i need them  i happily pull out my dslr.
so that flipping the shoot/review lever automatically switches you to your preferred viewfinder with one motion.
and apparently this is the sole difference (except cosmetics) between the leica and panasonic cameras - the panasonic’s settings are all a bit ‘higher’ than the leica’s.
i think that says all that needs to be said about the overpriced d2
i predict that it will have a  very short life.
this isn't really a vs dslr  thing, but it keeps coming up, and i don't see the point.
the technical theorising concerned the speed and range of the lens, i.e.  f/2 was faster than any other digicam offering and i was happy that the 28-90mm  could provide a general purpose range for what might be termed as a  'normalised' field of view.
overall a very interested review and very well done ( i do review myself as well ) - thanks for that excellent review!
i think leica completly missed the boat.
in that case i put my left hand in front of the flash to bounce the light more  vertically and off a nearby wall behind me (i've only tried this so far in  b&w to avoid potential color casts).
jim simmons , june 04, 2004; 01:45 p.m. jon guss, i think you'll still need to spend some time with photoshop to get the most out of these d2 images.
andrew bamji , september 10, 2007; 08:54 a.m. digilux vs panasonic?
the d2 lens is worth a fortune in equivalent leica m glass.
i just prefer mechanical to digital, just me.
it's hard to find the d2 and lc1 on  the net,( i am from taiwan ).
let's listen to the engineers of the past.
and  so time marches on, the older i get the less i am prepared to buy crap, no more  nikon, my digilux2 has converted me to leica big time, now i have the d2 and  also an m8 with 3 lenses.
at 8x, the magnified area fills the screen.
on the digilux: total time to “ready to shoot” - turn on the  camera and set 6 feet on the lens’s analog scale - 2.7 seconds
would critics who declare the d2 at iso 400 unusable similarly say that tri-x is unusable as well?
press a button on the back once, and the flash head pops up to a 60-degree angle for bounce flash.
i haven't yet gone to the trouble of acquiring in raw partially because the quality of the .jpg's is for me quite good.
purchasing from these stores via these links helps support  photo.net.
i immediately turned this off,  since i am far more interested in the next picture than the one i've already  taken.
the manual controls, quick start-up, and short shutter lag simply outperform anything less than an slr (and even a few of those) when it comes to fast work on the street, or wherever the action is.
with its centered lens, it is easier to hold, and much easier to hold steady, than the “l” shape used for most other top-end digicams, because the left palm has a corner to provide mutual support, instead of thin air.
photo tags equipment store home > equipment >
who wants to pay for film and processing?
the shutter lag on the digilux 2 is pretty minimal, but the  viewfinder lag has cost me ‘moments’.
from  the point of view of the company?s board of management, these facts prove  leica?s ability to offer attractive digital solutions.
the actual blue channel looks like a kodalith image of out-of-focus oatmeal - no fine details, no tonality.
there is one bug using manual exposure in this view: the needle and numerical readouts won’t change in real time as you change apertures or shutter speeds.
the iso 400 images are the best in  its size class.
i don't hear much bashing of 35mm image quality compared to 6x6 or 4x5 formats because everyone recognizes that different film format sizes have different trade-offs.
that's just the way it's always been with leica.