the l110 has a macro mode that works up to 1cm from the camera's lens, though only at the wide end will it focus correctly as expected.
not a pro piece of kit but its terrific for the money and all that most amatuer punters will ever want.
this camera does a great job.
particular praise for the movie mode with the exception of a certain fuzziness at full zoom, other than that, sound and picture quality are fine.
postjavascript appears to be disabled in your browser.
the l110 also has ‘color options' to change shooting styles from standard to vivid, b&w, sepia or cyanotype too.
i dont know wether to buy this camera or wether to save up for a better one.
sign up to our free newsletter to get the latest updates from what digital cameranewsletter sign-up details e-mail: more information go to our competition page to enter.
power comes in the form of 4xaa batteries - some may love it, others may  hate it; in fact it may be the reason to buy or not to buy.
trust the auto agree that the image quality is the biggest let down of this camera.
it's a horrible camera, bad pictures in just about ever indoor setting with or without flash, the hd footage is a joke, the large screen fools you, did some footage under normal lights looked fantastic on the small screen on the camera, but once home it was on my pc
but it doesn't make better than my older canon or higher iso should help more.
sports mode have a lot of noise not compared to cheaper canon's.
however, some of the buttons can lack responsiveness and needed a slightly firmer or secondary push before producing the desired result on some occasions.
i just got this camera, and i could do with going to see my doctor.
lacks of dial control that canon has as standard.
nikon l110 review - click for full  size image low-light situations add the benefit of an af-assist lamp which includes  the option to turn it off should this be undesireable.
ipc media limited, owner of whatdigitalcamera.co.uk, will collect your personal information solely to process your request.
i'm not a pro, but i think it's a really good camera.
unreliable too: sometimes it focuses, sometimes it doesn't; sometimes it fires, sometimes it doesn't; sometimes the flash fires, sometimes it doesn't.
easy auto mode works as expected and is essentially an advanced automated  option that auto-selects the best available settings for the scene at hand.
i regret the decision to buy it - got taken in by the nikon name.
i came from canon to nikon but due to a limited budget, as article stands is a good deal for the money.
gave up trying to find access.
i really like this camera for the range that it falls into.
the l110 screen does have an anti-reflective coating that helps but isn't foolproof.
if the camera's upside down this isn't an issue, but the batteries can slide around or fall out when open, so the sd would have been better placed in its own area.
the camera at first was not getting good shots - but a quick read of the manual and all was well.
almost bought this camera,thought of big,photos are very poor quality when zoomed.
i use 3200 but is noisy.
the primary purpose of the l110 is, of course, being a superzoom and utilising that 15x optical zoom which extends smoothly and with a regular pace.
this one on or off there is no slow zoom just fast.
one slight whinge  is that the sd card is inserted in the same compartment as the batteries, yet  the batteries aren't secured like many li-ion batteries would be.
after living with the l110 for just under a year, i am pleased with the purchase, which in the main, does a good job.
video still jerky and sound is awful for any type of live music.
next: image quality & valuejump to: introduction performance image quality & value verdict specifications
the l110 screen does have an anti-reflective  coating that helps but isn't foolproof.
read the manual and follow the mfg. directions before you write negative reviews!
we cannot make this camera work as we think it should and are more than disappointed with it!
i did a wedding using "portrait " setting and it was a big mistake then experimented with different scenes and "indoor party" were clear and crisp.
i would have liked to see the lens barrel screwed to enable a hood and to enable the lens cap fitted in, (so protecting the lens whilst in standby).
low-light situations add the benefit of an af-assist lamp which includes the option to turn it off should this be undesireable.
, i have been using canon film slr cameras and my first digital camera is still fuji 2mp 203, many of my friends have canon digital cameras and no doubt very good quality, i need aa batteries "a must have" , a nice view finder, 8 to 14 mp and manual mode option with a price range up to 200$ camera, i know canon's g11 is a great camera
it's macro is a bit disappointing but zoom is great even on digital range.
i bought one and took it back within a week.
in use the nikon coolpix l110 feels good in the hand and the zoom control is smooth.
at the end i need to save some money to get a better canon cause this one is a good one but not the one i need.
by the way my older is an a560.
for an everyday camera i think its great its not a professional camera
performance nikon coolpix l110 review - performance
i hate a yellowish tone on tungsten and that too bright display but just have to set it lower and it's done.
its a better camera for portrait photos!
if the image quality was improved then this would be recommended.
on hd footage the zoom is very slow and even at the slow speed it still has problems on the focus side of things i really wish i had kept my canon s2 is bought it, played with it,... sure, few manual controls, but do leave the dslr back in the car and get great results for point and shoot with this nikon.
nikon coolpix l110 is great camera proof go to this site-
well, i have read the manual - but the indoor pics are terrible - any suggestions?
i hope i made the right choice.. got this camera a couple of months ago had some trouble a first but after a couple of sessions with the manual all is well also i think that the battery life is pretty good
at the longest end the 420mm holds fairly steadily and, while optical stabilisation would have been an advantage here to further steady ‘live' during framing, the sensor-shift stabilisation helps provide further assurance of a sharper image capture.
the jpegs have more highlight detail than is apparent on the lcd screen, which can make for some difficulty in providing accurate exposure.
the l110 has a macro mode that works up to 1cm from the camera's lens,  though only at the wide end will it focus correctly as expected.
some dumb when you need fast shooting, sometimes you get some lag that make you miss nice shots.
also there is no viewfinder  as per some competitors' superzoom compacts, so no other way to conceive taking  an image when in bright sunlight.
earlier canon powershot a550 is way better in all aspects.
your comments will be recorded, but you might not be benefiting all the features.
nikons website is user unfriendly and their customer service is the same it seems.
awesome camera - those that complain should really read the f* manual first
easy auto mode works as expected and is essentially an advanced automated option that auto-selects the best available settings for the scene at hand.
but, after two repair send offs.
also there is no viewfinder as per some competitors' superzoom compacts, so no other way to conceive taking an image when in bright sunlight.
easy to use and navigate, the camera mode menu caters for most situations and image quality is fine, although a tripod is best employed in some situations.
the l110 also has ‘color options' to change shooting styles  from standard to vivid, b&w, sepia or cyanotype too.
it's easy to use and it's kinda cute xd im gonna get one later...
i thought the picture quality indoors was pretty poor but excellent outdoor.
the primary purpose of the l110 is, of course, being a superzoom and  utilising that 15x optical zoom which extends smoothly and with a regular pace.
it is a bad camera and even my 10 year olds son's fuji z10fd takes better pictures...
for more control there's the auto mode which allows user-defined white balance and iso settings.
but i'm not willing to spend on that,i'm saving for another canon lens, anybody ... ?
at the longest end the 420mm holds fairly steadily and, while optical  stabilisation would have been an advantage here to further steady ‘live'  during framing, the sensor-shift stabilisation helps provide further assurance  of a sharper image capture.
chris tomkin i have been using canon powershots for years but the wife treated me to this camera and its just about full auto on every thing.
the 3in lcd screen to the rear is of good quality, though is overly-bright  when compared to viewing images on a computer screen - so much so that the  former makes some image areas appear overexposed when they're not.
of course, i don't think that the quality of the image is really good, but it's ok how it is.
enter our competition to win a copy of this...
i wouldn't recommend it to anyone.
useless in low light and can't shoot a moving subject.
but you get what you pay for and i find the zoom and quality fine - pictures are good and for the price you are not going to get better!
in use the nikon coolpix l110 feels good in the hand and the zoom control  is smooth.
please note that we review all comments before they will appear on our site.
power comes in the form of 4xaa batteries - some may love it, others may hate it; in fact it may be the reason to buy or not to buy.
one slight whinge is that the sd card is inserted in the same compartment as the batteries, yet the batteries aren't secured like many li-ion batteries would be.
i noticed it was very very grainy.
can anyone suggest a site where i can see "the bad or the good" pictures taken by this nikon l110 camera and not photoshop corrected !
go with "indoor party" on the scene mode to take quality pics indoors.
for  more control there's the auto mode which allows user-defined white balance and  iso settings.
next: image quality & value jump to: introduction performance image  quality & value verdict specifications previous
current rating 4 (27 others voted)
coolpix l110 is not professinal camera.shows poor perfomance in low light thogh it has an iso ranging from 80-6400.no manual mode,shutter speed and aperture cannot be set manually.
however, some of the buttons can lack responsiveness and needed a  slightly firmer or secondary push before producing the desired result on some  occasions.
in conclusion, i'd reckon it value for money.
http://asia.cnet.com/reviews/digitalcameras/0,39005881,45197464p,00.htm i bought htis camera, but its poor performance in low light, absence of view finder, misleading monitor which gives false rendition of photos taken,absolutely poor picture quality,video mode that is no good in low light...the list is endless.
love 4 aa bats, chaeper, easier to charge and last a very good time.
enter now... more competitions
as it stands it's just short of the mark.
way to slow to get good pictures.
the 3in lcd screen to the rear is of good quality, though is overly-bright when compared to viewing images on a computer screen - so much so that the former makes some image areas appear overexposed when they're not.
your rating has been counted!
the jpegs  have more highlight detail than is apparent on the lcd screen, which can make  for some difficulty in providing accurate exposure.
and yet, it does offer 28-420mm equiv for £200 and you'd be hard pressed to find that anywhere else.
on sale: 17th feb in shops now!
i thought is should work better a night w/o flash
i was going to sell the camera but after reading the comments above i think i should read the manual and stop being a bloke.
if the  camera's upside down this isn't an issue, but the batteries can slide around or  fall out when open, so the sd would have been better placed in its own area.
the zoom is a joke, most large zooms offer some sort if speed control for finer zooming.
at first, i thought that it wasn't a good choice, but after i played a little with the settings and read the manual, it started to be nice.