in practice, try scanning and balancing a 35mm slide or negative so that it looks as clean and natural as the d100 equivalent.
nikon n70 35mm film  slr, 24-120mm zoom mounted.
left side, top to bottom: lcd monitor display on/off, menu on/off, playback thumbnail control, image lock, and the enter button.
fortunately, the af and d-type  lenses were the biggest part of that investment, and it is so nice to be able  to move them to the d100!
in burst or bracket mode shooting, this buffer can still fill up fast with the largest formats such as tiff and raw!
as with all digital cameras today, the built-in computer is almost everything.
forced ccd speeds, such as the d100's custom h1 and h2 ranges at 3,200 and  6,400 iso equivalency, are subject to randomly spaced, brightly colored pixels.
although no digital camera is ideal for deep-space photography, the slr camera body can be attached directly to the back of many astronomy telescopes with a cheap adapter.
i found myself going back to the manual for simple things like setting film speed and yes, even rewinding and changing a roll of film.
side, d100, f1.4 50mm lens mounted.
i  like working with this menu, in contrast to the sony dsc-s85's, in which it  easy easy to change anything, but impossible to find it.
"hard to operate" became a badge of distinction, a test of prowess like the old wooden chinese puzzle boxes.
old friends are hard to part with.
this concept was understood  before we had the word "ergonomics".
forced ccd speeds, such as the d100's custom h1 and h2 ranges at 3,200 and 6,400 iso equivalency, are subject to randomly spaced, brightly colored pixels.
this camera is everything a serious amateur photographer could want in a digital camera, and, yes, you can take your lenses with you -- if you stay in the nikon slr family of cameras, into which the d100 has made a dramatic entry.
the d100 has a usable iso range of 100-4,000, writes  out 6.3 megapixel images sized in 9 jpg, 3 tif and one raw format.
my experience with the fully auto features of my nikon n70 35mm was a bit  unnerving (see photos).
similarly, attempting to  delete an image will give a warning first.
taken  with 24-120mm zoom at full zoom, 1/1000 sec., f8.0, focal length 120mm.
i read all 17 pages at least twice, and finally saved to disk as complete web pages.
top left photo is older nikon n70 film camera, for comparison.
less obvious is the lack of a cumulative buildup of analog dust and lint flaws between camera, negative emulsion, developing and processing, and/or scanning.
because so much of the modern camera's function is entrusted to the  computer module and programming controls, there is less to do on the mechanical  level.
resolution: is the resolution of images captured by the d100 slr inherently as fine as those captured by the older n70 film slr camera, with the same lens?
one is printed in english; the other, in all other languages.
this never happened with the n70 in three years.
nobody else was; most shops had no idea when they would get even one display model.
it adds  adventurous depth and clarity to the act of re-experiencing special moments and  insights.
disadvantages are few and obscure, but there are some.
the word was the camera wasn't  going to be widely available until "late summer".
fortunately, the af and d-type lenses were the biggest part of that investment, and it is so nice to be able to move them to the d100!
deep-space photographers will use film and very long time exposures (24 minutes to several hours) to capture faint objects such as nebulae and star clusters.
it's assumed most photographers already  have the lenses they like using.
i love this  1.3 megapixel camera, which was state of the art in 1998 and still does an  awesome job of cranking out perfect pictures almost every time.
these progress in size from 220k to 17.3mb at up to 24-bit color depth.
unlike "consumer" digitals, the d100 writes to a buffer which can hold up to 7 consecutive shots, so the d100 user does not perceive the baffling time delay that has spoiled many a digital action shot.
they are still inventing digital camera operating systems as we write this.
computer and navigation system: on the top right of the camera is a lcd  readout panel displaying the most frequently referenced functions, such as  exposure mode and sensitivity setting (iso), f-stop, shutter speed and number  of shots remaining at the current picture size.
there's no way i can tell others that this camera is right for them, particularly when the initial purchase price is more than double that of popular high-end consumer models.
it isn't just that i don't fully trust fully automatic cameras, i don't understand the rationale behind many of the controls.
the owners  manual documentation is unusually clear and well written.
command dial. 5 lcd display and programming buttons (discussed in  article above).
though anybody can delight at the stunningly sharp, clear pictures, there are cameras on the market at less than half the price with great fixed optics, 4 to 6 megapixels, that are much easier to use and may even take more pleasingly balanced pictures in the hands of the average consumer.
for me, the move will be easy and complete.
nothing lasts forever.
but we should not forsake playing music or taking pictures because we  could always do better with better equipment.
the included camera strap  shows nikon intended for this camera to be serviceable and to present itself  well.
user interface: no camera should win high marks for ergonomics if the user interface isn't logical, intuitive and consistent.
note the dc-260 was  hardly able to resolve the telephone wire lines at all.
i'm delighted and relieved to say  that i find the computer and user interface of the d100 to be (for the most  part) well thought out and easy to navigate without constant reference to the  manual.
because so much of the modern camera's function is entrusted to the computer module and programming controls, there is less to do on the mechanical level.
popping up the flash unit is simple and actually activates flash-fill in typical default setups -- what a concept!
the word was the camera wasn't going to be widely available until "late summer".
takes compact flash or ibm microdrive, not included.
the oversize camera grip  shows well here and in the "top" photo.
i do not think this camera is going to disappoint.
i was never comfortable with the n70, which was not high-end; i much preferred the much older el2, which i nevertheless stopped using because guilt chained me to the newer investment.
with the  d100, at last i will never be able to complain about the limitations of the  equipment!
a digital-to-digital comparison is inherently unfair, since the only digital camera we have in california is the venerable kodak dc-260.
the number of pictures defaults to an "always-on" mode even when the camera is turned off.
i'm an old-school manual nikon user (going back to 1964).
lcd monitor with protective clear plastic snap-on overlay.
early  on, i got that old familiar feeling that sooner or later i was going to own  one.
i love manuals but loathe poorly designed documentation, so i have a reputation for rarely giving manuals the time of day.
this design issue finally hit an insurmountable obstacle with the advent of  personal computers.
i have never been a fan of  scrolling lists that only show one value at a time, such as shutter speed or  iso equivalent speed.
nikon d100 6.3 megapixel single lens reflex digital camera, with af  nikkor 24-120 zoom attached.
this investment should last a lifetime, more likely so if you're already  over 50.
if the operating system wasn't both powerful and easy to use, so that users could spend time with the work rather than with the manual, no machine, of whatever power and state of the art, could be worth the powder to blow itself up.
by  august, ritz advertised a "1-2 week backorder" status, which,  privately, they were admitting to customers was running 2-4 weeks.
it is the sharing of the jumbo prints around the living room, or the highly compressed email and web images, that brings photography alive.
in short, this camera will always have limited appeal to most consumers, even if prices come down to the level of 35mm film cameras, which is not likely to happen real soon now.
if you inadvertently select a setting that will reset the camera or reformat compactflash, such as switching to raw format, you will get a warning.
visible on right is lens release  button, and focus mode selector: m, s or c for manual, single-servo auto focus  (static), and continuous auto focus (moving subjects).
i was never comfortable with the n70, which  was not high-end; i much preferred the much older el2, which i nevertheless  stopped using because guilt chained me to the newer investment.
for almost everything else i can possibly think of, even mars and saturn, the city at night, and the high sierras, there is the d100.
in the full image (obviously not reproduced here), i can read the  "blockbuster video" and "direct sales floors" halfway  across town.
domestic  and foreign users alike will appreciate (but not equally so) that the d100  comes with two manuals.
if your subject is a mountain by the light of the rising quarter-moon, you could find and edit these pixels.
this never  happened with the n70 in three years.
that was an  understatement.
for the occasional really long night time exposure, i can always break out the n70 (better yet, the el-2) and do my time exposures manually.
the camera back panel buttons are mercifully brief.
i found  myself going back to the manual for simple things like setting film speed and  yes, even rewinding and changing a roll of film.
mounting and usage of the familiar nikkor lenses, and operations like servicing  the battery pack and compactflash, are still simple.
the number of pictures defaults to an  "always-on" mode even when the camera is turned off.
with the d100, for the most part, it  is a blessing.
using the d100 i have used this d100 camera, fooled with it, and practiced with it for 6  days now.
i expect the d100 will take a little longer to amortize to this level, but i expect it will get a lot more use per year, and that it will still be taking great pictures in 10 and maybe 20 years.
the d100 makes a sound "like a real  camera" because it is a real camera.
the lithium battery pack compartment cover is on the far side bottom, not  really visible in this view.
equally useful is the ability to add screw-on filters (ultraviolet, polarizing, tinted and neutral) and close-up attachments.
this lens has appreciable heft, but the d100 balance still  feels good.
the n70 on full auto was quite intimidating under anything less than full bright sunlight, and the control set was non-intuitive.
shot with f1.4 50mm lens, f9.0, 1/320, automatic, color  space srgb.
this design issue finally hit an insurmountable obstacle with the advent of personal computers.
spring in  the castro valley hills is always the best time for outdoor photography around  here, but there is always something interesting if you know where to look, and  i do.
owners manual: after i put a lens on the d100, charged and installed the battery, and inserted a 256mb compactflash (crucial, $99), the first thing i did is spend an hour with the d100 manual.
i ordered the  d100 from ritz august 6th, and it arrived 19 days later.
more significantly, the thoughtfulness of the camera design, and its ease and intuitiveness of use, is weaning me from the manual already.
in such cases it hardly matters what camera was used to compose the shots.
the d100 costs $1999, slightly more than the totals we paid for the kodak dc-260 when it came out in 1998, plus the cost of the sony dsc-s85 when we bought it in 2001.
in the end, the photographer with a stable of canon lenses will automatically choose the d60; the nikon buff will naturally choose the d100.
all control settings and options are available through the menu.
the optional command and sub-command wheels are intended to offer basic function changes without having to dive into the menu.
if your subject is a field of 10,000 stars of  varying magnitudes and apparent colors, you could not.
it is an additional process, one  which can even greatly enhance the pleasure of re-creating the moment, but it  is a different process nonetheless.
front view, d100 with  f1.4 50mm "normal" lens attached.
if you calculate the number of pixels potential in a scientist's 4x5 photographic plate, digital photography loses in the megapixels numbers game.
arbitrary and pointless complexity became a status symbol.
i'm delighted and relieved to say that i find the computer and user interface of the d100 to be (for the most part) well thought out and easy to navigate without constant reference to the manual.
standard nikon "hot flash" visible  above viewfinder, for external strobes.
this is also true of many other machines that offer us at least  the opportunity to transform the ordinary into the extraordinary.
i really appreciate the fact that the view screen or "monitor", and other windows and controls, are strategically placed so that i'm not constantly smudging them in an effort to operate or grip the camera.
i believe that nikon owners may not find a better time to make this move for quite some time, and that if they do move now, they will be surprised and delighted.
the moment is the important  thing, and it lives forever, or, at least, so long as its record can be  preserved.
the d100 costs $1999, slightly more than the totals we paid for the kodak  dc-260 when it came out in 1998, plus the cost of the sony dsc-s85 when we  bought it in 2001.
i've captured the hummingbirds at the feeder, a perfect hand-held shot, and  mr. squirrel racing down the fence on the other side of the pool.
i like working with this menu, in contrast to the sony dsc-s85's, in which it easy easy to change anything, but impossible to find it.
it adds adventurous depth and clarity to the act of re-experiencing special moments and insights.
digital images are "clean".
owners manual:  after i put a lens on the d100, charged and installed the  battery, and inserted a 256mb compactflash (crucial, $99), the first thing i  did is spend an hour with the d100 manual.
i ordered the d100 from ritz august 6th, and it arrived 19 days later.
the joy of capturing the moment is much more than about the camera that makes it.
i can hardly wait to go for a drive and do some serious shooting.
i read all 17 pages at least twice, and finally saved to  disk as complete web pages.
if your subject is a field of 10,000 stars of varying magnitudes and apparent colors, you could not.
the d100 makes a sound "like a real camera" because it is a real camera.
domestic and foreign users alike will appreciate (but not equally so) that the d100 comes with two manuals.
nothing's "perfect".
i devoured the d100  manual and feel comfortable using it as a reference, always a great sign.
equally useful is  the ability to add screw-on filters (ultraviolet, polarizing, tinted and  neutral) and close-up attachments.
the dc100 payoff should come  with higher resolutions and tiff (lossless) image capture, below.
most people would say that the dc260  image is "prettier", and in fact the kodak algorithms have a tendency  to make things look prettier than they really are.
if the operating system wasn't both powerful and easy to  use, so that users could spend time with the work rather than with the manual,  no machine, of whatever power and state of the art, could be worth the powder  to blow itself up.
processing time: in normal usage the d100 feels as responsive as a normal camera.
images: imported into photoshop 7.0, using the embedded color profiles from  each camera.
if you aren't already a 35mm enthusiast, and don't like the jargon of f-stops, shutter speeds and iso ratings: the d100 is capable (like all digital cameras) of shooting fully automatic focus and exposure.
for some sophisticated slr users, the d100 might perhaps never fully  replace their high-end 35mm cameras.
this camera is everything a serious amateur photographer could want in  a digital camera, and, yes, you can take your lenses with you -- if you stay in  the nikon slr family of cameras, into which the d100 has made a dramatic entry.
this versatility is all part of the rationale for the slr that can't be  answered with "but my camera has a built-in zoom.
the ability to switch lenses, say from normal to telephoto, gives the slr much of its desired versatility.
some consumer digitals, like our sony s85, appear to play a recorded slr camera shutter sound as an aural cue that the picture actually has been snapped.
4-way nav button, focus area lock, trash (delete) button.
in practice, try scanning and balancing a 35mm slide or  negative so that it looks as clean and natural as the d100 equivalent.
all of this, in only 26 shots.
a good investment should still pay for itself over time, in performance and satisfaction.
between the vcr, television remote and the digital camera, something terrible happened to the concept.
the d100 panel is relatively  uncluttered and easy to scan.
there's no way i can  tell others that this camera is right for them, particularly when the initial  purchase price is more than double that of popular high-end consumer models.
the ability to switch lenses, say from normal  to telephoto, gives the slr much of its desired versatility.
this is not something that can be shared and enjoyed by the whole  family.
front view, d100 body only.
lacking a more concrete test, it seems  to me the d100 image is subjectively at least as good as the scanned35mm  equivalent, clearer from edge to edge, and conspicuously free of lint and dust.
the extra leap to the complexity of pro and semi-pro cameras allows you, among other things, to turn all that "auto" stuff off when it gets in your way.
alternately, they go digital with special (relatively cheap)  dedicated astronomy ccd plates that do not pixilate on long low-light exposures.
included: camera body, strap, en-el3 d100  lithium battery pack, external charger, protective caps and clear monitor  cover, audio cable, usb cable, manual, and nikon view 5 browser and capture  software.
you can  see that tiff produces not only an image of much finer resolution (as you would  expect for 17.3mb), but overall image quality is much sharper and color balance  is much better, than the finest quality jpg.
the 17.3mb native tiff image size is the  same size as the coolscan iv film scan.
computer and navigation system: on the top right of the camera is a lcd readout panel displaying the most frequently referenced functions, such as exposure mode and sensitivity setting (iso), f-stop, shutter speed and number of shots remaining at the current picture size.
it's assumed most photographers already have the lenses they like using.
i've always  suspected that kodak engineered some sophisticated color balance and image  enhancement algorithms into its images, for these images rarely benefit from  the standard photoshop feature set, as do nikon slide scans and even the nikon  d100 images i've shot so far.
the d100 has a usable iso range of 100-4,000, writes out 6.3 megapixel images sized in 9 jpg, 3 tif and one raw format.
ergonomics: as a full-size slr, the d100 is a hefty camera, particularly with a zoom lens, but the full wraparound grip, which also houses the battery pack, makes single-handed shooting easy (use two hands anyway, and use the camera strap!).
conclusion: i was able to write most of this from memory, with minimal reference to the camera and manual that are right behind me.
given the greatly uneven starting size and resolution  from the two cameras, a detail portion from both images was blown up to 200% of  starting size, at which point neither jpg looks particularly sharp.
i bought the d100 with the full intention of turning it into a "working camera", for fun, travel and vacation -- unlike the n70, which spent large portions of its existence tucked away in a camera bag in a closet.
the joy of capturing the moment  is much more than about the camera that makes it.
spring in the castro valley hills is always the best time for outdoor photography around here, but there is always something interesting if you know where to look, and i do.
web and mail retailers were not listing the d100, and many never will.
this concept was understood before we had the word "ergonomics".
images: imported into photoshop 7.0, using the embedded color profiles from each camera.
understanding what the "auto" features are  actually doing is harder than just setting everything back to  "manual".
camera measures 5.7w x 4.6h x 3.2 d (inches, body  only).
the dc-260 took us four years to amortize its cost to below a buck a shot - we're up to 1075 shots on it, and it was our "main" camera until we bought the poor, unappreciated sony for phoenix.
as a single lens reflex (wysiwyg), a small mirror  pops up out of the light path.
conclusion: i was able to write most of this from memory, with minimal  reference to the camera and manual that are right behind me.
the rationale of the complex camera is all about  regaining control of the capture and presentation process.
there are no human interface guidelines.
i love manuals but loathe poorly designed documentation, so i have a  reputation for rarely giving manuals the time of day.
cropped out of 3008x2000 17.3mb tiff image.
illustrations let's see more of what the d100 looks like.
no user of the sony dsc-s85 will ever relate the  automatic settings to either the old manual controls, or to the conventional  pop-culture icons for sun, shade, fast moving, stationary, flash and so forth.
i couldn't be more excited about it, and of course i'm delighted.
as  expected, native kodak color balance and contrast is somewhat more dramatic  than the untouched d100 image, right.
if you calculate the  number of pixels potential in a scientist's 4x5 photographic plate, digital  photography loses in the megapixels numbers game.
in such cases it hardly matters what camera was  used to compose the shots.
user interface:  no camera should win high marks for ergonomics if the user  interface isn't logical, intuitive and consistent.
shutter: the d100 uses the same thin blade shutter mechanism as other fine  through-the-lens cameras.
many years ago, i used to observe that really good motorcycles were capable  of delivering performance that most riders would never learn to handle  proficiently.
if you inadvertently  select a setting that will reset the camera or reformat compactflash, such as  switching to raw format, you will get a warning.
popup flash is  visible in front, top and side views, above nikon logo.
but that would be more interesting for a day's outing, than a photo or two from the apartment balcony, so we'll put this off for another day.
no user of the sony dsc-s85 will ever relate the automatic settings to either the old manual controls, or to the conventional pop-culture icons for sun, shade, fast moving, stationary, flash and so forth.
no editing or balancing added in photoshop.
below the light,  depth-of-field preview button is barely visible in this photo.
as expected, native kodak color balance and contrast, left, is  somewhat more dramatic than the untouched d100 image, above.
sub-command  button visible in front of on/off switch, front of camera.
the dc-260 took us four years to amortize its cost to below a buck a shot -  we're up to 1075 shots on it, and it was our "main" camera until we  bought the poor, unappreciated sony for phoenix.
my experience with the fully auto features of my nikon n70 35mm was a bit unnerving (see photos).
we have a flash picture of c.bear that shows incredible detail on his anorak, the gleam in each of his mardi gras beads, and the unraveled threads of his "runny nose".
popping up the flash unit  is simple and actually activates flash-fill in typical default setups -- what a  concept!
dc-260 vs. d100 compare.
a digital-to-digital comparison is inherently unfair, since the only  digital camera we have in california is the venerable kodak dc-260.
i've captured the hummingbirds at the feeder, a perfect hand-held shot, and mr. squirrel racing down the fence on the other side of the pool.
it is an additional process, one which can even greatly enhance the pleasure of re-creating the moment, but it is a different process nonetheless.
this hasn't made a dent in the battery indicator.
the ability to replay it faithfully in every detail, as with good audio equipment, enhances the experience of re-creating the original.
no, neither film nor digital slr bodies come with lenses at all (unless sold as a special "bundle").
the removable clear plastic lcd  overlay is a thoughtful touch.
the d100 joins the ranks of a handful of new digital slr's that fill the gap between the $999 high end consumer digital camera and the $16,000 to $34,000 professional digitals.
shooting mode selector switch is visible on camera top.
right side: image delete (you also get a  warning).
mounting and usage of the familiar nikkor lenses, and operations like servicing the battery pack and compactflash, are still simple.
we have a  flash picture of c.bear that shows incredible detail on his anorak, the gleam  in each of his mardi gras beads, and the unraveled threads of his "runny  nose".
featuresfor a full technical review of the d100, consult a professional review of the product.
with optional software, the camera can capture directly to a personal computer or laptop.
this was a 600x400 crop  (about 1/5 of the 3008 pixel image width) at 100% of image size, not 200%, and  some color balance was applied in photoshop this time.
camera body is strikingly similar to n80 35mm film camera body in design  and size, but about 9mm taller.
this is not something that can be shared and enjoyed by the whole family.
though i haven't used some features at all, such as manual overrides and custom functions, i've managed to shoot indoors flash, indoors no flash, indoors daylight flash fill, outdoors normal lens, and outdoors zoom.
soft rubber compartment cover conceals connectors for usb, audio, and optional  external power.
this can be a blessing or a curse.
use of obscure iconic symbols is reduced to a few basic and frequently used functions on the back of the camera body.
with optional software, the camera can capture directly to  a personal computer or laptop.
it is about mood,  much more so than being a chronicle of events.
moving to a camera in the d100 feature range is not a decision to be made casually.
unlike "consumer" digitals, the d100  writes to a buffer which can hold up to 7 consecutive shots, so the d100 user  does not perceive the baffling time delay that has spoiled many a digital  action shot.
"hard to operate" became a badge of distinction, a test of prowess  like the old wooden chinese puzzle boxes.
all photos of the d100 were taken with the old  kodak dc-260, which is still a reliable workhorse!
more  significantly, the thoughtfulness of the camera design, and its ease and  intuitiveness of use, is weaning me from the manual already.
features for a full technical review of the d100, consult a  professional review of the product.
these  progress in size from 220k to 17.3mb at up to 24-bit color depth.
the d100 was scheduled for release in june.
it is about mood, much more so than being a chronicle of events.
image size  alone will account for a lot of the differences in detail.
in burst or bracket mode shooting, this buffer can still fill up  fast with the largest formats such as tiff and raw!
d100 digital camerad100 digital camera once in a lifetime we are fortunate enough (or reckless enough) to buy that dream car, or the dream home, or ... the perfect camera.
it is an excellent resource, as well having a complete set of specs, photographs and comparison tests.
i have never been a fan of scrolling lists that only show one value at a time, such as shutter speed or iso equivalent speed.
don't let that fool you.
if you "always wanted to own a bmw", at some point you either have to order it, or admit there's never going to be a "right time".
with the dc-260, "normal"  is somewhere between wide angle and telephoto zoom,but you never know where.
arbitrary and pointless complexity  became a status symbol.
with the  popular four-compass-directions nav button, it is easy to locate and navigate  through the major functional menu groups, and their cascading-menu subgroups.
native size 1536x1024, 501kb.click image for downloadable 900x600  jpg, "9" high resolution, 214kb.
this includes the stunning canon d60 eos, which runs neck and neck with the d100, and in some ways outshines it.
the d100 panel is relatively uncluttered and easy to scan.
i love this 1.3 megapixel camera, which was state of the art in 1998 and still does an awesome job of cranking out perfect pictures almost every time.
nobody  else was; most shops had no idea when they would get even one display model.
not much difference was  noted, as the color balance and contrast were dramatic improvements over the  jpg image shot with the 50mm lens.
lens and tripod adapter, both pictured here,  not included in the d100 retail box.
compactflash/microdrive compartment cover.
but that would be more  interesting for a day's outing, than a photo or two from the apartment balcony,  so we'll put this off for another day.
unfortunately, you still  have to leave "shoot mode" to use them.
i really appreciate the fact that the view screen or  "monitor", and other windows and controls, are strategically placed  so that i'm not constantly smudging them in an effort to operate or grip the  camera.
there are limitations in computer and ccd technology where the extreme ends of film technology still rule.
nikon d100 digital slr, 24-120mm zoom mounted.
the nikon manual  addresses how to minimize this inherent limitation.
in a family with many different brands of digital camera in the same household, anybody can point and shoot, but it would be interesting to hear what happens when somebody else attempts to change a setting!
i like the feel of this camera more than any other slr i've owned.
moving to a camera in the d100 feature range is not a decision to be made  casually.
nikon wins high marks for thoughtfulness of design.
i recommend thedigital photography review  writeup of thed100.
it is an excellent resource, as well having a  complete set of specs, photographs and comparison tests.
a good investment  should still pay for itself over time, in performance and satisfaction.
i'm an  old-school manual nikon user (going back to 1964).
i've learned to decipher most of the n70 readout panel, which is tough.
if your subject is a mountain by the light of the rising quarter-moon, you  could find and edit these pixels.
the moment is the important thing, and it lives forever, or, at least, so long as its record can be preserved.
d100-dsc_0025-sm.jpg, reduced to 324x215  "save for web" jpg medium, photoshop.
dimensions are 5.7w x 4.6h x  3.2 d (inches).
judging from the initial demand for this camera - it is still really hard  to find at any price - there is a lot of pent-up demand within the nikon slr  owner community for a move to digital without a compromise in quality.
that's a great sign and very positive endorsement, especially since this is the fifth day after fedex delivered it.
we'll have more to say about this very soon.
many years ago, i used to observe that really good motorcycles were capable of delivering performance that most riders would never learn to handle proficiently.
though i haven't  used some features at all, such as manual overrides and custom functions, i've  managed to shoot indoors flash, indoors no flash, indoors daylight flash fill,  outdoors normal lens, and outdoors zoom.
understanding what the "auto" features are actually doing is harder than just setting everything back to "manual".
i devoured the d100 manual and feel comfortable using it as a reference, always a great sign.
back, d100, left to right, top to bottom: bracketing and flash  exposure compensation buttons.
this investment should last a lifetime, more likely so if you're already over 50.
for some sophisticated slr users, the d100 might perhaps never fully replace their high-end 35mm cameras.
the extra leap to the complexity of pro and semi-pro cameras allows you,  among other things, to turn all that "auto" stuff off when it gets in  your way.
this is also true of many other machines that offer us at least the opportunity to transform the ordinary into the extraordinary.
use of obscure iconic symbols is reduced to a few basic and frequently used  functions on the back of the camera body.
with the d100, for the most part, it is a blessing.
the rationale of the complex camera is all about regaining control of the capture and presentation process.
one is printed in english; the other, in all other  languages.
as a single lens reflex (wysiwyg), a small mirror pops up out of the light path.
this includes the stunning canon d60 eos, which  runs neck and neck with the d100, and in some ways outshines it.
there are limitations in  computer and ccd technology where the extreme ends of film technology still  rule.
in the end,  the photographer with a stable of canon lenses will automatically choose the  d60; the nikon buff will naturally choose the d100.
native size  3008x2000, 3050kb.click image for downloadable 900x600 jpg, "9" high  resolution, 210kb.
by july, ritz camera was taking "pre-orders".
between the vcr, television  remote and the digital camera, something terrible happened to the concept.
i never climbed  past midpoint on the n70 learning curve, and using it was frankly a big ordeal  fraught with many uncertainties and failures.
processing time: in normal usage the d100 feels as  responsive as a normal camera.
reviewers have commented that jpg  did not live up to its full potential with this camera, in their opinion due to  very conservative engineering values for sharpening.
judging from the initial demand for this camera - it is still really hard to find at any price - there is a lot of pent-up demand within the nikon slr owner community for a move to digital without a compromise in quality.
the n70 on full auto was quite intimidating under anything  less than full bright sunlight, and the control set was non-intuitive.
it is unusually clear and well-written, organized logically, and indexed and cross-referenced.
digital photography review called this the least-well-thought-out feature.
for astrophotography, when we get to that, we will probably get a dedicated telescope ccd.
digital images are  "clean".
some consumer digitals, like our sony s85,  appear to play a recorded slr camera shutter sound as an aural cue that the  picture actually has been snapped.
you can still focus manually, and set shutter speed and f-stop  manually, for special situations and when you want exposure-to-exposure  consistency that "auto" can't deliver.
that's a great  sign and very positive endorsement, especially since this is the fifth day  after fedex delivered it.
with the popular four-compass-directions nav button, it is easy to locate and navigate through the major functional menu groups, and their cascading-menu subgroups.
i like the feel of this camera more than any other slr i've  owned.
it isn't just that i don't  fully trust fully automatic cameras, i don't understand the rationale behind  many of the controls.
unfortunately, you still have to leave "shoot mode" to use them.
dc-260-p0001075-sm.jpg,  reduced to 324x216 "save for web" jpg medium, photoshop.
early on, i got that old familiar feeling that sooner or later i was going to own one.
thanks to the thoughtful design of the d100, and the clearly written  manual, i felt comfortable that i could perform all the basic operations in the  manual without going back to the manual to remember how to do it.
it would be fun to do that, and i would like to see the results myself.
lenses  attach and detach with the lens release button and a one-eighth circle twist of  the lens on the standard nikon bayonet mount side, d100, 24-120mm  72mm zoom mounted.
it is the sharing of the jumbo  prints around the living room, or the highly compressed email and web images,  that brings photography alive.
less obvious is the lack  of a cumulative buildup of analog dust and lint flaws between camera, negative  emulsion, developing and processing, and/or scanning.
alternately, they go digital with special (relatively cheap) dedicated astronomy ccd plates that do not pixilate on long low-light exposures.
the ability to replay it faithfully in every detail, as with good  audio equipment, enhances the experience of re-creating the original.
it is unusually clear and  well-written, organized logically, and indexed and cross-referenced.
for  almost everything else i can possibly think of, even mars and saturn, the city  at night, and the high sierras, there is the d100.
resolution: is the resolution of images captured by the d100 slr inherently  as fine as those captured by the older n70 film slr camera, with the same lens?
i recommend thedigital photography review writeup of thed100.
the d100  writes to compactflash (commonly available up to 512mb at this writing) or the  ibm 1gb microdrive.
these are the formats our regular photo visitors are used to seeing.
small illuminator light on upper left emits enough light for  auto-focus to operate correctly when ambient light is too low.
for fun, bearing in mind the disparity in cameras, we'll set up the tripod  on the back balcony using "normal" lens settings and the highest jpg  quality each camera is capable of producing.
i've always suspected that kodak engineered some sophisticated color balance and image enhancement algorithms into its images, for these images rarely benefit from the standard photoshop feature set, as do nikon slide scans and even the nikon d100 images i've shot so far.
mechanical operation of the camera is cleaner than my first manual nikon.
digital photography review  called this the least-well-thought-out feature.
using the d100 i have used this d100 camera, fooled with it, and practiced with it for 6 days now.
left to right: shooting mode dial, hot  shoe, lcd control panel, exposure compensation and flash synch mode buttons,  and lcd illuminator button (nice touch for low light setup!).
for comparison, exported to (a) jpg medium "save to web", 324x216 side-by-side resize, (b) 900x600
the d100 writes to compactflash (commonly available up to 512mb at this writing) or the ibm 1gb microdrive.
these are the formats  our regular photo visitors are used to seeing.
the obvious advantages of digital include instant results, zero processing  costs after the initial investment, on-the-fly adjustment of iso sensitivity  ("film speed") and image type size, no scanning or developing,instant  inspection, edit and delete, flash memory storage and transferability to the  personal computer, and a potentially huge "roll of film" to hold many  pictures without changing compactflash storage cards.
for me,  the move will be easy and complete.
that was an understatement.
for comparison,  exported to (a) jpg medium "save to web", 324x216 side-by-side  resize, (b) 900x600
photos to do a film-to-digital comparison properly, i would need to get some kodak  100 gold film for the n70 and wait for kodak processing.
it turns out that while the d100 feature set is much more advanced than my older n70 film slr, it is also much more logically organized, intuitively structured, and easier to understand.
all photos of the d100 were taken with the old kodak dc-260, which is still a reliable workhorse!
for astrophotography, when we get to that, we will probably get a dedicated  telescope ccd.
for the occasional really long night time exposure, i can always  break out the n70 (better yet, the el-2) and do my time exposures manually.
i  believe that nikon owners may not find a better time to make this move for  quite some time, and that if they do move now, they will be surprised and  delighted.
the d100 joins the ranks of a handful of new digital slr's that fill the  gap between the $999 high end consumer digital camera and the $16,000 to  $34,000 professional digitals.
i expect the d100 will take a  little longer to amortize to this level, but i expect it will get a lot more  use per year, and that it will still be taking great pictures in 10 and maybe  20 years.
shutter: the d100 uses the same thin blade shutter mechanism as other fine through-the-lens cameras.
the optional command and sub-command wheels are intended to offer basic  function changes without having to dive into the menu.
though anybody can delight at the stunningly sharp, clear pictures,  there are cameras on the market at less than half the price with great fixed  optics, 4 to 6 megapixels, that are much easier to use and may even take more  pleasingly balanced pictures in the hands of the average consumer.
photos to do a film-to-digital comparison properly, i would need to get some kodak 100 gold film for the n70 and wait for kodak processing.
auto exposure/auto focus lock  button.
the nikon manual addresses how to minimize this inherent limitation.
once in a lifetime we are fortunate enough (or reckless enough) to buy that  dream car, or the dream home, or ... the perfect camera.
it turns out that while the d100 feature set is much  more advanced than my older n70 film slr, it is also much more logically  organized, intuitively structured, and easier to understand.
first impressions i started reading the reviews of the pre-release prototypes in may.
an auto slr is quite a bit more complex than an auto  consumer product.
in short, this camera will always have limited appeal to most consumers,  even if prices come down to the level of 35mm film cameras, which is not likely  to happen real soon now.
thanks to the thoughtful design of the d100, and the clearly written manual, i felt comfortable that i could perform all the basic operations in the manual without going back to the manual to remember how to do it.
d100-dsc_0026-detail.jpg.
right side: image delete (you also get a warning).
alex forbes ©september 2, 2002 postscripts - see addenda page
camera ccd's, designed for daylight usage, generate "noise" for night shots, i.e., very long time exposures in very low light conditions.
you can still focus manually, and set shutter speed and f-stop manually, for special situations and when you want exposure-to-exposure consistency that "auto" can't deliver.
this versatility is all part of the rationale for the slr that can't be answered with "but my camera has a built-in zoom.
ergonomics: as a full-size slr, the d100 is a hefty camera, particularly  with a zoom lens, but the full wraparound grip, which also houses the battery  pack, makes single-handed shooting easy (use two hands anyway, and use the  camera strap!).
" output and storage:
jpg quality '9' high, downloadable.
the d100, so mounted, will take stunning pictures of  "bright" night sky objects such as the moon and planets.
no, neither film nor digital slr bodies come with lenses at all (unless  sold as a special "bundle").
barely visible on bottom is the standard tripod mount screw hole.
with the d100, at last i will never be able to complain about the limitations of the equipment!
if you aren't already a 35mm enthusiast, and don't like the jargon of  f-stops, shutter speeds and iso ratings: the d100 is capable (like all digital  cameras) of shooting fully automatic focus and exposure.
camera ccd's, designed for daylight usage, generate "noise" for  night shots, i.e., very long time exposures in very low light conditions.
but we should not forsake playing music or taking pictures because we could always do better with better equipment.
color correction still  has not been applied to either image.
the d100, so mounted, will take stunning pictures of "bright" night sky objects such as the moon and planets.
the obvious advantages of digital include instant results, zero processing costs after the initial investment, on-the-fly adjustment of iso sensitivity ("film speed") and image type size, no scanning or developing,instant inspection, edit and delete, flash memory storage and transferability to the personal computer, and a potentially huge "roll of film" to hold many pictures without changing compactflash storage cards.
if you  "always wanted to own a bmw", at some point you either have to order  it, or admit there's never going to be a "right time".
i bought the d100 with the full intention of turning it into a  "working camera", for fun, travel and vacation -- unlike the n70,  which spent large portions of its existence tucked away in a camera bag in a  closet.
i still don't  feel that way about the n70 after three years (though i had largely migrated to  digital by 1999).
in a family with many different brands  of digital camera in the same household, anybody can point and shoot, but it  would be interesting to hear what happens when somebody else attempts to change  a setting!
i've learned to decipher most  of the n70 readout panel, which is tough.
it would be fun to do  that, and i would like to see the results myself.
with smaller telescopes, this is the ideal for terrestrial photography for extreme magnification, distance, or really bright, sharp close-ups.
with smaller  telescopes, this is the ideal for terrestrial photography for extreme  magnification, distance, or really bright, sharp close-ups.
top left photo is older nikon  n70 film camera, for comparison.
an auto slr is quite a bit more complex than an auto consumer product.
left side, top to  bottom: lcd monitor display on/off, menu on/off, playback thumbnail control,  image lock, and the enter button.
although no digital camera is ideal for deep-space photography, the slr  camera body can be attached directly to the back of many astronomy telescopes  with a cheap adapter.
i never climbed past midpoint on the n70 learning curve, and using it was frankly a big ordeal fraught with many uncertainties and failures.
similarly, attempting to delete an image will give a warning first.
by august, ritz advertised a "1-2 week backorder" status, which, privately, they were admitting to customers was running 2-4 weeks.
deep-space photographers will use film and very long time exposures (24  minutes to several hours) to capture faint objects such as nebulae and star  clusters.
i still don't feel that way about the n70 after three years (though i had largely migrated to digital by 1999).
for fun, bearing in mind the disparity in cameras, we'll set up the tripod on the back balcony using "normal" lens settings and the highest jpg quality each camera is capable of producing.
as with all digital cameras today,  the built-in computer is almost everything.
this camera is really a pleasure to use.
don't let that fool  you.