quantum instruments inc.
requires no batteries or cables *
except  high-speed sync.
your use of the website is subject to quantum instruments' terms of use andprivacy policy.
use any  number of dedicated qflash 5d-r's or x5d-r's as remotes, controlled totally  from your camera's master flash menu.
for those tricky large group photos, use  multiple qflashes for more lighting power, all controlled by a canon or nikon  on-camera master flash.
qnexus "reads" the canon or nikon wireless infrared (ir), signals to  command qflash inmanual, automatic, ttl, and ttl-ratio.
may vary due to type of master flash or control unit used.
for those tricky large group photos, use multiple qflashes for more lighting power, all controlled by a canon or nikon on-camera master flash.
set any one of four channels (1-4) using the rotary switch on the qnexus to the same channel on the master flash.
qflash heavy-duty components will not overheat or worse!
camera status/mode indicator
remote group id indicators allows qflash units to be setup in multiple groups for ratio-ttl exposure, or combined in the same groups for extraordinary flash power.
uses same group indicators as canon or nikon flash.
for example: make a great portable portrait setup by  using a qflash in asoftbox , or with an umbrella as your key light, and use  your canon or nikon flash for fill.
qnexus links  quantumqflash t5d-r or x5d-r to the wireless ttl systems of canon and nikon.
** the higher sensitivity of qnexus provides more than a 50% increase in range over camera manufacturer's flash.
get qflash power, light quality and seamless integration with your canon or nikon wireless flash systems.
qnexus links quantumqflash t5d-r or x5d-r to the wireless ttl systems of canon and nikon.
a multi-function ledused to set qnexus for either nikon or canon systems or provides visual confirmation when qnexus receives a wirelessinfrared ttl signal.
remote group id indicators allows qflash units to be setup in  multiple groups for ratio-ttl exposure, or combined in the same groups for  extraordinary flash power.
may vary  due to type of master flash or control unit used.
escape from the limited power of your camera manufacturer's  shoe-mount flashes!
** the higher  sensitivity of qnexus provides more than a 50% increase in range over camera  manufacturer's flash.
transceiver - fw7q - qflash receiver - qlink - wireless speedlight adapter - learn more - qnexus - radio slave - radio slave 505sri - set - radio slave 505si - sender - radio slave 505ri -
click here  to see compatible canon and nikon flash units.
channel dial works with canon or nikon master flash channel selection.
no_iframes no_iframes no_iframes copyright © 2011 all rights reserved.
you can even mix remote canon/nikon flashes with remote  qflashes.
shoot all day, as rapidly as you want.
view cart sign in qnexus - wireless ir reciever control qflash with the canon or nikon ir system no_iframes - home - products - power pack - turbos - turbo 3 - turbo slim compact - turbo - turbo blade - turbo ac - quantum batteries - quantum battery 1+ - quantum battery 1c - quantum battery 2 - studio power - help me choose - quantum qflash - trio- shoe mounted flash - trio - ttl flash with radio - trio "basic" - w/o radio - pilot - remote controller - qflash - bracket mounted - qflash t5dr - qflash x5dr - features & specifications - > qttl - exposure control - > qnexus - ir control - > ratio &-fill-in flash
for example: make a great portable portrait setup by using a qflash in asoftbox , or with an umbrella as your key light, and use your canon or nikon flash for fill.
each qflash equipped with qnexus gives you an  additional 150watt-seconds (with qflash t5d-r), and up to 400 watt-seconds  (with x5d-r) of beautiful, studio-quality lighting to dramatically expand your  creative options.
qnexus "reads" the canon or nikon wireless infrared (ir), signals to command qflash inmanual, automatic, ttl, and ttl-ratio.
click here to see compatible canon and nikon flash units.
you can even mix remote canon/nikon flashes with remote qflashes.
qnexus supports all canon and nikon wireless flash functions* from as far away as 100-200 feet!
get qflash power, light quality and seamless integration  with your canon or nikon wireless flash systems.
qflash heavy-duty components will not overheat or  worse!
| print | |  e-mail qnexus expand the power and reliability of multi-flash ttl setups.
receiver - flash & camera cables - compatibility chart - select by flash/camera - cross ref by quantum no. - product upgrades - firmware updates - product conversions - photometers - find - product finder for my gear - chart of cables - catalog - product lists - products a-z with images - products by code - products by name - purchase - us dealers - quick ship program - international dealers - price list & compatibility chart - quantum direct - product lists - certified pre-owned - quantum direct by code - quantum direct by name - certified pre-owned - shows - support - updates & conversions - firmware updates - product conversions - product manual - product registration - glossary - fast support - repair - tutorials - qflash gallery - clay blackmore - bob davis - rick ferro - michael gilbert - doug gordon - gregory heisler - nicolas joly - mary ellen mark - albert t. parker - ed pierce - allan rosen-ducat - jb & deette sallee - jerry small - jerome turbyville - david ziser - clay blackmore - photoplus 2011 - contact - who we are - directions - address, phone, email - shows - search no_iframes | print | | e-mail qnexus expand the power and reliability of multi-flash ttl setups.
camera manufacturer's flash is typically only 50 watt-seconds.
escape from the limited power of your camera manufacturer's shoe-mount flashes!
a multi-function  ledused to set qnexus for either nikon or canon systems or provides visual  confirmation when qnexus receives a wirelessinfrared ttl signal.
use remote quantum qflash with your canon or nikon flash.
each qflash equipped with qnexus gives you an additional 150watt-seconds (with qflash t5d-r), and up to 400 watt-seconds (with x5d-r) of beautiful, studio-quality lighting to dramatically expand your creative options.
set any one of four channels (1-4) using the rotary switch on  the qnexus to the same channel on the master flash.
- omicron - ring light - uv/ir photogrphy - wireless controls - pilot - remote controller - fw - freexwire - fw89 - freexwire set - fw8r - receiver - fw9t - transmitter - fw10w -
use any number of dedicated qflash 5d-r's or x5d-r's as remotes, controlled totally from your camera's master flash menu.
shoot all day, as rapidly as  you want.
**maximum distance for direct line of sight.
qnexus supports all canon and nikon  wireless flash functions* from as far away as 100-200 feet!
except high-speed sync.