developing an understanding of visual aesthetics and how they interact and enhance a subject can make a photo both compelling and artistic.
think of how many times you’ve heard about therule of thirds or the golden spiral.
there are many  established guidelines for composition but every so often, those need to be  ignored.
there are many established guidelines for composition but every so often, those need to be ignored.
the best budget off-camera flashes  and constant lights » wendyinkmore another good article and a great photo in what looks like a waiting area.
distracting elements are therefore left out so that the subject is the clear focus of the image.
maybe the camera shouldn’t be level or straight as in the image below.
depth of field can also be a really important factor in certain instances with the chosen viewpoint.
the use of simple lines can be the most effective in some cases.
donate to the phoblographer
a quick refresher course on composition with one comment we all get the gist of composition.
lines the use of simple lines can be the most effective in some cases.
composition and “the decisive moment” developing an understanding of visual aesthetics and how they interact and  enhance a subject can make a photo both compelling and artistic.
join 23 other subscribers the journalist template by lucian e. marin — built for wordpress
the officer’s  stance helps frame the scene and i clicked the shutter just as the protestor  looked over.
for the photo below, i decided to point upwards to get a shot of some local politicians at a press conference – this avoided the standard straight-on perspective and allowed me to include the archway in the background.
with some  practice, this understanding can become second nature.
when deciding what to include in the shot, i try and exclude anything that doesn’t add to the overall meaning or aesthetic of the image.
because you frame and arrange elements together in a way that accentuates the  subject and your own personal style.
pin it related posts: written by katie moore january 19th, 2012 at 12:15 am posted in learn tagged with composition, photography, shooting, tips« review: rokinon 8mm f3.5 fisheye (for nikon) another good article and a great photo in what looks like a waiting area.
break the rules rules are made to be broken – or at least bent.
by purposely tilting it, i was able to accentuate the sense of movement,  however it’s definitely not something i would recommend most of the time.
for the photo below, i decided  to point upwards to get a shot of some local politicians at a press  conference – this avoided the standard straight-on perspective and  allowed me to include the archway in the background.
shots drastically affects the outcome of an image.
i aim to be aware of the various  options for unique perspectives when i am out shooting.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and  gear related stuff.
play around and see what works and what doesn’t work, and see which techniques fit each specific subject as well as your own preferences.
when used properly, these  elements of composition can make an image really come together.
photography: think simpler with one comment we all get the gist of composition.
by purposely tilting it, i was able to accentuate the sense of movement, however it’s definitely not something i would recommend most of the time.
if you’re just  starting to take your photography seriously, however, there are times when we  get caught up in things, or stuck on “auto”, and let this important  aspect of photography slide to the backburner.
experiment with  different perspectives and learn how your lenses interpret them as  well.
if you’re just starting to take your photography seriously, however, there are times when we get caught up in things, or stuck on “auto”, and let this important aspect of photography slide to the backburner.
i aim to be aware of the various options for unique perspectives when i am out shooting.
distracting  elements are therefore left out so that the subject is the clear focus of the  image.
although capturing “the  decisive moment” may take some serendipity, having a firm grasp on  compositional techniques prepares you for that one millisecond when everything  lines up.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your  continued support.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
this often means looking for spots that provide height such as stairs or benches to shoot downwards.
for the shot below, i leaned down to get at the same eye level as this protestor was being arrested during a demonstration.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
viewpoints and perspective the viewpoint you take when setting up
depth of field can also be a really important factor in certain  instances with the chosen viewpoint.
experiment with different perspectives and learn how your lenses interpret them as well.
with some practice, this understanding can become second nature.
when used properly, these elements of composition can make an image really come together.
filling the frame can also be a creative compositional technique – imagine if i had zoomed out and shown the entire elephant in the photo below – it would have drastically changed the look and feel that viewers come away with.
maybe the camera shouldn’t be level or straight as in the image  below.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned,  please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we  then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
for 50mm lens users an introduction to golden spiral composition method quick tips for shooting events quick tips for studio/location headshot photography learner's tips for shooting great portraits written by katie moore january 19th, 2012 at 12:15 am posted in learn tagged with composition, photography, shooting, tips « review:  rokinon 8mm f3.5 fisheye (for nikon)
the viewer will, hopefully, walk away from the image with an understanding of visual aesthetics, form, and design.
alternatively, just by bending down and shooting upwards you can also capture a different viewpoint.
lines (and curves) direct the movement of the eye and help provide images with definition.
additionally, it may help to look at the work of other photographers and even other forms of art to recognize different approaches to composition.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
the viewer will, hopefully, walk away from  the image with an understanding of visual aesthetics, form, and design.
maybe the subject in the dead center works in a particular case.
for the shot below, i leaned down to get at the same eye level as  this protestor was being arrested during a demonstration.
alternatively, just by bending down and shooting upwards you can  also capture a different viewpoint.
additionally, it may  help to look at the work of other photographers and even other forms of art to  recognize different approaches to composition.
rules are made to be broken – or at least bent.
the officer’s stance helps frame the scene and i clicked the shutter just as the protestor looked over.
lines (and  curves) direct the movement of the eye and help provide images with definition.
although capturing “the decisive moment” may take some serendipity, having a firm grasp on compositional techniques prepares you for that one millisecond when everything lines up.
this often means  looking for spots that provide height such as stairs or benches to shoot  downwards.
filling the frame can also be a creative compositional technique –  imagine if i had zoomed out and shown the entire elephant in the photo below  – it would have drastically changed the look and feel that viewers come  away with.
that’s because you frame and arrange elements together in a way that accentuates the subject and your own personal style.
fill the frame when deciding what to include in the shot, i try and exclude anything that  doesn’t add to the overall meaning or aesthetic of the image.
play around and see what works and what doesn’t work, and see  which techniques fit each specific subject as well as  your own  preferences.
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
the viewpoint you take when setting up shots drastically affects the outcome of an image.
think of how many times you’ve  heard about therule of thirds or the golden spiral.
pin it quick and forgotten tips