camera - nikon d5000 dslr camera user review - reader review: user reviews of nikon ...
kyle schurman digital cameras guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches maximum image size dslr camera nikon d300 high quality image intermediate photographers dslr review explore digital cameras must reads most popular - digital camera gift guide - best digital cameras under $200 - casio tryx camera review - best entry-level dslr cameras - tips for longer lasting camera batteries see more about: - how to watermark your photos - underwater digital cameras - best cameras under \$200 - best cameras under \$100 - canon powershot a2200
a part of the new york times company.
free digital cameras newsletter!
for that technology  to have trickled down to the d5000 already is beneficial for beginning and  intermediate photographers.
the d5000 works very well in fully automatic mode, including the autofocus feature of the lens.
by kyle schurman, about.com guide see more about: camera reviews nikon cameras this nikon d5000 review shows a very strong entry-level dslr camera that  works well for beginner and intermediate photographers.
pros - image quality is excellent - d5000 provides great mix of manual control and ease of use for a dslr - lcd can twist and swivel away from the camera - battery life is good for dslr camera - good collection of printed materials - quick start guide and user guide cons - learning the function of each button could be time consuming - autofocus can be slow, especially in low light - experienced photographers will want more features - lcd could use more resolution description - resolution: 12.3 megapixels - optical zoom: n/a, uses interchangeable lenses - lcd: 2.7-inch, 230,000 pixels (can tilt and rotate away from camera body) - maximum image size: 4288 x 2848 pixels - battery: li-ion (rechargable) - dimensions: 4.1 x 5.0 x 3.1 inches - weight: 20 ounces (body only, no battery, no memory card) - image sensor: cmos, 15.8 mm x 23.6
with the d5000,raw images are of a better quality than jpeg images.
the in-camera editing features are easy to apply.
no related guide picks - introducing nikon cameras - top digital cameras under $750 - olympus e-620
a camera par excellance.
after i had a chance to review thenikon d5000, i can understand the reason for the buzz.
the d5000 works very well in fully automatic mode, including the autofocus  feature of the lens.
this lens worked great for wide angle shots; you'd want a different lens for telephoto shots, though.
best new nikon cameras - find the latest on the best new nikon cameras nikon d7000 dslr review - a review of the nikon d7000 dslr camera canon eos 60d dslr review - a review of the canon eos 60d dslr camera nikon d5000 dslr camera user review - reader review: user reviews of nikon  ...
finally, the d5000 includes an lcd that can be tilted and rotated away from the camera body, which is nice.
you also can rotate the lcd next to the camera  body, protecting the lcd when not using the camera.
the d5000 is one of the best entry-level dslr cameras i've had the chance to use.
much of the technology behind the d5000 is based on thenikon d300, which is a slightly older, much more expensive dslr camera.
much of the technology behind the d5000 is based on thenikon d300,  which is a slightly older, much more expensive dslr camera.
one should be proud to have one.
at times, the autofocus doesn't work very fast, especially with low-light photography, but it is accurate.
good collection of printed materials - quick start guide and user guide cons learning the function of each button could be time consuming autofocus can be slow, especially in low light experienced photographers will want more features lcd could use more resolution description optical zoom: n/a, uses interchangeable lenses lcd: 2.7-inch, 230,000 pixels (can tilt and rotate away from  camera body)
the camera's weight is balanced nicely, and all of the buttons and lens rings were easily within reach.
with  the d5000,raw images are of a better quality than jpeg images.
at times, the autofocus doesn't work very fast, especially with low-light  photography, but it is accurate.
was this review helpful to you?
performance start-up times are fast for the d5000, which doesn't always occur with a  dslr.
good to shoot at any conditions.
the d5000 is one of the best entry-level dslr cameras i've had the chance  to use.
this lens worked great for wide angle  shots; you'd want a different lens for telephoto shots, though.
my d5000 review unit included an 18mm-55mm equivalent interchangeable lens,  which had sharp focus and image quality.
my d5000 review unit included an 18mm-55mm equivalent interchangeable lens, which had sharp focus and image quality.
the best thing about the d5000 is it works well in fully manual mode, fully  auto mode, or anything in between.
write a review 36 out of 38 people found this helpful.
sign up discuss in my forum about.com rating 5 star rating user  rating 5 star rating (1 review) write a review
user reviews 5 out of 5 great camera, member rafatkhan photographs are the memories and views on paper and d-5000 from nikon brings out the images on paper.
unfortunately, the lcd's resolution is less than some dslr models.
however, if you want to learn more about photography, configuring the d5000'smanual control features is easy, and the camera shows the settings used during image playback.
however, for those looking for their first dslr camera,  it's worth testing the d5000 (or any dslr model) before buying it, as dslr  cameras are vastly different in operational technique, size, and weight than ultra compact point and shoot models.
sign up - digital cameras - camera basics - buying tips - share your expertise discuss in my forum nikon d5000 dslr review about.com rating 5
the best thing about the d5000 is it works well in fully manual mode, fully auto mode, or anything in between.
after i had a chance to review thenikon d5000, i can understand  the reason for the buzz.
you also can rotate the lcd next to the camera body, protecting the lcd when not using the camera.
maximum image size: 4288 x 2848 pixels battery: li-ion (rechargable) dimensions: 4.1 x 5.0 x 3.1 inches weight: 20 ounces (body only, no battery, no memory card) image sensor: cmos, 15.8 mm x 23.6 mm guide review - nikon d5000 dslr review image quality with an effective 12.3 megapixels of resolution and  with a high-qualityimage sensor, the d5000 has excellent image quality.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
star rating user rating 5 star rating (1 review) write a review
olympus e-620 review do you own a nikon camera?
however, for those looking for their first dslr camera, it's worth testing the d5000 (or any dslr model) before buying it, as dslr cameras are vastly different in operational technique, size, and weight than ultra compact point and shoot models.
review - nikon camera reviews - do you own a nikon camera?
by kyle schurman, about.com guide see more about: - camera reviews - nikon cameras this nikon d5000 review shows a very strong entry-level dslr camera that works well for beginner and intermediate photographers.
- about.com - electronics & gadgets - digital cameras digital cameras search free digital cameras newsletter!
write your own review suggested reading related articles - nikon d3100 dslr review - a review of the nikon d3100 dslr - best new nikon cameras - find the latest on the best new nikon cameras - nikon d7000 dslr review - a review of the nikon d7000 dslr camera - canon eos 60d dslr review - a review of the canon eos 60d dslr
no related guide picks top digital cameras under $750
by category - camera reviews - nikon cameras - digital cameras 101 - advanced digital cameras - buying guide - reviews - accessories - tutorials - troubleshooting - technologies - manufacturers - history - photography tips - photo editing tips - photo printing tips digital cameras - about.com - electronics & gadgets - digital cameras - reviews - nikon camera reviews - nikon d5000 dslr review - a review of the nikon d5000 dslr camera also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
write your own review suggested reading nikon d3100 dslr review - a review of the nikon d3100
the lens focused clearly, both automatically and manually.
finally, the d5000 includes an lcd that can be tilted and rotated away from  the camera body, which is nice.
performance start-up times are fast for the d5000, which doesn't always occur with a dslr.
the bottom line the nikon d5000 dslr camera is a camera that generated a lot of buzz upon its release.
for that technology to have trickled down to the d5000 already is beneficial for beginning and intermediate photographers.
unfortunately, the lcd's  resolution is less than some dslr models.
you can use the lcd (called "live view") or the optical viewfinder to frame photos, but autofocus is slower when using live view, which is common among dslr models.
nikon the bottom line the nikon d5000 dslr camera is a camera that generated a lot of buzz upon  its release.
however, if you want to learn more about photography,  configuring the d5000'smanual control features is easy, and the camera shows  the settings used during image playback.
you can use the lcd (called "live view") or the optical  viewfinder to frame photos, but autofocus is slower when using live view, which  is common among dslr models.
design i found the d5000 easy to hold and use with the 18mm-55mm lens.
the lens  focused clearly, both automatically and manually.
pros d5000 provides great mix of manual control and ease of use for a dslr lcd can twist and swivel away from the camera battery life is good for dslr camera
kyle schurman sign up for my newsletter headlines forum related searches maximum image size dslr camera  nikon d300 high quality image intermediate photographers dslr review explore digital cameras  must reads digital camera gift guide best digital cameras under $200 casio tryx camera review tips for longer lasting camera batteries most popular how to watermark your photos underwater digital cameras
the  camera's weight is balanced nicely, and all of the buttons and lens rings were  easily within reach.
good to shoot at any  conditions.
mm guide review - nikon d5000 dslr review image quality with an effective 12.3 megapixels of resolution and with a high-qualityimage sensor, the d5000 has excellent image quality.
user reviews 5 out of 5 great  camera, member rafatkhan photographs are the memories and views on paper and d-5000 from nikon  brings out the images on paper.