so, do the 5d mark iii and the d800 perform better in this area?
the nikon d700 does have an excellent autofocus (af)  system.
however, when the nikon d3 was released it was already critized for having a sensor with only 12 megapixels.
images courtesy of canon and nikon
leave a comment e-mail (will not be published) (manditory)
so, it’s interesting to see that the d800 now has a lower frame rate of 4 fps, while canon has substantially increased their frame rate to 6 fps.
different tests seem to go back and forth as to which of these two  cameras is actually the better one in the higher iso regions.
but of course that’s just my opinion.
the feature that i personally find most important is the high iso  performance.
the pluses  of the 5d mark ii are that is has a lot of megapixels and it has very good high  iso performance.
a recentonline pole shows that about 41% of the respondents were happy with nikon’s choice to put a 36 megapixels sensor in the d800.
again, canon seems to have really done their best to fix the achilles’
to wrap it all up, should we be happy with these new camera’s?
camera feature canon 5d mark iii nikon d800 sensor resolution 22.3 mp 36.3 mp image size 5,760 x 3,840 pixels 7,360 x  4,912 pixels viewfinder coverage 100% 100% built-in flash
i myself am very interested in seeing a comparison of the specifications of  these two highly anticipated cameras.
in fact they haven’t just addressed it, they have now made the  sensor resolution the most prominent feature of the d800.
the canon 5d mark ii has very similar high iso performance to the nikon  d700.
i welcome this feature.
this is a new feature on both of these cameras.
with this  background information in mind, let’s take a look at the specifications  of the latest models.
this might seem like a very normal  thing to do to a nikon user, because nikon has been doing this for quite a  while.
in addition to that, the d700 had very good high iso performance, which can still be considered very good today, almost 4 years later.
this could mean  that it’s high iso performance is also two stops better.
one cf card slot and one sd card slot is a nice compromise.
others, for example  landscape and architecture photographers, are really happy with the increase in  sensor resolution.
the nikon d800 replaces the nikon d700, which was also a very highly acclaimed camera.
that is a full two stops better than it’s predecessor, and the nikon d800.
i have to say that my 5d mark ii does not satisfy my needs as much as i would like to in this area.
this is interesting  because canon and nikon seem to have listened very closely at the complaints  and praises about their products when the were developing their newest models.
i have been anticipating this camera for a long time, and so have lots of other photographers.
i myself am very interested in seeing a comparison of the specifications of these two highly anticipated cameras.
02 mar 2012  canon 5d mark iii vs nikon d800 category: for-photographers canon just released the specifications of the new canon 5d mark iii.
another interesting difference in the specs is the continuous shooting  speed.
email this page 3 responses to  “canon 5d mark iii vs nikon d800” max  says: march 2nd, 2012,  10:14 bedankt voor deze heldere analyse.
however,  when the nikon d3 was released it was already critized for having a sensor with  only 12 megapixels.
this conclusion is confirmed by a statement made by a representative of nikon france in arecent interview.
to me, what stands out immediately in this comparison is the sensor resolution of the nikon d800.
if are you looking at  prints though, you will start seeing a difference at large print sizes, for  example sizes over 45 x 30 cm.
although the advantage is negated when the d800 is fitted with its battery grip, which gives the d800 the capacity to also shoot at 6 frames per second.
the 36 megapixels of  the new nikon is a 200% increase compared to the previous model, which leaves  canon trailing behind by a mile.
but to some people the fps is a big deal and canon now has  the advantage in this department.
i’m not going to go into details about the video capabilities of these  two cameras, because to me this is not an interesting feature.
compared to the 5d mark  ii, the d700 doesn’t have a lot of megapixels.
they are different enough to give us some choice.
wieght (body only, no battery)
although the advantage is negated when the  d800 is fitted with its battery grip, which gives the d800 the capacity to also  shoot at 6 frames per second.
but, we can take some clues from the specifications.
i have good hopes that the 5d mark iii will now actually be able to get af lock in the dark situations where i would previously have to manually focus (or miss the shot altogether).
when we look at the specs for the canon 5d mark iii, we see that this  camera’s iso range goes all the way up to 102,400.
let’s start off by looking at the nikon d700.
before we have have a look at the specifications of the newest models, let’s quickly go over the differences between the predecessors of these two cameras, the canon 5d mark 2 and the nikon d700.
i’ve read before from someone that this was their main reason for using the d700 over the canon 5d mark ii.
this is interesting because canon and nikon seem to have listened very closely at the complaints and praises about their products when the were developing their newest models.
canon just released the specifications of the new canon 5d mark iii.
in addition to that, the d700 had very good high iso performance, which can  still be considered very good today, almost 4 years later.
from this we can conclude that it is likely that the performance at higher iso values is comparable to the nikon d700.
nu is het wachten op de testrapporten en  ervaringen van gebruikers.
i know that these are just the specs, which don’t tell the whole story, but for the moment this is all we have.
for a web sized  image you most likely will not see much of a difference.
i know that these are just the specs,  which don’t tell the whole story, but for the moment this is all we have.
again, canon seems to have really done their best to fix the achilles’ heel of the canon 5d mark ii (and the 5d classic for that matter).
the feature that i personally find most important is the high iso performance.
field tests will have to show how these camera’s  really compare to each other and their predecessors.
the biggest complaint that was heard was the low sensor resolution.
but, we can take some  clues from the specifications.
we already talked about the sensor resolution a  little bit.
but i will mention that the video capabilities of the 5d mark ii are better than the d700′s.
i have not been able to do a hands-on comparison of these two cameras yet, simply because they are not yet for sale.
the canon has 21 megapixels and the nikon has 12 megapixels.
dimitris says: march 21st, 2012, 19:53 i wll like to ask if the 36 mp does any good in the photos , i mean can you  compare a photo from a 36 mp camera to a 12 mp ?
but they share  enough nice features to classify both cameras as very worthy successors to the  cameras that they replace.
the canon 5d mark ii has a lot of megapixels, 21.1 mp to be  precise.
to me, these  numbers are not very important however because i almost always use the camera  in single shot mode.
the other 59% would have rather seen the 16 megapixel sensor of the nikon d4 in  the nikon d800.
the pluses  of the d700 are the excellent af system and the very good iso performance.
the canon has 21  megapixels and the nikon has 12 megapixels.
if are you looking at prints though, you will start seeing a difference at large print sizes, for example sizes over 45 x 30 cm.
the nikon d800 is seen as the direct competitor to the canon 5d mark  iii.
canon has taken the auto focus system of their top model and placed it in the 5d mark 3 body.
i shoot indoors a lot, and we have a lot of dark and dreary days  over here.
mark daams dimitris, it all depends on how big you view the images.
and they  seem to have succeeded.
to me personally 12 or 13  megapixels is enough, i don’t like having to keep buying bigger and  bigger memory cards, or having to swap out my cf card all the time because it  is full.
although, like many others i would have preferred dual cf card slots.
as soon  as i have a production model d800 i’ll try to do a mini review blog post.
the af was also exactly the same as the system found in the nikon d3.
others, for example landscape and architecture photographers, are really happy with the increase in sensor resolution.
but, like i said, we will have to wait until these  camera’s are available to the public to see how the specifications  translate to actual real world performance.
but, this is fairly unique for canon.
the nikon d800 is seen as the direct competitor to the canon 5d mark iii.
the second feature that stands out to me is the af system of the canon.
this might seem like a very normal thing to do to a nikon user, because nikon has been doing this for quite a while.
but, it is also one of the few complaints that  you can come up with about this camera.
we’ve seen a dual card slots on non-pro  models from nikon before, but we haven’t seen this before from canon.
nikon has addressed the biggest complaint about the d700.
well, it’s hard to say by just looking at the specs.
the canon 5d mark ii has a lot of megapixels, 21.1 mp to be precise.
this was a feature that attracted a lot of people to this camera.
the  nikon d800 replaces the nikon d700, which was also a very highly acclaimed  camera.
but, i think that the body size of these camera’s is just too small to neatly fit two cf card slots.
yes storage media 1 x compact flash and 1 x sd 1 x compact flash and 1 x sd continuous shooting speed 6 fps 4 fps (6fps in dx mode with battery grip)
or so it would seem… the real question  is “do we really need, or want, this many megapixels”.
the af performance on the canon 5d mark ii was something that received a lot of complaints from a lot of people.
heel of the canon 5d mark ii (and the 5d classic for that matter).
although, like many others i would have preferred dual cf  card slots.
compared to the 5d mark ii, the d700 doesn’t have a lot of megapixels.
at this point it is all somewhat speculation though because i myself haven’t gotten my hands on the d800 yet.
in fact they haven’t just addressed it, they have now made the sensor resolution the most prominent feature of the d800.
the last time that a canon  prosumer body (i.e. a model just below the top model) had the same af system as  its bigger sibling, was in the pre-digital age with the canon eos-3 film body.
the iso range of this camera goes up to 25,600, which is the same as it’s predecessor the d700.
so, kudos to canon for addressing this complaint in the best possible way.
it had the same af system as its predecessor, the canon 5d. this af system was already considered to be inadequate when the original canon 5d was released.
het betekent een behoorlijke vertraging van mijn hele workflow.
to me personally 12 or 13 megapixels is enough, i don’t like having to keep buying bigger and bigger memory cards, or having to swap out my cf card all the time because it is full.
i have been  anticipating this camera for a long time, and so have lots of other  photographers.
shutter durablity 150,000 cycles 200,000 cycles native iso range iso 100 -  25,600 iso 100 - 6,400 extended iso range iso 50, iso 51,200 - 102,400 iso  50, iso 12,800 - 25,600 exposure metering 63-zone sensor 91,000-pixel rgb  sensor number of autofocus points 61 51 af detection up to f/5.6 up  to f/8.0 video maximum resolution 1920x1080 @ 24p, 25p, 30p 1920x1080 @  24p, 30p lcd size 3.2" 3.2" lcd resolution 1,040,000 dots  921,000 dots battery lp-e6 (same as canon 5d mark ii) en-el15 lithium-ion  (different from nikon d700)
ik denk trouwens dat ik ook gek zou worden van de enorme bestanden die de d800 op zal leveren.
this representative said that the performance of the d800 is equivalent to the d700 at all sensitivity levels, i.e. over the entire iso range.
but i will  mention that the video capabilities of the 5d mark ii are better than the  d700′s.
the  biggest complaint that was heard was the low sensor resolution.
i know that for me the answer is “no”.
at this point it is all somewhat speculation  though because i myself haven’t gotten my hands on the d800 yet.
but to some people the fps is a big deal and canon now has the advantage in this department.
i  have good hopes that the 5d mark iii will now actually be able to get af lock  in the dark situations where i would previously have to manually focus (or miss  the shot altogether).
field tests will have to show how these camera’s really compare to each other and their predecessors.
battery life 950 shots (cipa) 850 shots (cipa)
this is a new  feature on both of these cameras.
as soon as i have a production model d800 i’ll try to do a mini review blog post. name (manditory)
mark daams says:  march 21st, 2012, 20:01 dimitris, it all depends on how big you view the images.
but, i think that the body size of these camera’s is just too  small to neatly fit two cf card slots.
the camera that is the successor of the very popular canon 5d mark ii.
the pluses of the d700 are the excellent af system and the very good iso performance.
the last time that a canon prosumer body (i.e. a model just below the top model) had the same af system as its bigger sibling, was in the pre-digital age with the canon eos-3 film body.
wellicht is nu het moment gekomen om van mijn d300s over te stappen op een gebruikte
the af  performance on the canon 5d mark ii was something that received a lot of  complaints from a lot of people.
canon has taken the auto focus system of their top  model and placed it in the 5d mark 3 body.
we already talked about the sensor resolution a little bit.
so i want to be able to shoot at 6400 and higher iso without having to worry about lots of noise.
this is one of the most commonly  heard complaints about the d700.
ik stel de aanschaf van een d800 nog even uit.
it had the same af system as its predecessor,  the canon 5d. this af system was already considered to be inadequate when the  original canon 5d was released.
this is one of the most commonly heard complaints about the d700.
different tests seem to go back and forth as to which of these two cameras is actually the better one in the higher iso regions.
before we have have a look at the specifications of the newest models,  let’s quickly go over the differences between the predecessors of these  two cameras, the canon 5d mark 2 and the nikon d700.
wellicht is nu het moment gekomen om van mijn d300s over te stappen op een  gebruikte d700!
let’s start by looking at the d800.
if this is the  case it would mean that the 5d mark iii would perform similar to the nikon d3s,  which is the top notch camera at the moment (by a mile) when it comes to image  quality at high iso’s.
so, it’s  interesting to see that the d800 now has a lower frame rate of 4 fps, while  canon has substantially increased their frame rate to 6 fps.
the canon 5d mark ii has very similar high iso performance to the nikon d700.
i much prefer the 13 megapixels of the canon 5d classic.
the  camera that is the successor of the very popular canon 5d mark ii.
the pluses of the 5d mark ii are that is has a lot of megapixels and it has very good high iso performance.
nikon has addressed the biggest complaint about  the d700.
i have not been able to do a hands-on comparison of these two cameras yet,  simply because they are not yet for sale.
that is a full two  stops better than it’s predecessor, and the nikon d800.
to me, these numbers are not very important however because i almost always use the camera in single shot mode.
the nikon d700 does have an excellent autofocus (af) system.
i’m not going to go into details about the video capabilities of these two cameras, because to me this is not an interesting feature.
the nikon d700 has a continuous shooting speed of 5 frames per second  (fps), and even 8 fps with its battery grip attached.
on februari 6th nikon released the specs for the nikon d800.
one last feature i want to discuss is the dual card slots.
but, like i said, we will have to wait until these camera’s are available to the public to see how the specifications translate to actual real world performance.
with this background information in mind, let’s take a look at the specifications of the latest models.
nu is het wachten op de testrapporten en ervaringen van gebruikers.
the sensor in the d700 is the same as  the sensor in de nikon d3, which was then nikon’s top model.
one cf card slot and one sd card slot is  a nice compromise.
i have to say that my 5d mark ii does not satisfy  my needs as much as i would like to in this area.
the 36 megapixels of the new nikon is a 200% increase compared to the previous model, which leaves canon trailing behind by a mile.
this could mean that it’s high iso performance is also two stops better.
so i want to be able to shoot at 6400 and higher iso without having  to worry about lots of noise.
when we look at the specs for the canon 5d mark iii, we see that this camera’s iso range goes all the way up to 102,400.
860 gr (30.7 oz) 900 gr (31.7 oz) dimensions 152 x 116 x 76 mm 145 x 122 x 81 mm manufacturer suggested  resale price (msrp) $3,499 (us) $2,999 (us) to me, what stands out immediately in this comparison is the sensor  resolution of the nikon d800.
the other 59% would have rather seen the 16 megapixel sensor of the nikon d4 in the nikon d800.
i know that  for me the answer is “no”.
this representative said that the performance of the d800  is equivalent to the d700 at all sensitivity levels, i.e. over the entire iso  range.
or so it would seem… the real question is “do we really need, or want, this many megapixels”.
i’ve read before  from someone that this was their main reason for using the d700 over the canon  5d mark ii.
the biggest complaint was the poor af performance.
if this is the case it would mean that the 5d mark iii would perform similar to the nikon d3s, which is the top notch camera at the moment (by a mile) when it comes to image quality at high iso’s.
from this we can conclude that it is likely that the  performance at higher iso values is comparable to the nikon d700.
bedankt voor deze heldere analyse.
i much  prefer the 13 megapixels of the canon 5d classic.
e-mail (will not be published) (manditory) website
the sensor in the d700 is the same as the sensor in de nikon d3, which was then nikon’s top model.
ik  denk trouwens dat ik ook gek zou worden van de enorme bestanden die de d800 op  zal leveren.
so, to recap the canon 5d mark ii versus nikon d700 comparison.
this  conclusion is confirmed by a statement made by a representative of nikon france  in arecent interview.
but they share enough nice features to classify both cameras as very worthy successors to the cameras that they replace.
the  iso range of this camera goes up to 25,600, which is the same as it’s  predecessor the d700.
i currently use the canon 5d mark ii as my main camera and i already think that 21 megapixels is too much.
and i already think that 21 megapixels is too much.
i  welcome this feature.
the nikon d700 has a continuous shooting speed of 5 frames per second (fps), and even 8 fps with its battery grip attached.
i shoot indoors a lot, and we have a lot of dark and dreary days over here.
another interesting difference in the specs is the continuous shooting speed.
for a web sized image you most likely will not see much of a difference.
a recentonline pole shows that about 41% of the respondents  were happy with nikon’s choice to put a 36 megapixels sensor in the d800.
well, it’s hard to say by just  looking at the specs.
d700!dimitris i wll like to ask if the 36 mp does any good in the photos , i mean can you compare a photo from a 36 mp camera to a 12 mp ?
but, it is also one of the few complaints that you can come up with about this camera.
and they seem to have succeeded.
the 5d mark ii has a frame rate of only 3.9 fps.
so, do the 5d mark iii and  the d800 perform better in this area?
i currently use the canon 5d mark ii as  my main camera
camera feature canon 5d mark iii nikon d800
we’ve seen a dual card slots on non-pro models from nikon before, but we haven’t seen this before from canon.