the lens isn't usm but does have image stabilisation built in.
of  course the maximum the aperture can go to in aperture-priority is f/8 which  isn't ideal for landscape shots but is better than f/3.2 that landscape mode  chose.
another problem gained from such close focusing is the lack of light entering the lens.
plus points new bracketing dial good colour rendition great low iso performance loads of focusing modes wide 28mm lens canon powershot g10:
this equates to around 153,666 pixels and means more detail can be seen in playback and when monitoring for manual focus or noise detection.
iso80 is lovely with sharp detail on the petals.
i asked mike burnhill who is the digital slr and ef lens product specialist who knew the answer to the question.
there's plenty to do on the g10 and it should help you out of plenty of scrapes when you don't have your dslr.
view february's photo month calendar having trouble or would like to make a suggestion?
join ephotozine for free!twitter facebook google+ rss
an interesting new feature of the g10 is the self portrait face  detection.
from the 28mm wide angle lens is also still operated by the zoom rocker with  its diminutive size and recognisable springiness.
on the g9, the iso dial was on the left shoulder and this has been replaced with a dedicated exposure compensation dial.
now watch the video review: sample photos from the x-s1, the latest premium bridge camer... daniel bell takes a closer look at the olympus sh-21.
skip to verdict storage: sd, sdhc, mmc, mmcplus, hc mmcplus focus types:
he said that this is an extension of the  optical zoom but in my further tests, the image breaks down in a similar way to  the digital
this causes a thin focal plane which can be seen running along the lettering on the headphones
because of the results shown, it looks like noise problems will dog this classification for some time.
what mike is saying is that the breaking up of the image wasn't from the zoom actually being digital but simply the fact that the resolution is so low.
the rear screen has been improved upon with a higher resolution of 461,000dots.
he also failed to mention that the optical zoom bar is white.
posted: 22nd october 2008 add  comment  jargon buster: off following in the footsteps of one of the most popular digital compact  cameras is the canon powershot g10.
the chrome buttons designated to the playback, power and shutter release have also been turned black.
i'm left with one question though; when you wrote: "it's unfortunate they've not really improved on noise performance ", and looking at the test shots you took with the g9, it actually looks to me like the noise performance of the g10 is quite a bit worse than that of the g9.
one thing i'm unsure about is  the size of the sensor.
the skin tone colour is the same as the g9 but the  primary colours look more saturated.
it was a bright day when i took them  and set the white balance to the sunshine setting.
it's unfortunate they've not really improved on noise performance and i think this could be the only thing that limits the g10.
it also goes as wide at 28mm which is great for landscape photographers but with a wider bottom end comes a lower top end and the smaller zoom to previous models reaches a maximum 140mm.
be aware of  where the light source is coming from to avoid this problem.
a square on front or rear view best shows the chimney-like  stack of dials on the right shoulder.
we go hands on with the new ultra zoom bridge cameras and 'p... 150,000+ photographers and growing.
it also goes  as wide at 28mm which is great for landscape photographers but with a wider  bottom end comes a lower top end and the smaller zoom to previous models  reaches a maximum 140mm.
skip to verdict canon powershot g10:
looking forward to the review of that camaeralast modified by nickh158 at 4 nov 2008 - 10:41 pm reading the review, are we to understand that again, there is no remote shutter release socket on the g10?
the rear screen has been improved upon with a higher resolution of  461,000dots.
i like the colour reproduction on the colour chart image and the mono  tones have also come out nicely balanced.
it's not overtly annoying and certainly has an underlying advantage with creating more space to place the new dial on the top.
the back of the unit looks similar to the g9 with the slight exception of the buttons being made larger and any writing has now been printed directly onto the corresponding button.
in turn this can then be assigned to the face detection which ensures faces are perfectly exposed and focused.
portrait mode has given a blue cast despite the white balance put to the  correct setting.
so, yes with the white zoom bar the image is magnified etc by using moving optics i.e. a zoom lens.
quote: i really enjoyed reading your test.
while iso800 has the purple blobs in the shadow area and a distinct  loss of detail in the petals, it's not threatening enough to worry over.
the mound of dials doesn't look altogether unpleasant though.
alternatively, the panasonic lumix dmc-lx3 at £318 has a 2.5x optical zoom, non-dedicated external hotshoe, no optical viewfinder and raw recording.
this detail doesn't leave but  problems have started to leak through at iso200.
build quality on the camera is awesome its a shame it cant do the job!
unfortunately, there's no such input from the canon iso integration department (i made that up) and noise remains terrible at high settings.
it could also simply be that  canon are listening to the public and that's what they asked for.
so i remain sceptical.
but it's the little touches such as the metal tripod bush and solid plastic port covers instead of rubber ones that make the difference.
one thing i'm uncertain about is the slight sharpening seen in the tiles at full magnification.
quote: another problem gained from such close focusing is the lack of light entering the lens.
it could also simply be that canon are listening to the public and that's what they asked for.
obviously this causes problems with a narrow depth of field but using a smaller f/18 or similar aperture would give longer exposures unless the iso is cranked up.
the shadow on the background is soft and  hardly noticeable but one thing i did notice was the green line of fringing  around the top of the head.
macro gets as close as 1cm, just be  careful of the shadow caused by the lens and top of the camera.
noise test i was initially  surprised that the g10 only goes to iso1600 with the release of the eos 50d and  5d mkii at the same time and their obvious advancements in noise control.
this means that a yellow bar is neither digital nor optical zoom.
the main menu is brighter and  has larger writing.
the  aperture-priority landscape image.
the reason that it chose this aperture value is so it could use iso80 to  give as smooth an image as possible.
add to that all of the theme menu, which is a  waste of memory and you've a few items that either you don't want to or don't  need to use.
the exposure compensation wheel can be seen with the new  location of the iso dial on the opposite side of the hotshoe.
the back of the unit looks similar to the g9 with the slight exception of  the buttons being made larger and any writing has now been printed directly  onto the corresponding button.
in safety zoom mode, you have a lower resolution and so there are pixels not used, instead of down-resing the image (lowering the resolution), as is normally done in digital zoom i.e. 15 down to 10 using the cameras internal software.
quote: i'm surprised with the portrait shots.
i'm a traditionalist.
it's great to be able to get so close into your subject although out of all the  angles i tried with this photograph of the headphones, this was the only one  that didn't cast a shadow from the top of the camera and lens.
an updated pro 1 is well overdue, the feature worked very well in the original
the panasonic lx3 looks like it might steal canon`s crown as no.1 dslr backup.
in this instance it has forced the camera to open the aperture to f/2.8 in order to expose correctly.
the new technology is an added bonus with the dig!c iv processor speeding things up while the face detection self timer will help those of you specialising in self portraits.
focusing and metering the canon  powershot g10 offers plenty of overriding features for focusing.
face detection works well and can even have  metering tied to it.
and it wouldn't be the first time that they did, remembering  the release of the canon eos 50e just over ten years ago.
when you get to the maximum optical length, reducing the resolution then  changes the digital area to yellow.
i like the colour reproduction on the colour chart image and the mono tones have also come out nicely balanced.
the best shot dial sits on top of the iso dial which used  to be on the opposite side.
more elements have been added to the lens construction and the g10 now has  11 elements in 9 groups compared to the g9 which has 9 elements in 7 groups.
in turn this can  then be assigned to the face detection which ensures faces are perfectly  exposed and focused.
this really surprises me as i would've thought it to be faster than that especially as the g9 gave results of around the 0.08sec mark.
for those of you currently owning a g9, i've circled the original colour  chart used on the canon powershot g9 review last year for comparison.
some options such as flash control access a wider sub menu.
category: compact cameras rating: price:  £421.00 canon powershot g10 -
the newly released dig!c iv processor has been installed into the g10 which, canon say, is roughly 1.3x faster than the dig!c iii that is found in the g9.
the similarities in  both shots makes me wonder why they bother with the landscape mode at all.
i  thought we'd see a bit of that technology rub off on the high end compacts and  at least see a boost to iso6400.
so it's using the optical  magnification plus crop factor and no interpolation or down-resing.
in fact it's just as good as the g9 before it and the g7 before that and the g6 before that etc.
like the g9, the g10 offers a macro facility that can get as close as 1cm.
one thing i'm unsure about is the size of the sensor.
i took into account that the g10 has a higher resolution than the g9 so will naturally suffer more.
the great  thing about the latter two are that they can work as usual or they can be  assigned to the flexizone and collaborate with the focusing.
the image looks too soft in the background for my tastes.
the reason that it chose this aperture value is so it could use iso80 to give as smooth an image as possible.
zoom i.e. 15 down to 10 using the cameras internal  software.
this is by far the best review,video, i have read, easy to understand and the video, is quite impressive.
subscribe to reviews rss feed this month's sponsor get the latest photography news straight from ephotozine in your email every month andwin prizes!
specification at £421, the canon powershot g10 offers a 5x optical zoom, external hotshoe, optical viewfinder and raw recording.
to be fair, this is at full  size enlargement and for me, the image doesn't become unbearable until iso1600  anyway.
he explained this under the logical premise that on the zoom bar, digital zoom is signified by a blue bar.
a square on front or rear view best shows the chimney-like stack of dials on the right shoulder.
the two main menus are still available with the function button, which is located in the centre of the location pad that sits in the middle of the thumb dial, giving access to the quick functions such as resolution, white balance, bracketing and the neutral density filter.
the detail on both shots is great but a slight purple line from fringing is detectable on the white bars.
safety zoom uses a cropped area of the sensor that matches the  resolution being used and then the optical zoom.
on the g9, the iso dial was on the  left shoulder and this has been replaced with a dedicated exposure compensation  dial.
the size of the flexizone af square can be adjusted by pressing the af button just above the thumb wheel/navigation pad ensemble.
this button also  doubles as the delete function when you're in playback mode and discretly  erasing all the blurry pictures that you never admit to taking.
reading the review, are we to understand that again, there is no remote shutter release socket on the g10?
this could be a nod towards the recent love of hdr photography by a lot of people.
, the canon powershot g10 looks remarkably similar to it's older brother the g9.
the cast is a bit too strong for my taste although it's not something that can't be fixed in post.
be aware of where the light source is coming from to avoid this problem.
or do i misinterpret the test results?
in fact it's just as good as the g9 before it and  the g7 before that and the g6 before that etc.
when you get to the maximum optical length, reducing the resolution then changes the digital area to yellow.
the main menu is exhaustive and would take an age to cover everything but needless to say there are some interesting features in there such as i-contrast which is canon's version of the nikon d-lighting, image stabiliser adjust, servo af, flash control which then accesses a sub-menu for these settings and drive settings for a new self portrait feature which i'll cover in the focus and metering area of the review.
metering options are accessed from the button on the opposite corner of the d-pad and you can choose from centre-weighted, evaluative and spot.
for those of you currently owning a g9, i've circled the original colour chart used on the canon powershot g9 review last year for comparison.
unfortunately, there's no such input from the canon iso integration  department (i made that up) and noise remains terrible at high settings.
with a profile like the new york city skyline, does  the new canon powershot g10 have a bustling metropolis of features or is it a  ghost town?
upload photos, chat with photographers, win prizes and much more for free!category: compact cameras canon powershot g10 - with a profile like the new york city skyline, does the new canon powershot g10 have a bustling metropolis of features or is it a ghost town?
these accommodate the regular best shot  dial on the top with the iso dial sat below.
with the results of the noise test i can see why they didn't simply put a couple more setting in and i think the high resolution and small sensor can partly be to blame for this.
i like the grass colour which doesn't change  through either picture but is a realistic reproduction.
so it's using the optical magnification plus crop factor and no interpolation or down-resing.
it's great to be able to get so close into your subject although out of all the angles i tried with this photograph of the headphones, this was the only one that didn't cast a shadow from the top of the camera and lens.
digital zoom, uses a cropped area and then interpolates the image to the selected image size."
focusing and metering the canon powershot g10 offers plenty of overriding features for focusing.
other features that aren't so welcome include safety mf which is a feature  that overrides any of your settings if the camera thinks that the photograph  might be incorrectly exposed.
i'd like to  think the latter
fill in flash has given a warmer tone to the  image and added catchlights to the eyes.
at the launch of the canon powershot g10, i was told by one of the  technical departments henchmen that the 5x optical zoom can be increased by  simply adjusting the resolution of the camera.
of course it would be blue.......
the lack of this facility seems to have been one of the main criticisms that people have had with the g9 and its a pity if canon has not picked up on this and re-installed the feature with the g10.
ephotozine, the web's friendliest photography community.
setting the camera up in the same way as a normal self portrait with the timer, it takes a photograph two seconds after it detects a new face in the frame.
i originally thought that maybe the newer photograph was slightly under exposed but the lights are at a uniform setting and the skin tone tile looks the same.
join today!mcbrian quote: of course the maximum the aperture can go to in aperture-priority is f/8 which isn't ideal for landscape shots thats more than enough for a camera with a sensor this small.
more like the iso 400 of the g9 equals the iso 200 of the g10.
so, yes with the white zoom bar the image is magnified etc by using moving  optics i.e. a zoom lens.
and 5d mkii at the same time and their obvious advancements in noise control.
minus points bad high iso performance close 1cm focusing causes a shadow safety mf feature smaller zoom that the g9 features handling performance overall the canon powershot g10 costs around £421 and is available from warehouse express.
i know there are other factors, but this seems to be the most important one in compacts.
at the launch of the canon powershot g10, i was told by one of the technical departments henchmen that the 5x optical zoom can be increased by simply adjusting the resolution of the camera.
and if she was, why did you choose a daylight setting??
another problem gained from such close focusing is the lack of light  entering the lens.
this causes a thin focal plane which can be seen running along the lettering on the headphones.
apart from the noise problems with high isos, i have trawled numerous websites home & away, in search of a gizmo that would provide this function, with little success.
the  main menu is exhaustive and would take an age to cover everything but needless  to say there are some interesting features in there such as i-contrast which is  canon's version of the nikon d-lighting, image stabiliser adjust, servo af,  flash control which then accesses a sub-menu for these settings and drive  settings for a new self portrait feature which i'll cover in the focus and  metering area of the review.
in contrast, the main menu goes more indepth allowing you to make changes  to features such as the af flexizone which allows you to manipulate the focus  area and is a useful feature for photographers who enjoy focus stacking.
was your subject in the shade?
for those of you who enjoy doing it yourself, the canon powershot g10 offers manual focus and it's enabled by pressing the up button on the d-pad.
the af square can be resized by pressing the display  button.
in contrast, the main menu goes more indepth allowing you to make changes to features such as the af flexizone which allows you to manipulate the focus area and is a useful feature for photographers who enjoy focus stacking.
i'd like to think the latter and it wouldn't be the first time that they did, remembering the release of the canon eos 50e just over ten years ago.
the shadow on the background is soft and hardly noticeable but one thing i did notice was the green line of fringing around the top of the head.
the great thing about the latter two are that they can work as usual or they can be assigned to the flexizone and collaborate with the focusing.
modes and features from a  distance, the canon powershot g10 looks remarkably similar to it's older  brother the g9.
the  primary colours on the new camera look richer which will be down to the new  dig!c iv processor.
the nikon coolpix p6000 at  £369 has a 4x optical zoom, external hotshoe, optical viewfinder and raw  recording.
he also failed to mention that the  optical zoom bar is white.
this means that a yellow bar is neither digital nor  optical zoom.
he said: "white is the optical zoom, blue is digital
the front lens bezel is still removable by pressing the discreet button in the bottom corner while the 5x optical zoom from the 28mm wide angle lens is also still operated by the zoom rocker with its diminutive size and recognisable springiness.
an interesting new feature of the g10 is the self portrait face detection.
no automated focus bracketing feature for stacking ?
with the results of the noise test i can see why they didn't simply put a  couple more setting in and i think the high resolution and small sensor can  partly be to blame for this.
it has a higher resolution, better processor and some rearranged buttons.
as the type of  camera you'd buy either as a back up for your existing dslr or as a smaller  alternative if you're not quite ready to carry around loads of stuff then it's  expected to be a good build.
upload photos, chat with photographers, win prizes and much more for free!
in the burst mode,  the canon powershot g10 managed 14 images in the ten second time span which  works out at roughly 1.4fps (frames per second).
single, continuous, servo af close focusing: 1cm metering types: evaluative, centre-weighted, spot exposure compensation: /-
what mike is saying is that the breaking up of the image wasn't from the  zoom actually being digital but simply the fact that the resolution is so low.
metering options are accessed from the button on the opposite corner of the  d-pad and you can choose from centre-weighted, evaluative and spot.
as it happens, the sensor is the same size as the g9 which makes me dubious  about the forthcoming noise tests.
1st february 2012 - 29th february 2012this month we want you to capture 'nature' in all its beauty!
this could be an indication of noise creeping through at low iso.
the front lens bezel is still removable  by pressing the discreet button in the bottom corner while the 5x optical zoom
but it's  the little touches such as the metal tripod bush and solid plastic port covers  instead of rubber ones that make the difference.
it's an interesting turn of viewpoint to add a dedicated exposure  compensation dial on the top of the camera.
it can be of animals, rain, sun (if y... check out ephotozine's inspirational photo month calendar!
setting the camera up in the same way as a normal self portrait with  the timer, it takes a photograph two seconds after it detects a new face in the  frame.
canon powershot g10:
safety zoom uses a cropped area of the sensor that matches the resolution being used and then the optical zoom.
this equates to around 153,666 pixels and means more detail can be  seen in playback and when monitoring for manual focus or noise detection.
add to that all of the theme menu, which is a waste of memory and you've a few items that either you don't want to or don't need to use.
we want to see your very best images featuring land, sea, or sky.
bought one on sunday from jessops, it went back today (tuesday)
and yellow is safety zoom which works at image sizes other than large jpeg and raw.
the two main menus are still available with the function button, which is  located in the centre of the location pad that sits in the middle of the thumb  dial, giving access to the quick functions such as resolution, white balance,  bracketing and the neutral density filter.
the pic your talking about doesnt seem to have any of the sort of harsh shadows, that you would normally associate with bright sun?
it has a higher resolution, better  processor and some rearranged buttons.
macro mode switches between close focusing down to 1cm and infinity and staying on the back of the camera is the flexible af button which allows you to adjust the size of the focus square and where it's positioned.
iso80  is lovely with sharp detail on the petals.
within the menu system, you can change the af frame from aiaf to flexizone  or face detect.
the landscape mode image.
i really enjoyed reading your test.
these accommodate the regular best shot dial on the top with the iso dial sat below.
as the type of camera you'd buy either as a back up for your existing dslr or as a smaller alternative if you're not quite ready to carry around loads of stuff then it's expected to be a good build.
the addition of the bracketing dial on the top plate will help with quicker, more varied exposures as well as hdr fans.
in the burst mode, the canon powershot g10 managed 14 images in the ten second time span which works out at roughly 1.4fps (frames per second).
of course the maximum the aperture can go to in aperture-priority is f/8 which isn't ideal for landscape shots but is better than f/3.2 that landscape mode chose.
this causes a thin focal plane  which can be seen running along the lettering on the headphones.
i think the battery door could be more solid in it's construction
alternatively, the panasonic lumix dmc-lx3 at £318 has a 2.5x optical  zoom, non-dedicated external hotshoe, no optical viewfinder and raw recording.
the chrome buttons designated to the playback,  power and shutter release have also been turned black.
the  back is roughly similar in design to the g9 but buttons have been redesigned.
in this instance it has forced the camera to open the  aperture to f/2.8 in order to expose correctly.
more elements have been added to the lens construction and the g10 now has 11 elements in 9 groups compared to the g9 which has 9 elements in 7 groups.
as it happens, the sensor is the same size as the g9 which makes me dubious about the forthcoming noise tests.
while iso800 has the purple blobs in the shadow area and a distinct loss of detail in the petals, it's not threatening enough to worry over.
the two dials sat on top of the other still amuses me but interestingly, i've never thought it a bad idea.
this really surprises me as i would've thought  it to be faster than that especially as the g9 gave results of around the  0.08sec mark.
macro mode  switches between close focusing down to 1cm and infinity and staying on the  back of the camera is the flexible af button which allows you to adjust the  size of the focus square and where it's positioned.
for those of you who enjoy  doing it yourself, the canon powershot g10 offers manual focus and it's enabled  by pressing the up button on the d-pad.
2ev in 1/3 step increments shutter speed: 15sec-1/4000sec monitor: 3in purecolor lcd ii, 461,000dots (153,666px) interface: usb 2.0 size: 109.1x77.7x45.9mm weight: 350g at £421, the canon powershot g10 offers a 5x optical zoom, external  hotshoe, optical viewfinder and raw recording.
posted: 22nd october 2008 following in the footsteps of one of the most popular digital compact cameras is the canon powershot g10.
the similarities in both shots makes me wonder why they bother with the landscape mode at all.
he said: "white is the optical zoom, blue is digital zoom and  yellow is safety zoom which works at image sizes other than large jpeg and raw.
other features that aren't so welcome include safety mf which is a feature that overrides any of your settings if the camera thinks that the photograph might be incorrectly exposed.
i like the grass colour which doesn't change through either picture but is a realistic reproduction.
it's not  overtly annoying and certainly has an underlying advantage with creating more  space to place the new dial on the top.
if i saw a comparable result i would've said it had improved.
subscribe to the reviews rss feed and get instant updates.
in safety zoom mode, you have a lower resolution and so there are  pixels not used, instead of down-resing the image (lowering the resolution), as  is normally done in digital
this could be an indication of noise creeping through at  low iso.
the size of the flexizone af square can be adjusted by pressing the af  button just above the thumb wheel/navigation pad ensemble.
i think a larger one could've possibly been placed  inside not only to cope with the inherent noise that'll inevitably come with a  higher resolution, but also because more detail will be recorded in the image  and impress more people.
i originally thought that maybe the newer photograph was slightly under  exposed but the lights are at a uniform setting and the skin tone tile looks  the same.
the primary colours on the new camera look richer which will be down to the new dig!c iv processor.
the newly released dig!c iv processor has been installed into the g10  which, canon say, is roughly 1.3x faster than the dig!c iii that is found in  the g9.
this could be a nod towards the  recent love of hdr photography by a lot of people.
he said that this is an extension of the optical zoom but in my further tests, the image breaks down in a similar way to the digital zoom
here are the top 11 best dslrs reviewed by us on ephotozine.
the detail on both shots is great but a slight purple line from fringing is  detectable on the white bars.
it's an interesting turn of viewpoint to add a dedicated exposure compensation dial on the top of the camera.
noise test i was initially surprised that the g10 only goes to iso1600 with the release of the eos 50d
note also the  custom button in the top corner on the back remains.
i'm surprised with the portrait shots.
to me it looks like the image quality of the g10 is therefore less than the image quality of the g9.
it was a bright day when i took them and set the white balance to the sunshine setting.
appalling noise even at 200iso!!
i`ll continue using my pro 1 as backup, apart from noise levels at higher iso`s the g10 does not come close enough.
the g10 does have a remote socket.
the cast is a bit too strong  for my taste although it's not something that can't be fixed in post.
to be fair, this is at full size enlargement and for me, the image doesn't become unbearable until iso1600 anyway.
canon powershot g10 digital camera review reviews > canon  powershot g10 digital camera review join now join ephotozine, the friendliest photography community.
i think a larger one could've possibly been placed inside not only to cope with the inherent noise that'll inevitably come with a higher resolution, but also because more detail will be recorded in the image and impress more people.
a sliding scale appears on the right of the screen which will show you the distances and where the focus point corresponds to it.
start up time is around a  second with a shutter lag of 0.12sec which sounds great but is in fact slower  than a lot of standard compacts.
digital  zoom, uses a cropped area and then interpolates the image to the selected image  size."
canon powershot g10: modes and features from a distance
start up time is around a second with a shutter lag of 0.12sec which sounds great but is in fact slower than a lot of standard compacts.
using a burst of flash has helped warm the image back up and added some much needed catchlights to the eyes.
you must be a member to leave a commentusername: upload your photos, chat, win prizes and much more username:username: can't access your account?
it can also be moved around the frame for off-centre focusing.
ephotozine © 2001 - 2012 magezine publishing | contact us | site map |
each day click on a window to unveil new photography tips, treats and techniques.
create a report calibrate your monitor so you can see 16 different shades.
keep your eyes peeled for a forthcoming review.
i thought we'd see a bit of that technology rub off on the high end compacts and at least see a boost to iso6400.
the canon rs60e3 remote release is the compatible one, although i've just ordered a hahnel wireless equivalent.
using a burst of flash has helped warm the image back up and added some  much needed catchlights to the eyes.
obviously this causes problems with a  narrow depth of field but using a smaller f/18 or similar aperture would give  longer exposures unless the iso is cranked up.
he explained this under the  logical premise that on the zoom bar, digital zoom is signified by a blue bar.
one thing i'm uncertain about is the slight sharpening seen in the tiles at  full magnification.
within the menu system, you can change the af frame from aiaf to flexizone or face detect.
upload photos, chat with photographers, win prizes and much more.
this button also doubles as the delete function when you're in playback mode and discretly erasing all the blurry pictures that you never admit to taking.
a sliding scale appears on the right of  the screen which will show you the distances and where the focus point  corresponds to it.
matt grayson investigates.
it's a worthy successor to what is arguably the most popular dslr back up camera.
the nikon coolpix p6000 at £369 has a 4x optical zoom, external hotshoe, optical viewfinder and raw recording.
i asked mike burnhill who is the digital slr and  ef lens product specialist who knew the answer to the question.
this detail doesn't leave but problems have started to leak through at iso200.
i took the landscape image in landscape mode and aperture-priority.