the chart is a strip of silver-based film, with a row of 40 progressively darker rectangles.
read on to see  how we think the sub-$175 s4300 stacks up against the competition.
this  is clearly an issue worth taking a hard look at when deciding whether to  purchase the camera.
both offer  several presets, plus custom settings and direct kelvin input.
once nikon technicians establish that a given camera has the problem, they authorize the owner to send it in for a free adjustment.
eos 5d - neutral, iso 400 d200 - normal, iso 400 the reasons to not use canon's standard setting are nowhere more apparent than in a portrait.
when both prime lenses were stopped down to f/8, the 5d’s performance edge became more pronounced and for the most part, resolution was more consistent on both cameras both vertically and horizontally.
both the d200 and 5d allow white balance bracketing.
this should yield better noise results and more dynamic range anyway.
we attempted to replicate our studio tests outdoors, using daylight illumination to examine the cameras’ exterior color capabilities.
at f/1.4, the additional pixels on the 5d gave the camera a slight advantage, although comparatively, it is far less of an edge than you might expect from the sensor differential.
click on any of the portraits below to view the full resolution image.
the 5d’s faithful parameter is essentially the  same as its neutral setting, although it’s calibrated for accurate  results under 5200 kelvin lighting – an assistance to studio  photographers.
there are a couple of  challenges in this scene: first, the background starts looking very dingy when  it's underexposed, but the shadows get ragged if it's too bright; and second,  the bright red and purple flowers can saturate single channels.
the d5100 is the latest entry-level dslr from nikon, with full 1080/30p  video, an articulated lcd, and the same image sensor as the d7000.
read more... the canon eos 60d is a top-notch camera in terms of performance, handling and flexibility.
both companies have been making that lens for decades.
adding digital artifacts won't improve them and surely will impact the ability to sell them.
we shot portraits in a number of  situations with the d200 and 5d, but to create the particular images  specifically discussed in this section, we photographed one of our staff by  window light with each camera on a tripod.
however, the neutral and faithful picture styles are more practical.
for a closer comparison, we looked at both manufacturers' 50mm f/1.4 prime lenses.
preset tungsten light test: canon eos 5d - tungsten light wb preset nikon d200 - tungsten wb preset portrait (advantage: canon eos 5d) images of people are a mainstay of digital photography, for both professional and amateur photographers, so we think it's useful to directly compare how the 5d and d200 stack up taking portraits.
the 5d's standard default parameter boosts saturation and sharpens the  image more than nikon's normal setting.
neutral images don't show the saturation boost or sharpening that standard  images do.
eos 5d - iso3200, nr-off eos 5d - iso3200, nr-on d200 - iso3200, nr-off d200 - iso3200, nr-on the effect is harder to see in images from the 5d. looking at blue-channel samples from the iso 1000 shot, it would be hard to guess which is noise-reduced and which is not – they aren't as noisy as the d200 images, but noise reduction didn't seem to do much good.
the difference here again lies in the degree of control afforded by one camera and not the other.
the effects themselves  make big changes in images.
the d200 can produce image artifacts when significant areas of  the frame are substantially overexposed.
while the canon offers more flexibility in terms of color calibration, 5d  users will unfortunately need it.
the software exaggerates the white balance error to  help observe the color bias.
read  more... 12-feb-2012 nikon s4300 first impressions review we’ve put the slim touchscreen nikon s4300 through its paces at cp+  2012 in japan, comparing it to the rest of nikon’s lineup.
click on any of the images to view the full resolution version.
the d200, in both color mode i and color mode ii, offers more detail in the individual channels and is much more editable.
the d200 adjusts only along the kelvin scale – a  "warm to cool" axis that is the industry standard.
once nikon technicians establish that a given camera has the problem, they  authorize the owner to send it in for a free adjustment.
consider what's required to make it happen: the shot must contain a good-sized blotch of blown-out pixels – exposed at least two stops more than would show any detail at all.
both of these cameras are  high-priced, high-performance models that users rely on for strong images.
to test the validity of this claim as it relates to the 12.8 megapixel 5d and 10.2 megapixel d200, we fitted each model with a standard 50mm f/1.4 prime lens and took our resolution readings from the lower left and upper right portions of the recorded frames.
previous: page 1metering / exposure / autofocus next: page 3components speed / timing speed and timing tests on the canon eos 5d and the nikon d200 were conducted using a 1gb sandisk extreme iii compactflash card and fully charged batteries.
after a year of tireless testing and deliberation, we’ve made our selections for the very best cameras of 2011.read more... read more...
at 160%, or twice the "fit-on-page" magnification, the  effect was obvious at a normal viewing distance.
start-up to first shot (advantage: nikon d200) both the 5d and the d200 start up very quickly – they got their first shots off within 1/5 of a second of the camera being turned on.
the effect is not impacted by image quality settings.
for the eos 5d, we shot the daylight sequence in its neutral parameter, while the d200 was shot in its default, color mode i.
image parameters (advantage: canon eos 5d) canon and nikon have taken different approaches to image parameters, which canon calls "picture styles" and nikon calls image optimization presets.
click on the charts to view the full resolution version canon eos 5d - iso 100, 50mm, f/8 nikon d200 - iso 100, 50mm, f/8 color fringing: canon and nikon 50mm f/1.4
the stripes are two pixels wide, and in our samples, slightly lighter than the  unaffected areas, but don't show any color cast.
the color is natural from highlight to shadow.
canon 5d: iso 1600, 82mm, f/10, 1.6 sec.
eos 5d d200 d200 d200 however, in terms of default parameters, nikon's normal setting is much less hyped up than canon's standard.
the white areas in the 5d images maintain more texture than the d200’s images d200 darker: d200 lighter: eos 5d darker: eos 5d lighter: the prints we made of the lighter 5d image had much more pleasing whites than the d200 images – there is texture even in the lightest parts, while the lighter d200 image is blown out.
high quality indicates that image noise was under 1/10 of a stop.
in general, we found that the d200 images were noisier.
preset nikon d200 - daylight wb preset fluorescent light test: canon eos 5d - fluorescent light wb
we have not seen the problem in any other camera – we shot the 5d in the same setup we used for the d200, and could not replicate the banding.
imatest reads the uploaded images and reports sharpness results in line widths per picture height (lw/ph).
at 100%, we could see it when we  viewed the print from 7 or 8 inches – closer than normal viewing  distance.
although much of this discrepancy can be attributed to stronger in-camera sharpening on the canon, neither image holds up to much sharpening post-capture.
white balance (advantage: nikon d200)
both shift colors similarly, however, in all three setups the variances in  the 5d images were much more pronounced.
furthermore,  both cameras offer fine-tuning, which is the feature that most distinguishes  their white balance systems.
while the canon offers more flexibility in terms of color calibration, 5d users will unfortunately need it.
because both  cameras offer portrait image presets, we shot the cameras in portrait at iso  100 and in their default parameters at both 100 and 400.
we don't present manipulated raw files in this  review because that would be a test of image editing rather than the cameras,  but for perfectly smooth color, rosy cheeks and open, detailed shadows, we'd  suggest shooting in the mode that preserves as much image data as is practical  and editing the images on a computer.
although the d200 starts out far noisier than the 5d at 1.5 seconds, noise  also increases more drastically on the d200 as exposures are extended.
this should yield better noise results and more  dynamic range anyway.
we have not seen the problem in any other camera – we shot  the 5d in the same setup we used for the d200, and could not replicate the  banding.
there is an important point to remember about these figures: we present them as a means of comparing cameras, not as an absolute guide to the range that users will achieve in normal shooting.
a bigger screen, optical stabilization, and a classy design give the a3400 some pull in the lineup, though its own siblings are its biggest enemies.
the tones produced by the d200 had a greater mean color error and displayed more variance at the extremes of the sensitivity range.
the chart below shows our results.
nikon acknowledges the banding  problem, but the company says it does not affect every d200.
it’s interesting to note that the 5d performs in the same manner as most digital cameras, with stronger horizontal resolution, while the d200 by contrast exhibits greater resolution in the vertical direction with the standard 50mm lens wide open.
adding digital artifacts won't improve them and surely will  impact the ability to sell them.
while both cameras offer significant customization of color  calibration in-camera, the canon 5d goes a bit beyond and adds a degree of  control not present on the d200.
the d5100 is the latest entry-level dslr from nikon, with full 1080/30p video, an articulated lcd, and the same image sensor as the d7000.
we have also included full shots from each camera, shot at iso
as you can see in the chart above, the 5d’s individual noise progression increases steadily, with the only drastic leap occurring from iso 1600 to 3200, which is also a jump into the camera’s "iso expansion."
we tested the color balance of both cameras under three types of  lighting: daylight, tungsten, and fluorescent.
high quality indicates that image  noise was under 1/10 of a stop.
the shots were taken without any in-camera sharpening, shooting the d200 in normal and the canon eos 5d in neutral parameters.
neither delay ought to be significant in practice.
it offers a huge range of features that will make shooting quicker and easier for the experienced shooter, with lots of customizable options and quick control access.
at 400, the 5d scores 0.86 stops better than the d200, and at 800,  the 5d's advantage jumps to 1.77 stops.
the d200 performed admirably at low iso settings, staying with the canon 5d in terms of noise, color, and dynamic range.
we wouldn’t completely downplay the  existence of the artifacts as some have attempted.
at 160%, or twice the "fit-on-page" magnification, the effect was obvious at a normal viewing distance.
therefore, we shot some still life settings with both cameras  as well to look at how they handle highlights, very saturated color and shadow  areas.
the low-quality rating is  less important than high quality, because a full stop of noise pretty much  overwhelms visible data.
we don't know what causes the problem, and won't  speculate whether it could be corrected with a firmware upgrade designed to  address it.
however, the performance of the kit lens leaves something to  be desired.
read full 7-part review $1,269.99 read full 7-part review types  prosumer  any megapixels  0,8    15 megapixels  19.00 $1,199.00 4 nikon d7000 the nikon d7000 is a powerhouse camera at an excellent price.
however, the 5d managed 71 jpegs in a burst, while the d200 petered out after 30 jpegs.
the 5d's performance held up much better – though for portraits, we'd shoot each camera at the lowest practical iso.
preset tungsten light test: canon eos 5d - tungsten light wb preset nikon d200 - tungsten wb preset portrait (advantage: canon eos 5d) images of people are a mainstay of digital photography, for both professional  and amateur photographers, so we think it's useful to directly compare how the  5d and d200 stack up taking portraits.
shots at higher iso settings with the 5d contain less noise and more detail, but also show much smoother tonal transitions, which result in far more depth in the images.
however, at 30 seconds or less, the 5d manages noise much more effectively than the d200.
daylight tests were conducted  using the cameras’ auto wb setting, as well as their daylight preset.
d200 owners who see lines in their files can send a sample image to nikon technical support.
lw/ph is similar to lp/ph, the conventional unit of measuring resolution; however, lw/ph takes the size of the recording medium into account.
at  the highest settings, noise jumps for the canon as well, though it maintains a  nearly-one-stop margin.
nikon d200 - default canon eos 5d - default eos 5d of course, the 5d and the d200 are cameras meant for delivering top-quality  prints.
the f/1.4 lenses are appropriate in low light, but for ideal image quality, they aren't nearly as good as nikon and canon's macro lenses.
plotting the kelvin axis on canon's blue-amber/green-magenta chart would be simple: kelvin runs diagonally between canon's axes.
to generate results that are relevant to  real-world photography, imatest provides separate ratings for overall dynamic  range, and for dynamic range within certain noise ranges.
we shot the gretagmacbeth  color chart under the three types of illumination and ran the results through  imatest imaging software.
the changes don't  improve highlight detail or transitions, though, and left the image flat.
we unfortunately did not have an opportunity to make any extreme long exposures (30 minutes or longer), though we suspect at some point the compounded heat in the 5d would lead to a more substantial increase in noise.
exp, nr off dynamic range (advantage: canon eos 5d)
however, the results are quite close with both lenses open all the way.
this offers a practical advantage for those shooters who pack  both an eos 5d and 1d mk ii n in their bag – the 5d for resolution and  the 1d mk ii n for speed.
the 5d’s faithful parameter is essentially the same as its neutral setting, although it’s calibrated for accurate results under 5200 kelvin lighting – an assistance to studio photographers.
we measured very little shutter lag in either the 5d or the d200.
nikon's is more straightforward: it decreases contrast and saturation, and opens up the shadow detail.
the 5d finished writing those 71 images 21.62 seconds after the last one was shot, while the d200 took 25.16 seconds to write its 30 files.
the chart  below shows our results.
in practice, there isn't much difference between the two systems, but a user could theoretically save many, many images on the 5d from which to select white balance readings, while the d200 saves just four custom white balance settings.
we printed an image with the problem on an epson stylus photo 2200.
both of these cameras are high-priced, high-performance models that users rely on for strong images.
d200 - iso800, nr-off d200 - iso800, nr-on both cameras built up noise most severely in the blue channel, which is  typical of digital cameras, and it is easiest to see the effects of noise  reduction in the blue channel as well.
it all starts with the sony nex-5n and ends with over $4000 in prizes!read more...
standard boosts contrast and sharpens the image more than  is kind in human portraiture.
shot to shot (advantage: nikon d200)
in this mode the 5d produces images that match the  output of the canon eos 1d mark ii and mark ii n, and the company suggests that  photographers shooting with both a 1d mark ii and 5d can get matched color  across bodies.
at low quality, with up to one stop of noise, the d200 distinguished nearly 11 stops of dynamic range at iso 100 – a higher score than the 5d, which came in around 10.5 stops.
eos 5d - iso100, nr-off eos 5d - iso100, nr-on d200 - iso100, nr-off d200 - iso100, nr-on images shot with the d200’s long exposure nr mechanism engaged show a greater loss of detail, along with the more visible decrease in noise.
therefore, we shot some still life settings with both cameras as well to look at how they handle highlights, very saturated color and shadow areas.
the d200 was set to normal long exposure nr, while the 5d’s long exposure nr was turned "on."
the d200 adjusts only along the kelvin scale – a "warm to cool" axis that is the industry standard.
we don't present manipulated raw files in this review because that would be a test of image editing rather than the cameras, but for perfectly smooth color, rosy cheeks and open, detailed shadows, we'd suggest shooting in the mode that preserves as much image data as is practical and editing the images on a computer.
however, when we switched the 5d into its standard parameter, we noticed the camera tended to blow out single channels of color, while the d200 retained detail, albeit with contaminated color.
the  best way to get the benefits that a portrait mode promises is through  post-processing raw files.
read full 7-part review$1,199.00 read full 7-part review the slt-a55 is a well performing slr, with a wide iso range, good color and relatively low noise.
at iso 1000, the cameras are in different classes.
the  darkest rectangle is more than 13 stops darker than the lightest.
we  bracketed by 1/3 stops, and found something disappointing – the d200  jumped from a bit too dark to too light in 1/3 of a stop.
we had access to the canon 24-105mm f/4l is usm, and the nikon af-s vr 24-120mm f/3.5-5.6, which are both high-quality, versatile zooms.
this offers a practical advantage for those shooters who pack both an eos 5d and 1d mk ii n in their bag – the 5d for resolution and the 1d mk ii n for speed.
each shooting situation is unique, and a single portrait mode can't address the range of variables a photographer is likely to see.
we feed the cameras' images into imatest software, which measures the number of rectangles that can be distinguished in each image.
it lacks an internal focus motor, but we found it produced some of the most accurate colors we've seen yet.
and they have made thousands upon thousands of them: 50mm f/1.4 used to be a common kit lens with film slrs.
canon does a bit better than nikon at iso 200, delivering 0.58  more stops.
read full 7-part review$1,049.95 read full 7-part review
banding – nikon d200
at f/8, sharpness was much more in line with expectations, relative to the cameras’ respective resolutions.
lenses (advantage: canon eos 5d)
read full 7-part review$589.95 read full 7-part review the 18-megapixel canon 7d delivers high resolution stills and full hd video in a well-built camera designed for serious photographers without the desire (or budget) for a full-frame model.
we tested the color balance of both cameras under three types of lighting: daylight, tungsten, and fluorescent.
considering that the 5d's files have almost 30 percent more pixels than d200’s files, it's clear that the 5d has the more impressive architecture – it’s just a shame that the capture rate isn’t a bit faster.
eos 5d - iso3200, nr-off d200 - iso3200, nr-off d200 - iso3200, nr-on the effect is harder to see in images from the 5d. looking at blue-channel  samples from the iso 1000 shot, it would be hard to guess which is  noise-reduced and which is not – they aren't as noisy as the d200 images,  but noise reduction didn't seem to do much good.
to conduct the test, we shot a stouffer 4110 transmissive step chart on a light box.
the d200 and the 5d handle white balance about as flexibly as any camera out there.
standard boosts contrast and sharpens the image more than is kind in human portraiture.
as you can see from the graph above, the additional 2.6 million pixels spread across the canon 5d’s full-frame cmos sensor did yield better resolution results.
the nikon noise reduction was more likely to make a visible difference in the image, but the result was still inferior to images shot at similar exposures with the 5d. the 5d's images started out less noisy and more detailed than the d200's – even with noise reduction, the d200 couldn't catch up.
most users, and particularly ones who  adjust their jpegs, will keep the d200 in normal.
the slt-a55 is a well performing slr, with a wide iso range, good color  and relatively low noise.
tungsten and fluorescent white balance tests were administered using the cameras’ designated preset settings.
while many shooters may disregard the flexible  four-directional white balance fine-tune on the 5d - preferring to render these  adjustments post-capture - the ability to store an unlimited number of white  presets (determined by the capacity of the memory card) may aid the efficiency  of those shooters working in multi-light studio setups.
preset nikon d200 - fluorescent light wb
image parameters (advantage: canon  eos 5d) canon and nikon have taken different approaches to image  parameters, which canon calls "picture styles" and nikon calls image  optimization presets.
we have included a few samples to show what we saw: the d200 at iso 3200, with and without sharpening, shows very prominent noise.
the nikon handled the  darkest tones very well – it shows more detail in the black sweater than  the 5d does.
the low-quality rating is less important than high quality, because a full stop of noise pretty much overwhelms visible data.
both shift colors similarly, however, in all three setups the variances in the 5d images were much more pronounced.
these are shots from our dynamic range test, which conceivably creates a situation that is most vulnerable to fringing.
color gradients are less smooth: while  the canon shot shows steady transitions of tone and hue across the  subject’s expansive forehead, the nikon shot looks more patchy as one's  eye moves from the highlights on the brow and the center of the forehead, to  the pinker area above the left eye, to the darker area of his temple.
the results obviously become more pronounced as the print size is increased.
the result is awful – magenta-pink cheeks with highlights the cold white of skim milk.
the detail drops off smoothly in the shadows –  though it drops off sooner than in the d200 images.
select awards after a year of tireless testing and deliberation, we’ve made our  selections for the very best cameras of 2011.read more... cp+ 2011 digital camera coverage read more...
the d200 was set to normal long exposure nr, while the  5d’s long exposure nr was turned "on."
the test concluded that the canon 5d delivers better dynamic range than the  nikon d200, which is not entirely surprising considering the 5d's full-frame  sensor has larger photo sites.
because nikon's "normal" and canon's "standard" differ considerably, we also shot the canon in "neutral," which we find closer to nikon's normal, and more useful for general photography.
each shooting situation is unique, and a  single portrait mode can't address the range of variables a photographer is  likely to see.
megapixels   17 features read more... digitalcamerainfo new year's giveaway check back every day for the rest of 2011 to see what we’re adding  to the grand prize package.
we have also included full shots from each camera, shot at iso 1600 with noise reduction off.
at 100%, we could see it when we viewed the print from 7 or 8 inches – closer than normal viewing distance.
nikon d200 / canon 5d.)
we  tested dynamic range on both cameras using imatest software, the same testing  suite we use for color and resolution.
the 5d's reproduction of the violet flower, on the other hand, is much closer to the flower's natural color.
nikon's presets have a lot in common with the typical  ones on compact digital cameras.
vivid and vivid plus punch up the colors so much  that images shot on those settings really can't hold up to post-processing,  while portrait and softer tone down colors a similar amount.
however, as the iso is pushed, the cameras begin  to part ways.
a bigger screen, optical stabilization, and a classy design give the a3400  some pull in the lineup, though its own siblings are its biggest enemies.
we shot portraits in a number of situations with the d200 and 5d, but to create the particular images specifically discussed in this section, we photographed one of our staff by window light with each camera on a tripod.
user comments and postings are not the responsibility of digitalcamerainfo.com.
both offer several presets, plus custom settings and direct kelvin input.
click on any of the portraits below to view the full resolution  image.
(if you wish to view individual color results for either camera, click here:
what's remarkable is how marginal the canon's advantage is at low iso settings – for high quality, the two cameras' results are virtually the same at iso 100.
read full 7-part review $1,049.95 read full 7-part review types  prosumer  any megapixels  0,8   15 megapixels  19.00 $589.95 2 nikon d5100
we did not have an opportunity to print these images ourselves; however, well-made 8 x 10-inch prints would likely show the fringing effects.
having conducted full individual reviews on both the nikon d200 and canon eos 5d, our typical full-chart resolution results can be found here:nikon d200 / canon eos 5d. for this head-to-head review, we evaluated the sharpness of the two dslrs with standard 50mm f/1.4 prime lenses on both models.
however, at higher iso settings – iso 400 and beyond – the 5d began to pull away and justify its much steeper price tag.
for what it's worth, the cameras' meters agree.
to illustrate the difference, we've imitated the highlight warning feature on many cameras, and turned the blown out areas black on our sample pictures.
the detail drops off smoothly in the shadows – though it drops off sooner than in the d200 images.
the 5d looks best at its metered value.
preset nikon d200 - daylight wb preset fluorescent light test: canon eos 5d - fluorescent light wb
eos 5d - neutral, iso 400 d200 - normal, iso 400 the reasons to not use canon's standard setting are nowhere more apparent  than in a portrait.
shop for the nikon d200 loading recently viewed products  advertisement latest news 12-feb-2012 canon powershot
because both cameras offer portrait image presets, we shot the cameras in portrait at iso 100 and in their default parameters at both 100 and 400.
our preferred image from the canon 5d was the one shot on neutral at  iso 100, without exposure compensation.
the total range includes areas with more than 1 full stop of noise.
unfortunately, with the d200’s 1.5x magnification conversion, it was necessary to move the tripod slightly to retain equal compositions.
this is unfortunately not the case with the d200.
the d200's images look best at exposures about 1/3 ev above the metered reading.
both cameras were tested for saturation and color accuracy at each available iso setting using their most natural color modes.
we found the d200’s colors to be much more saturated straight out of the camera.
the 5d also shows a slight drop in image quality, but still retains the quality characteristics that make the camera’s images desirable.
canon's landscape, like nikon's vivid and vivid plus, can over-saturate bold colors in blue skies, flowers and foliage.
with the prime lenses, we also took a few shots of the iso resolution chart, fully framed to its proper 3:2 markings, using the cameras’ out-of-the-box defaults.
the d200's normal images look less  sharpened and maintain more detail in all three color channels, even in areas  of bold color, than the 5d's standard.
we  unfortunately did not have an opportunity to make any extreme long exposures  (30 minutes or longer), though we suspect at some point the compounded heat in  the 5d would lead to a more substantial increase in noise.
eos 5d d200 d200 however, in terms of default parameters, nikon's normal setting is much  less hyped up than canon's standard.
distortion wasn't a problem, either.
we wanted to see how dynamic range performance plays out when the cameras aren't pointed at step wedges.
daylight test: canon eos 5d - auto wb nikon d200 - auto wb canon eos 5d - daylight wb
when we  set the image to fit on letter-size paper (about 80% reproduction), the effect  was visible only with a magnifying glass.
the color is natural  from highlight to shadow.
we definitely found the results unappealing.
nikon acknowledges the banding problem, but the company says it does not affect every d200.
we tested dynamic range on both cameras using imatest software, the same testing suite we use for color and resolution.
the transitions from midtones to  highlights are smooth, and the highlights retain detail.
however, the performance of the kit lens leaves something to be desired.
vivid and vivid plus punch up the colors so much that images shot on those settings really can't hold up to post-processing, while portrait and softer tone down colors a similar amount.
color (advantage: draw) our typical color tests for individual camera reviews are conducted in controlled studio conditions using a gretagmacbeth color chart and lowell softboxes with tungsten bulbs.
d200 owners who  see lines in their files can send a sample image to nikon technical support.
on the other hand, many valid and interesting pictures have been taken backlit, or with light sources in the frame.
to illustrate the difference, we've  imitated the highlight warning feature on many cameras, and turned the blown  out areas black on our sample pictures.
consistent with our other testing, we found that the  d200's performance deteriorated much more at iso 400 than the 5d. at iso 400,  the d200's colors were less saturated and the gradients were rougher.
although the d200 starts out far noisier than the 5d at 1.5 seconds, noise also increases more drastically on the d200 as exposures are extended.
corner-to-corner sharpness on the canon eos 5d supported the claims of full-frame advocates and at least in this instance, refuted the argument for utilizing the "sweet spot" of the sensor on an aps dslr.
canon's custom white balance  picks up white readings from regular saved images, rather than from dedicated  readings, as the d200 does.
the test concluded that the canon 5d delivers better dynamic range than the nikon d200, which is not entirely surprising considering the 5d's full-frame sensor has larger photo sites.
the white areas in the 5d images  maintain more texture than the d200’s images d200 darker: eos 5d darker: eos 5d lighter: the prints we made of the lighter 5d image had much more pleasing whites  than the d200 images – there is texture even in the lightest parts, while  the lighter d200 image is blown out.
the horizontal axis indicates the exposure duration, while the vertical axis displays the corresponding noise at each exposure.
eos 5d - neutral, iso 100 d200 - normal, iso 100 the best shot from the nikon d200 was shot at normal, iso 100, 1/3 stop  above the metered reading.
both neutral and faithful parameters produce images that can  handle post-processing.
for further  information, go to:  http://support.nikontech.com/cgi-bin/nikonusa.cfg/php/enduser/std_adp.php?p_faqid=13872 our sample camera produces a visible effect from iso 160 to 800.
the total range includes areas with more than 1  full stop of noise.
in practice, the 5d’s auto and preset  white balance settings did not prove to be nearly as accurate as the  d200’s.
we put some flowers and a linen tester on a sheet of typing paper and shot a series of exposures, with the goal of getting the paper to look clean and white, while keeping color and detail in the flowers and the pale shadows they cast.
for many photographers, that means shooting raw, which makes parameters  pretty much irrelevant – the presents might as well be on the user's  computer in the raw converter, rather than in the camera, because the raw file  preserves the original shooting data and the shooting parameters can be  reversed or adjusted in conversion.
when we set the image to fit on letter-size paper (about 80% reproduction), the effect was visible only with a magnifying glass.
as you can see in the charts below, the d200 and  5d
the  numbers we're presenting represent an absolute best-case scenario, and are much  wider than users should expect when making a natural-looking print of a typical  scene.
the transitions from midtones to highlights are smooth, and the highlights retain detail.
1600  with noise reduction off.
the 5d's  performance held up much better – though for portraits, we'd shoot each  camera at the lowest practical iso.
we wouldn’t completely downplay the existence of the artifacts as some have attempted.
we took custom white balance  readings with each camera and bracketed exposure by 1/3-stops.
we took custom white balance readings with each camera and bracketed exposure by 1/3-stops.
we don't recommend either of them.
we wanted to see how dynamic range performance plays out when the  cameras aren't pointed at step wedges.
the 5d produces sharper images with more observable detail, even at 8 x 10.
the low light shots were captured in a studio setup, with the cameras set to iso 1600 and with long exposure noise reduction engaged.
at low quality, with up to one stop of noise, the d200  distinguished nearly 11 stops of dynamic range at iso 100 – a higher  score than the 5d, which came in around 10.5 stops.
canon's portrait mode increases contrast in our test and decreases yellow in  the skin tones.
read full 7-part review$1,269.99
there is an important point to remember about  these figures: we present them as a means of comparing cameras, not as an  absolute guide to the range that users will achieve in normal shooting.
as much of our other test results concluded, the d200 remains close to the 5d at iso 400, with only moderate noise resulting from each camera.
the 5d maintains a relatively constant line from 2 to 30 seconds; more noise enters the images at about 20 seconds, but it is not a drastic increase.
we feed the  cameras' images into imatest software, which measures the number of rectangles  that can be distinguished in each image.
noise / high iso performance (advantage: canon eos 5d)
the result is awful – magenta-pink cheeks with highlights  the cold white of skim milk.
daylight tests were conducted using the cameras’ auto wb setting, as well as their daylight preset.
seen by itself, the nikon image looks good, but it suffers in comparison with the canon.
the stripes are two pixels wide, and in our samples, slightly lighter than the unaffected areas, but don't show any color cast.
read more... sony cyber-shot tx200v first impressions review 12-feb read more... agfaphoto ap15 first impressions review 11-feb read more... nikon s6300 first impressions review 11-feb read more... top rated digital slrs $1,049.95 1 canon eos 60d the canon eos 60d is a top-notch camera in terms of performance, handling  and flexibility.
all trademarks and product names are the property of their respective owners.
the changes don't improve highlight detail or transitions, though, and left the image flat.
the chart is a strip of  silver-based film, with a row of 40 progressively darker rectangles.
the d200, by contrast, processes jpegs more favorably with more careful attention paid to the individual channels.
the 5d rated a 0.01-second delay and the d200 waited 0.03 seconds.
however, at 30  seconds or less, the 5d manages noise much more effectively than the d200.
the error scores are not in percentage points, but we place these plots atop this graph to let you see all the data at once.
the 5d has canon's unique two-axis fine-tune mechanism, which allows color shifts on both a blue-amber axis and a green-magenta axis.
in practice, there isn't much difference between  the two systems, but a user could theoretically save many, many images on the  5d from which to select white balance readings, while the d200 saves just four  custom white balance settings.
on the 5d, we expect that  neutral or faithful settings will be more useful than standard, especially as a  starting point for image-processing.
this is unusual for most dslrs, as shots at high isos generally lose some saturation and begin to appear somewhat washed, as is the case with the d200.
read full 7-part review $589.95 read full 7-part review types  any megapixels  0,8   15 megapixels  16.2 $1,269.99 3 canon eos 7d the 18-megapixel canon 7d delivers high resolution stills and full hd  video in a well-built camera designed for serious photographers without the  desire (or budget) for a full-frame model.
on the 5d, we expect that neutral or faithful settings will be more useful than standard, especially as a starting point for image-processing.
the effect is not impacted by  image quality settings.
the  difference here again lies in the degree of control afforded by one camera and  not the other.
a common argument in favor of aps-sized sensors over full-frame chips is that they have the potential to retain better edge-to-edge sharpness because they read from a cropped segment in the center of the chip rather than the full space of the sensor.
at 400, the 5d scores 0.86 stops better than the d200, and at 800, the 5d's advantage jumps to 1.77 stops.
the faint texture in the 5d's whites  really doesn't make the image look darker, but it helps the camera deliver  smooth transitions from the pale shadows to the whites.
imatest can detect steps of dynamic range even when the noise level would overwhelm picture information.
while both cameras offer significant customization of color calibration in-camera, the canon 5d goes a bit beyond and adds a degree of control not present on the d200.
it all starts with the sony nex-5n and ends with  over $4000 in prizes!read more... digitalcamerainfo.com 2011
read on to see how we think the sub-$175 s4300 stacks up against the competition.
a3400 is first impressions review
still, there are many circumstances where shooting 30 frames in 6 seconds will get a shot that shooting 71 frames in 24 seconds will not – in sports and action photography, speed is the thing.
the 5d  looks best at its metered value.
as you can see in the charts below, the d200 and 5d
seen by itself, the nikon image looks good, but it  suffers in comparison with the canon.
we  don't recommend either of them.
all shots below are 200% crops.
however, as the iso is pushed, the cameras begin to part ways.
the creases and textures one observes in the  neutral shot turn unambiguously into wrinkles and blemishes in standard.
for further information, go to: http://support.nikontech.com/cgi-bin/nikonusa.cfg/php/enduser/std_adp.php?p_faqid=13872 our sample camera produces a visible effect from iso 160 to 800.
the  highlight area itself turns cool gray in the nikon image, while its color  remains warmer and more skin-like in the canon shot.
at 1600, the nikon's noise does it in, and the d200 delivers under 4 stops, giving the 5d a 2.32-stop advantage.
the darkest rectangle is more than 13 stops darker than the lightest.
by iso 500 and 640, the 5d’s slight advantage increases significantly and the benefits of the full frame cmos sensor become apparent.
we tested the canon eos 5d and the nikon d200 with a couple of lenses each.
the 5d is also able to retain color accuracy while iso is increased.
the banding appears as a repeating  pattern of vertical lines and is most pronounced at iso 400, though it remains  visible at other sensitivity settings as well.
we shot the gretagmacbeth color chart under the three types of illumination and ran the results through imatest imaging software.
the highlight area itself turns cool gray in the nikon image, while its color remains warmer and more skin-like in the canon shot.
the d200 has a clear advantage in this category, with a 5 frame-per-second burst mode.
it lacks an  internal focus motor, but we found it produced some of the most accurate colors
these images are not magnified.
consider what's required to make it happen: the shot must contain a  good-sized blotch of blown-out pixels – exposed at least two stops more  than would show any detail at all.
shutter to shot (advantage: canon eos 5d)
we expected the lenses to be sharp, and they were.
read more... we’ve put the slim touchscreen nikon s4300 through its paces at cp+ 2012 in japan, comparing it to the rest of nikon’s lineup.
we put some flowers and a  linen tester on a sheet of typing paper and shot a series of exposures, with  the goal of getting the paper to look clean and white, while keeping color and  detail in the flowers and the pale shadows they cast.
canon's landscape, like nikon's vivid  and vivid plus, can over-saturate bold colors in blue skies, flowers and  foliage.
canon eos 5d - default eos 5d of course, the 5d and the d200 are cameras meant for delivering top-quality prints.
the 5d does in fact offer more edge-to-edge resolution than the d200, and the difference is not just academic.
the graph below is a visual representation of our results, with data for the nikon d200 in shades of red and data for the canon 5d in shades of blue.
color gradients are less smooth: while the canon shot shows steady transitions of tone and hue across the subject’s expansive forehead, the nikon shot looks more patchy as one's eye moves from the highlights on the brow and the center of the forehead, to the pinker area above the left eye, to the darker area of his temple.
for nikon, that's  normal mode, and for canon it's standard.
previous: page 1metering / exposure / autofocus previous: page 3components © copyright 2012 digitalcamerainfo.com all rights reserved.
the closer the saturation percentage to 0 (or 100), the more accurate the saturation; the closer the color error score to zero, the more accurate the color.
it's very hard to move from any color to pure white, and in our d200 shots, the edges of the shadows are ragged.
while many shooters may disregard the flexible four-directional white balance fine-tune on the 5d - preferring to render these adjustments post-capture - the ability to store an unlimited number of white presets (determined by the capacity of the memory card) may aid the efficiency of those shooters working in multi-light studio setups.
this is clearly an issue worth taking a hard look at when deciding whether to purchase the camera.
exp, nr off nikon d200: iso 1600, 52mm, f/10, 1.3 sec.
we make no guarantees regarding any of the advice offered on this web site or by its staff or users.
read full 7-part review $1,199.00 read full 7-part review types   prosumer  any megapixels  0,8   15 megapixels  16.9 $569.99 5 sony alpha slt-a55v
the horizontal axis indicates the exposure duration,  while the vertical axis displays the corresponding noise at each exposure.
resolution (advantage: canon eos 5d)
the nikon handled the darkest tones very well – it shows more detail in the black sweater than the 5d does.
that's a little more complicated than it sounds, because noise levels rise significantly in the dark rectangles.
the d200 accepts tone curves downloaded from nikon capture 4, pc software that nikon magnanimously sells separately from its cameras.
most users, and particularly ones who adjust their jpegs, will keep the d200 in normal.
for many photographers, that means shooting raw, which makes parameters pretty much irrelevant – the presents might as well be on the user's computer in the raw converter, rather than in the camera, because the raw file preserves the original shooting data and the shooting parameters can be reversed or adjusted in conversion.
the red and blue bars represent the saturation percentage points away from 100 percent for the d200 and 5d, respectively, and the plotted points represent the color error score.
we also ran some  tests in our lab to provide some quantitative data on the cameras’  performance during prolonged exposures.
it's very hard to move  from any color to pure white, and in our d200 shots, the edges of the shadows  are ragged.
all images were shot as jpegs.
how big a deal is this?
that's a little more complicated than  it sounds, because noise levels rise significantly in the dark rectangles.
the overall resolution results here are much more imbalanced.
the d200 had a lot of trouble rendering this particular shade.
as you can see from the imatest results below, the canon eos 5d is much sharper in both directions than the d200.
we bracketed by 1/3 stops, and found something disappointing – the d200 jumped from a bit too dark to too light in 1/3 of a stop.
the 5d’s colors, on the other hand, were a bit under-saturated when using the neutral parameter (although that jumped to roughly 6-8% over-saturation when using the standard parameter) yet maintained a greater degree of accuracy throughout the iso range.
blown-out areas usually make for ugly prints even without fine vertical lines anyway.
canon eos 5d nikon d200 here's a crop of the 5d image in rgb: next, just the blue channel of the 5d shot: next, the d200's rgb and blue channel: next, the d200's blue channel: next, just the red channel from the 5d: finally, here's the d200's red channel from a similar crop: the switch from neutral (or faithful) on the 5d will yield bolder colors straight out of the camera, although it comes at the expense of information.
on our single camera reviews, we traditionally test each camera’s resolution by collecting a sequence of images of an iso 12233 resolution chart at various aperture settings and focal lengths and importing the results into imatest imaging software.
the numbers we're presenting represent an absolute best-case scenario, and are much wider than users should expect when making a natural-looking print of a typical scene.
the 5d manages only 3 frames per second.
both allow the user to set the bracket increment, and the  5d allows the user to set the axis on which it brackets.
what's remarkable is how marginal the canon's advantage  is at low iso settings – for high quality, the two cameras' results are  virtually the same at iso 100.
eos 5d - neutral, iso 100 d200 - normal, iso 100 the best shot from the nikon d200 was shot at normal, iso 100, 1/3 stop above the metered reading.
to test the cameras’ performance at high sensitivities, we shot a succession of exterior images, gradually increasing in iso.
plotting the  kelvin axis on canon's blue-amber/green-magenta chart would be simple: kelvin  runs diagonally between canon's axes.
here are 200% crops of the sides – not the corners, but closer in, on the sides, from both lenses.
we saw the problem in both iso 100 and 400 shots.
the 5d has canon's unique two-axis fine-tune  mechanism, which allows color shifts on both a blue-amber axis and a  green-magenta axis.
both allow the user to set the bracket increment, and the 5d allows the user to set the axis on which it brackets.
these slightly embellished tones should produce a more "consumer-friendly" appearance without any post-processing.
read full 7-part review the nikon d7000 is a powerhouse camera at an excellent price.
the fringing apparent in the shots recorded with the 5d and the 50mm lens showed fringing skewed to one side of the shapes, while the numbers on the chart recorded by the d200 were overpowered by discoloration on both sides of the figures.
the names would be recognizable to most novices: normal, portrait, vivid, vivid plus and softer.
images from the d200 are flat and lack the detail recorded in shots at half the sensitivity.
neutral images don't show the saturation boost or sharpening that standard images do.
we shoot the chart such that the brightest box is a pure white.
nikon d200 - fluorescent light wb
at 1600, the nikon's noise does it in,  and the d200 delivers under 4 stops, giving the 5d a 2.32-stop advantage.
both the d200 and 5d allow white  balance bracketing.
even at f/8.0, our standard aperture for dynamic range testing, both lenses showed obvious fringing.
we were surprised by the extent to which they both exhibited color fringing, though.
our preferred image from the canon 5d was the one shot on neutral at iso 100, without exposure compensation.
review$569.99 read full 7-part review read more... check back every day for the rest of 2011 to see what we’re adding to the grand prize package.
both cameras were tested at iso 100 with the lenses fully open to f/1.4, as well as with them stopped down to f/8.
we also ran some tests in our lab to provide some quantitative data on the cameras’ performance during prolonged exposures.
the 5d's standard default parameter boosts saturation and sharpens the image more than nikon's normal setting.
canon's portrait mode increases contrast in our test and decreases yellow in the skin tones.
eos 5d d200 the shots taken with the d200 show a more distracting degree of fringing, however, the artifacts were visible with both cameras.
for nikon, that's normal mode, and for canon it's standard.
we shot a still life of some flowers and opened the images in photoshop, then broke them down into their individual channels to see the color information in each one.
we shoot the  chart such that the brightest box is a pure white.
furthermore, both cameras offer fine-tuning, which is the feature that most distinguishes their white balance systems.
the canon's writing performance is impressive and a real testament to the power of the digic ii processor.
when we view the image in photoshop at 100% magnification, we see vertical stripes in the normally-exposed areas above or below any large blown-out area.
consistent with our other testing, we found that the d200's performance deteriorated much more at iso 400 than the 5d. at iso 400, the d200's colors were less saturated and the gradients were rougher.
canon does a bit better than nikon at iso 200, delivering 0.58 more stops.
nikon's presets have a lot in common with the typical ones on compact digital cameras.
eos 5d - portrait, iso 100 d200 - portrait, iso 100 it's more puzzling to contemplate the cameras' specific portrait modes.
the low light shots were captured in a  studio setup, with the cameras set to iso 1600 and with long exposure noise  reduction engaged.
imatest can detect steps of dynamic range even when the noise level would  overwhelm picture information.
tungsten and fluorescent white balance tests were administered using the  cameras’ designated preset settings.
while the results plotted in the charts above may appear as an insignificant difference between the 10.2 megapixel d200 and the 12.8 megapixel eos 5d, when observing 8 x 10-inch prints made from each camera – held roughly a foot away – the difference is clearly noticeable.
the names would be recognizable to most  novices: normal, portrait, vivid, vivid plus and softer.
canon's custom white balance picks up white readings from regular saved images, rather than from dedicated readings, as the d200 does.
for instance, at iso  100, the nikon d200 detected 12.2 stops of dynamic range, but recorded only  7.79 stops at imatest's high quality level.
the best way to get the benefits that a portrait mode promises is through post-processing raw files.
long exposures / noise reduction (advantage: canon eos 5d) electronic sensors build up noise during long exposures, and both the nikon d200 and the canon eos 5d offer separate long exposure noise reduction settings.
to utilize all the detail the eos 5d is capable of capturing, the camera must be set to raw and colors must be realized in post-processing.
it offers a  huge range of features that will make shooting quicker and easier for the  experienced shooter, with lots of customizable options and quick control access.
without noise reduction, the noise shows a "pinpoint" effect, with individual pixels apparently jumping and dropping significantly; with noise reduction on, the noise is more diffuse, decreasing detail and lowering contrast.
the software exaggerates the white balance error to help observe the color bias.
the nikon’s noise graph takes on more of a stair-step-like pattern, displaying its first jump in noise from iso 500 to iso 640 and increasing almost exponentially at each step beyond.
in this mode the 5d produces images that match the output of the canon eos 1d mark ii and mark ii n, and the company suggests that photographers shooting with both a 1d mark ii and 5d can get matched color across bodies.
at the highest settings, noise jumps for the canon as well, though it maintains a nearly-one-stop margin.
the d200 and the  5d handle white balance about as flexibly as any camera out there.
how big a deal is  this?
for instance, at iso 100, the nikon d200 detected 12.2 stops of dynamic range, but recorded only 7.79 stops at imatest's high quality level.
.read full 7-part review $569.99 read full  7-part review types  consumer  any megapixels  0,8   15
nikon's is more straightforward: it decreases  contrast and saturation, and opens up the shadow detail.
we don't know what causes the problem, and won't speculate whether it could be corrected with a firmware upgrade designed to address it.
the banding appears as a repeating pattern of vertical lines and is most pronounced at iso 400, though it remains visible at other sensitivity settings as well.
we have included a few samples to show  what we saw: the d200 at iso 3200, with and without sharpening, shows very  prominent noise.
to help validate these results, along with illustrate the impact of noise reduction on each of the cameras, we’ve included a series of night scenes below.
to conduct the test, we shot a stouffer  4110 transmissive step chart on a light box.
we tested noise reduction throughout each camera’s iso range and with exposures of up to 30 seconds.
eos 5d - iso400, nr-off eos 5d - iso400, nr-on d200 - iso400, nr-off d200 - iso400, nr-on eos 5d - iso800, nr-off eos 5d - iso800, nr-on d200 - iso800, nr-off d200 - iso800, nr-on both cameras built up noise most severely in the blue channel, which is typical of digital cameras, and it is easiest to see the effects of noise reduction in the blue channel as well.
the d200 can produce image artifacts when significant areas of the frame are substantially overexposed.
in practice, the 5d’s auto and preset white balance settings did not prove to be nearly as accurate as the d200’s.
when we view the image in photoshop at 100% magnification, we see vertical  stripes in the normally-exposed areas above or below any large blown-out area.
there are a couple of challenges in this scene: first, the background starts looking very dingy when it's underexposed, but the shadows get ragged if it's too bright; and second, the bright red and purple flowers can saturate single channels.
we utilized the noise results attained in our outdoor color tests (garnered with a gretagmacbeth color chart and imatest imaging software) and plotted those results in the graph below.
the 5d's highlights  didn't blow out as much in a single step.
the creases and textures one observes in the neutral shot turn unambiguously into wrinkles and blemishes in standard.
the faint texture in the 5d's whites really doesn't make the image look darker, but it helps the camera deliver smooth transitions from the pale shadows to the whites.
blown-out areas usually make for ugly prints  even without fine vertical lines anyway.
without noise reduction, the noise shows a  "pinpoint" effect, with individual pixels apparently jumping and  dropping significantly; with noise reduction on, the noise is more diffuse,  decreasing detail and lowering contrast.
the 5d  maintains a relatively constant line from 2 to 30 seconds; more noise enters  the images at about 20 seconds, but it is not a drastic increase.
however, you'll notice in the image above, the d200 shifts the purple hue in the violet flower over to a more bluish tone (more cyan than purple).
the effects themselves make big changes in images.
to generate results that are relevant to real-world photography, imatest provides separate ratings for overall dynamic range, and for dynamic range within certain noise ranges.
the 5d took 0.19 seconds and the d200 made an exposure after 0.16 seconds.
the d200's normal images look less sharpened and maintain more detail in all three color channels, even in areas of bold color, than the 5d's standard.
because nikon's "normal"  and canon's "standard" differ considerably, we also shot the canon in  "neutral," which we find closer to nikon's normal, and more useful  for general photography.
the d200 accepts  tone curves downloaded from nikon capture 4, pc software that nikon  magnanimously sells separately from its cameras.
the d200's  images look best at exposures about 1/3 ev above the metered reading.
on the other hand, many  valid and interesting pictures have been taken backlit, or with light sources  in the frame.
it's disappointing to see the color problem in lenses that cost hundreds of dollars.
the 5d's highlights didn't blow out as much in a single step.
both neutral and faithful parameters produce images that can handle post-processing.