with an integrated iphoto/nx workflow, you can import and organize your images in iphoto, but edit them using capture nx’s superior raw conversion options and localized editing tools.
cs5 landscape photographycs5 landscape photography seven hours of video instruction on all aspects of landscape photography from gear to shooting to post-production.
in the digital age, it’s easy to get so caught up in cool post-production effects and techniques that you forget about what can be done in-camera with the right lens.
data compression algorithms fall into two categories: lossy  techniques, which degrade the quality of your image; and lossless techniques,  which reduce file size without affecting image quality.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon welcome to your one-stop digital photography guide, featuring reviews, how-tos, galleries, and more.
read more tags: cameras, gear, nikon
while this may sound obvious now, a lot of camera makers were caught by surprise.
if you’ve played at all with nikon capture nx, you already know that it has some of the best editing tools on the market (if you haven’t played with it, a free demo version is availablehere).
read more tags: capture nx, gear, image editing, lenses, nikon as digital camera vendors continue to slice the low to mid-range digital slr market into narrower and narrower niches, deciding which camera to buy becomes much more complex.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon nikon announces d80 august 9, 2006 by ben long · 4 comments filed under: reviews nikon today finally took the wraps off of their new n80, a 10.4  megapixel successor to the d70s priced at $1299 in a bundle with a new lens  – the dx 18-135 f/3.5-5.6 g ed-if.
the new eos 30d offers several improvements over the 20d that it replaces, but rather than matching nikon’s pixel count, canon stuck with the 8.3 megapixel sensor of the 20d, and dropped the price of the 30d body to $1,399.
these courses will work you through all of the features of their respective cameras, and help you understand those features in the context of larger photographic theories.
photographers who are looking for a mid-range canon or nikon camera now find themselves asking "do i need more pixels, or more dollars?" read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon (updated 6/17/05) five years ago, canon released the eos d30 and shocked a lot of people by proving that there was a large market for a digital slr under $5,000.
the workshops will be held in santa clara, washington dc, orlando, chicago, new york city, and dallas.
in addition to there being more cameras to choose from, it has become more difficult to decide exactly how much you’re willing to pay – no matter what price point you choose, there’s probably a slightly better camera priced just $100 more.
creating an integrated iphoto/capture nx workflow may 9, 2007 by ben  long · 5 comments filed under: features if you’ve played at all with nikon capture nx, you already know that  it has some of the best editing tools on the market (if you haven’t  played with it, a free demo version is availablehere).
the latest rev of nikon’s mid-range camera, the d-300 offers some impressive changes from it’s predecessor, the d-200.
for $99 it’s a great way to get quickly immersed in the application, and learn the ins and outs of editing with this exceptional tool.
in addition to there being more cameras to choose  from, it has become more difficult to decide exactly how much you’re  willing to pay – no matter what price point you choose, there’s  probably a slightly better camera priced just $100 more.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon read more tags: cameras, gear, nikon read more tags: capture nx, image editing, nikon, post-production, workflow the nikon d200, a 10 megapixel slr with an aps-sized sensor began shipping in november of 2005.
nikon users often ask  whether the compressed raw format is lossless or lossy, so i decided to look  into the question read more tags: cameras, nikon, raw, shooting
if you’re a long-time film shooter, then you’re possibly well-trafficked in the realm of specialized lenses, but if you’re new to digital slrs, then you may know what is possible to achieve inside your camera, with a simple lens change.
click here for more info!
read more tags: books, capture nx, nikon, post-production, training capture nx2 is the eagerly-awaited follow-up to nikon’s excellent image editing, raw conversion software.
november 30, 2007 by ben long · 2 comments filed under: features
capture nx is a great program, and, because it’s made by nikon, does far better with some nikon raw files than camera raw does.
however, nikon’s raw offerings provide a  twist, in the form of compressed raw.
nikon capture nx, slated for release  in the late summer or early fall gives all of those applications a run for  their money, thanks to its innovative new approach to image editing.
i’ll be teaching a half-day workshop in six different cities around the country starting in november.
while this may sound obvious now, a lot of camera makers were caught by  surprise.
read more tags: capture nx, image editing, iphoto, nikon, post-production, workflow nikon capture nx provides an excellent auto correction edit for removing distortion from images shot with the nikon 10.5mm fisheye lens.
real world capture nx 2 will walk you through every function of the program, while teaching you good post-production workflow, and image editing tips.
their first foray into this market, the d-100 was  not price competitive and suffered from performance issues, while the d70,  though a very good camera, was priced a little strange.
by ben long.by ben long.
though i mention this feature inreal world capture nx, i didn’t have enough room in the book to include examples, so we’re going to look at the specifics of this feature here.
as a long-time canon  shooter, i can say with authority that canon is rapidly falling behind… read more nikon capture nx first look may 26, 2006 by ben long · 5  comments filed under: features, general if you’ve  been trying to choose an image editor/raw converter and have been confused by  all the options (photoshop, aperture, capture one, lightroom, etc.) then your  quandry just got a lot more complicated.
with the fisheye lens edit, you can create cropped,  rectilinear images with a single click.
as with previous nikon models, no other camera comes close to nikon when it comes to feature list, and the d-300 backs up its features with improved image quality.
photographers who are  looking for a mid-range canon or nikon camera now find themselves asking  "do i need more pixels, or more dollars?" read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon should you buy a nikon d70 or canon eos 20d? june 2, 2005 by ben long  ·12 comments filed under: reviews (updated 6/17/05) five years ago, canon released the eos d30 and shocked a  lot of people by proving that there was a large market for a digital slr under  $5,000.
but, if you’re  used to the workflow management and output features of apple’s iphoto,  you may be reluctant to give up iphoto’s powerful library features to  switch to a finder-based workflow driven by the capture nx file browser.
five years later, nikon is still in something of a  "catch-up" mode.
while the n80 doesn’t pack the  same sensor as the $1800 d200, it does boast the same resolution and same image  processing circuitry.
tags: cameras, canon, lynda.com, nikon, training if you’re getting started with capture nx2 and want to get up to speed quickly, then consider taking a class from the official nikon school.
if you like the site, be sure to check out the  bookcomplete digital photography, which you just happen to be able to  order by clicking on that link right over there.
there  are some quantifiable differences, which i’ll explore in more detail in  this article.
why should you care if you don’t shoot with a nikon camera?
tags: capture nx, nikon, post-production, training five years ago, i wrote this piece on whether you should buy afull-frame or cropped sensor digital camera.
on top of all that, there are all those buttons and dials on your camera.
however, nikon’s raw offerings provide a twist, in the form of compressed raw.
at $1700 for the body, it was $200 more than canon’s nearest competitor, the 8.3 megapixel eos 20d. canon has now fired back against the d200, but not with a similarly-pixeled competitor.
november 10, 2006 by ben  long · 14 comments filed under: reviews
exposure theory, lighting, composition.
five years later, we’ve seen that that’s not going to happen, but the question remains: do you need full-frame or is a cropped sensor camera
because capture nx includes extremeley powerful editing tools wrapped up in a completely non-destructive editing environment.
if you’re looking  for a mid-level digital slr – one that offers full features, speedy  performance, excellent image quality, and a sturdy build and feel, then  you’ve probably been looking closely at the nikon d70s and canon eos 20d.  both are excellent cameras, and i don’t envy you the decision, but
nikon frequent visitors to this site know that i’m a big fan of adobe bridge cs4.
at the time, cameras with a full-frame sensor were substantially more expensive than cropped-sensor cameras, and a lot of people believed that, eventually, cropped-sensor cameras would be phased out and replaced by more affordable full-frame cameras.
with the fisheye lens edit, you can create cropped, rectilinear images with a single click.
while i haven’t had a chance to see any output from  the camera, nikon did let me get my hands on a d80.
learn the aesthetics and practices of serious landscape work as you master tone, color, hdr, panoramas, and more.
their first foray into this market, the d-100 was not price competitive and suffered from performance issues, while the d70, though a very good camera, was priced a little strange.
though i  mention this feature inreal world capture nx, i didn’t have enough room  in the book to include examples, so we’re going to look at the specifics  of this feature here.
five years later, nikon is still in something of a "catch-up" mode.
copyright © 2009 · by ben long
two recent entries  into this market, the canon digital rebel xti, and the nikon d80 are a prime  example of this phenomenon.
at $1700 for the body, it was $200 more than canon’s  nearest competitor, the 8.3 megapixel eos 20d. canon has now fired back against  the d200, but not with a similarly-pixeled competitor.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon nikon compressed raw format – lossy or lossless? october 15,  2007 byben long · 4 comments filed under: features like most digital slrs, nikon’s family of digital slrs offer the  ability to shoot in raw mode.
completely reorgan- ized and loaded with more content than any previous edition!
take advantage of your camera's raw mode to shoot better images.
check outthe official link for more info.
read more tags: bridge, capture nx, cs4, nikon, post-production, workflow nikon’s capture nx2 offers revolutionary image editing tools wrapped up in a full-featured editing environment, with a built in browser.
courses are now available for thecanon eos60d, the nikon d7000, the canon rebel t3i, and the nikon d5100.
aimed at the novice and experienced user, the book is ideal for anyone who wants to use the program.
read more tags: 5d, cameras, canon, gear,
but, if you’re used to the workflow management and output features of apple’s iphoto, you may be reluctant to give up iphoto’s powerful library features to switch to a finder-based workflow driven by the capture nx file browser.
two recent entries into this market, the canon digital rebel xti, and the nikon d80 are a prime example of this phenomenon.
the promise of compressed raw files, of course, is that they take up less space and allow you to store more images on your card.
with  an integrated iphoto/nx workflow, you can import and organize your images in  iphoto, but edit them using capture nx’s superior raw conversion options  and localized editing tools.
read more tags: capture nx, gear, image editing, lenses, nikon should you buy a rebel xti or nikon d80?
read more tags: capture nx, image editing, nikon, post-production, workflow if you’ve been shopping for a mid-range digital slr, it’s a safe bet to say you’ve probably been considering the nikon d-300.
data compression algorithms fall into two categories: lossy techniques, which degrade the quality of your image; and lossless techniques, which reduce file size without affecting image quality.
for windows or mac users of photoshop cs3, cs4, and photoshop elements, this book teaches you everything you need to know about raw shooting.
if you’re a long-time film shooter, then  you’re possibly well-trafficked in the realm of specialized lenses, but  if you’re new to digital slrs, then you may know what is possible to  achieve inside your camera, with a simple lens change.
as digital camera vendors continue to slice the low to mid-range digital  slr market into narrower and narrower niches, deciding which camera to buy  becomes much more complex.
however, if you’re a nikon user who shoots raw, then you might prefer using nikon capture nx for your raw conversions, rather than adobe camera raw.
if you like the site, be sure to check out the bookcomplete digital photography, which you just happen to be able to order by clicking on that link right over there.
march 28, 2006 by ben  long · 43 comments filed under: reviews the nikon d200, a 10 megapixel slr with an aps-sized sensor began shipping  in november of 2005.
if you’re looking for a mid-level digital slr – one that offers full features, speedy performance, excellent image quality, and a sturdy build and feel, then you’ve probably been looking closely at the nikon d70s and canon eos 20d. both are excellent cameras, and i don’t envy you the decision, but there are some quantifiable differences, which i’ll explore in more detail in this article.
there’s a lot to know to be a capable photographer.
read more tags: capture nx, image editing, nikon, post-production, workflow should you buy a canon eos 30d or nikon d200?
complete digital photographycomplete digital photography everything you want and need to know about digital photo- graphy - from buying a camera, to editing your images, to making your final prints.
fortunately, there’s a very easy way to integrate the two programs.
the promise of compressed raw files, of  course, is that they take up less space and allow you to store more images on  your card.
read more tags: capture nx, image editing, iphoto, nikon, post-production, workflow capture nx and the nikon 10.5mm fisheye lens april 26, 2007 by ben  long · 4 comments filed under: features nikon capture nx provides an excellent auto correction edit for removing  distortion from images shot with the nikon 10.5mm fisheye lens.
to help you understand exactly how your camera works, you might want to check out one of my camera-specific courses at lynda.com.
however, the workflow tools in nx and nx2 don’t compare to bridge cs4, but fortunately, there’s an easy way to integrate the two programs.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon welcome to your one-stop digital photography guide, featuring reviews,  how-tos, galleries, and more.
while the raw converter only works with nikon cameras, the editor itself is also compatible with tiff or jpeg files.
nikon users often ask whether the compressed raw format is lossless or lossy, so i decided to look into the question read more tags: cameras, nikon, raw, shooting
the new eos 30d offers  several improvements over the 20d that it replaces, but rather than matching  nikon’s pixel count, canon stuck with the 8.3 megapixel sensor of the  20d, and dropped the price of the 30d body to $1,399.
in the digital age, it’s easy to get so caught up in cool  post-production effects and techniques that you forget about what can be done  in-camera with the right lens.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon like most digital slrs, nikon’s family of digital slrs offer the ability to shoot in raw mode.