i always used a nikon, i very good nikon camera’s, however i finally bought a canon, and am thrilled with it.
an important thing to realize is that both are proprietary systems, and once you have a few bodies and lenses with one brand, you are “stuck” with that brand.
lenses i bought then still fit my current 5d and 5d mark ii.
reply i use a nikon d90 for my wildlife photography, but when it comes to point and shoot little carry arounf cameras i much prefer canon.
it really does come down to personal preferences.
the only problem is, as mentioned here below, i will have to replace all my lenses and that becomes costly…….
ok – they are the two largest, but there are other competitors, too!
the other reason is nikon’s business is cameras and lenses thats all they have been making since the beginning… so they focus only on making the best even better!!!reply i think that the photographer gets locked in a brand, the day he/she decides to do photography, the lenses are expensive.
reply i have been using a nikon product for the past 32 years and recommend nikon to anyone out there looking for a camera.
reply i fully agree with john gore, both brands are great and it’s all about personal choice.
definition is fantastic.
the superiority of the back up and after sales service of nikon brand is more than a compelling reason to buy a nikon product!reply i like the canon because it is user friendly, easy to use and takes great picturesreply both cameras are great,love them,i own a nikon p100 and a canon slr 1000d,but find the canon more user friendly and that for me is a positive.
reply i switched from pentax to canon twenty years ago.
they compete so heavily against each other in the same market that if one really were the best, the other would have gone out of business long ago.
my thanks, sally why just look at these two brands?
i once fell off a 6m high bridge (which broke underneath me) into a river with my nikon hanging around my neck.
reply i love my canadian canon digital model – 3 inch screen and takes the most wonderful pictures (with me behind the shutter that is!)reply i have a canon and i love it …..
i just wish printing photographs was more simple now as i find the machines at camera printing shops either crop one’s photo on their own accord and just seem too problematic.
i was blown away and have never looked back since.
it is also important for those that do compare the 2 brands to make sure that they compare cameras that are on the same level otherwise the results will be misleading.
what is better bmw or merc (lets not even go there ).
and there are lots of specials on these two brands.
my area of interest is the pro dslr segment where nikon and canon are constantly leap-frogging each other.
i would dlike to get back into my photography.
you need to go to the d90/d7000 to get a real upgrade,reply
not such a bad thing imho, as both are pretty much on par quality, lenses, etc.
but i really battle to face trying to get them off the disk and deal with those machines…reply seems like only 7% know their stuff.
this will allow you to make the best decision that suits you.
any other make…reply the facts and figures agree: the answer to which camera to buy, should read canon or nikon.
canon and nikon are both multi-billion dollar optical companies that have been making some of the finest optics for consumers, military and industrial applications for decades.
while it seems readers favour nikon, it’s hard to tell which one is actually the best.
i had alwyas promoted nikon, but not anymore.
these companies tend to merely leapfrog one another in terms of who comes out top at the end of each year.
i also echo the comments about nikon & lenses- my boss has a very old 400mm lens which has no af & no gearing fits my trusty old d70.
is the quality of home printing of the same standard compared to that of a shops?
evidences the power of great marketingreply in south africa, the level, standard and professionalism of after sales customer service far exceeds that of canon.. just read the comments for both manufacturers on “hello peter.com”
it really is a merc/audi/bmw scenario.
i still have my slr for film and would love to sell it even though it is in perfect condition.
mine being nikon because for me, i like the way they handle.
previous post by this author:« top 5 romantic restaurants in durban for valentine's day next post by this author:to taste or not to taste?
reply © copyright 2011 all rights reserved.
it’s so lovely to sit with photographs in an album instead of a computer
i did all the research of equivalent models and came up with nikon suiting my purposes better.
it uses the nikon d200 body with fuji insides, and all nikon lenses fit.
i love the comment by carel above.
i love the fact that i get to fit any one of the lenses on my camera body, even 10 years from now.
i was very disappointed and must admit after all this time my i am thinking of trying canon.
these two dominate the photographic world.
i then looked into fuji (photo club peer pressure).
i know that when i can afford to upgrade to one of the models in the d3/ d300 range, my lenses & theirs(!) will fit.
“which camera should you buy?
canon has better sales purely because they market wider.
however, the day i got money in my hands, i bought a nikon d60 and just loved it.
i enjoy micro photography and animals (pets).
i am investing in a camera soon.
easy usability and final results are never dissapointing.
but what do the experts say?
i am happy with canon.
nikon has just released the d4 and d800 which trump the 1dmkiv and 5dmkii but canon has the new 1dx and will soon have the eagerly expected 5dii replacement.
when my pentax died i was looking at replacing it with canon (brother-in-law influence).
after all is said and done, it really is hard to pick a clear winner: the two brands are technically as good as one other and the determining factor comes down to personal taste.
looking forward to my lense upgrade.
reply i bought a nikon d50 in 2006 and take it with me on all our hiking trips.
image courtesy of yampyank on flickr.
nice having a boss who shares your passion for photography (and their lenses!)
tell us in the comments box below.
nikon is much more aggressive in its marketing approach in sa than canon.
its up to the photograper ….reply i wholeheartedly agree with the comments stating that both brands are great- they are and are global market leaders.
right/enough  wildlife..." outrage at mec over chapman’s peak toll plaza "
i am currently using a canon 60d and am very happy with the quality of the pics even with the kit lense.
nikon lens technology is great but canon image sensor technology is better (imho).
canon is the clear winner in the sales category, but while the massive sales volume tips the scales in its favour, it has no effect on camera users’ opinion on both brands, with nikon only just ekeing out a win in the popularity contest.
reply thanks for that information.
great informative review too.
the d50 is a very special camera.
kept on replacing a part and kept on saying it was in perfect condition, but my old d50 still takes better pictures.
my last camera plus all equipment was stolen.
for example, value for money, compatibility, flexibility and what you are personally used to.
hardly ever have to delete a photo.
reply my father’s nikon fm from 1982 is fully compatible with my new lenses and his 1982 lenses are still compatible with my new nikon.
i have a d50 with a telephoto lense and a 3100.reply funny enough, when i started looking at buying a dslr, canon was always on my mind.
some claim nikon has better lenses, but they are more expensive, but i think a more accurate statement would be that canon covers a wider range of lenses, therefore some canon users choose to buy the cheaper options, but they have lenses just as good as the nikon ones.
i am still taking beautiful pictures, (maybe a proffesional will tell me that i do have a low standard?)
experts and users reviewed canon and nikon dslrs worldwide.
although it is quite old now and ‘only’ has 6 megapixels, the sensor is something special with great colours and low noise for its age.
however, on average nikon is the most popular.
my next body will be nikon as i believe they have better colour definition and dynamic range.
nikon gives a free high quality photography course when you buy one of their cameras.
there is not much between the two brands, as the experts believe that both cameras are deservedly good at an average of 8.7 for canon and 8.6 for nikon.
mr.  carlile seems to..." u.s. military radar detection equipment to be used in the fight against  rhino poaching "fantastic idea, now get started before it's too late  - get big companies, government and general public involved.
my best friend can use my lenses on his d200…
click here for more camera reviews, albums and photo tips from the getaway blog or check out thelatest in camera tech on our gear page .
i have only ever used nikon, but i’m sure canon is pretty great.
nikon’s camera’s seemed to be a lot slower, perhaps they gave more options to edit where the canon’s quality is simply in image and their product and they allow the user to edit on the computer.
"the 3d  rendering doesn't look that bad.
it does not matter, nikon or canon, pretty much the same thing.
by the way as a novice which model of either should i buy?reply
i change in brand will therefore be a huge cost.
total sales figures do not say much as the camera market is segmentised.
reply check out the new nikon head office in midrand (interactive 360 degree photo): http://www.360cities.net/profile/johngore/image/nikon-head-office-south-africareply please will give me some info on a nikon.
it fell a few times accidentally i had to clear the lenses due to dust on it maybe i am just very lucky ‘touch wood’.
although it’s close, nikon is the users’ favourite.
afterwards all i did was taking it apart and left it in the sun for a few hours to dry out!
however, two years ago i bought a d90 and ever since have had problems.
that is the question » tags: camera face off, camera test, canon, nikon, photography i have a canon 1000d,for me its always been canon,ease of use,that’s it nothing else needs to be said,i love my canon and would never consider upgrading.
it gets even more difficult because canon also make copier and printers which are often included in sales figures.
the results have been tallied and here are the findings.
will also need photo software.
i have tried to replace it with both d40x and d60, but have ended up selling them and keeping the d50.
since my first camera almost 30 years ago i have always and only used nikon and have alway believed in nikon.
it has a special affinity for the 80-400vr lens and also works very well with the 18-200vr.
long term i bet on canon because of its market dominance and hence its larger r&d budget.
either a canon or and nikon” …both are excellent.
getaway.co.za is designed, maintained and hosted by ramsaymedia enter your email address:
the next day i took photo’s again, although the first few had a cloudy look (filter look) but since then nothing wrong.
i am now on a 3100 and just love it.
but nikon has now my preference…reply nikon!!
sony pentax olympus panasonic sigma… you should try to be more inclusive the next time!reply i only use nikon and the reason for this is i can take any nikon lense from any year and it will fit my camera!
why do you prefer one over the other?
if you do a  google image search for this toll plaza, i think it is an improvement to the  stack..." canon vs nikon: the face-off by: jaclyn stephenson
if you don’t have a favourite, look at what each company is offering at the time of you investing in equipment.
nikon has my heart, and mind.
i also find the colour saturation better with nikon & it reproduces black with less ‘blocking’.
i know canon are good cameras (i sometimes use my brother’s 550d, which is a great camera and nearly bought a 60d last year)
nikon may lead canon sales in one area and vice versa in another.
reply i must admit, i love my nikon.
according to the facts and figures they are both very similar …..
recently we asked our readers whether they preferred to use a nikon or a canon.
i don't see what all the fuss is about.
this article is a rehash of the one in beste product (dutch) and peta pixel.
there is a ready second hand market for canon products so it is easy to progressively trade up.
ended up getting the fuji finepix s5.
i took it in to be repared 4 times and they never found the problem.
most popular posts this week u.s. military radar detection equipment  to be used in the fight against rhino poaching how to make the perfect  braaibroodjies 24 hours in cape town for australian gourmet traveller recent comments outrage at mec over chapman’s peak toll plaza
i sometimes miss the days of handing in one’s negatives… (and i am not old).
personal opinion- of course!
a year later, i acquired the magnificent d300s.
in looking at reviews and calculating an average score out of 10 points between 2006 and 2011, this is what they rated.