this question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
with the release of the d200 (figure 1), nikon has for the first time unveiled a camera with a higher pixel count than canon's competitive offering (the eos 30d).
this camera is awesome , you feel you have a real good camera in your hands, the controls are all in the right place , some things work different and i still have to think oh it is not my d80 or d60 but the d200.
if you're a raw shooter, you'll have lots of latitude during your conversion.
then consider secondary operations: changing to priority or manual mode, metering, and focus modes.
years ago, canon took nikon by surprise with the release of the eos d30.
the nikon/canon rivalry is to photographers as the apple/microsoft rivalry is to computer nerds, or the bmw/mercedes rivalry is to car aficionados.
loosely related to the intervalometer is the repeating flash mode, which lets you program the flash to fire at regular intervals for a given amount of time.
some of the d200's stand-out amenities: the d200 is a fun camera to shoot with.
submitted by rschoone on tue, 09/18/2007 - 08:52.
sharpness and detail vary with lens quality, of course, but you'll be hard-pressed to get a bad image (figure 2).
iso is adjustable in third-stop increments and the camera provides an in-viewfinder iso readout, making it possible to change iso without taking your eye from the viewfinder.
long-time nikon users will be thrilled with the d200, thanks to its full feature set and excellent image quality.
you can change iso, color balance, mode, exposure comp.
one of the d200's most impressive features is its auto-bracketing capability.
i still have the d70s, as a back-up, but it just doesn't feel like a real camera and i'm always knocking the program knob from manual to beach scene or something like that.
but i like the clack sound it makes it is my best and favourite camerasubmitted by guest on wed, 05/04/2011 - 09:12.
so, while the d200 is priced at the high end of the mid-range market, you get much more than a higher pixel-count sensor: you get high-end features, as well.
the d200 also provides a center weight meter and a spot meter.
however, i found that the d200 didn't do as well as other cameras in low-light shooting conditions.
all of the standard image parameters are available and adjustable, and the camera lets you save up to 45 custom settings.
i have never intentionally shot at iso 1600 in my 40+ years of photography.
that said, i really appreciate that nikon has placedall of the essential controls on external buttons.
read more by ben long.
nikon also throws in some nice extra features, and wraps it all up with a price tag that's around $1,700, typically $300 more than the canon offering.
to me it seems that those with a canon bias like to bring this up as some kind of camera superiority.
as such, i find the nikon interface annoying.
starting from iso 800 and up, the camera produces noticeably more noise than canon's eos 30d (figure 3).
interface affinity is a very subjective thing, and you really must make that call yourself.
though the shutter is not as quiet and silky as the d70s, the camera still has a very nice shutter feel.
the body is constructed from a magnesium alloy and feels very sturdy, with sealed seams and excellent build quality.
no matter where your camera loyalties may lie, the d200 will probably affect you thanks to nikon's merging of high-end features in a mid-range price.
i usually like to shoot a metered shot and an overexposed shot, so the 3-stop auto-bracket on my canon camera always gives me an extra image.
most controls are interlocked, so you have to push and hold one control while turning or pushing another.
features the d200 has an impressive feature list -- impressive both because of its breadth and because the features are actually tools that working photographers will use.
you won't have to dig into a menu to adjust quality, white balance, iso, drive mode, focus mode, metering mode, exposure compensation, or bracketing.
the auto focus system is similarly well-appointed, offering four different autofocus modes.
the extra stop is a welcome improvement for daylight shooting.
it's great for creative long-exposure photography.
the image overlay feature lets you control the opacity of each composited image.
since then the companies have battled it out for the hearts and camera bags of the mid-range digital slr market, a market segment that includes hobbyist and professional photographers.
if you make your living shooting in darker conditions, this might be a deal-breaker.
for people who own nikons and want to stay with what they know, the d200 is an exciting release.
at 10 megapixels, the d200 offers an extra two million pixels more than 8 megapixel 30d.
the d200 feels and sounds great, very solid; like my old f5.
the d200 provides two kinds of noise reduction: long exposure noise reduction, which aims to reduce the stuck pixel artifacts that can occur when shooting long exposures, and high iso noise reduction, which reduces the luminance and chrominance noise that higher isos produce.
a wifi transmitter can automatically transmit images to your computer, making for tethered shooting functionality without the tether.
weighing in at 1.8 pounds, the d200 doesn't bog down your camera bag.
you can even reformat your media card using external buttons.
jpeg shooters will appreciate the camera's white balance tweaking and bracketing features (the d200 can also bracket the flash, or both flash and exposure), as well as the ability to saved named white balance presets.
while the eos 30d provides a basic three-step auto-bracket, the d200 lets you bracket up to 9 shots.
there's very little to complain about with the d200's image quality.
in comparison the d200 makes the newer canon look like a $5 point and shoot if you ask me, and canon has a long way to come up to par with nikon.
performing composites in-camera seems like kind of a waste of time, but the feature works and is well-implemented.
but if you're a prospective buyer with little or no prior nikon d-slr experience, get your hands on as many cameras -- from as many vendors -- as you can.
the d200's menu is reasonably well-organized, but navigating with the four-way rear-mounted control is frustrating because you have to push repeatedly to scroll up and down the menu.
color accuracy, saturation, contrast, and tone are all excellent.
it's the only way to know which body design and interface make the most sense to you.
it 3/5give it 4/5give
this is my 3rd dslr (fuji s2, nikon d70s) and it is far away the best and will most likely be my camera of choice for years to come.
what i don't like is that the d200's interface uses a separate button or switch for everything, rather than doubling up controls.
the fact is, there little difference between the two camera makers, it really boils down to preference.
while you're testing, ask yourself if you can easily get to the essential, everyday shooting functions: exposure compensation, iso speed, bracketing, drive mode, and if you're a jpeg shooter, white balance.
no matter which side you choose, if either, you can't help but appreciate the other side for fostering a competition that yields better products for everyone.
add-ons nikon offers a tremendous selection of lenses, including a dedicated dx series of lenses designed specifically for the smaller crop created by the camera's aps-sized sensor.
current nikon users accustomed to this configuration can take this complaint with a grain of salt.
first this is a heck of a machine, true high speed 5 fps, with professional quality and quantitiy, the d200 (at least mine does) shines like a bright star.
it's is an excellent ability that more cameras should have.
when shooting in low light you use a tripod, and can then shoot at iso 200-800 or whatever you choose.
of course, all of the standard shooting features you'd expect are here: full program mode along with priority modes, and full manual.
a gps receiver is also available, letting you tag your images with position information at shoot-time.
written by ben long on april 3, 2006 select ratinggive it 1/5
full disclosure: i am a confessed canon shooter.
more information about formatting optionscaptcha
the d200 can even shoot multiple exposures.
but is it worth the $1,700  price tag?
the d200 provides shutter speeds of 30 seconds to 1/8000th of a second, an improvement over the 1/4000th of its predecessor, the d100, and right in line with the eos 30d's equivalent shutter speed.
mike wilson my reviews: http://www.redopinion.com/digital-camera/category/nikon/d200/ _ this is my 3rd dslr (fuji s2, nikon d70s) and it is far away the best and will most likely be my camera of choice for years to come.
an intervalometer lets you perform automated time-lapse shooting, with full control over number of images taken at each interval, duration of the interval, and number of intervals to shoot.
for jpeg shooters, the camera provides plenty of in-camera customization.
nikon should make one of the camera's two control wheels function as a menu navigator.
it delivers great pictures and i get getting better images out of it every time i punt my hadns around it to hug it .
average: 5 (3 votes) select ratinggive it 1/5give it 2/5give
hopefully, this means that such features as expanded auto-bracketing and intervalometers will become expected features in more cameras in this market.
mike wilson my reviews: http://www.redopinion.com/digital-camera/category/nikon/d200/ _ too much noise!submitted by steama on mon, 04/03/2006 - 06:49.
battery life could be better but it's not a big deal; i just carry an extra battery.
we're giving away one wacom tablet!
however, the menu system includes a recent settings page which lists the 14 most recently accessed items.
the d200 supports a couple of other cool accessories.
review: nikon d200 this 10-megapixel digital slr produces  excellent images and comes in a sturdy package.
if you're not already a nikon shooter, then the d200 is a great offering -- as long as you're comfortable with the camera's controls.
this means there are many buttons and switches on the camera, and they're spread all over.
program in the number of shots you want to include, and the d200 automatically composites those shots into a single multiple-exposure image.
great image quality and better overall specs make it a valuable addition to the nikon product line.
the fuji took great photos but battery set-up was terrible; it's gone now.
sturdy, with lots of buttons the d200 is a fairly large camera with a surprisingly lightweight.
i find it amusing how often i've has read reviews of digital cameras (which are really canon vs nikon comparisons) that find it necessary to key on the noise produced by nikon at iso 1600.
what's more, you can define a bracket of only 2 shots.
however, i found it fairly easy to stump the autofocus system in low light.
all without taking your eye from the viewfinder; a big plus.
submitted by futurexboy on wed, 05/24/2006 - 18:12.
ideally, i'd like to be able to define a custom spacing between each stop.
you didn't mention the great lighting system this camera has, shooting one hand is easy and all the controls fall right into my hands, also the body ergonomics is way better than canon ever has been.
many of these have filtered down from the much more expensive nikon d2x.
nikon doesn't bother with pre-programmed scene modes, an intelligent step for this market.
the d200 raw format is now supported by all major raw converters, including photoshop camera raw and apple's aperture.
this greatly speeds navigation.
all the controls are well thought-out and well placed.
with this type of sealing, nikon is raising the bar for mid-range slrs.
that makes it impossible to change a setting with one hand.
some other high-end features are buried in the menu.
average: 5  (3 votes)
i don't know where you were, but my d200 doesn't have noise like that, you might want to look over what you did and try again.
low-light focusing was often slow, and occasionally failed completely.
metering is provided by nikon's excellent 3d color matrix metering system.
while the d100 had an iso range of 200 to 1600, nikon has finally realized that the slow end is as important as the fast end and extended the range to 100 to 1600.