nikon ended the long wait, unveiling its new 36.3-megapixel fx-format professional nikon d800, which it claims ‘delivers unprecedented levels of depth and detail’ and allows users to shoot broadcast quality video.
so you think you know how to use your digital camera?
in our ongoing review of some of the more popular current and ‘out of date’ digital cameras, we want to help you better harness the creative potential of your dslr or compact system camera.
our team tests for both signal to noise ratio – which indicates how clean an image will be, and dynamic range.
the advice below comes from experts who have used the nikon d3100 and know this dslr inside and out.0 comments | read more nikon has not ruled out the possibility of a more advanced version of its nikon 1 compact system cameras, to include more manual control.
subscribe now follow digital camera magazine today © 2006 - 2012 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk, ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
the nikon d4 is the first, and so far only, camera in the world to use the new format of memory card, which was announced in the latter part of 2011.0 comments | read more a spokesperson for sony uk has said that the newly released nikon d800, which features a 36 million pixel full-frame sensor, isn’t a competitor for its own sony alpha 900, and that the d800 ‘pushes the boundaries.’
the advice below comes from experts who have used the nikon d7000 and know this dslr inside and out.0 comments | read more our testing team has the nikon d4 in for testing and has found that the d4 beats the nikon d3x, canon eos 1d mark iv, nikon d700 and canon eos 5d mark ii in our signal to noise ratio when shooting jpegs.
what’s more, nikon claims the nikon d800 offers a potential to rival medium format cameras.0 comments | read more digital camera is the world's best dslr magazine, packed with pro photography, expert tips, video training and the toughest camera reviews.
nikon d7000: tips for using your digital camera jmeyer | photography  tips | 17/03/2012 07:01am
lohoff’s series, dubbed “das gebaute bild” (the constructed picture), was part of a photography class project at the düsseldorf university of applied sciences where linus studies graphics
the advice below comes from experts who have used the nikon  d7000 and know this dslr inside and out.
like many of us, you  may have a dslr or compact system camera but tend to use only a handful of your  its features.
she has been taking photos since 2007 and uses a nikon d5000 and sometimes a nikon f56.0 comments | read more
design.0 comments | read more
after many months of rumours and speculation, the nikon d800 dslr is finally a reality.
introduced in february, the nikon d800 is the world’s highest resolution full-frame camera, and sees nikon firmly targeting studio and medium format photographers.0 comments | read more the photo-sharing website flickr is known for catapulting a number of photographers into internet stardom, and linus lohoff is one of the latest.
speaking to our sister website techradar, jeremy gilbert, uk marketing manager for nikon uk, said: “we are listening and trying to feedback what we hear.
our lab includes a specially designed chart which is shot in carefully controlled conditions, with the resulting images analysed using dxo analyser software.
in our ongoing review of some of the more popular current and  ‘out of date’ digital cameras, we want to help you better harness  the creative potential of your dslr or compact system camera.
it’s mostly journalists and high-end photographers who would like us to produce one, but whether we should or not is a different matter.
call them camera tips, or call it a user’s guide to your favourite  digital camera.
like many of us, you may have a dslr or compact system camera but tend to use only a handful of your its features.
though the nikon d4 came tops when shooting jpegs, with raw images the nikon d4 beats everything aside from the canon eos 5d mark ii between iso 1600 and 6400.
the advice below comes from experts who have used the nikon d3100 and know this dslr inside and out.0 comments | read more
the german photographer has been inundated with emails and picture requests after a series of his images was recently featured on the flickr blog.
call them camera tips, or call it a user’s guide to your favourite digital camera.
right up at iso 6400, it is also beaten by the nikon d700.0 comments | read more nikon has confirmed that the initial shipments of its nikon d4, the company’s new flagship dslr will come bundled with an xqd card and reader included in the price.
”0 comments | read more laura zalenga is a photographer based in the south of germany.