in  fact it seems they are quite happy to let canon take the market as they think  their cameras suffice.
i imagine there are already moves to distance that relationship or at least diversify partners.
of course, there is also a price  problem.
having said that it might be the feedback they get is nikon fans are not  pushing for full-frame.
but, isn’t it true that the canon 5d  product is actually quite successful?
if they also concentrate on adding to the entry-level and  see price as a big barrier (which from the interview they seem to) they will  also further push their “prosumer” image.
with sony dslr cameras very much in development how long can this  last?
check out the wordpress site as well as these resrouces for wordpress themes for photographers: wordpress - main site wordpress photography themes photo wordpress themes (c) 2009-2012 photocrati media | dslrblog is part of the photocrati media network.
we welcome submissions from any type of photographer - from baby portraits to gut-wrentching humanitarian photography to pure art.
no full-frame dslr from nikon
we welcome submissions from  any type of photographer - from baby portraits to gut-wrentching humanitarian  photography to pure art.
share it with the world.
interesting point about their sensors being developed through a partnership with sony.
with sony dslr cameras very much in development how long can this last?
however, a camera is not only about the sensor, the product has to be considered with a combination of various elements.
answer: “certainly, there is a product like 5d out there.
- join our flickr group >> - wordpress + photography this site is based on one of photocrati's wordpress photography themes.
answer: “certainly, there is a product like 5d out  there.
dslr blog will be about images and their stories (we  also write about other topics on photography too).
we cannot put out an outrageously priced camera simply because we want to have better function on the camera.”
in fact it seems they are quite happy to let canon take the market as they think their cameras suffice.
read our submission guidelines.
having said that it might be the feedback they get is nikon fans are not pushing for full-frame.
dslr photography – nikon about their full frame camera plan is this a mistake?
interesting point about their sensors being developed through a partnership  with sony.
- - every image has a story got a great image?
we have cost balance the various components of the camera, based on our judgement, there is no necessity to sell a camera with full frame sensor.
we're just relaunching in january 2012 with a new angle.
i imagine there are already moves to distance that relationship or at  least diversify partners.
so, what’s the meaning of such a big sensor?
so,  what’s the meaning of such a big sensor?
we have cost balance the  various components of the camera, based on our judgement, there is no necessity  to sell a camera with full frame sensor.
from a marketing point of view i think they will be seen as less “pro” while ever they do not have anything to match canons 5d and pro line-up.
tagged camera, dslr, frame, full, news, nikon | 2
technorati tags: nikon, dslr, full, frame, camera, photography, news also posted inphotography gear  | tagged camera, dslr, frame, full, news, nikon  | 2 comments follow us!
we're just relaunching in january  2012 with a new angle.
of course, there is also a price problem.
check out this interview from dslrphotography.
however, a camera is not only about the sensor, the product has to be  considered with a combination of various elements.
wordpress is an awesome, open source web platform.
- home - submit an image - photographers & resources - submit your website - boudoir photographers - children and family photographers - commercial photographers - creative and fine art photographers - event photographers - general photographers - landscape photographers - mining photographers - model photographers - music photographers - photography training - photojournalism photographers - portrait photographers - travel photographers - web services - wedding photographers category archives: nikon no full-frame dslr from nikon
but, isn’t it true that the canon 5d product is actually quite successful?
in the first place, the current situation is that the picture quality of the dx camera can already sufficiently produce a satisfying photograph.
in the first place, the current situation is that the picture quality of  the dx camera can already sufficiently produce a satisfying photograph.
- recent posts - david bellis: wedding in historic merchant adventurers’ hall - kurien koshy yohannan — befriending a robin - michael sargent — the archangel duck - mark birks — the old prison door - colin henderson: winter camping in scotland - - search for: - from the older blog - behind the image - news and commentary - online photography community - photo news - photographers in the news - press freedom - product releases - stock photography - notable photos - photo editing and digital workflow - photography business - advertising - finances, taxes and insurance issues - getting assignments - legal issues, ethics, model releases - photography business basics - pricing - protecting copyright - selling photos - stock photography agencies - wedding photography - photography gear - canon - digital slr cameras - flash and lighting - gear accessories - nikon - olympus - pentax - slr lenses - software - sony - photography techniques - landscape - lighting - portrait - travel - wildlife - photography websites and online promotion - building your website - developing a blog - photo website templates - web promotion, traffic, and seo - random thoughts - join our flickr group!
we cannot put out an outrageously priced camera simply because we want  to have better function on the camera.”
by dslrblog editors | published march 3, 2006 looks like nikon are still not interested in full-frame sensor dslrs.
every image has a story got a great image?
dslr blog will be about images and their stories (we also write about other topics on photography too).
if they also concentrate on adding to the entry-level and see price as a big barrier (which from the interview they seem to) they will also further push their “prosumer” image.
by dslrblog editors  | published march  3, 2006 looks like nikon are still not interested in full-frame sensor dslrs.
technorati tags: nikon, dslr, full, frame, camera, photography, news also posted inphotography gear |
recent posts david bellis: wedding in historic merchant adventurers’ hall kurien koshy yohannan — befriending a robin michael sargent — the archangel duck mark birks — the old prison door colin henderson: winter camping in scotland search for:
from a marketing point of view i think they will be seen  as less “pro” while ever they do not have anything to match canons