this is termed "quick mode."
a feature of the eos 40d, which has found its way onto the xsi is a high  iso noise reduction mode.
photographing directly into the sun at 28mm with the 18-55 is lens.
the viewfinder screen of the xsi has a center circle which makes the  area of the spot meter.
when not being used for navigation, the 4-way buttons are used to select  capturing mode, metering mode, af mode, and picture style.
thnx bard fosse , december 10, 2008; 03:13 p.m. one of my first test  shots with the camera i bought the 450d (xsi) and have now used it for a few thousand shots, the  only quirk
there are few industries as heart-wrenching as the fine art business.
the digital rebel xsi has "anti-dust" features built into the  sensor, which includes an anti-static coating and an ultrasonic shaker to  dislodge dust particles.
i do agree a bit that a prime standard is the way to start out but from shooting unreal amount of film and 50 prime i find the standard primes to be rather boring, and using the 17 - 55 gives me most daily shots available on the camera, street, school play and no-flash poor lighting (thanks to the is) travel, beautiful portraits at 55/2.8, school sports and all general shooting.
like the ef-s 18-55is, the ef-s 55-250is uses a new, lower cost is system, but again it seems pretty effective adding up to three stops of stability.
to do this the reflex mirror is locked up, and in that position the camera can't use its normal af sensors.
resolution  is measurably higher, though the difference in practice is quite small.
i enjoy using my xti, but have a few gripes (mainly things like the viewfinder size (compared to my eos3)).
by the way i noticed a small typo: "...followed by the 10mp rebel xsi and with the 12mp rebel xti showing slightly more noise."
in all three cases, resolution may be increased  slightly when capturing in raw mode and making the optimal conversion to jpegs.
bob  atkins the digital rebel xsi does have an extensive set of options, which you can  select before an image is taken and affect the resulting jpeg image.
can one lock the buttons on the back?
anyone from serious photographer's looking for a spare body to the beginner looking for their first camera, the 450d is a perfect fit.
the camera can them use this as a reference for subsequent shots.
the new lp-e5 has higher capacity, but a different form factor so the two types of battery are not interchangeable.
there's always some thing more to learn.
i can't say enough about this camera.
contributed content used  with permission.
it's not a miracle cure for blown highlights, but it does give you about an  extra stop of latitude at the expense of potentially more shadow noise.
to do this the reflex mirror is locked up, and in that  position the camera can't use its normal af sensors.
so while there looks to be extra noise in the xsi image, it may not be true to say that xsi images are inherantly noiser than 40d images under other conditions, or when optimized for low noise.
40d. like the 40d there's a customizable menu screen on which you can place the  functions you use most so that you can access them rapidly.
works great, but i must say that i'm new  to the slr field.
i'm  looking for more zoom capabilities!
below are some of the result that i had taken with my new xsi, it's about 4pm with lots of sunlights.
their prices are fair and you help to support photo.net.
the result of this camera is very good, it  does beats my old xti on the easier to use.
the edges and corners are slightly more rounded and the rubberized patches on the back and grip sections of the camera are slightly rougher and "stickier", making the camera a little easier to hold with one hand.
the viewfinder of the digital rebel xsi is slightly larger than that of the xti, but slightly smaller than that of the eos 40d.
and i  don't mind having 12mp at all - now i have more room to compensate for my poor  composition skills... harry c , july 19, 2008; 06:44 a.m. bob great review.
the rebel xsi may have a slight resolution edge, but remember these crops
the d40x is cheaper, but has a simpler 3 zone af system and no provision for the use of nikon af-s (internal ultrasonic motor) lenses.
bob atkins , april 22, 2008; 01:35 p.m. i haven't done the test yet (i'm still working on some sony reviews that i  have to finish first), but i can tell you what i expect to find based on  previous testing of the 20d vs. 40d. i'd expect the average image quality of xti and xsi images to be pretty  much the same for the large majority of users under the large majority of  conditions.
also, is the xsi body slightly smaller than  the xti's?
if you choose to capture in raw mode, the provided dpp (digital photo pro) software allows you to apply any picture style to any image during the raw conversion process.
i select shots based on composition not based on if i think it is in focus, because most of the shots now are in focus and are very sharp.
i had never shot with an xxxd body before but just bought a used 400d to use (primarily) with a small fast prime as my small camera instead of my g9 (which is a frustrating camera for me).
thanks masum haider , august 18, 2008; 05:56 p.m. hi bob, all my life i have been using canon cameras.
in raw+jpeg mode, the  buffer only holds 4 captures.
if you are new to digital photography, start with the photo.net article on  "building a digital slr system." contents iso settings and image noise live view compared to nikon, canon, pentax, sony rebel xsi key features bob atkins operating speed the digital rebel xsi is very responsive in terms of operational speed.
9% of viewfinder at center) spot metering (approx.
the fastest cf cards are  still faster than the fastest sd cards, but in a digital rebel or even an eos  40d, the camera can't write fast enough to make use of the extra speed of the  fastest cards.
to allow the center button of the rear 4-way controller to now activate the live view mode, a separate iso button has been added next to the main control dial.
canon ef-s 55-250mm f/4.0-5.6 is (review), set at 154mm, 1/1600s, f/5.6, iso 200.
(-1m with 50mm lens at infinity) eyepoint - approx.
anyone from serious photographer's looking for a spare body to the  beginner looking for their first camera, the 450d is a perfect fit.
the potenial resolution with this rebel is  higher, so it deserves to be tested with better glass.
it doesn't allow color temperature to be set as the eos 40d does.
in your full review i'd really like to see how you feel the xsi compares to the xti in actual perf.
i got it two weeks ago and use it for red carpet  photography for getty images.
at iso 1600 noise is much  more visible, with the eos 40d showing the least noise, followed by the 12mp  rebel xsi and with the 10mp rebel xti showing slightly more noise.
it gives an angle of view equivalent to an 88-400mm lens on a full frame 35mm camera.
koushik ranjan das , august 29, 2009; 02:58 p.m. the body is very lightweight to carry but i think it is not dust and raindrop proff!
based on your shot above, the noise at iso 1600 looks  quite a bit worse than the 40d. bob atkins , april 21, 2008; 08:58
all previous digital rebels, as well as  the eos 5d/10d/20d/30d/40d have used compact flash memory cards.
there's also a software mapping function, which can be used to minimize the visibility of dust particles if for some reason you can't clean the sensor or you want to be absolutely sure of minimizing the effects of dust.
edit: found the 40d v's 5d thread srikanth kondeti , july 19, 2008; 04:27 p.m. nice comparisions really nice to have this review.
the 3" rear lcd screen is used to display operating parameters  and the various software menus, as well as to review images.
i do agree a bit that a prime standard is  the way to start out but from shooting unreal amount of film and 50 prime i  find the standard primes to be rather boring, and using the 17 - 55 gives me  most daily shots available on the camera, street, school play and no-flash poor  lighting (thanks to the is) travel, beautiful portraits at 55/2.8, school  sports and all general shooting.
flash the xsi has a retractable pop-up flash with a guide number of 13/43 (iso  100 meters/ft).
it's not a miracle cure for blown highlights, but it does give you about an extra stop of latitude at the expense of potentially more shadow noise.
the drawback of this mode is that it can be slow (focus may take several seconds) and it may not be as sensitive or accurate as the normal "quick" af mode using the dedicated phase detection af sensors.
there's no pc connector for external studio flash, though of course hotshoe to pc adapters are available.
at iso 800  noise starts to appear, but is still well controlled.
the digital rebel xsi does have an extensive set of options, which you can select before an image is taken and affect the resulting jpeg image.
rebel xsi key features live view with live focus highlight tone priority conclusion hannah thiem
contributed content used with permission.
since it was impossible to get hold of the sigma 30mm f/1.4 in the country where i live i bought the canon ef-s 17 - 55 f/2.8 is lens with the camera, and from every shot i have done so far with it i have to say it gives images of an unreal sharpness and quality.
read the complete preview on photo.net.
the rebel xsi may have a slight resolution edge, but remember these crops represent looking at sections of a very large image, probably something around 24" x 36" on a typical monitor screen.
malcolm wright , november 12, 2008; 05:35 a.m. malcolm wright i have a rebel xt, it has served me very well, i have a lot to learn still...
photographing  directly into the sun at 28mm with the 18-55 is lens.
i was surprised how much i liked shooting with the smaller body also.
photography by bob atkins and hannah thiem tweet the canon eos rebel xsi (eos 450d) is canon's latest dslr and the most  full featured entry level dslr in their digital rebel line of cameras.
i am still "finding" my  way around the camera, with the odd focusing problem, but so far very happy  with it.
i also tried some older lenses i own (primes) which again is really great with the camera, again sharp crisp very nicely colored shots.
the xti and xsi share the same 9 af zone markings, but the xsi viewfinder adds a center circle marking, which defines the area covered by the new spotmeter in the xsi.
it offers several features not found on similar canon and nikon dslrs including sensor-shift stabilization built into the camera body.
this means that all your lenses become stabilized and you don't need to buy  special is or vr lenses.
this lens covers the same angle of view that a 29-88mm zoom would on a full frame camera, so it's useful for many types of photography including landscapes, group shots and portraits.
the main downside of enabling high iso noise reduction is that the camera can buffer fewer images when capturing in continuous mode.
the 1d series  dslrs have had the capability of using both sd and cf cards.
the buffer is significantly smaller when capturing raw, and in that case the  3.5 fps drops to around 0.7 fps after only 6 frames.
for a complete and detailed description of all the camera controls and options, you can download a pdf copy of the rebel xsi user manual.
steve p. , april 21, 2008; 07:30
marcus ian , april 22, 2008; 10:30 a.m.
ron wilson , february 25, 2009; 12:32 p.m. the xsi is usefull at times since it is small and light but that kit lens (18-55) has such low resolution it is unuseable (except for, perhaps, a childs birthday party).
in this mode the  image is continuously displayed on the lcd and the camera uses that image to  find focus via a contrast sensing algorithm.
and they do not have the xsi in the list yet.
the lcd display appears less than a second after the camera is powered up, but you can take a photo only 250ms (1/4s) after the power switch is moved to "on" before the lcd screen starts displaying data.
i put image quality selection, memory card format, high iso noise reduction, highlight tone priority, mirror lockup, and custom wb there.
i am still "finding" my way around the camera, with the odd focusing problem, but so far very happy with it.
overall, i found that most of the time the af performance of the xsi and xti were quite similar.
when not being used for navigation, the 4-way buttons are used to select capturing mode, metering mode, af mode, and picture style.
i'll be interested in reading your complete review--and pay  more attention to the xxxd models in the future.
the xsi has two different methods of autofocusing while using the liveview  mode.
in the nikon lineup the closest cameras to the digital rebel xsi would be the 10mpnikon d40x, (compare prices) (review)nikon d40x and the 10mp nikon d80, (compare prices) (review)
though you can't actually edit the images in the camera once you have  taken them, you can apply effects to existing images when printing directly  from the camera.
bob atkins , april 22, 2008; 01:35 p.m. i haven't done the test yet (i'm still working on some sony reviews that i have to finish first), but i can tell you what i expect to find based on previous testing of the 20d vs. 40d. i'd expect the average image quality of xti and xsi images to be pretty much the same for the large majority of users under the large majority of conditions.
the result of this camera is very good, it does beats my old xti on the easier to use.
getting to the root of the noise and making fair comparisions requires more work than just shooting a couple of images (which is all i did for this test).
and i don't mind having 12mp at all - now i have more room to compensate for my poor composition skills... harry c , july 19, 2008; 06:44 a.m. bob great review.
add a comment chinmaya sn , april 21, 2008; 02:08 p.m. since xsi is part of rebel series, nice to see some of your thoughts on upgrade from xt or xti.
in the basic zone modes (everything except p,  av, tv, m and a-dep), iso is always set to auto mode and cannot be manually  selected.
since a higher pixel count in the same sized sensor usually means smaller pixels, and since smaller pixels usually show higher noise levels at high iso settings, these observations are consistent with what you would expect.
upgrading from the xti to the xsi makes sense if you need things like spot metering, a larger lcd and live view, but if you're looking for a noticeable leap in image quality, i don't think you'll see it.
the addition of an iso button near the mode dial is helpful,  too.
this is wonderful review.
maximum frame rate is a little slow at 2 fps, but it does pack in a lot of  features for around the same price as the rebel xsi.
nielson assa , january 29, 2010; 09:07 a.m.
i know i will need a wide angle and a zoom or maybe a wide-to-tele zoom?
but i didn't feel that 2x the price of a  450d was reasonable.
these are 100% crops, meaning one pixel on  the screen maps directly to one pixel in the image.
however it also has features of the eos 40d such as live view,  highlight tone priority, high iso noise reduction, spot metering, a 14-bit a/d  converter and viewfinder iso display.
i am still kind of undecided because i almost ended up buying canon  40d but the price is too high, but when the new xsi came out i think that will  be a better choice.....i shoot wedding pictures, portrait, sometimes wild life,  nature and sports ..
p.m. you have to be careful about drawing conclusions from single measurements of noise.
white balance hannah thiem
digital rebel xsi metering: the rebel xsi has the same highlight tone priority feature as the eos 40d.
check this page :  http://www.usa.canon.com/consumer/controller?act=modelinfoact&fcategoryid=139&modelid=16303 jennifer doggett , november 05, 2010; 09:16 a.m. i love my 450d.
i still prefer the 300d in terms of handling, and  of course mine had the iso 3200 option (hacked firmware) whereas the xsi only  goes to 1600.
review canon's first small-frame sensor dslr camera that syncs with speedlites  wirelessly.
both the xsi and xti use a pentamirror system  rather than the more expensive and heavier (but slightly brighter) pentaprism  system.
photography by bob atkins and hannah thiem the canon eos rebel xsi (eos 450d) is canon's latest dslr and the most full featured entry level dslr in their digital rebel line of cameras.
in | site map | article archive | author index | about us | faq | register | subscribe | support photo.net | contact us | advertise | careers | terms of use | privacy
for the first time on any eos dslr, the digital rebel xsi uses only an sd(hc) memory card for image storage.
the colors are beautifully presented and the  autofocus dead fast, i am extremely pleased with the setup so far and are very  impressed over the camera and lens.
as in distance, any suggestions for someone  on a major budget?
the lenses you use on xti should fit on xsi too, all ef & ef-s lenses  fit on that xsi camera.
this is in contrast to all previous digital rebels and the eos 5d/20d/30d/40d models, which use compact flash (cf) cards.
i shoot wedding pictures, portrait, sometimes wild life, nature and sports ..
getting to the root of the noise  and making fair comparisions requires more work than just shooting a couple of  images (which is all i did for this test).
the lenses you use on xti should fit on xsi too, all ef & ef-s lenses fit on that xsi camera.
why compare noise  to the 40d at iso 1600 when the normal range for the xsi camera is 100-800 and  then not use canon's better lens.
canon ef-s 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 is (review), set at 43mm, 1/100s, f/11, iso 800.
it's  a six-car pileup at the intersection of art and commerce and the amount of  opinion and hyperbole that is somehow labeled as... dslrs in the movies: 'hellbent' the ten best action films of 2011 understanding dpi: the solution to resolution ready, set, go:
my shooting ratio has improved.
i know i will need a wide angle and a zoom or maybe a wide-to-tele  zoom?
in the basic zone modes (everything except p, av, tv, m and a-dep), iso is always set to auto mode and cannot be manually selected.
one characteristic that really irks me about the xti interface is the  lack of ability to 'lock' the buttons on the back.
i've been  shooting with a 20d and a 5d lately, and i think that the difference between  the 300d and this latest canon camera would make it a worthy upgrade.
the d80 is closer to the xsi in terms of features, having an 11-zone af system, dof preview and an optional vertical grip (all of which the d40x lacks).
i put image quality  selection, memory card format, high iso noise reduction, highlight tone  priority, mirror lockup, and custom wb there.
both cameras use the same diamond shape of 9 focus  zones.
the sony alpha a350, (compare prices) (review) offers a 14mp sensor, iso 3200 capability, an advanced live view system, a tiltable 2.7" lcd, sensor-shift stabilization built into the camera body and a 9-zone af system.
if you want the most  neutral color rendition under tungsten lighting, the custom wb mode is best.
george ferrell , june 03, 2008; 10:00 p.m. i have used a rebel xt and like the new xsi model with added file size, a  larger lcd and additional range on the flash.
no flare spots are  visible.
the camera can them use this as a reference for  subsequent shots.
the digital rebel xsi has "anti-dust" features built into the sensor, which includes an anti-static coating and an ultrasonic shaker to dislodge dust particles.
photo tags equipment store home > equipment > canon > canon digital rebel xsi review canon's first small-frame sensor dslr camera that syncs with speedlites wirelessly.
the eos 40d is good for 6.5 fps for around 125 jpegs or around 18 raw images.
a question: is there any lens converter available by which i  can use my all ae1 lenses with this eos 450d xsi?
are the lenses for the xti compatible with the xsi?
these are 100% crops from jpegs  taken using the standard default parameters for sharpness with each camera.
i understand that the new xsi has revised focusing; i hope this has corrected the lousy focusing that the xti has.
the xsi adds the option of 4 different color schemes for data display - black on white, white on black, light blue on dark blue and dark brown on light brown.
i am still kind of undecided because i almost ended up buying canon 40d but the price is too high, but when the new xsi came out i think that will be a better choice.....
the differences are not  huge and you might not even notice them unless you compared the cameras side by  side.
the viewfinder of the digital rebel xsi is slightly larger than that of  the xti, but slightly smaller than that of the eos 40d.
max sync voltage is 250v and the max sync speed is  1/200s.
up to iso 400 all three  cameras give very clean images with little or no evidence of noise.
both cameras use the same diamond shape of 9 focus zones.
one is  promised to arrive this week and if it does, i'll do some comparison testing.
" metering and exposure hannah thiem
both the xsi and xti use a pentamirror system rather than the more expensive and heavier (but slightly brighter) pentaprism system.
the only real issue related to sd/sdhc and cf cards is compatibility with  what you already own.
i checked sandisk's website for product compatibility where they list which cards are recommended for which equipment and they do not have the xsi in the list yet.
george ferrell , june 03, 2008; 10:00 p.m. i have used a rebel xt and like the new xsi model with added file size, a larger lcd and additional range on the flash.
can anyone advise me on the above….
if i were buying new and as my main camera (i shoot with a 5d)
both give very usable images at iso 1600.
what kind of lense i should be using.please advise me with  your expertise .
there are many other lens options from canon, sigma, tamron and tokina.
the image stabilized (is) system is a new low-cost version of canon's  traditional is, but the performance is good and it can add up to three stops of  stability, making handholding the lens in low light easier, despite the  relatively slow maximum aperture.
i also tried some older lenses i own (primes)  which again is really great with the camera, again sharp crisp very nicely  colored shots.
noise  appears to be a little higher, perhaps because of the smaller pixels.
only problem so far is finding the compatible battery grip
an auto iso mode is available on the xsi and eos 40d, but it's limited in its range.
hannah thiem canon ef-s 55-250mm f/4.0-5.6 is (review), set at 90mm, 1/160s, f/16, iso  200.
the digital rebel xsi uses sd/sdhc memory cards.
the only thing i need help on (as i'm fairly new to the photography business) is what is the best lenses to purchase for shooting weddings?
can one lock the buttons on the  back?
also sharpness settings can make a difference to how the noise looks and  it's possible the xsi and 40d use different default sharpness settings.
again all  three cameras were set to their default settings and no additional noise  reduction functions were enabled.
exactly how canon does this, they don't say, but  it is more than just a software function.
it affects both raw and jpeg files.
the focus point can be manually selected, or the camera can  decide which af point(s) to use.
based on your shot above, the noise at iso 1600 looks quite a bit worse than the 40d. bob atkins , april 21, 2008; 08:58
center-weighted average metering range ev 1-20 (at 73°f/23°c with ef
, i had one on order through buydig then after a week they canceled my order  saying they were out of stock(it was in stock when i ordered it!).
this is up by about 20% from the 10.1 mp sensors  used in the digital rebel xti and eos 40d (3888 x 2592 pixels) and should  theoretically enable about 10% greater linear resolution.
10mp to 12mp is a small change and it's very hard to see the  difference between 12 bit and 14 bit a/d. i'm sure there will be some  circumstances and some images which will benefit slighly from the upgrade, but  unless you're making big prints you probably won't see them.
the menu structure is similar to that of the digital rebel xti and the eos 40d.
carlos eduardo livino , july 09, 2008; 09:00 p.m. keaton, i received my xsi on the 23rd (of june, 2008) and you're right in that it's worth the upgrade.
i tried  the 450d in a store with the 18-55is and really liked the button placement,  3" lcd, but in the end got better value with the xti.
a.m. i just got the xsi about 2 weeks ago and just got the chance to try it in estes park lake, colorado.
one is the same as that used on the eos 40d, where the reflex mirror flips down briefly and the normal af sensors are used to achieve focus.
using continuous capture, i followed a seagull in flight.
for a complete and detailed description of all the camera controls and  options, you can download a pdf copy of the rebel xsi user manual.
the change isn't really a big deal since sd cards (and higher capacity sdhc cards) are now as easily available as cf cards, cost around the same in $/gb, and can be found in capacities of up to 16 and 32gb.
the xsi also offers another focus mode (not found on any other canon dslr  at the moment), which they call the "live" mode.
i find that in p-mode i am always  changing the iso inadvertently.
ron nielson assa , may 06, 2009; 10:56 a.m. i just bought canon lens efs 18-200mm is and with my xsi, the picture taken with both is outstanding.
the k200d is also sealed against dust and moisture to  a greater extent than most other dslrs of its class.
the flash covers the frame seen by a 17mm (or longer) lens mounted on  the xsi.
batteries the xsi uses canon battery pack lp-e5, which is currently only used by the  xsi.
zoomed out to 250mm, is gives you a good chance of a sharp image while handholding the camera at shutter speeds as low as 1/60s.
where to buy photo.net's partners have the canon digital rebel xsi available in the  following combinations.
only problem so far is finding the compatible battery grip e-5, i had one on order through buydig then after a week they canceled my order saying they were out of stock(it was in stock when i ordered it!).
for an overview of what's available seethe eos system guide the 12mp digital rebel xsi falls between the 10mp canon digital rebel xti, (compare prices) (review) and the 10mp canon eos 40d, (compare prices) in canon's lineup.
even at f/5.6, the ef-s 55-250mm lens creates a nice out-of-focus background while still capturing detail and vivid color in the flower.
i use a 17-85mm, 28-135mm, and a sigma 70-200mm.
the xsi has a 3" (diagonal) lcd screen vs. the 2.5" screen of  the xti.
the xti and xsi share the same 9 af zone markings, but the xsi viewfinder  adds a center circle marking, which defines the area covered by the new  spotmeter in the xsi.
this means that all your lenses become stabilized and you don't need to buy special is or vr lenses.
i enjoy using my xti, but  have a few gripes (mainly things like the viewfinder size (compared to my  eos3)).
i love the 1.6 crop factor for wild life as it  works well with telephoto lenses and i do not like the 1.3 crop factor of the  1d mk3 for this reason, sure i can crop the image of the full frame and 1.3  cameras, but at the expense of pixel density; this is why i am looking to  upgrade my camera bodies (30d & xti) with the 40d & xsi.
which dslr to choose depends on your needs and how  much you want to pay.
with highlight tone priority enabled, the iso range is restricted to 200-1600.
i don't know if the 40d and xsi use different noise reduction  algorithms for example.
live view gives you a real time image on the lcd screen, just like a p&s digicam.
slowed down the shutter speed to capture a silky effect of the  waves.
the xsi uses a 14-bit a/d converter, which could in theory give better tonal gradation, though in practice it's very difficult to see the difference from 12-bit images (such as those from the xti).
the only real issue related to sd/sdhc and cf cards is compatibility with what you already own.
why compare noise to the 40d at iso 1600 when the normal range for the xsi camera is 100-800 and then not use canon's better lens.
these numbers make the xsi faster than the xti (3 fps) with a larger jpeg buffer (55 frames vs. 30 frames).
the center "set" button is also used to enable live view modes.
but i didn't feel that 2x the price of a 450d was reasonable.
when the "*" button is released, the mirror flips back  up and the lcd displays the image in real time again.
any advice is greatly appreciated.
this lens covers the same  angle of view that a 29-88mm zoom would on a full frame camera, so it's useful  for many types of photography including landscapes, group shots and portraits.
the change isn't  really a big deal since sd cards (and higher capacity sdhc cards) are now as  easily available as cf cards, cost around the same in $/gb, and can be found in  capacities of up to 16 and 32gb.
if i were buying new  and as my main camera (i shoot with a 5d)
i am using rebel xsi + canon lens 55-250mm is and my friend (on the first picture) using 40d + canon lens 70-300mm.
the xsi has the usual set of white balance modes: auto, daylight, shade, cloudy, tungsten, white fluorescent light, flash and custom.
it has the basic form of the xti with the same shutter speed range, the same flash sync speed and the same iso range.
10mp to 12mp is a small change and it's very hard to see the difference between 12 bit and 14 bit a/d. i'm sure there will be some circumstances and some images which will benefit slighly from the upgrade, but unless you're making big prints you probably won't see them.
by the way i noticed a small typo: "...followed by the 10mp rebel xsi  and with the 12mp rebel xti showing slightly more noise."
these days, there's little difference between sd and  cf cards in terms of price, capacity and availability.
pressing the "*" button on the back of the camera drops the mirror down and enables normal af operation - though the image on the lcd blanks out during this process.
at iso 400 with an f/4 lens, the flash range is around 6.5m (21.5ft).
check this page : http://www.usa.canon.com/consumer/controller?act=modelinfoact&fcategoryid=139&modelid=16303 jennifer doggett , november 05, 2010; 09:16 a.m. i love my 450d.
although this sounds  complex, it happens quite fast and canon call this the "quick" af  mode.
how much better is the 5d in image quality and noise?
the colors are beautifully presented and the autofocus dead fast, i am extremely pleased with the setup so far and are very impressed over the camera and lens.
i think the new battery may take  longer to charge.
like the 40d there's a customizable menu screen on which you can place the functions you use most so that you can access them rapidly.
however, at 1/160s the photo has a sense of movement.
the 450d is a great body for beginners and the "kit" lens isn't the worst thing either.
like the eos 40d, the rebel xsi displays the iso setting in the viewfinder  at all times, along with the usual information such as shutter speed, aperture,  exposure compensation, flash status, af status, buffer frames remaining (when  that number is 9 or less), flash exposure compensation setting, high speed sync  setting and exposure lock indication.
in practice, there's not a very noticeable difference in image resolution as you can see from the sample images below.
what kind of lense i should be using.please advise me with your expertise .
though you can't actually edit the images in the camera once you have taken them, you can apply effects to existing images when printing directly from the camera.
since i don't have an xti on hand, i won't be doing any "side by  side" comparisions, though i can do comparisions of the xsi with the 40d.  i don't expect to see any huge differences in image quality between the 40d and  xsi either.
bob atkins canon ef-s 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 is (review), set at 28mm, f/8.
for  an overview of what's available seethe eos system guide compared to nikon, canon, pentax, sony the 12mp digital rebel xsi falls between the 10mp canon digital rebel xti,  (compare prices) (review) and the 10mp canon eos 40d, (compare prices) in  canon's lineup.
the sony alpha a350, (compare prices) (review) offers a 14mp sensor, iso  3200 capability, an advanced live view system, a tiltable 2.7" lcd,  sensor-shift stabilization built into the camera body and a 9-zone af system.
photos ©2008 bob atkins and hannah thiem,  except as otherwise indicated.
canon digital rebel xsi, (compare prices) canon digital rebel xsi (black), 18-55mm kit, (compare prices) canon digital rebel xsi (silver), 18-55mm kit, (compare prices)
for the first time on any eos dslr, the digital rebel xsi uses only an  sd(hc) memory card for image storage.
it also provides a shutter button and control dial along with ae/fe  lock, exposure compensation and af point selection buttons in a vertical  orientation.
one characteristic that really irks me about the xti interface is the lack  of ability to 'lock' the buttons on the back.
maximum frame rate is a little slow at 2 fps, but it does pack in a lot of features for around the same price as the rebel xsi.
menu navigation is done via the 4-way buttons (allowing navigation up, down, left and right through the menus).
the 1d series dslrs have had the capability of using both sd and cf cards.
mechanical design the digital rebel xsi is very similar in size and shape to the xti.
the live image is used and focus is determined by  looking for maximum contrast.
the xsi viewfinder also seems slightly brighter than that of the xti, but  again the difference is small.
the eos 40d offers those, plus a higher frame rate (6.5 fps vs 3.5 fps), a larger image buffer, support for studio flash, and a more rugged construction.
these include a "vivid" mode which increases saturation for more vivid greens and blues, a noise reduction mode to lower image noise and three black and white modes (neutral, warm and cool).bob atkins
the eos 40d offers those, plus a higher frame rate  (6.5 fps vs 3.5 fps), a larger image buffer, support for studio flash, and a  more rugged construction.
text ©2008 bob atkins.
overall, seems to be a good user at a budget price.
the digital rebel xsi uses a new sensor with 12.2 mp and a maximum image size of 4272 x 2848 pixels.
in the nikon lineup the closest cameras to the digital rebel xsi would be  the 10mpnikon d40x, (compare prices) (review)nikon d40x and the 10mp nikon d80,  (compare prices) (review)
keep up the good work!
since i don't have an xti on hand, i won't be doing any "side by side" comparisions, though i can do comparisions of the xsi with the 40d. i don't expect to see any huge differences in image quality between the 40d and xsi either.
both the rebel xsi and xti have an iso range of 100 to 1600 in full stop steps (100, 200, 400, 800, 1600).
malcolm wright , november 12, 2008; 05:35 a.m. a good day malcolm wright i have a rebel xt, it has served me very well, i have a lot  to learn still...
i was surprised how much i liked shooting with the  smaller body also.
welcome to photo.net:
thiem canon ef-s 55-250mm f/4.0-5.6 is (review), set at 154mm, 1/1600s, f/5.6,  iso 200.
there are preset picture styles (standard, portrait, landscape, neutral, faithful and monochrome) - all of which can be edited and modified for sharpness, saturation, contrast and color, as well as monochrome color filtering simulation (yellow, orange, red and green).
to complement the ef-s 18-55/3.5-5.6is canon has a new canon ef-s 55-250mm f/4.0-5.6 is, (compare prices) (review), which is good for situations like sports and wildlife photography where a longer focal length is needed.
in tungsten mode the color balance under domestic tungsten  lighting is closer to neutral, but still noticeably warm.
these days, there's little difference between sd and cf cards in terms of price, capacity and availability.
both have 230,000 pixels, 100% image coverage and lcd brightness  control with 7 levels.
the live image is used and focus is determined by looking for maximum contrast.
the 3" rear lcd screen is used to display operating parameters and the various software menus, as well as to review images.
i had never shot with an xxxd body before  but just bought a used 400d to use (primarily) with a small fast prime as my  small camera instead of my g9 (which is a frustrating camera for me).
i love the 1.6 crop factor for wild life as it works well with telephoto lenses and i do not like the 1.3 crop factor of the 1d mk3 for this reason, sure i can crop the image of the full frame and 1.3 cameras, but at the expense of pixel density; this is why i am looking to upgrade my camera bodies (30d & xti) with the 40d & xsi.
koushik ranjan das , august 29, 2009; 02:58 p.m. the body is very lightweight to carry but i think it is not dust and  raindrop proff!
add a comment notify me of comments © 1996-2011 namemedia, inc. and contributors.
diane fields , july 22, 2008; 10:41 p.m. i found the review interesting.
a.m. i just got the xsi about 2 weeks ago and just got the chance to try it in  estes park lake, colorado.
i already  have a 17-55 f/2.8 is lens and 6mp give great results.
ac power can be supplied to the xsi via ac adapter kit ack-e5.
both the xti and xsi use a pentamirror viewfinder system, but the  viewfinder screen of the xsi is slightly larger and also, to my eye, appears to  be slightly brighter.
i am thinking of buying a digital slr and i was actually going thru your reviews about rebel xsi, amazed to see that u have so much knowledge about cameras.
there are 4 focus modes: one-shot af, ai focus  af, ai servo af, and manual.
i have to say--the iq from these little cameras with a good lens really surprised me and i found most of the controls easy to use, so ergonomically it worked pretty well for me.
this is my first dslr up from a p&s olympus.
it does not have a live view capability.
in  this mode you first shoot an image of a white or gray card under the lighting  conditions you will be using.
which dslr to choose depends on your needs and how much you want to pay.
however, there were some situations in very low light where the xsi could get an autofocus lock, while with the same lens under the same lighting, the xti failed.
it gives  an angle of view equivalent to an 88-400mm lens on a full frame 35mm camera.
for the first time in a digital rebel series dslr, canon has added live view to the xsi.
please advise which sd card i should get for it.
that's why i've been postponing my 300d's replacement.
it's also possible to use manual focus of course, and the lcd image can be magnified by 5x or 10x to assist in optimizing focus.
recycle time is approximately 3 seconds.
all three cameras are capable of producing excellent image quality, so the choice should be mainly based on camera features.
(iso noise (worse w/ higher mp count?), 14b vs. 12b a/d  (for whites in bright sun), read/write times, etc.)
an optional battery grip bg-e5 is available, which can use 6 aa batteries or two lp-e5 batteries.
despite the fact that both the  eos 40d and digital rebel xti have the same pixel count, the eos 40d image  looks a little sharper.
exactly how canon does this, they don't say, but it is more than just a software function.
the eos 40d has a range of from 100 to 3200, with the 100-1600 range covered in 1/3 stop steps (100, 120, 160, 200 etc.).
the digital rebel xsi is available as a kit with the new canon ef-s  18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 is, (compare prices) (review).
in live view there are two focus modes.
helen clement , april 21, 2008; 10:09 p.m. looking forward to reading your full review.
overall the xsi is an improvement over the xti, though more in terms of features than image quality, which is good in both cameras.
i may be able to do an xti vs. xsi comparision after all.
memory cards hannah thiem the digital rebel xsi uses sd/sdhc memory cards.
i am looking forward to upgrading my lens though, from the ef-s 18-55 is kit lens.
both the d40x and d80 have the option of an iso 3200 setting, which could be a consideration for those who do a lot of low light work.
the live view is there, but i've not had the time to master it.
iso settings and image noise hannah thiem both the rebel xsi and xti have an iso range of 100 to 1600 in full stop  steps (100, 200, 400, 800, 1600).
if i had used a  slightly higher shutter speed, i could have frozen the motion of the bird.
due to the larger lcd screen of the xsi, a  number of the control buttons have been relocated, but the same functionality  is retained.
auto focus the eos rebel xsi has a 9-point wide area af sensor with the points set in  a diamond pattern.
represent looking at sections of a very large image, probably something around  24" x 36" on a typical monitor screen.
it has the basic form  of the xti with the same shutter speed range, the same flash sync speed and the  same iso range.
the digital rebel xsi is very responsive in terms of operational speed.
the difference in size isn't huge, but every little bit  helps.
i use a 17-85mm,  28-135mm, and a sigma 70-200mm.
at iso 1600 noise is much more visible, with the eos 40d showing the least noise, followed by the 12mp rebel xsi and with the 10mp rebel xti showing slightly more noise.
the potenial resolution with this rebel is higher, so it deserves to be tested with better glass.
the use of a small aperture gave enough depth of field to get both far and near flowers in focus.
that's a lens i always recommend looking at.
what you can measure on a test bench under microscopic examination of  images and what you can actually see in a print aren't the same thing.
zoomed  out to 250mm, is gives you a good chance of a sharp image while handholding the  camera at shutter speeds as low as 1/60s.
the digital rebel xsi is very similar in size and shape to the xti.
the second focus mode (only available on the xsi) is "live mode" and uses a contrast-based af system.
the focus is faster and more accurate.
today, most digital p&s cameras use sd cards, so if  you carry a p&s digicam and an xsi you'll only need to carry one type of  card.
i still prefer the 300d in terms of handling, and of course mine had the iso 3200 option (hacked firmware) whereas the xsi only goes to 1600.
however, noise is still pretty well controlled, even at iso 1600 on the xsi and  it's low enough that small to medium sized prints made from the images would be  quite acceptable.
this is in contrast to  all previous digital rebels and the eos 5d/20d/30d/40d models, which use  compact flash (cf) cards.
resolution is measurably higher, though the difference in practice is quite small.
due to the larger lcd screen of the xsi, a number of the control buttons have been relocated, but the same functionality is retained.
carlos eduardo livino , june 09, 2008; 03:43 p.m. i wonder if this xsi is a worthy upgrade from a 300d (6mp rebel).
this is consistent with a statement found in the  press release for the xsi in which canon states, "the eos rebel xsi  digital slr utilizes a precise nine-point autofocus (af) system featuring a  newly developed af sensor that improves the camera's subject detection  capabilities compared to earlier models.
both the xti and xsi use a pentamirror viewfinder system, but the viewfinder screen of the xsi is slightly larger and also, to my eye, appears to be slightly brighter.
i select shots based on composition not based on if i think it is  in focus, because most of the shots now are in focus and are very sharp.
the image stabilized (is) system is a new low-cost version of canon's traditional is, but the performance is good and it can add up to three stops of stability, making handholding the lens in low light easier, despite the relatively slow maximum aperture.
filexgq08a.jpg betheny jimerson , january 28, 2010; 11:43 p.m. i didn't see this
live view gives you a real time image on the lcd screen, just  like a p&s digicam.
to complement the ef-s 18-55/3.5-5.6is canon has a new canon ef-s 55-250mm  f/4.0-5.6 is, (compare prices) (review), which is good for situations like  sports and wildlife photography where a longer focal length is needed.
the buffer is significantly smaller when capturing raw, and in that case the 3.5 fps drops to around 0.7 fps after only 6 frames.
if you choose to capture in raw mode, the provided dpp (digital photo pro)  software allows you to apply any picture style to any image during the raw  conversion process.
the digital rebel xsi is available as a kit with the new canon ef-s 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 is, (compare prices) (review).
< on the xsi, the iso button isn't on the back but is very handy for my index finger.
canon digital rebel xsi, (compare prices) canon digital rebel xsi (black), 18-55mm kit, (compare prices) canon digital rebel xsi (silver), 18-55mm kit, (compare prices) more photo.net canon eos discussion forum canon dslr system overview building a digital slr system canon digital rebel xsi example photographs bob atkins canon ef-s 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 is (review), set at 43mm, 1/100s, f/11, iso  800.
i don't know if the 40d and xsi use different noise reduction algorithms for example.
the outer panels of the xsi are made from  durable plastic.
a community of photographerssearch all of photo.net photo captions
any comments welcome.
my shooting ratio  has improved.
the xsi uses canon battery pack lp-e5, which is currently only used by the xsi.
however it also has features of the eos 40d such as live view, highlight tone priority, high iso noise reduction, spot metering, a 14-bit a/d converter and viewfinder iso display.
the k200d is also sealed against dust and moisture to a greater extent than most other dslrs of its class.
focus is an issue with that feature.
the rebel xsi seems to be a combination of the rebel xti and the eos 40d,  with a few new features of its own thrown into the mix.
below are some of the result that i  had taken with my new xsi, it's about 4pm with lots of sunlights.
live view hannah thiem
the one i have now is  canon ae-1 bought in 1986 with a 50mm 1:1.4 lens and still gives nice pictures.
the xsi adds spot metering to the evaluative, partial and centerweighted patterns of the xti.
if you want the most neutral color rendition under tungsten lighting, the custom wb mode is best.
like the xti, the xsi has a high strength plastic mirror box mounted in a small stainless steel chassis.
i'm glad to hear that th iso is displayed in the viewfinder, so at least i might notice the change sooner!
the difference in size isn't huge, but every little bit helps.
between those three, i'm all set.
i was using a canon rebel xt and this xsi makes  my work a lot easier.
digital rebel xti - 127 x 94 x 65 mm - 556 g (with battery)
steve mack , june 06, 2008; 03:43 p.m. vice president al gore and  tipper gore the xsi really rocks!
not  interested in the other features.
it  builds on the digital rebel xti but adds a new sensor (12mp vs. 10mp), a larger  lcd screen (3" vs. 2.5"), live view, spot metering, iso display in  the viewfinder, highlight tone priority, high iso noise reduction and a number  of other software features, which are also found on the canon eos
the d40x is cheaper, but has a simpler 3  zone af system and no provision for the use of nikon af-s (internal ultrasonic  motor) lenses.
in continuous capture mode, the rebel xsi is capable of 3.5 frames per sec  (fps) for about 55 frames before the buffer fills and the rate drops a little.
though high iso noise reduction was turned off, i'd bet there are default noise reduction algorithms in use at iso 1600.
in practice, there's not a very noticeable difference in image resolution  as you can see from the sample images below.
basic dslr video editing with imovie canon eos 1d mkiv review
this appears to increase the amount of chroma noise  reduction while not greatly affecting the luminance noise.
the differences are not huge and you might not even notice them unless you compared the cameras side by side.
i'm wondering how some of the  40d-esque features incorporated into the xsi work, and how it compares to the  xti.
the xti doesn't offer such features as live view, spotmetering  or highlight tone priority.
in your full review i'd really like to see how you feel the xsi compares to  the xti in actual perf.
i was using a canon rebel xt and this xsi makes my work a lot easier.
i am thinking of buying a digital slr and i was actually going thru your  reviews about rebel xsi, amazed to see that u have so much knowledge about  cameras.
that's why i've been  postponing my 300d's replacement.
the new lp-e5 has higher  capacity, but a different form factor so the two types of battery are not  interchangeable.
john hanlon , july 20, 2008; 08:10 a.m. excellent review bob, as usual!
photos ©2008 bob atkins and hannah thiem, except as otherwise indicated.
though high iso noise reduction was turned off, i'd bet  there are default noise reduction algorithms in use at iso 1600.
the xsi has two different methods of autofocusing while using the liveview mode.
there are  preset picture styles (standard, portrait, landscape, neutral, faithful and  monochrome) - all of which can be edited and modified for sharpness,  saturation, contrast and color, as well as monochrome color filtering  simulation (yellow, orange, red and green).
the live view is there, but i've not had  the time to master it.
in continuous capture mode, the rebel xsi is capable of 3.5 frames per sec (fps) for about 55 frames before the buffer fills and the rate drops a little.
one is promised to arrive this week and if it does, i'll do some comparison testing.
maria obias , may 25, 2008; 08:15 p.m. i ordered my xsi today and am looking forward to using it.
i find that in p-mode i am always changing the iso inadvertently.
the central af point is an improved cross type sensor with high precision for lenses with an aperture of f/2.8 or faster.
these are 100% crops, meaning one pixel on the screen maps directly to one pixel in the image.
however, there were some situations in very low light  where the xsi could get an autofocus lock, while with the same lens under the  same lighting, the xti failed.
19mm (from eyepiece lens center)
this appears to increase the amount of chroma noise reduction while not greatly affecting the luminance noise.
there's also a software mapping function, which can be  used to minimize the visibility of dust particles if for some reason you can't  clean the sensor or you want to be absolutely sure of minimizing the effects of  dust.
all three cameras are capable of producing excellent  image quality, so the choice should be mainly based on camera features.
in | site map | article archive | author index |  about us | faq | register | subscribe | support photo.net | contact us |  advertise | careers | terms of use |
if you are new to digital photography, start with the photo.net article on "building a digital slr system."
these numbers make the xsi faster than the xti (3 fps) with a larger jpeg  buffer (55 frames vs. 30 frames).
it doesn't allow  color temperature to be set as the eos 40d does.
like the eos 40d, the rebel xsi displays the iso setting in the viewfinder at all times, along with the usual information such as shutter speed, aperture, exposure compensation, flash status, af status, buffer frames remaining (when that number is 9 or less), flash exposure compensation setting, high speed sync setting and exposure lock indication.
in this mode you first shoot an image of a white or gray card under the lighting conditions you will be using.
the central af point is an improved cross type  sensor with high precision for lenses with an aperture of f/2.8 or faster.
(just a note--not sure why the post ended up with 2 different font sizes).
i'm looking for more zoom capabilities!
i have been using an xti from work for  about a year and am planning to buy an xsi for myself ... barring some  unforgivable flaw (which you did not find, thankfully!).
like the ef-s 18-55is, the ef-s 55-250is uses a new, lower cost is system, but  again it seems pretty effective adding up to three stops of stability.
i have been waiting for to read this review since long time though i have read the reviews from other sites like dpreview.com n all.
when the "*" button is released, the mirror flips back up and the lcd displays the image in real time again.
however, noise is still pretty well controlled, even at iso 1600 on the xsi and it's low enough that small to medium sized prints made from the images would be quite acceptable.
thnx bard fosse , december 10, 2008; 03:13 p.m. i bought the 450d (xsi) and have now used it for a few thousand shots, the only quirk i am unhappy about is the lack of pc connector, so i had to buy a nikon hotshoe to pc adapter to get it up and running which was a bit of a downer.
phottix odin ttl flash trigger review incase ari marcopoulos camera bag review olympus om-d e-m5 announcement and preview nikon d800 preview eight neat products from ces 2012 three tips for selling/
presumably this is due to the increased processing power required for the noise reduction mode leading to slower compression and storage of images, so the buffer fills faster.
keaton andrew , june 27, 2008; 04:33 a.m. carlos, i'd say definitely upgrade if you easily can.
i am however thinking of upgrading to the new rebel for the faster af alone.
controls the rebel xsi uses a control layout, which should be fairly familiar to  most users.
an optional  battery grip bg-e5 is available, which can use 6 aa batteries or two lp-e5  batteries.
amit barak , june 30, 2008; 05:50 a.m. sounds like a good dslr body, already invested in nikon system i doubt i'll ever buy one.
like the xti, the xsi has a high strength plastic mirror box mounted in a  small stainless steel chassis.
i already have a 17-55 f/2.8 is lens and 6mp give great results.
< on the xsi, the iso button isn't on the back but is very handy for my  index finger.
other optics will yield a much superior image showing the processor is decent.
i'm wondering how some of the 40d-esque features incorporated into the xsi work, and how it compares to the xti.
menu navigation is done via  the 4-way buttons (allowing navigation up, down, left and right through the  menus).
the spot metering area is marked by a circle on the viewfinder screen.
of course, for an inexpensive fast portrait lens, you really can't beat the canon ef 50mm f/1.8 ii, (compare prices) (review).
if you want a significant increase in image quality, you'd probably need to look at a full frame dslr like thecanon eos 5d, (compare prices) (review).
i have thought of getting a viewfinder extension to move my face away from the back.
if you want a significant increase in image quality,  you'd probably need to look at a full frame dslr like thecanon eos 5d, (compare  prices) (review).
in tungsten mode the color balance under domestic tungsten lighting is closer to neutral, but still noticeably warm.
i checked sandisk's website for product  compatibility where they list which cards are recommended for which equipment
up to iso 400 all three cameras give very clean images with little or no evidence of noise.
i've been shooting with a 20d and a 5d lately, and i think that the difference between the 300d and this latest canon camera would make it a worthy upgrade.
the main downside of  enabling high iso noise reduction is that the camera can buffer fewer images  when capturing in continuous mode.
the addition of an iso button near the mode dial is helpful, too.
with  highlight tone priority enabled, the iso range is restricted to 200-1600.
however, the raw file buffer is somewhat smaller (6 frames vs. 10 frames), presumably at least in part due to the larger file size dictated by the higher pixel count.
although this sounds complex, it happens quite fast and canon call this the "quick" af mode.
other optics will yield a much superior image showing the  processor is decent.
the eos 40d has a range of from 100 to 3200,  with the 100-1600 range covered in 1/3 stop steps (100, 120, 160, 200 etc.).
as in distance, any suggestions for someone on a major budget?
dioptric adjustment correction -3.0 to +1.0 diopter digital sensor the digital rebel xsi uses a new sensor with 12.2 mp and a maximum image  size of 4272 x 2848 pixels.
4% of viewfinder at center)
i was pretty close to purchasing the 40d -
photo.net's partners have the canon digital rebel xsi available in the following combinations.
all previous digital rebels, as well as the eos 5d/10d/20d/30d/40d have used compact flash memory cards.
geoff francis , april 21, 2008; 08:26 p.m. good review bob.
malcolm ruthven , may 18, 2008; 01:13 a.m. >
i  can't say enough about this camera.
the d80 is closer to the xsi in terms of features, having an  11-zone af system, dof preview and an optional vertical grip (all of which the  d40x lacks).
a community of photographers search all of  photo.net photo captions photo tags equipment store home > equipment > canon > canon digital rebel xsi review most popular lenses popular articles canon eos 7d
i have just bought the canon 450d and the two lenses that you mentioned.
ron nielson assa , may 06, 2009; 10:56 a.m. i just bought canon lens efs 18-200mm is and with my xsi, the picture taken  with both is outstanding.
at present i use the xti as a back up on wedding assignments, at this point i must point out that the focus on the xti in low light conditions is very poor; it will not focus with the canon 85mm f/1.8 lens in low light conditions.
the  edges and corners are slightly more rounded and the rubberized patches on the  back and grip sections of the camera are slightly rougher and  "stickier", making the camera a little easier to hold with one hand.
the rebel xsi uses a control layout, which should be fairly familiar to most users.
i am looking  forward to upgrading my lens though, from the ef-s 18-55 is kit lens.
i used to have the  300d and every single camera i've had since then has blown it away.
thanks masum , staten island ny.. chris young , september 12, 2008; 05:42 p.m. just got the 450d a couple of weeks ago and i absolutely love it.
apart from that, it's a huge step up in every respect.
digital rebel xsi - 129 x 98 x 62 mm - 524 g (with battery)
canon ef-s 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 is (review), set at 28mm, f/8.
i'm glad to hear that th iso is displayed in the viewfinder, so at least  i might notice the change sooner!
the one i have now is canon ae-1 bought in 1986 with a 50mm 1:1.4 lens and still gives nice pictures.
i know that the xsi comes with the two kit lens  mentioned, but i also understand that the xsi is able to take advantage of  "l" lens (new af system and higher sensor density)
i would likely choose the xsi unless  i owned an xti--not sure if i would upgrade at this point.
there are 4 focus modes: one-shot af, ai focus af, ai servo af, and manual.
however, the raw file buffer is somewhat  smaller (6 frames vs. 10 frames), presumably at least in part due to the larger  file size dictated by the higher pixel count.
i got it two weeks ago and use it for red carpet photography for getty images.
again all three cameras were set to their default settings and no additional noise reduction functions were enabled.
i have been waiting for to read this  review since long time though i have read the reviews from other sites like  dpreview.com n all.
one characteristic that really irks me about the xti interface is the lack of ability to 'lock' the buttons on the back.
i'll be interested in reading your complete review--and pay more attention to the xxxd models in the future.
the  second focus mode (only available on the xsi) is "live mode" and uses  a contrast-based af system.
the 10mp pentax k200d, (compare prices), is the closest camera to the xsi in the pentax lineup.
i realize that most will  buy the kit lens as their "first" lens but why not discuss what the  potenial is with better glass, especially if you are comparing the purchase  alternative to the 40d. looking forward to your complete evaluation.
p.m. i can't wait to read the full review.
the focus point can be manually selected, or the camera can decide which af point(s) to use.
i have to say--the iq from these little cameras with a good lens really  surprised me and i found most of the controls easy to use, so ergonomically
i am however  thinking of upgrading to the new rebel for the faster af alone.
please advise  which sd card i should get for it.
it offers several features not found on similar canon and  nikon dslrs including sensor-shift stabilization built into the camera body.
even at f/5.6, the ef-s 55-250mm lens creates a nice out-of-focus  background while still capturing detail and vivid color in the flower.
overall, i found that most of the time the af performance of the xsi and  xti were quite similar.
the rebel xsi seems to be a combination of the rebel xti and the eos 40d, with a few new features of its own thrown into the mix.
in all three cases, resolution may be increased slightly when capturing in raw mode and making the optimal conversion to jpegs.
these include a "vivid" mode which increases  saturation for more vivid greens and blues, a noise reduction mode to lower  image noise and three black and white modes (neutral, warm and cool).
in typical canon fashion, auto white balance doesn't do great under tungsten lighting, giving a distinctly yellow image.
the xti doesn't offer such features as live view, spotmetering or highlight tone priority.
i would likely choose the xsi unless i owned an xti--not sure if i would upgrade at this point.
in raw+jpeg mode, the buffer only holds 4 captures.
digital rebel xsi metering: evaluative metering (linkable to any af point) partial metering (approx.
i tried the 450d in a store with the 18-55is and really liked the button placement, 3" lcd, but in the end got better value with the xti.
the rebel xsi has the same highlight tone priority feature as the eos 40d.  this appears to be a hardware function, which adjusts the tone curve in order  to prevent blowing out highlights in a scene that would normally exceed the  dynamic range of the sensor.
dave mishalof , june 08, 2008; 04:55 p.m. interesting review.
ron wilson , february 25, 2009; 12:32 p.m. the xsi is usefull at times since it is small and light but that kit lens  (18-55) has such low resolution it is unuseable (except for, perhaps, a childs  birthday party).
carlos eduardo livino , july 09, 2008; 09:00 p.m. keaton, i received my xsi on the 23rd (of june, 2008) and you're right in  that it's worth the upgrade.
these are 100% crops from jpegs taken using the standard default parameters for sharpness with each camera.
like the... there are few industries as heart-wrenching as the fine art business.
it features an 11-point af system and an iso range up to 1600.
hannah thiem canon ef-s 55-250mm f/4.0-5.6 is, (compare prices), set at 250mm, 1/60s,  f/29, iso 200.
one is the same as that used on  the eos 40d, where the reflex mirror flips down briefly and the normal af  sensors are used to achieve focus.
in most exposure modes the range is 100-800, but in manual exposure mode  iso is set to 400 in auto mode.
i am using  rebel xsi + canon lens 55-250mm is and my friend (on the first picture) using  40d + canon lens 70-300mm. |nielson.assa| amit barak , june 30, 2008; 05:50 a.m. sounds like a good dslr body, already invested in nikon system i doubt i'll  ever buy one.
p.m. you have to be careful about drawing conclusions from single measurements  of noise.
looks like the  pixel counts got switched.
but i have a lot invested in lenses for my xti  and don't want to start over in buying lenses again.
the outer panels of the xsi are made from durable plastic.
peter kaczkowski , may 11, 2008; 05:34 p.m. thanks for the helpful first look.
this appears to be a hardware function, which adjusts the tone curve in order to prevent blowing out highlights in a scene that would normally exceed the dynamic range of the sensor.
this is up by about 20% from the 10.1 mp sensors used in the digital rebel xti and eos 40d (3888 x 2592 pixels) and should theoretically enable about 10% greater linear resolution.
the fastest cf cards are still faster than the fastest sd cards, but in a digital rebel or even an eos 40d, the camera can't write fast enough to make use of the extra speed of the fastest cards.
overall the xsi is an improvement over the xti, though more in terms of  features than image quality, which is good in both cameras.
john brissett , june 18, 2008; 11:46 p.m. i just received my xsi last week!!
(iso noise (worse w/ higher mp count?), 14b vs. 12b a/d (for whites in bright sun), read/write times, etc.)
since a higher pixel count in the same sized sensor usually means smaller  pixels, and since smaller pixels usually show higher noise levels at high iso  settings, these observations are consistent with what you would expect.
diane jonathan farmer , august 05, 2008; 10:26 a.m. i am an all round photographer; i shoot weddings and commercial images for  the money and wildlife for fun.
see more xsi reviews here.
review by bob atkins, may 2008 (updated march 2011)
the flash covers the frame seen by a 17mm (or longer) lens mounted on the xsi.
it has the advantage that the liveview is not  interrupted, but it's significantly slower (focus may take a few seconds) and  it may not be quite as accurate in all situations as quick mode.
you can also create 3 custom  picture styles based on modified existing styles and you can create entirely  new styles with the provided picture styles editor software.
the xsi adds the option of 4 different color schemes for  data display - black on white, white on black, light blue on dark blue and dark  brown on light brown.
i find that in p-mode i am  always changing the iso inadvertently.
the xsi has a retractable pop-up flash with a guide number of 13/43 (iso 100 meters/ft).
the 10mp pentax k200d, (compare prices), is the closest camera to the xsi  in the pentax lineup.
like the... incase ari marcopoulos camera bag review olympus om-d e-m5 announcement and preview pentax k-01 preview latest learning articles three tips for selling/showing your photos in a gallery
i am unhappy about is the lack of pc connector, so i had to buy a  nikon hotshoe to pc adapter to get it up and running which was a bit of a  downer.
the 450d is a great body for beginners and the  "kit" lens isn't the worst thing either.
but i have a lot invested in lenses for my xti and don't want to start over in buying lenses again.
it has the advantage that the liveview is not interrupted, but it's significantly slower (focus may take a few seconds) and it may not be quite as accurate in all situations as quick mode.
as with previous digital rebels, there is no top mounted lcd screen.
the center "set" button is also used to enable live view  modes.
so while there looks to be extra noise in the xsi image, it may not be  true to say that xsi images are inherantly noiser than 40d images under other  conditions, or when optimized for low noise.
it  worked pretty well for me.
works great, but i must say that i'm new to the slr field.
today, most digital p&s cameras use sd cards, so if you carry a p&s digicam and an xsi you'll only need to carry one type of card.
slowed down the shutter speed to capture a silky effect of the waves.
to allow the center button of the rear 4-way controller to now  activate the live view mode, a separate iso button has been added next to the  main control dial.
you can also create 3 custom picture styles based on modified existing styles and you can create entirely new styles with the provided picture styles editor software.
a question: is there any lens converter available by which i can use my all ae1 lenses with this eos 450d xsi?
in the set of test images below the three cameras are compared.
i think the new battery may take longer to charge.
since it was impossible to get hold of the sigma 30mm f/1.4 in the country  where i live i bought the canon ef-s 17 - 55 f/2.8 is lens with the camera, and  from every shot i have done so far with it i have to say it gives images of an  unreal sharpness and quality.
as with previous  digital rebels, there is no top mounted lcd screen.
the xsi adds spot metering to the evaluative, partial and centerweighted  patterns of the xti.
in most exposure modes the range is 100-800, but in manual exposure mode iso is set to 400 in auto mode.
the performance is perhaps closer to the 40d than to the xti.
both have 230,000 pixels, 100% image coverage and lcd brightness control with 7 levels.
the viewfinder screen of the xsi has a center circle which makes the area of the spot meter.
the xsi has a standard canon hotshoe and is compatible with all of canon's ex series speedlites (the current models are thecanon speedlite 220ex flash, ( compare prices) (review), canon speedlite 430ex ii flash, (compare prices) ( review) and canon speedlite 580ex ii flash, (compare prices) (review)).
i have thought of getting a viewfinder  extension to move my face away from the back.
of course, i'm looking  forward to the extended review.
no flare spots are visible.
the only thing i need help on (as i'm fairly new to the  photography business) is what is the best lenses to purchase for shooting  weddings?
it's a six-car pileup at the intersection of art and commerce and the amount of opinion and hyperbole that is somehow labeled as... by bob atkins, may 2008 (updated march 2011)
that's my two cents!
expecting the unexpected latest equipment articles phottix odin ttl flash trigger review radio slaves often seem like an esoteric accessory for pros in the studio  or at sporting events, but the introduction of ttl-compatible slaves at  consumer prices changes all that.
the xsi uses a 14-bit a/d converter, which could in theory give better  tonal gradation, though in practice it's very difficult to see the difference  from 12-bit images (such as those from the xti).
i realize that most will buy the kit lens as their "first" lens but why not discuss what the potenial is with better glass, especially if you are comparing the purchase alternative to the 40d. looking forward to your complete evaluation.
what you can measure on a test bench under microscopic examination of images and what you can actually see in a print aren't the same thing.
not interested in the other features.
the eos 40d is good for 6.5 fps  for around 125 jpegs or around 18 raw images.
i have just bought the canon  450d and the two lenses that you mentioned.
i know that the xsi comes with the two kit lens mentioned, but i also understand that the xsi is able to take advantage of "l" lens (new af system and higher sensor density)
the first is the same as that used on the eos 40d.
the xsi also offers another focus mode (not found on any other canon dslr at the moment), which they call the "live" mode.
an  auto iso mode is available on the xsi and eos 40d, but it's limited in its  range.
the spot metering area is marked by a circle on the  viewfinder screen.
presumably this is due to the increased  processing power required for the noise reduction mode leading to slower  compression and storage of images, so the buffer fills faster.
a feature of the eos 40d, which has found its way onto the xsi is a high iso noise reduction mode.
nielson assa , june 29, 2008; 03:45
noise appears to be a little higher, perhaps because of the smaller pixels.
radio slaves often seem like an esoteric accessory for pros in the studio or at sporting events, but the introduction of ttl-compatible slaves at consumer prices changes all that.
of course, i'm looking forward to the extended review.
in this mode the image is continuously displayed on the lcd and the camera uses that image to find focus via a contrast sensing algorithm.
but the newer camera seems to have lots of ergonomic/useability improvements (immediate startup, large lcd etc.).
looks like the pixel counts got switched.
i was  pretty close to purchasing the 40d -
in live view, focusing is enabled by pressing the "*" button.
there's  no pc connector for external studio flash, though of course hotshoe to pc  adapters are available.
also sharpness settings can make a difference to how the noise looks and it's possible the xsi and 40d use different default sharpness settings.
i've had no problems at all with anything changing inadvertently.
the drawback of this mode is that  it can be slow (focus may take several seconds) and it may not be as sensitive  or accurate as the normal "quick" af mode using the dedicated phase  detection af sensors.
any comments  welcome.
canon ef-s 55-250mm f/4.0-5.6 is (review), set at 90mm, 1/160s, f/16, iso 200.
this is consistent with a statement found in the press release for the xsi in which canon states, "the eos rebel xsi digital slr utilizes a precise nine-point autofocus (af) system featuring a newly developed af sensor that improves the camera's subject detection capabilities compared to earlier models."
if i had used a slightly higher shutter speed, i could have frozen the motion of the bird.
are the lenses for the xti compatible  with the xsi?
despite the fact that both the eos 40d and digital rebel xti have the same pixel count, the eos 40d image looks a little sharper.
showing your photos in a gallery nikon d4 preview dslrs in the movies: 'hellbent' the ten best action films of 2011 readers' comments add a comment chinmaya sn , april 21, 2008; 02:08 p.m. since xsi is part of rebel series, nice to see some of your thoughts on  upgrade from xt or xti.
the xti uses a type nb-2lh battery pack.
the xsi viewfinder also seems slightly brighter than that of the xti, but again the difference is small.
the xsi has a 3" (diagonal) lcd screen vs. the 2.5" screen of the xti.
the eos rebel xsi has a 9-point wide area af sensor with the points set in a diamond pattern.
at iso 800 noise starts to appear, but is still well controlled.
article revised march 2011.
upgrading from the  xti to the xsi makes sense if you need things like spot metering, a larger lcd  and live view, but if you're looking for a noticeable leap in image quality, i  don't think you'll see it.
steve mack , june 06, 2008; 03:43 p.m. the xsi really rocks!
it also provides a shutter button and control dial along with ae/fe lock, exposure compensation and af point selection buttons in a vertical orientation.
i understand that  the new xsi has revised focusing; i hope this has corrected the lousy focusing  that the xti has.
a child's first year canon digital rebel xsi
40d. externally, the rebel xsi and xti are very similar in size and shape and  share a similar control layout.
both the d40x and d80 have the option of an iso 3200 setting,  which could be a consideration for those who do a lot of low light work.
the xsi has the usual set of white balance modes: auto, daylight, shade,  cloudy, tungsten, white fluorescent light, flash and custom.
diane jonathan farmer , august 05, 2008; 10:26 a.m. i am an all round photographer; i shoot weddings and commercial images for the money and wildlife for fun.
the xsi has a standard canon hotshoe and is compatible with all of canon's  ex series speedlites (the current models are thecanon speedlite 220ex flash, ( compare prices) (review), canon speedlite 430ex ii flash, (compare prices) ( review) and canon speedlite 580ex ii flash, (compare prices) (review)).
canon ef-s 55-250mm f/4.0-5.6 is, (compare prices), set at 250mm, 1/60s, f/29, iso 200.
at present i  use the xti as a back up on wedding assignments, at this point i must point out  that the focus on the xti in low light conditions is very poor; it will not  focus with the canon 85mm f/1.8 lens in low light conditions.
xsi viewfinder specifications magnification - approx.
it's also possible to use manual focus of course, and the lcd image can be  magnified by 5x or 10x to assist in optimizing focus.
at iso 400 with an f/4 lens, the flash range is around 6.5m  (21.5ft).
also, is the xsi body slightly smaller than the xti's?
i always  recommend looking at.
choosing a lens hannah thiem
for the first time in a digital rebel series dslr, canon has added live  view to the xsi.
i have been using an xti from work for about a year and am planning to buy an xsi for myself ... barring some unforgivable flaw (which you did not find, thankfully!).
i used to have the 300d and every single camera i've had since then has blown it away.
it builds on the digital rebel xti but adds a new sensor (12mp vs. 10mp), a larger lcd screen (3" vs. 2.5"), live view, spot metering, iso display in the viewfinder, highlight tone priority, high iso noise reduction and a number of other software features, which are also found on the canon eos 40d. externally, the rebel xsi and xti are very similar in size and shape and share a similar control layout.
and do you notice any difference using the digic iii? ---
the use of a small aperture gave enough depth of field to get both far and  near flowers in focus.
max sync voltage is 250v and the max sync speed is 1/200s.
the  lcd display appears less than a second after the camera is powered up, but you  can take a photo only 250ms (1/4s) after the power switch is moved to  "on" before the lcd screen starts displaying data.
the menu structure is similar to that of the digital rebel xti and the eos
pressing the  "*" button on the back of the camera drops the mirror down and  enables normal af operation - though the image on the lcd blanks out during  this process.
edit: found the 40d v's 5d thread srikanth kondeti , july 19, 2008; 04:27 p.m.nice comparisions really nice to have this review.
in typical canon fashion, auto  white balance doesn't do great under tungsten lighting, giving a distinctly  yellow image.
it features an 11-point af  system and an iso range up to 1600.
but the newer camera seems to have lots of  ergonomic/useability improvements (immediate startup, large lcd etc.).