i’ll be teaching a half-day workshop in six different cities around the country starting in november.
read more tags: cameras, gear, nikon
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon welcome to your one-stop digital photography guide, featuring reviews,  how-tos, galleries, and more.
tags: cameras, canon, lynda.com, nikon, training if you’re getting started with capture nx2 and want to get up to speed quickly, then consider taking a class from the official nikon school.
two recent entries into this market, the canon digital rebel xti, and the nikon d80 are a prime example of this phenomenon.
read more tags: capture nx, image editing, iphoto, nikon, post-production, workflow nikon capture nx provides an excellent auto correction edit for removing distortion from images shot with the nikon 10.5mm fisheye lens.
photographers who are looking for a mid-range canon or nikon camera now find themselves asking "do i need more pixels, or more dollars?" read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon (updated 6/17/05) five years ago, canon released the eos d30 and shocked a lot of people by proving that there was a large market for a digital slr under $5,000.
in the digital age, it’s easy to get so caught up in cool  post-production effects and techniques that you forget about what can be done  in-camera with the right lens.
exposure theory, lighting, composition.
with  an integrated iphoto/nx workflow, you can import and organize your images in  iphoto, but edit them using capture nx’s superior raw conversion options  and localized editing tools.
nikon frequent visitors to this site know that i’m a big fan of adobe bridge cs4.
with an integrated iphoto/nx workflow, you can import and organize your images in iphoto, but edit them using capture nx’s superior raw conversion options and localized editing tools.
the new eos 30d offers  several improvements over the 20d that it replaces, but rather than matching  nikon’s pixel count, canon stuck with the 8.3 megapixel sensor of the  20d, and dropped the price of the 30d body to $1,399.
click here for more info!
why should you care if you don’t shoot with a nikon camera?
at the time, cameras with a full-frame sensor were substantially more expensive than cropped-sensor cameras, and a lot of people believed that, eventually, cropped-sensor cameras would be phased out and replaced by more affordable full-frame cameras.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon read more tags: cameras, gear, nikon read more tags: capture nx, image editing, nikon, post-production, workflow the nikon d200, a 10 megapixel slr with an aps-sized sensor began shipping in november of 2005.
with the fisheye lens edit, you can create cropped,  rectilinear images with a single click.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon like most digital slrs, nikon’s family of digital slrs offer the ability to shoot in raw mode.
as a long-time canon  shooter, i can say with authority that canon is rapidly falling behind… read more nikon capture nx first look may 26, 2006 by ben long · 5  comments filed under: features, general if you’ve  been trying to choose an image editor/raw converter and have been confused by  all the options (photoshop, aperture, capture one, lightroom, etc.) then your  quandry just got a lot more complicated.
at $1700 for the body, it was $200 more than canon’s  nearest competitor, the 8.3 megapixel eos 20d. canon has now fired back against  the d200, but not with a similarly-pixeled competitor.
the promise of compressed raw files, of course, is that they take up less space and allow you to store more images on your card.
read more tags: 5d, cameras, canon, gear,
in addition to there being more cameras to choose from, it has become more difficult to decide exactly how much you’re willing to pay – no matter what price point you choose, there’s probably a slightly better camera priced just $100 more.
nikon capture nx, slated for release  in the late summer or early fall gives all of those applications a run for  their money, thanks to its innovative new approach to image editing.
read more tags: books, capture nx, nikon, post-production, training capture nx2 is the eagerly-awaited follow-up to nikon’s excellent image editing, raw conversion software.
creating an integrated iphoto/capture nx workflow may 9, 2007 by ben  long · 5 comments filed under: features if you’ve played at all with nikon capture nx, you already know that  it has some of the best editing tools on the market (if you haven’t  played with it, a free demo version is availablehere).
for $99 it’s a great way to get quickly immersed in the application, and learn the ins and outs of editing with this exceptional tool.
their first foray into this market, the d-100 was not price competitive and suffered from performance issues, while the d70, though a very good camera, was priced a little strange.
at $1700 for the body, it was $200 more than canon’s nearest competitor, the 8.3 megapixel eos 20d. canon has now fired back against the d200, but not with a similarly-pixeled competitor.
there’s a lot to know to be a capable photographer.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon nikon announces d80 august 9, 2006 by ben long · 4 comments filed under: reviews nikon today finally took the wraps off of their new n80, a 10.4  megapixel successor to the d70s priced at $1299 in a bundle with a new lens  – the dx 18-135 f/3.5-5.6 g ed-if.
data compression algorithms fall into two categories: lossy techniques, which degrade the quality of your image; and lossless techniques, which reduce file size without affecting image quality.
nikon users often ask whether the compressed raw format is lossless or lossy, so i decided to look into the question read more tags: cameras, nikon, raw, shooting
five years later, nikon is still in something of a "catch-up" mode.
take advantage of your camera's raw mode to shoot better images.
courses are now available for thecanon eos60d, the nikon d7000, the canon rebel t3i, and the nikon d5100.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon welcome to your one-stop digital photography guide, featuring reviews, how-tos, galleries, and more.
november 30, 2007 by ben long · 2 comments filed under: features
though i  mention this feature inreal world capture nx, i didn’t have enough room  in the book to include examples, so we’re going to look at the specifics  of this feature here.
five years later, we’ve seen that that’s not going to happen, but the question remains: do you need full-frame or is a cropped sensor camera
two recent entries  into this market, the canon digital rebel xti, and the nikon d80 are a prime  example of this phenomenon.
copyright © 2009 · by ben long
however, if you’re a nikon user who shoots raw, then you might prefer using nikon capture nx for your raw conversions, rather than adobe camera raw.
complete digital photographycomplete digital photography everything you want and need to know about digital photo- graphy - from buying a camera, to editing your images, to making your final prints.
real world capture nx 2 will walk you through every function of the program, while teaching you good post-production workflow, and image editing tips.
read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon nikon compressed raw format – lossy or lossless? october 15,  2007 byben long · 4 comments filed under: features like most digital slrs, nikon’s family of digital slrs offer the  ability to shoot in raw mode.
if you’re looking  for a mid-level digital slr – one that offers full features, speedy  performance, excellent image quality, and a sturdy build and feel, then  you’ve probably been looking closely at the nikon d70s and canon eos 20d.  both are excellent cameras, and i don’t envy you the decision, but
on top of all that, there are all those buttons and dials on your camera.
these courses will work you through all of the features of their respective cameras, and help you understand those features in the context of larger photographic theories.
if you like the site, be sure to check out the  bookcomplete digital photography, which you just happen to be able to  order by clicking on that link right over there.
if you’re a long-time film shooter, then  you’re possibly well-trafficked in the realm of specialized lenses, but  if you’re new to digital slrs, then you may know what is possible to  achieve inside your camera, with a simple lens change.
in the digital age, it’s easy to get so caught up in cool post-production effects and techniques that you forget about what can be done in-camera with the right lens.
the new eos 30d offers several improvements over the 20d that it replaces, but rather than matching nikon’s pixel count, canon stuck with the 8.3 megapixel sensor of the 20d, and dropped the price of the 30d body to $1,399.
their first foray into this market, the d-100 was  not price competitive and suffered from performance issues, while the d70,  though a very good camera, was priced a little strange.
in addition to there being more cameras to choose  from, it has become more difficult to decide exactly how much you’re  willing to pay – no matter what price point you choose, there’s  probably a slightly better camera priced just $100 more.
learn the aesthetics and practices of serious landscape work as you master tone, color, hdr, panoramas, and more.
though i mention this feature inreal world capture nx, i didn’t have enough room in the book to include examples, so we’re going to look at the specifics of this feature here.
five years later, nikon is still in something of a  "catch-up" mode.
but, if you’re  used to the workflow management and output features of apple’s iphoto,  you may be reluctant to give up iphoto’s powerful library features to  switch to a finder-based workflow driven by the capture nx file browser.
completely reorgan- ized and loaded with more content than any previous edition!
nikon users often ask  whether the compressed raw format is lossless or lossy, so i decided to look  into the question read more tags: cameras, nikon, raw, shooting
if you’ve played at all with nikon capture nx, you already know that it has some of the best editing tools on the market (if you haven’t played with it, a free demo version is availablehere).
but, if you’re used to the workflow management and output features of apple’s iphoto, you may be reluctant to give up iphoto’s powerful library features to switch to a finder-based workflow driven by the capture nx file browser.
read more tags: capture nx, image editing, nikon, post-production, workflow if you’ve been shopping for a mid-range digital slr, it’s a safe bet to say you’ve probably been considering the nikon d-300.
aimed at the novice and experienced user, the book is ideal for anyone who wants to use the program.
while this may sound obvious now, a lot of camera makers were caught by  surprise.
photographers who are  looking for a mid-range canon or nikon camera now find themselves asking  "do i need more pixels, or more dollars?" read more tags: cameras, canon, gear, nikon should you buy a nikon d70 or canon eos 20d? june 2, 2005 by ben long  ·12 comments filed under: reviews (updated 6/17/05) five years ago, canon released the eos d30 and shocked a  lot of people by proving that there was a large market for a digital slr under  $5,000.
to help you understand exactly how your camera works, you might want to check out one of my camera-specific courses at lynda.com.
fortunately, there’s a very easy way to integrate the two programs.
data compression algorithms fall into two categories: lossy  techniques, which degrade the quality of your image; and lossless techniques,  which reduce file size without affecting image quality.
because capture nx includes extremeley powerful editing tools wrapped up in a completely non-destructive editing environment.
however, nikon’s raw offerings provide a  twist, in the form of compressed raw.
while the n80 doesn’t pack the  same sensor as the $1800 d200, it does boast the same resolution and same image  processing circuitry.
read more tags: capture nx, image editing, nikon, post-production, workflow should you buy a canon eos 30d or nikon d200?
november 10, 2006 by ben  long · 14 comments filed under: reviews
tags: capture nx, nikon, post-production, training five years ago, i wrote this piece on whether you should buy afull-frame or cropped sensor digital camera.
as with previous nikon models, no other camera comes close to nikon when it comes to feature list, and the d-300 backs up its features with improved image quality.
if you’re looking for a mid-level digital slr – one that offers full features, speedy performance, excellent image quality, and a sturdy build and feel, then you’ve probably been looking closely at the nikon d70s and canon eos 20d. both are excellent cameras, and i don’t envy you the decision, but there are some quantifiable differences, which i’ll explore in more detail in this article.
the workshops will be held in santa clara, washington dc, orlando, chicago, new york city, and dallas.
capture nx is a great program, and, because it’s made by nikon, does far better with some nikon raw files than camera raw does.
if you’re a long-time film shooter, then you’re possibly well-trafficked in the realm of specialized lenses, but if you’re new to digital slrs, then you may know what is possible to achieve inside your camera, with a simple lens change.
cs5 landscape photographycs5 landscape photography seven hours of video instruction on all aspects of landscape photography from gear to shooting to post-production.
read more tags: bridge, capture nx, cs4, nikon, post-production, workflow nikon’s capture nx2 offers revolutionary image editing tools wrapped up in a full-featured editing environment, with a built in browser.
if you like the site, be sure to check out the bookcomplete digital photography, which you just happen to be able to order by clicking on that link right over there.
however, the workflow tools in nx and nx2 don’t compare to bridge cs4, but fortunately, there’s an easy way to integrate the two programs.
read more tags: capture nx, gear, image editing, lenses, nikon as digital camera vendors continue to slice the low to mid-range digital slr market into narrower and narrower niches, deciding which camera to buy becomes much more complex.
while the raw converter only works with nikon cameras, the editor itself is also compatible with tiff or jpeg files.
read more tags: capture nx, image editing, iphoto, nikon, post-production, workflow capture nx and the nikon 10.5mm fisheye lens april 26, 2007 by ben  long · 4 comments filed under: features nikon capture nx provides an excellent auto correction edit for removing  distortion from images shot with the nikon 10.5mm fisheye lens.
while this may sound obvious now, a lot of camera makers were caught by surprise.
by ben long.by ben long.
there  are some quantifiable differences, which i’ll explore in more detail in  this article.
for windows or mac users of photoshop cs3, cs4, and photoshop elements, this book teaches you everything you need to know about raw shooting.
while i haven’t had a chance to see any output from  the camera, nikon did let me get my hands on a d80.
the promise of compressed raw files, of  course, is that they take up less space and allow you to store more images on  your card.
check outthe official link for more info.
with the fisheye lens edit, you can create cropped, rectilinear images with a single click.
read more tags: capture nx, gear, image editing, lenses, nikon should you buy a rebel xti or nikon d80?
however, nikon’s raw offerings provide a twist, in the form of compressed raw.
as digital camera vendors continue to slice the low to mid-range digital  slr market into narrower and narrower niches, deciding which camera to buy  becomes much more complex.
march 28, 2006 by ben  long · 43 comments filed under: reviews the nikon d200, a 10 megapixel slr with an aps-sized sensor began shipping  in november of 2005.
the latest rev of nikon’s mid-range camera, the d-300 offers some impressive changes from it’s predecessor, the d-200.