so, without further ado, here’s a run-down your pictures (and their relevant data and comments and what-not) are stored on multiple servers scattered across the united states.
michael clark - mark cleghorn - rebekka guðleif... - focus - babies and maternity - the sacred art of making mandalas - artmatic baby: variations on a theme - wedding photography - 25 wedding photos that break the mould - the evolution of wedding photography - what to do with your photos - silhouettes & photo contests - cyan, not just another color - 2011 photography year in review - our 26 best photo projects of 2011 - a year of blogs in review about experimental digital photography by rick doble - more focus - discover - history & collectibles - a brief history of light & photography: part 3 of 3 - a brief history of light & photography: part 2 of 3 - theory & inspiration - decades of evolving personal imagery in photography, part 2 - decades of evolving personal imagery in photography - galleries - gallery — up to $1,000 reward for cattle rustlers - gallery — 5 dead saguaro cacti
on a cloudy day - books - forget mugshots, get true smiles - the ebook to make hdr right - podcasts - interview with carlos miller — photo journalist, activist photographer, & film maker - interview with vincent laforet — photo journalist, commercial photographer, & film maker - business & legal - easy technique to select, edit and sequence keywords for web - how much should you charge for a photograph?
she started taking photos aged about five, and writing a little bit before that.
- bouncing around with the beetlecam - - olympus' new board - in the shadow of the old one?
short, sweet, and always interesting.
police confiscate witness' cell phone; delete video;
- indiana cop suspended after female victim records him fondling himself - - should this miami cop have allowed a woman to use his car as a lounge chair? - berkeley police chief accused of "censorship by intimidation"
and finally, if you decide to delete your account, flickr has a 90 day cooling period when it keeps your content (but doesn’t make it visible), in case you change your mind.
like share subscribe get weekly updates from pixiq.
click here to find out.
if you forget to renew your pro account, no fear, flickr won’t erase your content.
they’ve also just introduced a 90 day cooling off period in between account deletion and content erasing.
for sending cop to reporter's home - state attorney refusing to dismiss or file charges on florida man
her photographic habits went on a brief hiatus in her late teens, when she decided that she'd spend all her spare time coxing men's rowing boats, but sometime in her twenties ...
they’ll store your pictures and videos on their servers  until you either do decide to renew or to delete your account.
- a love story - accessories - lenses - bags & supports - flash & lighting - video - other - local journalism - photojojo iphone telephoto lens review — audiocast - photo accessories that fail security checks - reviews & buying guides -
hopefully, if  anything should go awry with one copy of an image on one server in one place,  there’s a back-up copy of it waiting on another server in a different  place.
my week with q - studio equipment buying guide for beginners - vsco film studio review - gear rss feed » - techniques - photo fundamentals - sound of music helps portrait and wedding photographers - sound of music photo exercise - shooting - shoot with love - photographing children in the wedding party - art & alternative - one man show:
view profile » keep up with daniela bowker - @smallaperture on twitter » - rss feed » most popular - - mass.
(of course, that might also be in case they accidentally or arbitrarily delete someone’s account and need to restore it,which has been known… )
- search pixiq multiple copies, multiple servers, and cooling off periods at flickr bydaniela bowker tweet tweet the peeps over at flickr thought it might be a good idea to reconfirm for users how their pictures are stored, what happens to them if your pro account expires, and who owns your photos.
and if you want to know even more, pop over to the flickr blog.
so, without  further ado, here’s a run-down your pictures (and their relevant data and comments and what-not) are  stored on multiple servers scattered across the united states.
(of course, that might also be in case they  accidentally or arbitrarily delete someone’s account and need to restore  it,which has been known… )
email address search pixiq © 2010-2011 pixiq terms of use privacy policy copyright policy contact us advertising information - - home - news - contributors - videos - - techniques - flash & lighting - hd video - printing & presentation - shooting - software - discover - business & legal - galleries - history & collectibles - theory & inspiration - - gear - accessories - systems - 4/3 & m4/3 - canon - leica - nikon - other systems - sony
they’ve also just introduced a 90 day  cooling off period in between account deletion and content erasing.
just to reiterate their clarification from two weeks ago, you own your photos and the rights to them.
when more than just the horizon splits your frame - the weekly round-up - - the wild blue yonder of straight horizons - arrests at olympus - keep track of your camera with cameratrace - - the weekly round-up - compact cameras: down, but not out - get all outdoorsy with pentax's optio wg2 and wg2-gps what is pixiq?
hopefully, if anything should go awry with one copy of an image on one server in one place, there’s a back-up copy of it waiting on another server in a different place.
- our photo competition winner takes flight!
if you forget to renew your pro account, no fear, flickr won’t erase  your content.
search pixiq multiple copies, multiple servers, and cooling off periods at flickr bydaniela bowker tweet tweet the peeps over at flickr thought it might be a good idea to reconfirm for  users how their pictures are stored, what happens to them if your pro account  expires, and who owns your photos.
- login - register - twitter - facebook - rss feed - subscribe pixiq may 26, 2011 @ 7:10pm - news - new products & announcements - the sony slt-a57: a camera i'd like to learn about more - lightroom 4 hot issues - feature articles - photography help - twenty-five 365-photo projects to keep an eye on - more news - gear - systems - nikon - canon - 4/3 & m4/3 - pentax - mobile - sony - leica - other systems - fujifilm - the fujifilm finepix x10, a review - d700 price drops by $500!!!
just to reiterate their clarification from two weeks ago, you own your  photos and the rights to them.
my 25 years with digital photography - sheer heaven: valentine day photo techniques - flash & lighting - portrait styling: dangerous pairings - poor studio lighting choice can destroy a person’s
nearly gets arrested for photographing from bridge - the fujifilm finepix x10, a review - - haje jan kamps - carlos miller -... - matthew jordan smith - sean mccormack ... - - damien franco -
by default, all content is set to ‘all rights reserved’, but if you prefer to use creative commons, you can apply whichever version of that tickles your pickle.
a brief history of light & photography: part 3 of 3 a brief history of light & photography: part 2 of 3 theory & inspiration decades of evolving personal imagery in photography, part 2 decades of evolving personal imagery in photography galleries gallery — up to $1,000 reward for cattle rustlers gallery — 5 dead saguaro cacti
distributing false legal guidelines to officers on wiretapping law - - illinois poised to ban photography of emergency scenes - how long would an american cop last before smacking man's camera?
who recorded cop - - miami-dade major nancy perez "embarassed" but only over a mattress - pennsylvania photographer
they’ll store your pictures and videos on their servers until you either do decide to renew or to delete your account.
pixiq on facebook join the 8856 pixiq fans on facebook
image - software - 10 lightroom 4 tips - lrb preset pack vol 1 updated.
and if you want to know even more, pop over to the flickr  blog.
and finally, if you decide to delete your account, flickr has a 90 day  cooling period when it keeps your content (but doesn’t make it visible),  in case you change your mind.
on a cloudy day books forget mugshots, get true smiles the ebook to make hdr right podcasts interview with carlos miller — photo journalist, activist  photographer, & film maker interview with vincent laforet — photo journalist, commercial  photographer, & film maker business & legal easy technique to select, edit and sequence keywords for web how much should you charge for a photograph?
destroy evidence - 10 lightroom 4 tips - twenty-five 365-photo projects to keep an eye on - - colorado police arrest woman after she video records them - nypd cop repeatedly grabs photog's lens during protest - florida police depts.
daniela bowker - john neel - jose antunes - - alex koloskov - steve meltzer - simon stafford - going pro with ... - - eric reichbaum - rick doble - heather angel - ellen horovitz - - john "nemo" nem... - diane berkenfeld related - posts - from daniela bowker - - the sony slt-a57: a camera i'd like to learn about more - the weekly round-up - how photo-tastic is the all new ipad? - - a photo competition for march!
comments post new comment + add your comment about me daniela bowker daniela is a writer and photographer.
by default, all content is set to ‘all  rights reserved’, but if you prefer to use creative commons, you can  apply whichever version of that tickles your pickle.
- hd video - a gift of flowers: unfold your senses - on set of "love & robots" the film - printing & presentation - my night with ilford galerie gold silk fibre - fotomoto - why i left - techniques rss feed » - contributors - experts 18 more experts » - haje jan kamps - carlos miller -... - matthew jordan smith - damien franco - john neel - sean mccormack ... - correspondents 33 more correspondents » - joe farace - peter k burian - ferrell mccollough -