laurent berta , jun 18, 2003; 05:21 a.m.
1 |  2   |   3 next last back to top
the black paint finish was invented for fondlers and is awfully impractical  for a user.
i have read in some other posts that the mp black tend to peel out easily to reveal the brass inside (supposed to be coo!).
somebody  who uses a black paint mp even if the edges are going to show brass after a  while, or is it somebody who worries about maintaining the showroom finish of  his or her cameras?
hans-bernd cameron sawyer , jun 18, 2003; 05:00 a.m.
but from reading some previous posts (yes, i have done the search) it seems that a black mp can be much worse.
after a few years of use my m6 had scratches at the bottom and black colour  peeled off around the corners.
and at least it can be re-painted if you don't like it!
now i miss the m feeling so much(and believe it or not, i produce more "snapshots" with the d60 and imho less artistic photos than with an m).
but the chrome is a more durable finish without doubt.
a community of photographers search all of  photo.net photo captions photo tags equipment store community > forums > leica and rangefinders > leica m bodies (inc.
anyway, i like both black and chrome and can't make up my mind.
it will be scratched and flaked to hell very quickly if you really use the camera, just like the voigtlander cosina painted brass lenses.
now i miss the m  feeling so much(and believe it or not, i produce more "snapshots"  with the d60 and imho less artistic photos than with an m).
i prefer black steve barnett , jun 18, 2003; 06:10 a.m.
which colour age better?
actually, didn't someone say there's a japanese company that will do this  for you?
© 1996-2011 namemedia, inc. and contributors.
personally i like black.
but i have also heard (correct me if this is not true) that chrome finish can "bubble" after a few years of use.
h. p. , jun 18, 2003; 05:06 a.m.
actually, didn't someone say there's a japanese company that will do this for you?
in | site map | article archive | author index | about us | faq | register | subscribe | support photo.net | contact us | advertise | careers | terms of use | privacy
the idea that it is for 'fondlers' only comes  from people who worry about resale value, and can't imagine a camera that shows  any signs of use.
responses 1 |    2   |   3 next last henry ting , jun 18, 2003; 03:46 a.m.
noddy b , jun 18, 2003; 03:41 a.m.
i have read in some other posts that the mp black tend  to peel out easily to reveal the brass inside (supposed to be coo!).
but the chrome is a  more durable finish without doubt.
in fact, thinking about it, who is the 'fondler'?
but i have  also heard (correct me if this is not true) that chrome finish can  "bubble" after a few years of use.
hi, wait for the black chrome.
contributed content used with permission.
noddy b , jun 18, 2003; 04:49 a.m.
so i would like to ask forum members, which one do you prefer?
that kind of worn-off does not bother me.
3rd party) > mp black or chrome, which do... popular  articles: basic dslr video editing with imovie factors to consider when  choosing a digital slr camera new canon lenses for fall 2010 aging photos  roundup photographing runway fashion shows [fashion week, nyc] equipment  articles: olympus om-d e-m5 announcement and preview pentax k-01 preview nikon  d800 preview eight neat products from ces 2012 nikon d4 preview learning  articles: three tips for selling/showing your photos in a gallery dslrs in the  movies: 'hellbent' the ten best action films of 2011 understanding dpi: the  solution to resolution ready, set, go: a child's first year three tips to help  your photos tell a story tweet mp black or chrome, which do you prefer?
can anyone with an old black m body whose mp-like paint has severely worn off post the picture of his/her camera?
the black paint on the mp is much tougher than the old paint used on m3 and m2 cameras.
, jun 18, 2003; 04:54 a.m.
in twenty years time i am sure you would like the finish.
i wonder why leica don't produce a pre-brassed finish which would please the users and delight the fondlers (they could lie to the very few who aren't bored that it saw service in iraq).
somebody who uses a black paint mp even if the edges are going to show brass after a while, or is it somebody who worries about maintaining the showroom finish of his or her cameras?
welcome to photo.net:
i have used an m6 for about 5- 7 years before i sold it and bought d60 and a few canon lenses.
i wonder why leica don't produce a pre-brassed finish which would please  the users and delight the fondlers (they could lie to the very few who aren't  bored that it saw service in iraq).
the chrome finish should be quite bulletproof which will allow you to use the camera without being obsessed with not letting it touch anything.
i have used an m6 for about 5- 7  years before i sold it and bought d60 and a few canon lenses.
not again... hans-bernd bockting , jun 18, 2003; 04:59 a.m.
can anyone with an old black m body  whose mp-like paint has severely worn off post the picture of his/her camera?
but  from reading some previous posts (yes, i have done the search) it seems that a  black mp can be much worse.
i like black cameras in general because they are less visible and more discreet, but if i were you i would pass on the black paint mp.
the chrome  finish should be quite bulletproof which will allow you to use the camera  without being obsessed with not letting it touch anything.
after a few years of use my m6 had scratches at the bottom and black colour peeled off around the corners.
if i continue to use it for, say, 20 years, which colour will look nicer?
it does not peel off.
hi, i am seriously considering getting an mp.
so i would  like to ask forum members, which one do you prefer?
the black paint finish was invented for fondlers and is awfully impractical for a user.
the idea that it is for 'fondlers' only comes from people who worry about resale value, and can't imagine a camera that shows any signs of use.
a community of photographerssearch all of photo.net photo captions
photo tags equipment store community > forums > leica and rangefinders > leica m bodies (inc. 3rd party) > mp black or chrome, which do... noddy b , jun 18, 2003; 03:41 a.m.
it will be scratched and flaked to hell very quickly if you really  use the camera, just like the voigtlander cosina painted brass lenses.
henry ting , jun 18, 2003; 03:46 a.m.
if i continue to use it for, say, 20 years, which  colour will look nicer?
i like black cameras in general because they are less visible and more  discreet, but if i were you i would pass on the black paint mp.
noddy b , jun 18, 2003; 05:20 a.m.
the black paint on the mp is much tougher than the old paint used on m3 and  m2 cameras.