5th february 2012, 10:17 pm #12 black pearl re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
but, a while ago, i used the old 10d which was on its last legs as a trade in for a 7d on the canon loyalty program.
therefore they  can be used in lower light levels without flash.
look here and see that k5 is the highest rated 'non-monstrous' camera of all.
there are many lenses and the cost of these can soon add up.
however she had a canon film slr before that.
you will be the only one!
as others have pointed out the  differences are very small.
i suspect that if all the slrs had the same mount such that you could use any lens on any camera easily, you might see more people swapping back and forth between brands.
a nice way to start is to pick the same brand as someone you know.
- but that comes next.
reply with quote 8th february 2012, 08:07 am #16 darkslide
i haven't documented this but i strongly suspect it.
what suits me in the uk may not be so valid for you in  canada or another member on the opposite side of our planet.
i always have and  likely always will - if i won the lotto i would, given a choice of anything,  still raid nikon's catalogue.
which camera brand do i find best?reply with quote the one that i have with me at the time i want to take a shot that will allow me to take the shot that i want to take.
i would often inadventently change the shooting mode.
if you do not know anyone with a dslr  then you can ask here for advice.
as has been said somewhere else here recently, there is far,far more variety between models within one brand, than between brands.
also note  that it is more important to get a good lens than a good camera.
n and c. and  stick with what you decide otherwise swapping and buying new lenses will set  you back a small fortune as they are rarely compatible.
look at the lens choice and what you plan to shoot with it.
5th february 2012, 07:04 pm #7 inspiredshutter re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
i think no matter brand you end up with, you become comfortable using it and the way it works over time so it doesn't really matter.
re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
another way of looking at it is this: there is no such thing as a bad camera, actually there is no such thing as a camera that isn't capable of fantastic photographs.
in 2006 i found only nikon and canon were developing cameras towards my needs anymore, and after pouring over the technology stats, optical quality of lens range, sample images etc.
but the truth is that if you are looking to but a new camera  the best thing you can do is, first of all decide how much you can spend (and  remember you've got to get memory cards, batteries, a lens (if that's not part  of the package).
the people there will be able to tell you the strong points, and you do the rest - does it feel right?
last edited by rpcrowe; 8th february 2012 at 02:37 am.
there are a few that change from one brand to another (usually because of a perceived difference), and they may have opinions (not necessarily more than opinion).
if you do high end fashion, it probably is, as you will have demanding clients, but if you are shooting for pleasure, or in low light, it would be dreadful investment.
there are good and bad aspects to any camera -
reply with quote 8th february 2012, 02:31 am #15 rpcrowe richard re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
so i can't see me using canon any time soon.
specifically - pentax k5.
originally posted by inspiredshutterreply with quote ex: nikon and canon, etc.
i've heard it said many a time that cameras nowadays are better than they were
what is more important is to be happy with the  equipment you choose.
if you were to count votes, all you will discover which brand is  owned by most people.
my wife kerry then ended up with a  nikon as well so we could shoot the same lenses.
as has  been said somewhere else here recently, there is far,far more variety  between models within one brand, than between brands.
i have the opportunity to play with and use just about every  camera going on a daily basis.
there are not many brands i have not used over  the years, but would hesitate to push anyone into a particular brand, because  they all have their merits.
i once had a camera that i detested using  for ergonomic reasons:, the canon xt or 350d. i did not like it for a very  silly reason, the camera shooting mode was changed by pressing a button on the  rear of the camera, to the right of the lcd.
disclaimer: the above is not a solicitation to buy a pentax, meant as a joke, and i can just as easily prove that you should not buy pentax, as that you should.
you should try and get the best that you can afford.
a nice way  to start is to pick the same brand as someone you know.
ask canon and/or nikon camera owners - how often do they get "wow, what a cool camera you have!" from total strangers?
my piece of string is 77m long.
hi, if  you are thinking of buying a new camera then it would be better to go onto  something like yahoo and search canon v nikon v ?
but, a  while ago, i used the old 10d which was on its last legs as a trade in for a 7d  on the canon loyalty program.
go into a camera store and ask to see them and be allowed to handle them.
for someone who has never handled/used a dslr before my advice would be to readup on what 'features' people use most, then go and play with a few cameras, in a decent camera shop.
hi kiki,reply with quote i can see why this is causing problems, due to the unique nature of the dslr/similar camera systems, once people start investing in lens, they are very unlikely to scrap that investment and change to another brand.
as others have pointed out the differences are very small.
if you push, you'll get a lot more replies like glenn's pragmatic view; what anyone owns must betheir best because it is all they know.
it would be ridiculous to buy a $5000 camera to use as a point and shoot...having said that, if you've got the cash, why not!!
does it mean canon are best; no, i don't believe it  does, successful brands are more often determined by things such as effective  marketing and support rather than the technical merit of the hardware - history  is littered with such examples; vhs over betamax, etc. bear in mind  also that availability of both hardware and especially support, varies widely  from country to country.
i like the  7d best, followed by the 40d and 30d in that order.
a flash and a decent tripod will go a long way in leveling the playing field between the least expensive kit lenses and the most expensive glass.
glenn photon hacker found this helpful.
look at the lens choice and what you plan  to shoot with it.
my job is an interesting one and i love it.
and then there are the people who have a sony or pentax or olympus or panasonic etc etc.
to evaluate "best" requires a very strict and limited set of parameters.
one may just feel better to you.
are there (honestly) too many functions i simply won't use?
the read about them online.
some people shoot camera phones and get far better pics than i can take.
the lens will last much longer than a camera body.
when it comes to the consumer range of dslrs, nikon's are more professional-able as well, both in build quality and number of functions.
what is more important is to be happy with the equipment you choose.
i can tell you that now; canon, followed by nikon,  followed by ????
most of my photo jobs are concerts and portraits, and in that range of lenses nikon has the best glass hands down (canon has nothing that can touch the nikon 14-24mm f2.8 g ed af-s, the 70-200mm f/2.8 vr ii or (back then) the 85mm f/1.8, now f/1.4)reply
and then there are the people  who have a sony or pentax or olympus or panasonic etc etc.
they're not the best quality but that is irrelevant - honestly it just doesn't matter what pixels you have, what iso you can use, what the lens cost, how many features your camera has, it all boils down to how good the person behind the lens is.
go to a place, where you can see a lot of people with cameras.
kiki's already got a dslr - a nikon d3000 or 3100 i'm guessing  from the size of the body in one of her self-portraits.
more expensive lenses such as the tamron 17-50mm f/2.8 and the very expensive canon 17-55mm f/2.8 is lens also produce excellent image quality and are more versatile in that they have a larger aperture and can produce better imagery wide open.
probably the most important parameter in image quality is the lens.
but the truth is that if you are looking to but a new camera the best thing you can do is, first of all decide how much you can spend (and remember you've got to get memory cards, batteries, a lens (if that's not part of the package).
pick a budget and you will find one or possibly two cameras that are 'better' within it.
i have experience (limited i agree in some cases) with every camera that exists within the members here and i have to answer question on them with some level of conviction every day.
however, probably best to play safe and stick with the big two.
try a few out for yourself, but only have part of an ear open when you ask for recommendations, as most folk will tell you their x or y brand is best.
49% will have canon, 49% will have nikon, 2% will have sony.
5th february 2012, 10:35 pm #13 goldcoastgolfer mal re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
if you do high end fashion, it probably is, as you will have demanding  clients, but if you are shooting for pleasure, or in low light, it would be  dreadful investment.
i would say that the differences  between cameras are greater within the various grades of cameras within a brand  than between two equivalent grades of nikon - canon.
having been shooting in a studio with a phase one kit today,  (iq180, that costs more than your average exec car) you might say that this is  best.
probably less 5% of members will have personal experience of more than one dslr brand.
another way of looking at it is this:  there is no such thing as a bad camera, actually there is no such thing as a  camera that isn't capable of fantastic photographs.
more expensive lenses  such as the tamron 17-50mm f/2.8 and the very expensive canon 17-55mm f/2.8 is  lens also produce excellent image quality and are more versatile in that they  have a larger aperture and can produce better imagery wide open.
the once you have decided that,  check out all the cameras that are available in that price range.
then look at your budget.
i like the 7d best, followed by the 40d and 30d in that order.
my problem was due to the small size of the camera and the large size of my hands combined with how i hold a camera; my right thumb automatically rested right at that button.
which is best for you within your budget and at the time you actually ask the may be a better question.
i love the control systems on all these  cameras but, the 7d wins hands down for ease of controlling.
can you reach all the buttons you'll think you need?
you may also want to save some money  for image processing software (although there is a lot of good free software  available) and perhaps a tripod depending on what you are photographing.
people who own canons and people who own nikons like nikons.
and then decide which 'feels right for you.
my job is an interesting  one and i love it.
hi kiki, i am assuming you are just starting with  digital photography.
kiki you'll find that you've asked one of those  questions for which there will never be a clear answer.
you would think that i could break  myself of that habit
ex: nikon and canon, etc.
you can then get a feel for each make.
reply with quote 5th february 2012, 06:13 pm #3 glenn nk 379 re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
does  that explain the situation in a helpful way?
it is also a fluid question in that there  are cameras coming to the market on a monthly business and it stands to reason  that they will be 'better' that the ones they replace.
reply with quote 5th february 2012, 08:58 pm #11 herbert
for me, i  went down the nikon path because i had an old lens that i wanted to try and  re-use from a film slr from many years ago.
i have experience (limited i agree in some  cases) with every camera that exists within the members here and i have to  answer question on them with some level of conviction every day.
the read about  them online.
hi kiki, i can see why this is causing problems, due  to the unique nature of the dslr/similar camera systems, once people start  investing in lens, they are very unlikely to scrap that investment and change  to another brand.
i have owned nikon slrs, both back in film days and now digital, but i have also owned canon rangefinder and digi p&s cameras, but i still cannot say which is "best"; it is like comparing apples and oranges.
the lens will last  much longer than a camera body.
funi?reply with quote here, at least, is part of the answer oh, and 87.2% of statistics quoted in the pub are wrong.
ergonomics can be major factor in whether a camera would be suited to you and whether you might or might not enjoy shooting with the camera.
you may also want to save some money for image processing software (although there is a lot of good free software available) and perhaps a tripod depending on what you are photographing.
despite, some claims to the contrary, a bounced flash modified with a diffuser/reflector can produce very natural looking and pleasing light.
our transition from film to digital slrs saw us end  up purchasing a few bridge cameras on the way - mainly a fuji finepix and a  panasonic lumix - both capable cameras for what we were doing at the time  (point and shoot).
i personally prefer nikon - they aren't better quality, they aren't better built, they aren't more reliable......
imo, most of the differences between dslr cameras are in the  controls and ergonomics.
you can then get a feel for each  make.
if you push, you'll get a lot more replies like glenn's  pragmatic view; what anyone owns must betheir best because it is all  they know.
however some are less perfect than  others.
some of the best  photographs i've seen in recent years have been taken on a phone.
probably  the most important parameter in image quality is the lens.
which is  best for you within your budget and at the time you actually ask the may be a  better question.
you will be different!
charzes44 found this helpful.
i suspect that if all the slrs had the same mount such that you  could use any lens on any camera easily, you might see more people swapping  back and forth between brands.
they're not  the best quality but that is irrelevant - honestly it just doesn't matter what  pixels you have, what iso you can use, what the lens cost, how many features  your camera has, it all boils down to how good the person behind the lens is.
also note that it is more important to get a good lens than a good camera.
however, even the  very inexpensive kit lenses will produce very good to excellent image quality,  especially if tripod mounted and shot around f/8 or f/11.
since i had no problems when i shot my  larger canon 10d camera (which imo had a better control system), i gave the xt  to my son-in-law (who has no problem because his hands are smaller than mine)
some of the best photographs i've seen in recent years have been taken on a phone.
that said, a hotshoe  flash such as the canon 430ex ii or 580ex ii (i use the older 550ex and 430ex  which work just fine) used correctly will increase the versatility of any  camera/lens combination, both for shooting indoors and for fill-light outdoors.
there are a few that change from one brand to another (usually because of  a perceived difference), and they may have opinions (not necessarily more than  opinion).
5th february 2012, 07:09 pm #8 russellsnr re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
originally posted by russellsnr
there are not many brands i have not used over the years, but would hesitate to push anyone into a particular brand, because they all have their merits.
i have the opportunity to play with and use just about every camera going on a daily basis.
four thirds cameras  being the exception, but maybe olympus might be a dubious choice at present  given their precarious position.
and i'll tell you - i get more compliments about my camera, than about my pictures!
four thirds cameras being the exception, but maybe olympus might be a dubious choice at present given their precarious position.
however, i really don't see  a lot of difference in image quality between the three (see my china galleries  which were all shot using a 30d and a 40d at:http://rpcrowe.smugmug.com/ ) but,  the 7d is a bit more capable regarding auto-focus and has several bells and  whistles which the 30d and 40d lack.
does that explain the situation in a helpful way?
glenn correction, which one do you favourite and why.
if this is not true then i apologise.
it's just that investment in lenses that keeps you sticking with the same brand.
i love the control systems on all these cameras but, the 7d wins hands down for ease of controlling.
well, i've started out with olympus, then went to fujifilm in earlier digital photography days.
and i bought a 30d to use along with my 10d. i followed up with a 40d and shot  for years with the 30d and 40d cameras (haaving the 10d in reserve).
so people are likely to tell you that their favourite is the make and model that they use.
i personally prefer nikon - they  aren't better quality, they aren't better built, they aren't more  reliable......they aren't better anything to be honest i just prefer the  overall design, handling and texture of their pro bodies.
go up £100 or go down £100 and the camera and the brand will change.
to evaluate "best" requires a very strict and limited set  of parameters.
then you can ask advice and, even better, borrow their equipment.
not ever since that point did i regret it.
observe what they have.
i have owned nikon  slrs, both back in film days and now digital, but i have also owned canon  rangefinder and digi p&s cameras, but i still cannot say which is  "best"; it is like comparing apples and oranges.
i think the criteria should be what suits you best.
the once you have decided that, check out all the cameras that are available in that price range.
if you start comparingsimilar models across brands, then what makes one model better than another will be different for different people; i like having a tilting lcd screen, but that doesn't mean cameras without that feature would be no good for you.
last edited by shreds; 8th february 2012 at 01:23 am.reply with quote imo, most of the differences between dslr cameras are in the controls and ergonomics.
if you start  comparingsimilar models across brands, then what makes one model better  than another will be different for different people; i like having a tilting  lcd screen, but that doesn't mean cameras without that feature would be no good  for you.
i just love my three canons.
pick a budget and you will find one or possibly two  cameras that are 'better' within it.
i always have and likely always will - if i won the lotto i would, given a choice of anything, still raid nikon's catalogue.
reply with quote 5th february 2012, 06:26 pm #4 inspiredshutter re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
very few actually own both brands, so comparative evaluation  isn't usually possible, and those that do may not have comparable models.
the lens is what focusses the light.
so which is best depends on your reference point and what you are comparing against.
with quote low light performance of the sensor is my most important niche, and nikon has always been hands down far and above canon in that aspect.
nikon, i cannot say it is better never having used a cannon.
in truth there is no "best" of virtually anything.
i once had a camera that i detested using for ergonomic reasons:, the canon xt or 350d. i did not like it for a very silly reason, the camera shooting mode was changed by pressing a button on the rear of the camera, to the right of the lcd.
i would start by going to a large camera shop and looking at the different brands in your price range.
i haven't documented this
however she had a canon film  slr before that.
or a tv program about space people kikireply with quote you'll find that you've asked one of those questions for which there will never be a clear answer.
the lens is  what focusses the light.
virtually any dslr will, if matched with a good lens,  be able to shoot excellent images.
originally posted by inspiredshutter versus.
photon hacker found this helpful.
hi, if you are thinking of buying a new camera then it would be  better to go onto something like yahoo and search canon v nikon v ?
our transition from film to digital slrs saw us end up purchasing a few bridge cameras on the way - mainly a fuji finepix and a panasonic lumix - both capable cameras for what we were doing at the time (point and shoot).
also note that the cost does not stop at the  camera.
i can tell you that now; canon, followed by nikon, followed by ????
whenever i pressed the shutter button  and the self-timer would begin to cook off, i would say to myself "gosh  (you can substitute any x-rated word you desire - i used them all at one time  of another)
reply with quote i shoot
go into a  camera store and ask to see them and be allowed to handle them.
there are loads of  test sites out there and opinions.
alex which is best?charzes44 found this helpful.
the fact is that the manufacturers all know exactly what it is each others cameras can do and because they're competing with each other, these cameras tend to end up being very, very similar in what they do.
i would start by going to a large camera shop and looking at  the different brands in your price range.
and stick with what you decide otherwise swapping and buying new lenses will set you back a small fortune as they are rarely compatible.
reply with quote originally posted by inspiredshutterreply with quote versus.
that said, a hotshoe flash such as the canon 430ex ii or 580ex ii (i use the older 550ex and 430ex which work just fine) used correctly will increase the versatility of any camera/lens combination, both for shooting indoors and for fill-light outdoors.
a flash and a decent tripod will go a long way in leveling the playing field  between the least expensive kit lenses and the most expensive glass.
like  russel says above, you can read lots of review sites that try and compare one  against another.
i would say that the differences between cameras are greater within the various grades of cameras within a brand than between two equivalent grades of nikon - canon.
reply with quote 5th february 2012, 06:27 pm #5 russellsnr russell re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
there are loads of test sites out there and opinions.
whenever i pressed the shutter button and the self-timer would begin to cook off, i would say to myself "gosh (you can substitute any x-rated word you desire - i used them all at one time of another)
but i strongly suspect it.
last edited by shreds; 8th february 2012 at 01:23 am.
x number of years ago.
they aren't better anything to be honest i just prefer the overall design, handling and texture of their pro bodies.
does it mean canon are best; no, i don't believe it does, successful brands are more often determined by things such as effective marketing and support rather than the technical merit of the hardware - history is littered with such examples; vhs over betamax, etc. bear in mind also that availability of both hardware and especially support, varies widely from country to country.
generally speaking "best" is what i own and  use, and if you have the same brand then you are smart too.
what suits me in the uk may not be so valid for you in canada or another member on the opposite side of our planet.
try a few out  for yourself, but only have part of an ear open when you ask for  recommendations, as most folk will tell you their x or y brand is best.
unfortunately you cannot borrow equipment here.
reply with quote 5th february 2012, 07:57 pm #10 dave humphries re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
russ originally posted by russellsnrreply with quote hi, if you are thinking of buying a new camera then it would be better to go onto something like yahoo and search canon v nikon v ?
it is also a fluid question in that there are cameras coming to the market on a monthly business and it stands to reason that they will be 'better' that the ones they replace.
i would have to say there isn't a 'best' camera brand.
however, even the very inexpensive kit lenses will produce very good to excellent image quality, especially if tripod mounted and shot around f/8 or f/11.
as i and others have mentioned, the ergonomics is very important, as much as the number of pixels or coffee-making facilities...
it's just that investment in lenses that keeps you sticking with the  same brand.
reply with quote hi, if you are thinking of buying a new camera then it would be better to go onto something like yahoo and search canon v nikon v ?
since i had no problems when i shot my larger canon 10d camera (which imo had a better control system), i gave the xt to my son-in-law (who has no problem because his hands are smaller than mine) and i bought a 30d to use along with my 10d. i followed up with a 40d and shot for years with the 30d and 40d cameras (haaving the 10d in reserve).
correction, which one do you favourite and why.
poll: which camera brand do you find best? ex: nikon and canon, etc. reply with quote 5th february 2012, 05:48 pm #2 jprzybyla re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
kiki's already got a dslr - a nikon d3000 or 3100 i'm guessing from the size of the body in one of her self-portraits.
then you can ask advice  and, even better, borrow their equipment.
i would often  inadventently change the shooting mode.
having been shooting in a studio with a phase one kit today, (iq180, that costs more than your average exec car) you might say that this is best.
people who  own canons and people who own nikons like nikons.
reply with quote very few actually own both brands, so comparative evaluation isn't usually possible, and those that do may not have comparable models.
for me, i went down the nikon path because i had an old lens that i wanted to try and re-use from a film slr from many years ago.
in truth there is no "best" of virtually  anything.
virtually any dslr will, if matched with a good lens, be able to shoot excellent images.
so people are likely to  tell you that their favourite is the make and model that they use.
i shoot nikon, i cannot say it is better never having used a  cannon.
unfortunately you cannot borrow equipment  here.
however some are less perfect than others.
if you do not know anyone with a dslr then you can ask here for advice.
like russel says above, you can read lots of review sites that try and compare one against another.
also note that the cost does not stop at the camera.
therefore they can be used in lower light levels without flash.
all these, to me, are more important than "is it in my price range?"
for several weeks, i eventually landed on nikon.
you would think that i could break myself of that habit
or a tv program about space people reply with quote 5th february 2012, 07:12 pm #9 donald re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
hi kiki,reply with quote i am assuming you are just starting with digital photography.
the fact is  that the manufacturers all know exactly what it is each others cameras can do  and because they're competing with each other, these cameras tend to end up  being very, very similar in what they do.
nobody will have pentax.
now, ask me (a k5 owner, as you've already guessed)...
despite,  some claims to the contrary, a bounced flash modified with a diffuser/reflector  can produce very natural looking and pleasing light.
go up £100 or go down £100 and  the camera and the brand will change.
if you were to count votes, all you will discover which brand is owned by most people.
reply with quote 8th february 2012, 01:14 am #14 shreds ian re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
my problem was due to the small  size of the camera and the large size of my hands combined with how i hold a  camera; my right thumb automatically rested right at that button.
ergonomics can be major factor in whether  a camera would be suited to you and whether you might or might not enjoy  shooting with the camera.
i would have  to say there isn't a 'best' camera brand.
i think no matter brand you end up with, you become  comfortable using it and the way it works over time so it doesn't really  matter.
my wife kerry then ended up with a nikon as well so we could shoot the same lenses.
generally speaking "best" is what i own and use, and if you have the same brand then you are smart too.
however, i really don't see a lot of difference in image quality between the three (see my china galleries which were all shot using a 30d and a 40d at:http://rpcrowe.smugmug.com/ ) but, the 7d is a bit more capable regarding auto-focus and has several bells and whistles which the 30d and 40d lack.
well, that's probably telling more about my skill as a photographer than about my camera, but still...
russ 5th february 2012, 06:35 pm #6 photon hacker re: poll: which camera brand do you find best?
last edited by rpcrowe; 8th february 2012 at 02:37 am.reply with quote to my mind there is simply no such thing as a 'best' camera.
there is no such thing.