the new olly will compare really well against the nex-7, especially being weatherproof, if it’s $50 cheaper.
gino you are mistaken.
i’m in the market for a smaller system and have the funds for both the nex7 and om-d. to me the nex7 seems like a gearhead’s wishlist camera.
also much of the development cost (lenses, system) has already been paid back over the last couple years.
geek is the kind of guy you dread getting stuck next to at a party.
i have no clue if the x pro 1  will sell well with that price.
but this is just a list based on rumors and not yet tested cameras.
mpx is ok, but not really important
once questions were raised about this, the images were blocked from the public: “403 forbidden, says the link after i clicked it.”
lol sorry to strain you, buddy.
* some improvement in high iso performance * built-in evf * faster/tracking af at some 6fps * still a small/compact system * better button lay-out * not too expensive * built-in flash that can control other flashes * better battery than in the e-p3 that’s it.
still considerably cheaper than the fuji.
i have no clue if the x pro 1 will sell well with that price.
the fuji looks very nice, and i would have seriously considered if this would be my first or second system.
ive use many…doesnt make any difference i could take professionnal architectural shot with a low mp camera.
hey check these first photo with the x pro! http://www.christianfletcher.com.au/blog/ y yien, absolutely so.
a serious om-d contender?
( i don’t even speak of more pro stuff like 1d, d4 or medium format … )
this is a future product (camera) rumors site.
very few photographers today are limited by their gear in any way, and those who claim to be are either delusional or on the very cutting edge of some small niche.
my point is that characterizing the om-d as a “rumored enthusiast point-and-shoot” is shortsighted and a troll-like comment….
first it was the new nikon d4 and now it’s the new pro fuji.
along the sony nex-7 ($1200) this will become the main competitor of the olympus om-d which rumored price is around $1100.
but i see the advantage of introducing the new sensor technology with a more professional product.
i think $1100 will be body only price.
muahahahahahha man you are annoying.
what does fuji have? agree with deniz.
it’s nice because normally lens-size is a big factor even for slr, and that limits things.
you speak of the difficulty to compare a rumoured camera to an existing camera, but in the same sentence you call the rumoured camera an enthusiast point & shoot.
look at this clean iso6400 image from the x-pro1: http://www.christianfletcher.com.au/blog/wp-content/uploads/shearing-sheep1.jpg how come the photo isn’t sharp tobias?????
i want the best camera for the images i want to make, and i want it to be comfortable, intuitive, light, and reliable.
the gx-1 has gotten good reviews, and a “gx pro” with a built-in evf and a few other goodies surely couldn’t be too much of a stretch for them… panny will make a gh3, with weatherproofing.
@bob b. you just made my day with that comment my foolish rantings pale in comparison, kiddo.
please wikipedia “internet troll”.
* i’d like some support for gps/tagging *
how about the e-p3 or even the gf2?
the price is just not fair, all people wanted was an x100 without bugs and the ability to take off the built in lens and change it.
and we’ll start to have an idea what we are dealing with!!!!
well, yes, if they don’t move.
grad celsius right now!
these are credible people to have been given the opportunity.
i take photographs, not fauxtographs like you micro four turdists!
it gives full functionality with decent external control and most most importantly way better image quality than any m43 currently in market.
i think the om-d will have less height and have proportions similar to classic om cameras.
i see lovely printed images from small sensors such as m4/3 in magazines all the time (japanese enthusiast mags like camera life, f5.6, etc).
(oh i happen to be one sad owner of gf1,2
holding back on us are you?
the 4/3 system needs better sensors.
this is the only weather sealed m4/3 lens and the only powered olympus lens.
and it’s a much better deal than the fuji (on paper).
the oly should be happy if the fuji deigns to cast it’s shadow upon it so that it may say it has been touched by greatness.
they certainly have the capability to design and build any kind of camera that they think will sell, and they can’t help having noticed that there’s money to be made here.
fact is, for the vast majority of people any camera made since, oh, 2004 or so is indeed “good enough”.
so you make these statements from actually use or just from regurgitating the usual internet bullsjit?
the camera feels clumsy.
but having both i can just say i have m43 for that, and get whatever size glass i need for my slr.
* significant improvement in dr (2 steps may be ok… is that a logarithmic scale?)
i ask because i don’t see the point of putting a plastic lens on a a premium body.
as all newer m43 cameras start at iso160 or iso200 that means that a m43 can give good enough quality just on base iso setting.
i will agree, however, that the fuji and olympus have the same “flexibility.”
well, at least it leaves something to be desired and it will be a good reason to upgrade to the next x camera.
i might even prefer it over the leica s2 (my current favorite, for that enviorment) do to fuji’s ruggedest and portability.
i hope the om-d comes close to that simplicity, although it’s harder because you won’t have aperture dials on the lenses.
people who consider the fuji wouldn’t have considered a mft in the first place i think.
yes i win at being godlike!
finally some sense in the comments.
the bottom of birdcages are hardly galleries bob b!
there is no competition, the fuji wins hands down.
it better has some kind of ovf otherwise it stinks another nice mock-up from the livedoor site of the om-d e-m1??
again….we do not know the history of these files so i am hoping that i have just not seen a clean raw file from a capable photographer.
can’t wait to see what it’s really like!
full frames are selliing around $2000 right now, because they are already 3 years old.
lenses are available too at amazon (click here), adorama (click here) and  bhphoto (click here).
i honestly can’t wait to see the comparison there.
same iq, less weight and less cumbersome and 200$ less, less gimmicky controls, i’ll take one if the focus is fast enough !
later in the year we’ll get a rf styled “grf” to compete with the nex-7.
and i totally agree with them.
i have compared several controlled shots from the gf1 against the 7d and concluded that it falls short.
i was thinking about getting the gx1 to replace my aging gf1, and was intrigued by x pro 1 and om-d. however, x pro 1 is simply too expensive for a non-micro 4/3 camera, and while its image quality may be superior, i might be better off buyinga dslr.
retro brick isn’t any replacement for any of the above bottom level 4/3 dlsrs so why should it cost as much?
me, i’m more concerned with image quality and low noise performance.
i, for example will never compromise on image quality.
not to undermine the small system because both can do some serious photography, just differently.
what’s wrong with some m43 fanboy?
it worth for the price,.1700$
but i don’t think there is room for a third, in between, system.
many ppl are complaining about the sample images from x-pro1.
i would definitely prefer the olympus.
or a gsw690iv-d digital medium format range finder.
newer offerings from nikon, canon, sony will cost $3000 (body only).
uh, i would guess not… “so do you think fuji picked them because” jealousy much?
now go fetch me a sammich bitch!
$1500-$1700 is still the semi pro zone and this is where, i think the om-d ( with lens) should be priced with its weather sealing, and magnesium body.
yes, but after plane fare to australia cameras are cheap.
you obviously can think of no new material.
it, ie., omg, will have to convince me why i should not buy another nex-7 and instead the omg.
the fuji will have better iq (dr + high iso) than the om-d (larger sensor + no aa filter.
well..it is sort of impossible to compare an actual camera (xpro1)with a bunch of rumors.
sony a 77+ mirror less nex7 and the up coming pentax and ,leica.
we actually have something in common: neither of us knows what olympus will offer in the coming days.
what would it take to upgrade my new e-p3 to the “omg”?
they will make this camera.
but i want to hear your thoughts on this!
om-d is either going to be boundled with 14-42mm or 17mm for $1200+ or $1150-1300 for body alone.
you make it fairly clear what type of photographer you are when you quote wanting “better dxomark scores” as the reason for a new camera, rather than better images.
bad style, at least, and trolling at the worst.
tongue much less the truly omnipotent fuji x pro 1!!!!!!
i thought i would have been.
style over substance, imho.
to me , x pro is true premier mirrorless camera that challenge the dslr without doubt that oly / pana failed to achieve so far .
“om-d” is doing what?
i do think fuji is a contender for olympus, well at least 30% of it.
the farther away the price of the omd is from the fuji, the less fuji is a contender.
it has plus and minus points, but in terms of overall image quality it looks as if it will be on a par with other good small-sensor 16mp cameras.
how do you know whether or not the fuji has better image quality than the om-d?
i guess that this is the advantages-disadvantages list: olympus om-d advantages:
not sure, guys, but do you still think about this x pro 1 as a beautifully designed camera?
a) fuji overprices since they are aiming for a niche market, and likely not mass producing, as this is a brand new product for them.
the weather sealed body?
are you talking about a night vision scope or camera?
i just can’t understand why fuji did not make the af speed and accuracy better on this new expensive camera.
it should have been 1100$ like the x100 with a kit lens prime
that is the ideal place to shoot with a fuji, in that environment it should be vastly superior to any mft and better then any dslr camera from the big two.
look upon your masters and weep with despair!
i’d call the hybrid viewfinder a minus, for many people.
if you can’t see that, then i appologize for challenging your disability.
(it really isn’t a fair comparison anyway…being that the leica is a ff sensor).
it says nothing about real results 2) there’s more to a camera than just the sensor: how about lenses for a start?
bwahahahaha silly peasant!!!!!
super af speed is not on top of everybodys requirements list.
my e-pl2 + 20mm f/1.7 failed so many time at clubs with friends.
no, the x pro-1 is kind of lumpen and lacks elegance.
now this one at 1000 eur with kit lens…something looks strange to me.
clearly the nex-7 has generated far more buzz than the gh2 ever did, and when it comes down to it, what really is the difference between them other than the shape/design?
i’ll leave it to you to figure out which category you fall under.
so far i believe fuji is making his own consumer,.
the om-d is more mainstream, the first (?)mature m43 camera that is more multi-purpose.
they had priced the e-5 around 1700 eur , body only and the e-p3 at 1000 eur with (old ) kit lens.
i for one use a gf1 and a 7d for professional work and would love to get a 4/3 camera with better dxomark scores.
alternately, do you think olympus sees the om-d as “the chosen one” i.e. the one that will unite 4/3 and m4/3.
even if he comes up with something new, i am sure it will be just as uninspired and tedious.
can’t you think up some new material?
if we want to categorize fuji with m4/3 , i believe is not even fair,since m 4/3 {om-d] has smaller sensor ,..but we should be proud if the new om-d can match the image quality of bigger sensor -aps c nikon ,canon,pentax,sony etc,..in the term of dr and high iso,.
i’m pretty convinced the om-d will sell more than the fuji xpro.
it’s a different kind of animal really.
but is the gh2 working?
however, autofocus is very disappointing on the fuji and very good on the olympus, even if it’s exactly the same as on the current pen series.
product illustration, etc.
it’s still a different camera than the yet-to-be-seen om-d series, more expensive and likely meant for more leisurely shooting, not stabilized, not weatherproof, but probably capable of very high image quality.
i am not the only one who thinks that the files lack sharpness.
other than that, this is like comparing apples and rumoured oranges.
there is now a final price and preorder option for the fuji x pro 1: $1699 atamazon us (click here), adorama (click here) and bhphoto (click here).
you wannna climb to top of the mountain or the other rough terrain to take some shots of nature’s wonder?
– and better evf and speed.
the new fuji is not nearly as attractive as the x100and
when you put some effort to get some descent photography, you wanna make sure you get the best image quality available for such effort.
keep looking at those arm hairs bob.
should admit that’s retro, but it’s a bit cumbersome, and… hmm… the two different textures of leather imitation denote anything but really good taste.
the x pro 1 w lens is only $100 more then the nex 7 with cz 24mm, i guess it will appeal to traditionalists congrat fuji:d first thing i don’t understand is how olympus were able to price the camera so low.
there are people, like you, who have their reasons for not liking m43, and i completely respect that.
i do like the fact that there are no graphics on the face.
if you’re saying you have many professionally shot, try take same shot with bigger sensor cameray, i bet you would cry thinking that you could hv got some better image quality photos.
charlie…(posted above you…sorry), i really want xpro1 to be stellar too….maybe i am missing something.
i’m not sure about this.
picturing sheep shearing takes fast af… the best shearers strip the sheep of the wool in about one minute… no, it takes fast shutter and small aperture…hence the reason he shot at iso 6400 in fairly good light.
the om-d will no doubt compete against the nex7, and that is a very interesting situation.
great iq may be useless if you have poor focus system.
they have wanted a part of it for a while.
with no nr or processing.
“here are two pro photogs testing the camera in the south australian flinders ranges.
fuji is a camera maker who knows exactly the need of photographer,..see the example ,.with the lens they comes up,..all of them is fixed lens’ ,.again compare to panny who just make another toy with power zoom ,.no
don’t y’all find it a bit difficult to compare a real professional camera to a non-existent rumoured enthusiest point & shoot?
olympus/panasonic are the canon/nikon of the mirror less systems!
good to see some aussie content.
the fuji x100 is now worth about 750 euros secondhand and in perfect condition.
please go cause daddy needs you to lick your sister’s blood off his engorged member so he can roll you over and give it to you like you like it.
for $3500 for a kit with three lenses…it should all be there.
unless its quality is much more superior than the gx1, it is too expensive for a retro design.
if comparing it with the other m4/3 cameras, i can understand.
you should aware from it’s launching time when it compare with most of ff dslr & not any of current market mirrorless .
they have no reason to change what’s working.
username remember mesecurity question: what is 8 + 6 ? 43 rumors was designed and developed by odd web things and is proudly powered bywordpress and buddypress
it is as kit lens as canon ef 70-200mm f/2.8l is ii usm is.
unless the fuji or the omd gets high dxo scores.
martin schoeller is still shooting with a texas leica (fuji gsw690iii) http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1m7rsayb05m but fuji has replaced the pro gsw cameras with the gf670, which is aimed at fans of 1930s german folders.
one is using the aps-c sensor with let say nex5 or 7 + 24mm zeiss lens or others best quality lens available, and the other photographer using fully ‘tweak’ m4/3 sensor like in gx1 camera+ the best lens available shooting at the some objects at same situation.
a photographer with their own taste ,passion, and creativity,..just like the x100 owner.
you are merely a foolish peasant sitting in his own body wastes typing at your computer wishing to again walk among the elite!
hmmm, good to know… well he usualy use the phaseone iq 180!
leica everybody was waiting for.
at $1700 usd, i need a camera featuring a accurate, superbly fast auto focus system.
if i was shooting digital like them it would be no question that i would prefer the fuji over any mft or the nikon offerings.
the advantage in resolution (due to no aa filter) and high iso (due to aps-c sensor size) of the fuji should not be too important compared to the kind of advantages that the om-d might have.
the fuji does not have to compete against the olympus at its price point.
i just laugh when i hear people wanting to compare it to cmaeras that are not in its league.
still plenty of people shooting with canon 1dsii (released 2004) and 1dsiii (released 2008).
i think you mismatch “pro” and “dumb tech nerds on the internet”.
i will keep my ff dslr kit and my mft….my mind might change somewhat if i could see some razor sharp images from the camera.
but, if holding up your flexibility flag helps you sleep better tonight, then knock yourself out.
like 5d mark ii & d700 ?
the images coming from my mft cameras with prime lenses are sharper than those images… name email (not published)
well, have to wait for the review.
buying a kit lens separately without a body has always cost a lot more than the price difference between the body only camera and the camera with kit lens.
i think he might know what he’s talking about.
fuji made many pro rangefinders in the film age and now they are doing the same with digital.
x1…pro as in professional as in its designed to be used for those that have a profession in photography.
i also want a camera offering me a wide range of lens.
we don’t even know what the fuji can do, and what not, and not to mention that we don’t even know if the specs as rumored are true regarding the om-d!
i have some money to spend on new tech toys this year and i’ll probably go with the fuji and the 35mm lens.
price should come down a little more over the next few months to about 500-600 euros.
fixed one will not cut it even if it is oled).
the first offerings from panny and olympus were admittedly interesting, but after seeing a dozen incarnations of basically the same thing in a different dress, it got boring for me.
good point, narretz; however, that’s what the rumoured camera is supposed to be, no?
of course, bonuses would be: * improved video support * fast af of 43 lenses — i haven’t invested in such, but realize there are several top notch 43 lenses, * weather sealing is very positive * 16
fuji x pro 1 gets price and preorder option.
http://blog.livedoor.jp/e_p1/archives/cat_50050348.html yet another livedoor mockup that have no resemblance with the leaked pictures.
who is going to pay $300 for lens that’s forces on you every time you buy an olympus?
who knows… i might end up buying the om-d too… finally a good body to go with my voigtlaender 25mm… if the om-d has a spectacularly good evf, as hinted at, i prefer that to the fuji x-pro1′s hybrid vf.
i say…just keep my extensive mft kit with all these lenses…and hang in until a camera comes out with more dr and we are good.
the turf battle will be between the “e-m5″ and the nex-7, and olympus will price under that, as the nex-7 has a larger sensor.
i cannot believe there are people shouting $1100 being too low a price for the so-called “om-d”!?!
how can you convince yourself they will squeeze out super image quality out of thin air?
sure non pros will purchase it too but its aimed at pros.
i have tested the gf1 in studio, and on assignment.
hahah, i don’t care if you’re a fanboy or not.
is a d3 set to auto simply a point-and-shoot, also?
at $2,300.00 not in the same price category, not an auto-focus contender if first reports bear out, not a size contender as it’s closer to the d3100.
fuji is doing a niche product with some good ingredients: non-aa sensor for good sharpness + based on a good proven sensor, all metal construction, decent prime lens line and a well-thought simplistic design.
gotta call it something until real facts present themselves.
dxo scores are accurate a gf1 is not as good as a 7d but a nex7 is, and that is my next camera.
these are both photographers who routinely use dslr.
unless om capable to produce iq on par / close to x pro then i’ll definitely will get an om but this is very unlikely .
that was not my point.
and while some people clearly do love the current shape, it seems just as many complain that it’s not a rangefinder-like form factor.
for some reason i’m having no issues whatsoever making this my second camera to go with the d3 (and will be getting a d4).
it saves the cost of a few inches of electrical tape!
i already have a nex-7.
i go with internet expert bob or the two professional photographers who have used the camera…” how about if you wait until it’s actually widely available, examine results, maybe try one out at a dealer, and then go with your own evaluation of how it will fit your needs… nah, i guess that isn’t nearly as exciting as trying to be the first one to get his pre-order from amazon… it’s an om-d killer, not a contender
lack of modern control layout and ergonomy isn’t valid reason for that.
we the godlike photographic elite shall show no pity upon you, and if your are lucky may shit into your gaping mouths so that you may taste a little of what greatness is!
must get pretty boring living in a world where there are those who think just like you and everyone else are trolls, eh?
add to the advantages already listed the in-body is
if you were really a professional once you wouldn’t let a micro four turd camera near you!
let’s be honest folks, that puny sensored device of the peasantry is no match for the godlike fuji.
olympus has the lens advantage.
plastic is fine if it lasts for >2 years before the next one comes along.
there is no absolute standard in iq, it’s all subjective.
muahahahahahahahaha!!!!!!
the e-p3′s kit 14-42mm lens is $299 if you buy it separately.
3) all modern cameras produce excellent results, so choose one that suits you, and don’t obsess over quasi scientific tests.
+1 ,.i agree with the key word ,.is
please explain to me why you frequent this site if your camera equipment is more than adequate.
if it is, i will buy one anyway as my second camera behind the x-pro1.
fast aperture as for the improovement,,the image quality is not better than the old 14-45.
are those point-and-shoots?
currently has only 3 (native) lenses, and it’s not even weather sealed .
he also uses the x100 before and really like it.
also not weather sealed, no in-body is, few lenses,… i hope that panasonic will join the party too with a great camera coming soon!
the om-d comes in at the right time – there’s many people who have bought into the system that are looking for something just a bit better than what’s available now.
this may be their only chance….
olympus will not try to discount this lens much
yes, “the buzz” certainly died down after that — panasonic eventually got its distribution sorted out, and those of us who wanted a gh2 were able to get them and since then we’ve quietly been making nice pictures and videos with them.
i do not think the x pro-1 is for the om-d, at least not for a couple of years.
it might not be the camera that the average ‘meat and potatoes’ shooter uses in their business but for many professionals this will work.
you can’t necessarily subtract the cost of the lens from the bundle and get the body-only price.
i have to say…based on the lack of critical sharpness in the images coming from the fuji website and now the private sector i am very disappointed in the level of quality from the fuji.
and i guess there will be a tuff battle between  the om-d and that camera.
i also think the built in flash will be a pop up design like on the e-p3 in the same position.
olympus does not have leading sensor design capability nor does it have sensor manufacture.
maybe fuji is priced too high?
i think if you are so concentrating on sensor size and not on the glass in front of the sensor or good photographic technique then your expensive sensors will get you nothing worthwhile.
hence they can produce it at higher quantities and at a lower cost.
i would hope the new rumoured olympus point & shoot wil be a lot less money than the professional fuji.
the pricing is ridiculous.
everything seems to have a compromise in some way.
such a nice tool seriously crippled by a failing af system.
$1700 is close to the $200 where you can buy ff dslr cameras.
yes, there is the 12mm, but that is one lens, it isn’t weather sealed, and it’s silver, which looks awful (imo) on a black body.
xpro will be my ‘big’ system and m43 will be my small system… no move to v1 system until lens lineup would top the m43 group..
it’s simplicity is what makes it close to a perfect camera.
thus i do not require all rumors to be true.
the people who are busy shooting professionally don’t waste time pouring over dxomark scores and comparisons, but rather pick the tools that are “good enough” to do the job.
‘micro’4/3 sensor has always been like a plague in a really nice design camera such this om-d. now why would it be a contender for aps-c cameras?
but, those first three lenses are pretty nice, as far as specs go.
to me, the x pro 1 is a photographer’s camera in its purest form.
for the olympus itself ,.there is no doubt in my mind om-d will be a real winner on its own class/m43 up to date , .and to me it seems like olympus has more passion ,soul,love as a photography company
admin, are you sure?
it is the “best” gear for all situations?
so what would be the advantage of m4/3, the quick autofocus?
what we need is dynamic range…(which the fuji sensor has in spades).
i now just shoot for the enjoyment and use a 5dmkii and some mft equipment.
(some were take from e-5, x100, but most from panasonic l1, a 7.5 mp with low dr) i buy the cam for autofocus quality not image quality admin:
based on the rumors the om-d seems much more like an amateur photographer’s wishlist camera.
they need to get it right!
i already own an e-5 which is fast enough for me (probably still beats a pen in real life situations).
does it need to be “the best”?
being pre-production cameras sponsored by fuji i guess we still have to wait to see results from production cameras and non-sponsored reviews?
x pro aimed for pro-leica fans or highend standard user like me & i don’t consider om will compete against it .
the same people complaining about the noise visible in 100% crop of an iso 3200 shot has likely never printed one of those shots.
the high iso prints that fuji presented already demonstrate that the image quality at high iso values beats much larger sensors than its own.
you can always wait a few months and buy a secondhand olympus or fuji for about 2/3 of the price.
if the omd is priced at $1,100 usd (body) vs a $1700 fuji (body), i don’t think they are in the same class.
they were never refreshing or entertaining in the first place.
“godlike photographic elite” actually use olympus.
sample images from the fuji are starting to appear, and the consensus (which i share) is that the image quality isn’t as impressive as the rumors had fantasized.
tell us what you do with your cameras… please.
i need a camera with a proper focus method.
admin, don’t get carried away.
the x pro1 appeals to “minds” like ^this.
agree completely… the fuji looks great, but it is a bit of a chunky brick.
i like fuji as a company i used their lenses on my view cameras for years.
is not bullshit pal.
lenses are available too at amazon (click here), adorama (click here) and bhphoto (click here).
with such a limited, and pricey, lens selection the fuji isn’t much competition for anything, imho.
so do you think fuji picked them because of their hard-eyed skepticism and their willingness to be ruthlessly critical?
the difference is so small just compare at 100%.
early trials don’t contradict the notion that x-pro1 image quality will be state of the art.”
if we can have that, why go elsewhere?
wrong link to fujirumors.
i also think the retro look is very cool.
i have even considered moving away from the system, myself.
they need to pay back the high r&d cost.
this may be enough for an upgrade for some, but not for me.
at $1700, i also would like to have 3d server focus, like what om-d, nikon, or cannon have.
i think any reasonable person has to agree with that….
i think the geek is kind of lumpen.
yep, but not with enough money to be able to afford the red ball logo!
it wasn’t made for fools like you!
same is going to happen with the nex-7 and the fuji and every other new camera.
weep filthy peasant so that we photographic elite may drink of your tears and mock you!
i’m not taking anything away from the om-d. i hope it’s a great camera with an honest new sensor and not some panasonic rehash.
in making photography tool rather than sony and panasonic as a giant electronic company,.with their own interest and features,.. come on !
based on rumors and early x pro 1 test (seefujirumors )
the ones who feel the need to constantly upgrade are generally amateurs who obsess over dpreview and dxomark, while the pros are out shooting and making money.
i would buy only if i can make money with it.
damn you, mr. reeeee.
the gf1 shines as a street shooting and family camera.
“fuji is a camera maker who knows exactly the need of photographer”
it’s slr + m4/3 for me.
within the mft price range, the om-d is going to be the leader and it might actually hurt sony more than anybody else.
maybe they’re trying to make up for over-pricing the e-p3?
the om-d isn’t worthy of wiping the x100′s ass with it’s
“clearly the nex-7 has generated far more buzz than the gh2 ever did…” clearly you don’t remember the gh2-mania when it first appeared — people were calling panasonic and waiting on hold for hours trying to get their shipping status; forums were burning up with messages about “i just bought one at dealer x and they said they have two more” followed by barrages of phone calls; forums also were burning with angry complaints about mixed messages from panasonic (“yes, it’s shipping/no, it isn’t shipping yet”) etc., etc.
it (the om-d) may be it is a better built camera and with a little better iq compared to g3/gx1.
i’m no fuji fanboy either, but they sure were listening when they came up with their latest gear.
meanwhile, i can’t help wondering what panasonic will do.
and with that head bump, i do not believe it will achieve anything good in the portability department.
i think that the sensor has incredible dynamic range and the colors are really vibrant…but the images i have seen are not critically sharp.
but to dismiss is as inferior due to something as silly as sensor size is ludicrous.
this camera is priced perfectly to keep the unclean little people away from it.
your peasant/elite metaphor is old now.
i wish the official release can enlighten me.
[just kidding] from the few image samples i saw the quallity loks damn good!
if the auto-focus is fast enough that is – and it doesn’t need to be close to the pen’s or om-d’s performance.
you made me go to my dictionary and look up the definition of a word, today.
it would be nice if it looks good.
so what if 2 photographers, both have good photographic technique.
so no matter if you use the new om-d, x pro, x100…you have to get vision.
a far greater mind than yours pathetic peasant!
i may just be seeing images with too much nr…but the leica images downsized to compete…blow it away.
the hybrid vf is very important to some as is the iq.
it just depends on what kind of photographer you are or gonna be with the advent of nex cameras, xpro-1, perhaps pentax in the future, the size isn’t the obvious advantage anymore for the m4/3s.
i realise m43 system also ‘suffers’ from this, but at least their cdaf isn’t so bad, and i kind of accept it in a ‘small’ system.
these are both photographers who routinely use dslr.”
i do not want a “pro” bodice.
that would have sold like hot cakes.
do you really need it?
if that happens the mft cameras i have now can dance circles around the fuji from a performance standpoint!
after all its where they live.
@cansalt this is a bit sick: choosing the camera based on dxo sensor score.
sometimes i think it is better to be a little more conservative with interpreting the rumors!
a little bit of controversy there: – full-size images … released by the two photographers commissioned to shoot with the camera (apparently using a pre-production unit).
sorry, but why do you feel the need to talk down your nose at other photographers?
only good for facebook, huh.
– all the images … have been passed through photoshop, according to the exif, but are said to be unprocessed.
that is because you live in poverty peasant!
lack of “weather sealing” (only god knows what that means!) did not affect the operation of g1 or gh-2s.
yo geek…i sell prints made with my mft camera in galleries every month.
does spectaclar good evf mean the vf-2 quality flicker-box?
money must be raining down in your country.
did you check the images at dpreview?
that is until the next round of sensors comes out, etc.
even at 13×19″ prints, what looks like a “too noisy” image on the computer can make for excellent output.
which of them will have the best image quality?
i do need a camera which assists me to focus manually efficiently and precisely, like what canon or nikon offer in their $1000 – $2000 bodies.
the size of aps-c sensor cameras are getting smaller than they used to.
btw, if you ever found the perfect combo, let me know.
will i buy the om-d? nope.
i think i’ll skip bob’s internet ramblings.
we should compare fuji against another aps-c sensor camera both slr and mirrorless with close range of price for 1700$ -canon 7d, nikon d300s /d7000or
the real fight will be nex-7 vs omd.
if you want high (build) quality optics you use 4/3, if you want light you use m4/3.
let’s see do i go with internet expert bob or the two professional photographers who have used the camera, posted photos today are and comparing it to a 5d mkii or the other professional photographer who shoots nikon and said it outperforms his d3 or the online photographer who wrote: “very small detail of a much larger portrait shot by michael coyne with the new fuji x-pro1 at iso 1000.
it will be very disappointing to keep up hopes for a mft camera to even get close to that.
so i doubt the price rumored includes the lens.
that is a plus for olympus (the only plus, i can think of!).
silly, you seem to have some hostility.
as if your foolish rantings have any bearing mr. reek!
instead of starting with crappy kit lenses they are going straight for the high end… higher price aside, this is very much a contender.
hey …check the comments at dpr concerning the christian fletcher/michael coyne images.
the fuji will probably destroy the olympus image quality five times over.
the x-pro1 is aimed at young traditionalists, a niche market.
and i guess there will be a tuff battle between the om-d and that camera.
@pingflood please don’t waste your/my time with your “good enough” drivel, it is insulting to people that are passionate about cameras and camera technology.
+10 i agree with you fuji made their camera as a photography tool rather than panny [g3,gx1,gf3]which just made a camera like a computer toys with a lens.
i was a commercial photographer for over 30 years.
i’ve never seen it high on the amazon sales list or the japanese bcn rankings.
well unless you take photography only for facebook or other sites, then who cares, it prolly just a ‘small’ difference in quality compare to the bigger sensor cameras.
it’s just too different.
then i discovered dxo and it backed up my conclusions.
you should really be careful with your words.
but it does seem to me that after everything shakes out in this newly-emerging “premium mirrorless” segment, the fuji will sell mostly to people who value its traditional-style design, construction and controls; the sony nex-7 will sell to advanced-tech fans; and the olympus will fall somewhere in between.
anyone in the target market segment would jump at the opportunity.
honestly, if all is true about the om-d i think that olympus really has a winner this time.
i think the m4/3rds stuff is great for what it is.
however, the balance of size and image quality is what i like, so i deal with the things i dislike.
now why would you bring your m4/3 for that crucial moments?
but is main talent is landscaping photo and retouching it in photoshop i guess.
you wouldn’t know about good design sitting in your grandma’s panties while soiling yourself!
omg has to be better than (ie., better sensor) the gh-2 and as versatile (ie., swivel lcd.
i place my bets with fuji for that.
it’ll appeal to all the rangefinder snobs with lots of money, but that’s about it.
still clearing the set outside
even the newest gx1 has smeared color,and less detail than the outstanding gf1,.
the small micro 4/3 sensor can never give good enough image quality at settings above iso200.
i do not own any of the eps (none).
when we buy almost $2000 camera system, we should evaluate the whole performance.
i really hope that the om-d is the same size, roughly, as the e-p3 (assuming of course a little bump extra on top), so m4/3 maintains its size advantage.
rumor has it: “om-d” reproduce om-4ti look.
whichever way that goes, i think its pretty obvious that the om-d will not have better image quality or high iso then the x-pro1.
will it really deliver in the image side with improved dr?
i did not make it clear enough but when i said that the dxo marks are accurate, i meant that in my experience the gf1 does not have a good enough sensor to replace my 7d. i wish it did.
you’ve got me all wrong.
sony a99 or a88 will still be a $2000ish ff.
no competition really since these are two very different camera’s.
[repeating what i've stated on "olympus 12-50mm in stock at bhphoto (updated gx1 status)"] with 12-50 msrping at $500, there is no way om-d bundled with this lens can be sold for $1150-1300 as rumor suggested as that would mean om-d’s body price is the same or lower than e-p3′s.
yes, they are photographers who were hand-picked by fuji to be among the first users of a highly-sought-after new camera.
throw in the cost, lack of lenses (right now) and slow focus…and what initially sounded quite exciting…is not something i am drawn to.
your peasant/elite comments are old.
i think the fuji is really a leica m contender, the poor man’s
one more fuji advantadge: all we now about the camera it’s real, all we know about om-d are speculations.
wow, wow slow down admin.
i hope they haven’t done any cost cutting in the wrong areas and that this does not affect the durability of the cameras, which i think was very good on e-system cameras.
but again, if you just shooting street, strangers and post it on the web, this might be one of your option the more the price of the omd comes close to the fuji, the fuji becomes a contender (and in my opinion, in a few ways may very well win, even without weather sealing).
m43 has fast af, nex has focus peaking, leica m has a rangefinder.
i could see this given that they are coming out with a weatherproof adapter.
the fuji is compelling, but i’ll go with the om-d. the day it comes out i will get it… without even knowing what it is?
i am sure the truth will emerge.
featuring recent posts wordpress widget development by yd
only the panasonic cams.
you can also create an account.
especially now the slightly superior xpro-1 is here.
camera prices relate to positioning as much as actual cost, no one surely believes the e-p3 cost twice as much to produce as the e-pm1?
fuji is somewhat slow in getting product out to someplaces, though not as bad as panasonic is sometimes.
geek would never be invited to the party.
for me, the biggest drawback to the fuji was focus by wire.
the only thing i know for sure is it won’t be in the same category as that new pro fuji.
i can show you many, many, many professionally shot and published images made using m 4/3 gear.
for me the om-d is still well in front of the nex7.
olympus makes great cameras but have yet to make one that is worth comparing to the new fuji or the d4.
enough with the e-5 and x100 y
http://www.dpreview.com/news/2012/02/01/fujifilm_first_x-pro1_images admin, do you have any information about whether olympus will announce any new lenses with the om-d?
x pro1 was ultimately quite disappointing on a few levels for me.
when the d800 is announced, $2000 for ff will be a distant memory.
daddy needs you to lick him clean again, your sister is busy with mommy.
they have full manual controls, interchangeable lenses, etc….very much the same flexibility the fuji will have.
something the other companies don’t do!
christian fletcher is australian landscape photographer of the year.
if have to say ,.there no progress what so ever in the term of image quality for the past 2 years,.. ‘fuji is a camera maker who knows exactly the need of photographer’
my point was that the whole “outdated in 2 years” is something created by the people endlessly obsessing over 100% crops and noise data keep perpetuating, and is no doubt loved and encouraged by the manufacturers.
they need to get ahead of the nex-7.
without even seeing the om-d specs, let alone output images?
what i find so surprising is how quick others like you are to come to its defence.
i guess you are looking for gh-2 elegance?
too bad you can’t buy a gsw690iii today.
the x-pro1 is going to wipe the floor with any mft camera.
why are you on a site called “43rumors” if you just want to insult the very concept of m4/3 cameras?
here are two pro photogs testing the camera in the south australian flinders ranges.
you’re not being called a troll because you may not think the same, it’s because you make a blantantly idiotic comment.
to a camera sensor size?
naw, i think i’m being called a troll because i’m not a fanboy.
it’s competition, but it’s also competition with leica.
me calling it a point & shoot is akin to others comparing it to a d4 or the fuji.
i would have expected the om-d to cost around 1300-1400 eur with the kit lens which would have been in line with other semi-pro full weather sealed bodies.
with the limited, and pricey, lens selection this isn’t much of a competitor to anything, if you ask me.
no, it needs to be the best for me.
it’s more like “is the om-d worthy of even wiping the fuji x pro 1′s ass with it tongue”!!!!
what does blow it away mean?
+1 $1700 is quite a niche non-professional camera in digital times, when equipment gets outdated in 2 years max.
http://www.dpreview.com/news/2012/02/01/fujifilm_first_x-pro1_images i feel the same way about these images that most of the people who commented there.
the real problem with the fuji is that its a lot of case for a system thats still undeveloped and unproven.
those guys really lack a sense for proportions.
are you just camera geek or what?
pingflood, fuji is nowhere near the camera that pro’s will be using _for work_.
if the rumours about the specs are true, then i think its the camera that a lot of us have been waiting for.
hmmm… exactly, and ff dslr is a tool that designed for business, not leisure.
website cforms contact form by delicious:dayslog in box to start connecting please log in first.
both say they love the camera and the images it makes.
i for one go on this site to see when we are going to get a better camera body (thus a better dxo mark score).
i have invested in the nikon system and the m43 system (“big” and “small”).
sure it will work, same as equipment that pro’ supposedly have already, so what’t the point to hurt a bottom line.
many others on the net percieves them as i do.
i hate panasonic’s battery policy.
too early for any judgments on the x pro 1 or om-d, heck we don’t even know if om-d will be the official name yet!
http://www.yienchao.com
what i want is a small (enough) camera with excellent image quality at low light.
downsized 18mp to 16mp to compete?
while i think the fuji is a lovely camera, i don’t think it is an om-d contender.
you have to admit, fuji believes in this system and they are doing it right immediately out of the box.
who cares what the pros will be using for work?
we don’t evaluate just the image quality and iso, do we?
there are still some times that i miss my 40d.
i don’t mind buying a $1700 body as long as its price tag makes sense.
4) just enjoy shooting images.
whats the name again?
yes, but fuji claims that it’s apsc sensor offers the same iq as ff cameras, so in their logic it makes sense.
they can be much more competitive.
today you can get a 600d/t3i kit for sub 700eur.
i only shoot girls in lowlight so hi-iso is very important for me.
the 14-42 is going for $120 on ebay and that’s the actual street price.
if, and only if, the sensor does deliver a very good performance as rumored (it doesn’t have to match the fuji one that’s bigger, but should be within 1 f-stop behind).
i went through all that.
umm admin you have the headline wrong.
we’ll have to see about the rest.
so far the new olympus is strictly a vaporcamera, so it’s a bit silly to compare the performance of something which we know only on the basis of hearsay (the fuji) to something we don’t know at all (the olympus.)
that may in fact turn out to be the best place to be: a blend of classic feel and modern tech is probably what most of the customers in this segment really want.
a bigger sensor does not a better image make!
you honestly think the om-d will be nothing more than a point-and-shoot?
a good competitor to the om-d, with better iq (if you shoot raw), but imo with less appeal to photographers than an olympus camera.
based on rumors and early x pro 1 test (seefujirumors ) i guess that this is the advantages-disadvantages list: olympus om-d advantages: - cheaper - weather sealed - better video quality - super fast autofocus - smaller body (if you care about size) - lens line up (and powerzoom lens availability) - built-in stabilization - tilting lcd fuji x pro 1 advantages: - superb image quality - hybrid viewfinder
olympus likely already have decent estimates of how much the omd will sell as m4/3 market is much more mature and better defined.
must be lack of size on you someplace.
you win in being a deluded micro four turdist!
maybe, if you really into snapshoother.
and i tried gh2 with raw file.)
i think the fuji images i’ve seen have stellar iq.
so far, i like what i see.
along the sony nex-7 ($1200) this will become the main competitor of the  olympus om-d which rumored price is around $1100.
it is though a very special camera that not everyone need/can handle.
i wonder which one we can buy first.