with unc in the final four, i couldn't help but watch their last two games -- but i'm not a basketball fan, which makes me a bit of an odd duck in this part of the world (the raleigh-durham-chapel hill area, known as the "triangle").
still, he said, dubbing longhorn without winfs as "shorthorn" is  "derogatory," because the operating system "is packed full of  capabilities."
but do distributed systems always win?
these results compare to a net profit of $46  million, or $.06 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter.
assuming it holds ranks -- can do pretty much whatever it wants.
this is pretty funny: despite the removal of winfs from longhorn, allchin was adamant  that the new os will contain enough features to be compelling for consumers and  pc makers.
the inimitable jean-louis gassée used to call microsoft's proprietary office file formats (word, excel, etc.)
hegde says a pc with a physics chip could match the consoles...
nikon will be off the list.
this is a great answer to the "why sell now?" question.
bankruptcy reform is going to help the average person.
compatibility between the nef and their software, all without compromising the  integrity of the nef's original concept, and ensuring that work done by the  photographer during the picture taking process can be incorporated into the  rendering of the image.
as for why flickr is growing so much faster than any other photo sharing service on the web, i'm not the most qualified person to answer that...
by the time they're in the market, can show off what they're capable of, and have their prices down -- say, by early next year -- the console makers could be kicking off their next-next-generation early design efforts.
with the market  for new stocks still flat, many entrepreneurs just want to get scooped up by  one of the few internet giants like yahoo, google or media mogul barry diller's  aic/interactivecorp.
ageia plans to have add-on boards with its chip out by christmas.
by the time  they're in the market, can show off what they're capable of, and have their  prices down -- say, by early next year -- the console makers could be kicking  off their next-next-generation early design efforts.
posted by frank boosman at 09:09 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 08, 2005
the  wintel platform has overwhelming market share, true.
and doing different loads of music onto each ipod.
sharing playlists  across the network.
and it  hopes at least five games will exploit its hardware physics by the time the  add-on cards go on sale.
the flier does not name participants, but under the heading "the filibuster against people of faith," it reads: "the filibuster was once abused to protect racial bias, and it is now being used against people of faith.
ratings collision -- we all have different ratings we want to maintain.
just when i was  wondering if perhaps the ipod frenzy had cooled down a bit, they sell five  million ipods in the quarter -- six and a half times as many as in the same  quarter last year?
after a developer's software is created using the nikon sdk, a nef file can be opened, edited in either tiff or jpeg format, and then saved in formats available in the developers' software.
the republicans  want to use their expanded powers to remove -- or at least minimize -- secular  influences in government.
meanwhile, apple is about to ship tiger, and from the looks of it, tiger  might have just as many new features -- if not more -- than longhorn.
the thought that i might be dependent on a proprietary sdk to read some of the  information in any of them is upsetting -- and in fact i do have a few  photographs taken with the mechanically and optically excellent nikon d70  camera we have at work.
the gang miscalculated, however, as the rolex was  fake.
my hope and belief is that, two or three years from now, when we look back on the flickr acquisition by yahoo, it will be seen in a new and even more significant light.
when you think that the triangle has apopulation of about 1.2 million -- about 0.4 percent of the us as a whole -- that's fairly amazing.
nikon view software * availability of nikon software developer kit (sdk) and the software that has been developed using the sdk through use of the nikon software developer kit, authorized developers can produce software by applying creative concepts to their implementation and adding capabilities to open nikon's nef file and use nef's embedded instructions and nikon's libraries.
given that microsoft, nintendo, and sony are all launching next-gen consoles in the next few weeks, this is a good time for ageia to be coming out.
we are all against it." abdel aziz bukhari, a sufi sheik, added: "we can't permit anybody to come and make the holy city dirty.
nikon's camera system, nef and capture software are a tightly  knit system, and they are all developed through the cooperative efforts of  nikon's design teams, and this collaboration results in achieving the highest  image quality.
leaving aside  partisanship for a moment -- and only for a moment -- i find it curious that  the republicans seem to be focused on the powers theydon't have instead  of the powers theydo: senator bill frist, the majority leader, has agreed to join a  handful of prominent christian conservatives in a telecast portraying democrats  as "against people of faith" for blocking president bush's [judicial]  nominees.
one reason ageia has garnered such support is its chip could tip the scales in the pc's battle with game consoles.
in the latter, the republicans are now invoking the name of god again, saying that the removal of a longstanding senate rule, used quite often by themselves when they were the minority party, is somehow against god's will.
what exactly does that mean?
in this respect and many others, the vancouver-based flickr is typical of the dot-com revival.
open  source developers and interested end-users need not apply.
as far as i can tell, whatever the republicans may wish their post-election message to be, in reality, based on their actions to date, it has been the following: social security reform is a good idea in theory, but the president has never actually advanced a plan, and the plans advanced by his vassals have been incompetent at best.
to see that at last would be a real treat.
but do gamers really want to buy an add-on card just to improve the realism  in their games?
as it is, i'm not a republican (nor am i a democrat), and so,  partisanship picked up from the side table once again, i find much of what the  republicans have been doing to be disgusting.
"that is something new i've never witnessed before, such an attempt to  globalize bigotry," said hagai el-ad, the executive director of jerusalem  open house, a gay and lesbian group that is the host for the festival.
but i think the web community (if it's possible to say such a thing) now understands the roach motel concept, and though it's too late with regard to office, we don't want to let it happen again.
integrated into yahoo, they won't have to  build human-resource, finance or legal teams.
this is a snagged picture (because it would be awful to whip out one's  powershot sd300 in a place like this) ofle coupe-chou, my favorite restaurant  in paris: le coupe-chou ("the cut cabbage") is on a narrow street near the  sorbonne.
i was there in the evening,  and when it's dark, much of the light comes from candles and the fireplace.
we like to keep all our music on one server and this just creates a legion of problems.
as opposed to opening up the format, in which case  independent developerscouldn't open and process...
from the latest issue of newsweek, "hi-tech's new day": this is a great answer to the "why sell now?" question.
the service at le coupe-chou is what i think of as traditionally parisian: polite yet not chatty, unobtrusive yet efficient, and measured in time.
we like to keep all our  music on one server and this just creates a legion of problems.
but apple -- one little  company with just over a third of the market capitalization of dell alone --  somehow seems to consistently create new hardware that runs rings around  anything done by wintel manufacturers.
within a 15-mile  radius, we have three teams with great basketball histories -- unc, duke, and  north carolina state.
the service at le coupe-chou is what i think of as traditionally parisian:  polite yet not chatty, unobtrusive yet efficient, and measured in time.
we're all looking forward to it.
i've temporarily disabled trackbacks on my blog.
still, he said, dubbing longhorn without winfs as "shorthorn" is "derogatory," because the operating system "is packed full of capabilities."
the leaders' joint opposition was initially generated by the rev. leo giovinetti, an evangelical pastor from san diego...
nikon  wants developers to license an sdk in order to be able to access certain  information in the pictures that users create.
so cross your fingers and let's  hope it comes to fruition.]
i'll continue to live with my powershot sd300, perhaps upgrade to an sd500, and if i want a digital slr, i'll take an extra-long look at canon's models.
can webshots really be that big?
"that is something new i've never witnessed before, such an attempt to globalize bigotry," said hagai el-ad, the executive director of jerusalem open house, a gay and lesbian group that is the host for the festival.
in the april 2005 issue of national geographic traveler (unavailable  online, even with a subscription --geographic doesn't get it) is an  article on petty crime around the world, "thieves among us".
i have (as i go to check) 5,960 digital photos that i've taken since 1998,
it is why the disc was delayed, but lynch's involvement is still in discussion and no work has been started yet.
i don't know nikon's true aims in creating a proprietary format.
since the inception of the system, nikon has always provided  photographers with choices about how they might use the system's performance  and enjoy high quality images.
i was honestly astounded: for the quarter, the company posted a net profit of $290 million, or $.34 per diluted share.
nikon’s choices for opening and processing nef files have been and continue to include:was that last sentence actually written in japan?
arno wasn't out on the street long  when he heard a whistle -- a signal from a "spotter" to his cohorts.
so, first, a reality check: the odds of widespread developer support for a physics accelerator card are low, to say the least.
as a proprietary format, nikon secures nef's structure and processing through various technologies.
having said that, ahenakew is a canadian citizen and must know the laws there.)
which means that when it's eventually released, not only is the dvd going to include the original theatrical version of the film...
posted by frank boosman at 02:12 pm | permalink | comments (4) |  trackbacks (10) april 05, 2005 congratulations to unc
once approved, the sdk is provided to the developer at no charge and they are authorized to use it.
ahenakew's comments were disgusting, but i believe in freedom of speech  as long as it doesn't directly incite violence against persons, which his words  don't seem to do.
though it  does look kind of likestrong sad: posted by frank boosman at 11:08 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0)
so nikon starts using a new image file format in which part of it is encrypted.
nikon photographers reap benefits from independent developers'  approaches, because it allows the photographer to open and process their nef  images.
what strikes me about spammers is how much work they're willing to create for vast numbers of people to get very little benefit to themselves.
originalwell worth downloading (and the $1 donation for bandwidth).
microsoft writes software  for a vast and diverse universe of hardware and assumes people are going to try  to install new operating systems on pretty much anything they can plug into a  power outlet.
in the interview, which was played in court monday, ahenakew referred to  jews as "a disease" and said hitler "made damn sure" jews  didn't take over germany and europe.
"there's no question -- we made some trade-offs here.
doug christie told court wednesday that james parker, a former reporter  with the saskatoon starphoenix newspaper, knowingly disseminated hate by  publicizing ahenakew's anti-semitic comments. "who distributed the allegedly hateful words?" said christie, who  argues that ahenakew thought he was having a private conversation with parker  when he praised adolf hitler and the holocaust.
i'm tempted to say something funny about this, because it's just plain stupid legal theorizing on behalf of a difficult-to-defend client (at least according to canadian law), but is it part of the larger trend of attacking journalists for their reporting?
le coupe-chou can be found at: le coupe-chouhighly recommended.
and since releasing os x 10.0 four years ago, apple has been averaging about a year between major operating system releases.
i'd say that itunes is actually reasonably good at allowing different loads of music on a per-ipod basis -- at least it seems that way to me.
it has commitments for $30 million more  from other investors.
posted by frank boosman at 06:07 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0)
and they get 750,000 uploads a day.
the trilogy of performance, from camera-to-nef-to-capture, has  evolved though several generations of nikon digital slr models, improving along  the way.
"it's quite sad and ironic that these religious figures are coming together around such a negative message."
i was getting 50-100 spam trackbacks per day, and when my first attempt to installmt-blacklist failed, i gave up for the time being and just disabled trackbacks on a global basis.
ageia's president, curtis davis, argues that they will when they realize physics is key to situations where they try to do something in a game and the environment doesn't respond.
perhaps they have only the best intentions.
nikon responds, and as a marketing person,  i don't know whether to be in awe or contempt of their attempt to clarify their  position while saying absolutely nothing: the nikon d2x professional digital single lens reflex camera has  received widely positive acclaim for its overall performance and image  processing quality.
i think of  the countless hours i've spent dealing with spam in both e-mail and on my blog,  and how many millions of people have done the same, and it's all so that a  relatively small community of pathologically sleazy people can make a little  bit of money.
from acbc story on the trial: david ahenakew's lawyer says the reporter who wrote the newspaper article that led to the aboriginal leader being charged with a hate crime should have been charged with the same offence.
getting itunes  on all machines to take notice of new music on the server.
as far as i can tell, whatever the republicans may  wish their post-election message to be, in reality, based on their actions to  date, it has been the following: social security reform is a great idea.
" why spend one's political capital to get 10 blocked judicial nominees through the senate?
le coupe-chou can be found at: le coupe-chou
found here in the new york times, via oxblog.
more than a year after married founders stewart  butterfield and caterina fake started the company, it has drawn more than a  million users -- without promotional expenses, of course.
from the latest issue of newsweek, "hi-tech's new day": the new economics of starting a web business may even be changing the  entrepreneur's celebrated goal: striking it rich with an ipo.
total  lapsed time: four minutes.
i don't believe the average iq is any higher in cupertino than it is in redmond, nor do i believe apple has some secret project management sauce that microsoft lacks.
but do  distributed systems always win?
the nikon d2x is capable of producing high quality images that  can be saved in a variety of file formats, including the proprietary nikon  electronic format (nef), standard tiff and several levels of standard jpeg  compressed files.
posted by frank boosman at 08:24 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 14, 2005 apple's quarterly results apple announced their q2 2005 results yesterday (announcement here,  conference call coveragehere).
posted by frank boosman at 08:32 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 09, 2005 reporting hate speech =
posted by frank boosman at 09:09 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0)
the leaders' joint opposition  was initially generated by the rev. leo giovinetti, an evangelical pastor from  san diego...
unlike those other digital camera vendors, who don't have proprietary formats, and so don't have "tightly knit" systems.
this process has been available  since the first nikon sdk for nef.
i'm tempted to say something funny about this, because it's just plain stupid  legal theorizing on behalf of a difficult-to-defend client (at least according  to canadian law), but is it part of the larger trend of attacking journalists  for their reporting?
posted by frank boosman at 08:33 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0)
9 rue de lanneau 75005 paris
the combination of nikon camera, in-camera image processing, nef file format and in-computer image processing with original nikon capture software was developed as a system that faithfully saved image files that represent the camera settings made manually or automatically by the photographer at the time a picture was taken.
in other words, once you start accumulating a library of data in one of these formats, it's very hard to walk away from office.
those machines will have plenty of  extra processing power to handle better physics.
from where i sit, it looks like the republicans are like a spoiled child on his birthday, looking at the tower of gifts and throwing a tantrum over the one gift he didn't get.
and if there's another tech swoon, or if  another set of hungry entrepreneurs cook up an even better photo-sharing  mousetrap, flickr will have yahoo's might to protect itself.
posted by frank boosman at 07:38 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 12, 2005 multi-ipod households john ludwig writes about the frustrations of a multi-ipod household: and itunes really sucks at handling this.
posted by frank boosman at 11:08 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0)
nikon's camera system, nef and capture software are a tightly knit system, and they are all developed through the cooperative efforts of nikon's design teams, and this collaboration results in achieving the highest image quality.
" found here in the new york times, via oxblog.
from the digital bits (via dark horizons) comes word on a possible new director's cut: oh man... have we got some great news for you dune fans today!
given that microsoft, nintendo, and sony are all launching next-gen consoles in  the next few weeks, this is a good time for ageia to be coming out.
it has commitments for $30 million more from other investors.
i just wanted to say congratulations to the university of north carolina at  chapel hill men's basketball team, whowon the national championship game last  night.
discussions propagated on the internet suggesting otherwise are  misinformed about the unique structure of nef.
"it's about as stupid as you can get walking around with a rolex in  the quartiere spagnolo," he says.
it's yet another photo-sharing site,  but with a few nifty innovations: users can tag their photos with keywords,  adding them to groups of similar shots from other users, and can append  comments to any picture.
so, in other words, the one thing that seems to unite christianity, judaism, and islam is hatred and fear of homosexuality.
it's in a building that dates (at least parts of it do) to the 1600s.
i was there in the evening, and when it's dark, much of the light comes from candles and the fireplace.
more uploads in five days than  flickr has had in all of its existence.
» here's the new logo for the 2010 winter olympics to be held in vancouver: according to the vancouver 2010 website:according to the vancouver 2010 website: for centuries, the inuit people of canada's arctic stacked rock in human form to create the inukshuk, a steadfast guidepost that provided direction across the vast horizons of the north...
now major leaders of the three faiths -- christianity, judaism and islam -- are making a rare show of unity to try to stop the festival.
nikon to all non-developers: stfu.
we've done some digging with our sources at universal, and we've learned the real reason behind their delay of thedune: extended edition ( previously announced for 5/10, but then pulled "indefinitely" with no explanation given).
my hope and belief is that, two or three years from now, when we look back  on the flickr acquisition by yahoo, it will be seen in a new and even more  significant light.
i suppose i haven't paid  much attention to them because they aren't really talked about all that much in  the blog world: meanwhile, flickr has been growing at an exponential rate: so with all due respect to robert, this is why the  flickr acquisition is far more important.
kevin sitesreported a marine killing a wounded iraqi and was widelybranded a traitor out at the far right end of the blogosphere for it.
doug christie told court wednesday that james parker, a former reporter with the saskatoon starphoenix newspaper, knowingly disseminated hate by publicizing ahenakew's anti-semitic comments. "who distributed the allegedly hateful words?" said christie, who argues that ahenakew thought he was having a private conversation with parker when he praised adolf hitler and the holocaust.
ratings collision  is a big issue -- as noted, each user may have different ratings to maintain.
it  recounts an interesting experiment conducted in naples: last summer, [bob arno and bambi vincent, a las vegas-based  husband-and-wife team who have tracked petty crime worldwide] set up an  experiment to determine how long it would take for a rolex watch to be stolen  in naples's crime-plagued spanish quarter.
while acknowledging the film's flaws --  baron harkonnen becomes a cartoon character instead of the clever (if  corpulent) leader he is, for one -- i nevertheless fall into the "loved  it" category.
i'm fundamentally  attracted to distributed systems, like the pc hardware market.
as stated above, application for the nikon sdk is possible for bona fide software companies that send nikon a written application for the sdk.
perhaps they want to be able to revise  it frequently without breaking compatibility.
this is very ugly and very nasty to have these people come to jerusalem."...
and a 43 percent increase in cpu units?
well worth downloading (and the $1 donation for  bandwidth).
meanwhile, flickr has been growing at an exponential rate: so with all due respect to robert, this is why the flickr acquisition is far more important.
the flier does not name participants, but  under the heading "the filibuster against people of faith," it reads:  "the filibuster was once abused to protect racial bias, and it is now  being used against people of faith.
discussions propagated on the internet suggesting otherwise are misinformed about the unique structure of nef.oh, so it's for photographers' own good that nikon won't let them read the data in their photographs?
apple, are you on top of this?
"it's about as stupid as you can get walking around with a rolex in the quartiere spagnolo," he says.
with the deepest appreciation for canada's aboriginal heritage and for the  joy canadians share in celebrating winter's snow and ice, the emblem of the  vancouver 2010 olympic winter games is a contemporary interpretation of the  inukshuk.
in  other words, once you start accumulating a library of data in one of these  formats, it's very hard to walk away from office.
nikon has provided its confidential sdk software to many software  developers.
posted by frank boosman at 08:15 am | permalink | comments (1) |  trackbacks (0) april 17, 2005 the 2005 theocracy comeback tour with the republicans' election wins in november, the united states now has  the rough equivalent of a parliamentary majority.
he's president of windup labs.
yahoo isn't just getting a photo sharing community, or the  technology that powers it -- they're getting the people who arguably know more  right now than anyone in the world about creating web-based ecosystems.
nikon photographers reap benefits from independent developers' approaches, because it allows the photographer to open and process their nef images.
and then there's the issue of playback frequency -- itunes makes it easy to  create smart playlists that key off frequency and last-played date, but with  multiple users, this isn't really useful for any one person.
parker spoke to ahenakew outside the conference, recording their conversation.
a former aboriginal leader from canada  is on trial for hate speech directed against jews.
they say the event would desecrate the city and convey the erroneous impression that homosexuality is acceptable.
i was joking above about this having been written in japan.
it was urgent that congress intervene in the schiavo case.
but i'm  fairly sure it goes back tosomething
posted by frank boosman at 07:20 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 02, 2005 coming together in hatred from a new york times story out this past week: international gay leaders are planning a 10-day worldpride  festival and parade in jerusalem in august, saying they want to make a  statement about tolerance and diversity in the holy city, home to three great  religious traditions.
they say the event  would desecrate the city and convey the erroneous impression that homosexuality  is acceptable.
i didn't either until recently.
how does it  "compromise integrity" for software to directly read in a file?
you mean if developers  license your sdk, their software can open the photos i take?
since the inception of the system, nikon has always provided photographers with choices about how they might use the system's performance and enjoy high quality images.
i didn't either  until recently.
at the same time, nikon makes available a software developer kit  (sdk) that, when implemented appropriately, enables a wide range of nef  performance, including white balance, for nikon photographers and their  productive use of the nef file.
posted by frank boosman at 08:13 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 07, 2005 stewart and caterina in newsweek now the flickrites are everywhere.
i'll have these photos with me for the rest of my life, always in digital format.
ratings collision -- we all have different ratings we want  to maintain.
okay, so nef is proprietary.
usersnotice and complain.
the trilogy of performance, from camera-to-nef-to-capture, has evolved though several generations of nikon digital slr models, improving along the way.
another american who helped bring together the opposition was rabbi yehuda levin, of the rabbinical alliance of america, which says it represents more than 1,000 american orthodox rabbis.
as stated above,  application for the nikon sdk is possible for bona fide software companies that  send nikon a written application for the sdk.
in this respect and many others, the vancouver-based  flickr is typical of the dot-com revival.
earlier this year, the couple was close to raising money from top venture-capital firm accel, which would have put their company on a traditional track and prepared them, one day, to go public.
nikon view software * availability of  nikon software developer kit (sdk) and the software that has been developed  using the sdk through use of the nikon software developer kit, authorized developers can  produce software by applying creative concepts to their implementation and  adding capabilities to open nikon's nef file and use nef's embedded  instructions and nikon's libraries.
frank boosman's irregular but not infrequent thoughts « march 2005 | main | may 2005 » april 24, 2005
interfaith agreement is unusual in israel.
nikon capture software *
in other words, it's entirely possible that they could haveanother new version out by the time longhorn ships.
it's yet another photo-sharing site, but with a few nifty innovations: users can tag their photos with keywords, adding them to groups of similar shots from other users, and can append comments to any picture.
i have some experience with this myself, though not with nearly as complex a setup as john has.
tel: 01 46 33 68 69 posted by frank boosman at 07:56 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0)
i think of the countless hours i've spent dealing with spam in both e-mail and on my blog, and how many millions of people have done the same, and it's all so that a relatively small community of pathologically sleazy people can make a little bit of money.
a spammer who turns on a script to blast trackbacks across  thousands of blogs overnight doesn't think or care about all the work he's  creating for people; he just thinks about the fact that he might make one or  two sales as a result.
ratings collision is a big issue -- as noted, each user may have different ratings to maintain.
as such, he says the chip will be more powerful at specific physics tasks than a microprocessor.
if you crash a plane into some trees and none fall, it destroys the fantasy...
it recounts an interesting experiment conducted in naples: last summer, [bob arno and bambi vincent, a las vegas-based husband-and-wife team who have tracked petty crime worldwide] set up an experiment to determine how long it would take for a rolex watch to be stolen in naples's crime-plagued spanish quarter.
and the prices are quite reasonable: the restaurant offers prix fixe menus at €24 and €32 (the latter including dessert).
with the nikon sdk, developers may design excellent and creative compatibility between the nef and their software, all without compromising the integrity of the nef's original concept, and ensuring that work done by the photographer during the picture taking process can be incorporated into the rendering of the image."...design excellent and creative compatibility"?
i think it was, and i think that nikon usa's pr people tried to edit it, but gave up when they couldn't understand what the hell headquarters was saying.
oh, so it's for  photographers' own good that nikon won't let them read the data in their  photographs?
the pc gaming community is about to be overshadowed by another set of new consoles from sony, microsoft and nintendo.
and they may have enough power to imbue the game environment with  physical attributes, so that the grass sways when the wind blows.
posted by frank boosman at 09:57 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0)
and they just sold to cnet.i have to say, this really surprised me.
i'd say that itunes is actually reasonably good at allowing  different loads of music on a per-ipod basis -- at least it seems that way to  me.
and then we come to the schiavo case and the filibuster.
mr. parker had a story that was the best he could hope  for in his life."
isn't the point of any digital camera file format to faithfully save image files that represent the camera settings made by the photographer?
posted by frank boosman at 09:24 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 16, 2005 "shorthorn" and innovation
so, first, a reality check: the odds  of widespread developer support for a physics accelerator card are low, to say  the least.
" so jim allchin is upset because people are making fun of the  scaled-back feature set of longhorn?
a former aboriginal leader from canada is on trial for hate speech directed against jews.
i have to say, this  really surprised me.
posted by frank boosman at 09:24 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0) this is pretty funny: despite the removal of winfs from longhorn, allchin was adamant that the new os will contain enough features to be compelling for consumers and pc makers.
which means that when it's eventually released, not only is the dvd going to  include the original theatrical version of the film... it may also include a  brand new "director's extended cut" edited by lynch himself.
as for why flickr is growing so much faster than any other photo sharing  service on the web, i'm not the most qualified person to answer that...
so, in other words, the one thing that seems to unite christianity, judaism,  and islam is hatred and fear of homosexuality.
mr. parker had a story that was the best he could hope for in his life."
[manju] hegde, ceo of mountain view, calif., startup ageia, wants to make it easy for them to do that with a chip for the personal computer that specializes in physics calculations.
ahenakew's comments were disgusting, but i believe in freedom of speech as long as it doesn't directly incite violence against persons, which his words don't seem to do.
(possible, but there have long  existed methods of doing this with open formats.)
hegde believes developers will make use of the physics chip because it results in better games.
i just wanted to say congratulations to the university of north carolina at chapel hill men's basketball team, whowon the national championship game last night.
integrated into yahoo, they won't have to build human-resource, finance or legal teams.
that tom delay, he's one fine, upstanding character.
these results compare to a net profit of $46 million, or $.06 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter.
posted by frank boosman at 07:53 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) 1337-subtitled revenge of the sith trailer via boing boing, this is the funniest thing i've seen in a long while --  the trailer forrevenge of the sith with 1337 subtitles (well,  technically, a combination of 1337 and mmporg): original emperor palpatine: learn to know the dark side of the force and you will  achieve a power greater than any jedi!
instead, this month they sold  to yahoo for a rumored $35 million.
and they just sold to cnet.
clearly some of that is due to the mac mini, but the hypothesized "halo effect" -- ipod purchasers later switching to the mac -- must be real.
some of the features he mentioned were "great roaming  support," .net
entering it feels a bit like walking into a cave.
apple writes software only for its own hardware and can be ruthless about not supporting machines that are past their prime.
... mr. giovinetti circulated a petition against the festival, titled "homosexuals to desecrate jerusalem," which he said had been signed by every member of the ultra-orthodox shas party in the israeli parliament.
perhaps they want to be able to revise it frequently without breaking compatibility.
in fact, all three made the sweet 16 of the ncaa tournament this year.
perhaps they have only the  best intentions.
(possible, but there have long existed methods of doing this with open formats.)
this is so absurd it's almost funny.
the party in power -- assuming it holds ranks -- can do pretty much whatever it wants.
dubbed physx, the chip will enable things like gelatinous creatures whose  bodies shift shape like a liquid, crumpling fenders in car crashes, massive  explosions with 10,000 pieces of debris, clothing that hangs realistically, and  lava or blood that flows like the real thing...
but webshots has 23 million members (flickr has less than a million).
i couldn't do everything that everybody wanted from the customer perspective, and they were very clear in what trade-off they wanted us to make," he said.
"we'll be taken care of and can concentrate on what we like doing best, which is building the product," butterfield says.
a reasonable question to ask is why apple is able to innovate so much more quickly.
the wintel platform has overwhelming market share, true.
more uploads in five days than flickr has had in all of its existence.
total lapsed time: four minutes.
nikon's preservation of its unique technology in the nef file is  employed as an action that protects the uniqueness of the file.
because from where i sit, i can't see it.
earlier this year, the couple was close to raising money from top  venture-capital firm accel, which would have put their company on a traditional  track and prepared them, one day, to go public.
having said that, could this have a future in next-generation consoles?
well get this... after years of saying he would never revisitdune, at the 11th hour director david lynch apparently decided that he might want to be involved in the new dvd after all.
framework 2.0, "new browsing capabilities," the  "fresh" user interface, improved migrations and deployments,  "more resilience to malware" and "a new photo experience.
we've done some digging with our sources at universal, and we've learned  the real reason behind their delay of thedune: extended edition (  previously announced for 5/10, but then pulled "indefinitely" with no  explanation given).
nikon pictureproject software *
nikon strives to provide photographers with excellent picture  taking performance, compatible nikon in-system image processing performance and  by extension, compatibility with additional software developers' products, with  the ultimate goal of delivering a high level of integrity for a photographer's  creative vision.
and they may have enough power to imbue the game environment with physical attributes, so that the grass sways when the wind blows.
the food was wonderful.
it's not just disgusting.
posted by frank boosman at 07:20 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0) from a new york times story out this past week: international gay leaders are planning a 10-day worldpride festival and parade in jerusalem in august, saying they want to make a statement about tolerance and diversity in the holy city, home to three great religious traditions.
it's the attempted comeback of  the theocracy.
the mirror page can be foundhere.
my assumption is that the difference is in the hardware base.
open source developers and interested end-users need not apply.
parker covered a conference on aboriginal health in december of 2002, when  ahenakew -- a former senator with the federation of saskatchewan indian nations  and a member of the order of canada -- made a speech in which he blamed jews  for starting the second world war.
well get this... after years of saying he  would never revisitdune, at the 11th hour director david lynch  apparently decided that he might want to be involved in the new dvd after all.
instead, this month they sold to yahoo for a rumored $35 million.
i have (as i go to check) 5,960 digital photos that i've taken since 1998, and i'm now accumulating new images at the rate of 1,500-2,000 per year.
1337 emperor palpatine: go d/l those hacks i showed you and you'll be teh  roxxorz!!!
a spammer who turns on a script to blast trackbacks across thousands of blogs overnight doesn't think or care about all the work he's creating for people; he just thinks about the fact that he might make one or two sales as a result.
hegde believes developers will make use of the physics chip because it  results in better games.
"roach motels" --  "roaches go in," he'd say, "but they don't go out."
"...without compromising the integrity of the nef's original concept"?
those of you who are familiar with the film know that there's a longer version that's been shown on tv, credited to director alan smithee (a pseudonym used by directors when they want to distance themselves from a project for whatever reason).
securing this structure is intended for the  photographer's benefit, and dedicated to ensuring faithful reproduction of the  photographer's creative intentions through consistent performance and rendition  of the images.
will the wonders never cease?
apple shipped 1,070,000 macintosh® units and 5,311,000 ipods during the quarter, representing a 43 percent increase in cpu units and a 558 percent increase in ipods over the year-ago quarter.
so jim allchin is upset because people are making fun of the scaled-back feature set of longhorn?
some of the features he mentioned were "great roaming support," .net
by the way, i'm fully aware that people either hated or loved david lynch's version ofdune, with most of them hating it, so being excited about this probably isn't a popular position.
it's joining webshots.
another american who helped bring together the opposition was rabbi yehuda  levin, of the rabbinical alliance of america, which says it represents more  than 1,000 american orthodox rabbis.
"they are creating a deep and terrible sorrow that is  unbearable," shlomo amar, israel's sephardic chief rabbi, said yesterday  at a news conference in jerusalem attended by israel's two chief rabbis, the  patriarchs of the roman catholic, greek orthodox and armenian churches, and  three senior muslim prayer leaders.
those of you who are familiar with the film know that  there's a longer version that's been shown on tv, credited to director alan  smithee (a pseudonym used by directors when they want to distance themselves  from a project for whatever reason).
"if it had been dr. ahenakew, no one else would have heard them other  than him and mr. parker.
as a proprietary format, nikon secures nef's structure and processing  through various technologies.
"...design excellent and creative  compatibility"?
the inimitable jean-louis gassée used to call microsoft's  proprietary office file formats (word, excel, etc.)
"that's why he fried six million of those guys," ahenakew said.
the consoles will be able to calculate the interaction of moving objects and determine what the graphics chip needs to display on the screen at any instant.
"roach motels" -- "roaches go in," he'd say, "but they don't go out."
and since  releasing os x 10.0 four years ago, apple has been averaging about a year  between major operating system releases.
to take advantage of it, games would have to be rewritten to feature  more opportunities for higher-quality physics, and the game business is tough  enough as it is without spending money implementing features for less than one  percent of the market.
and i'm now accumulating new images at the rate of 1,500-2,000 per year.
with the market for new stocks still flat, many entrepreneurs just want to get scooped up by one of the few internet giants like yahoo, google or media mogul barry diller's aic/interactivecorp.
nikon responds, and as a marketing person, i don't know whether to be in awe or contempt of their attempt to clarify their position while saying absolutely nothing: the nikon d2x professional digital single lens reflex camera has received widely positive acclaim for its overall performance and image processing quality.
i was joking above about this having been written in  japan.
a reasonable question to ask is why apple is able to innovate so much more  quickly.
posted by frank boosman at 08:58 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) my favorite restaurant in paris
soon after, one of them whizzed by on a vespa, evaluating the goods on arno's wrist (the real thing can fetch $3,500 on the black market).
nikon on the nef controversy so nikon starts using a new image file format in which part of it is  encrypted.
this sentence says nothing.
nikon wants developers to license an sdk in order to be able to access certain information in the pictures that users create.
nikon's preservation of its unique technology in the nef file is employed as an action that protects the uniqueness of the file.
securing this structure is intended for the photographer's benefit, and dedicated to ensuring faithful reproduction of the photographer's creative intentions through consistent performance and rendition of the images.
i'm fundamentally attracted to distributed systems, like the pc hardware market.
it's the attempted comeback of the theocracy.
"if it had been dr. ahenakew, no one else would have heard them other than him and mr. parker.
those machines will have plenty of extra processing power to handle better physics.
the rumor has always been that lynch's  first cut ofdune came in around four hours or so -- at least an hour and  a half longer than the theatrical version.
so nef is proprietary.
the pc gaming community is about to be overshadowed by another set of new  consoles from sony, microsoft and nintendo.
[editor's note - we've been told by studio sources that this isn't a  done deal.
getting itunes on all machines to take notice of new music on the server.
recently, speculative statements which appear to be based on misunderstandings and misinformation about the d2x camera's "encryption" of certain white balance data have propagated on the internet.
microsoft writes software for a vast and diverse universe of hardware and assumes people are going to try to install new operating systems on pretty much anything they can plug into a power outlet.
i was getting 50-100 spam  trackbacks per day, and when my first attempt to installmt-blacklist failed, i  gave up for the time being and just disabled trackbacks on a global basis.
the nef, a nikon proprietary raw file design, was introduced with the nikon d1 camera and nikon's original capture software.
at the news conference in jerusalem, he  called the festival "the spiritual rape of the holy city."
i was honestly astounded: for the quarter, the company posted a net profit of $290 million,  or $.34 per diluted share.
i don't know nikon's true  aims in creating a proprietary format.
but do gamers really want to buy an add-on card just to improve the realism in their games?
the new economics of starting a web business may even be changing the entrepreneur's celebrated goal: striking it rich with an ipo.
posted by frank boosman at 02:12 pm | permalink | comments (4) | trackbacks (10)
emperor palpatine: learn to know the dark side of the force and you will achieve a power greater than any jedi!
was that last sentence  actually written in japan?
kevin sitesreported a marine killing a wounded iraqi and  was widelybranded a traitor out at the far right end of the blogosphere for it.
we are  all against it." abdel aziz bukhari, a sufi sheik, added: "we can't permit anybody to  come and make the holy city dirty.
revenue for the  quarter was $3.24 billion, up 70 percent from the year-ago quarter...
but apple -- one little company with just over a third of the market capitalization of dell alone -- somehow seems to consistently create new hardware that runs rings around anything done by wintel manufacturers.
sony wouldn't use  something like this; i'm sure they'd see the cell as their solution to this  sort of thing (which it may well be).
so with all due respect to robert, this is why the flickr acquisition is far more important.
from  where i sit, it looks like the republicans are like a spoiled child on his  birthday, looking at the tower of gifts and throwing a tantrum over the one  gift he didn't get.
dubbed physx, the chip will enable things like gelatinous creatures whose bodies shift shape like a liquid, crumpling fenders in car crashes, massive explosions with 10,000 pieces of debris, clothing that hangs realistically, and lava or blood that flows like the real thing...
posted by frank boosman at 08:13 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0) now the flickrites are everywhere.
i'll continue to live with my powershot sd300, perhaps  upgrade to an sd500, and if i want a digital slr, i'll take an extra-long look  at canon's models.
moments later, several scooters cornered arno and the bandits made off with the watch.
oh please let this be true from the digital bits (via dark horizons) comes word on a possible new  director's cut: oh man... have we got some great news for you dune fans  today!
framework 2.0, "new browsing capabilities," the "fresh" user interface, improved migrations and deployments, "more resilience to malware" and "a new photo experience.
am i supposed to be sympathetic?
some deft,  subtle strategy that eludes me?
with unc in the final four, i couldn't help but watch their last two games  -- but i'm not a basketball fan, which makes me a bit of an odd duck in this  part of the world (the raleigh-durham-chapel hill area, known as the  "triangle").
sony wouldn't use something like this; i'm sure they'd see the cell as their solution to this sort of thing (which it may well be).
the combination of  nikon camera, in-camera image processing, nef file format and in-computer image  processing with original nikon capture software was developed as a system that  faithfully saved image files that represent the camera settings made manually  or automatically by the photographer at the time a picture was taken.
if i were a  republican, i'd be furious with my party for squandering its opportunity like  this.
posted by frank boosman at 06:07 pm | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 10, 2005 how long to be robbed in naples?
posted by frank boosman at 01:58 pm | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 06, 2005 webshots vs. flickr?
the purpose of this advisory is to clarify this matter with facts and  explanations.
apple shipped 1,070,000 macintosh® units and 5,311,000 ipods during the  quarter, representing a 43 percent increase in cpu units and a 558 percent  increase in ipods over the year-ago quarter.
this is very ugly and very nasty to have  these people come to jerusalem."...
i  sat at the table next to the fireplace in the photograph above (thanks to my  friend christophe, who made the reservations for me, given that my french  wasn't quite good enough a couple of months ago).
i liked the old logo, but i like the new one, too.
the thought that i might be dependent on a proprietary sdk to read some of the information in any of them is upsetting -- and in fact i do have a few photographs taken with the mechanically and optically excellent nikon d70 camera we have at work.
bankruptcy reform is a reasonable idea in theory, but the  bill passed was so one-sided against consumers, it could have come straight out  of the middle ages.
now we're getting to it.
at least they've admitted to that.
it may also include a brand new "director's extended cut" edited by lynch himself.
but hegde said ageia's first physics chip will be akin to network  processors, with many processors operating in parallel.
[manju] hegde, ceo  of mountain view, calif., startup ageia, wants to make it easy for them to do  that with a chip for the personal computer that specializes in physics  calculations.
why spend one's political capital to get 10 blocked judicial nominees  through the senate?
"they are creating a deep and terrible sorrow that is unbearable," shlomo amar, israel's sephardic chief rabbi, said yesterday at a news conference in jerusalem attended by israel's two chief rabbis, the patriarchs of the roman catholic, greek orthodox and armenian churches, and three senior muslim prayer leaders.
1337 emperor palpatine: go d/l those hacks i showed you and you'll be teh roxxorz!!!
fliers for the telecast, organized by the family research council and scheduled to originate at a kentucky megachurch the evening of april 24, call the day "justice sunday" and depict a young man holding a bible in one hand and a gavel in the other.
"it's quite sad and ironic that these religious figures are coming  together around such a negative message."
just when i was wondering if perhaps the ipod frenzy had cooled down a bit, they sell five million ipods in the quarter -- six and a half times as many as in the same quarter last year?
while acknowledging the film's flaws -- baron harkonnen becomes a cartoon character instead of the clever (if corpulent) leader he is, for one -- i nevertheless fall into the "loved it" category.
so the idea i had to buy my own digital slr from nikon  is now out the window.
to see that at last would be a real  treat.
moments later,  several scooters cornered arno and the bandits made off with the watch.
at the same time, nikon makes available a software developer kit (sdk) that, when implemented appropriately, enables a wide range of nef performance, including white balance, for nikon photographers and their productive use of the nef file.
to take advantage of it, games would have to be rewritten to feature more opportunities for higher-quality physics, and the game business is tough enough as it is without spending money implementing features for less than one percent of the market.
the consoles will be able to calculate the interaction of moving objects  and determine what the graphics chip needs to display on the screen at any  instant.
i think it was, and i think that nikon usa's pr  people tried to edit it, but gave up when they couldn't understand what the  hell headquarters was saying.
i wrote a couple of weeks ago: open api web services + open data repositories =
web ecosystemsflickr is an ecosystem.
this is a snagged picture (because it would be awful to whip out one's powershot sd300 in a place like this) ofle coupe-chou, my favorite restaurant in paris: le coupe-chou ("the cut cabbage") is on a narrow street near the sorbonne.
web ecosystems flickr is an ecosystem.
at least  they've admitted to that.
isn't the point of any digital camera file format to  faithfully save image files that represent the camera settings made by the  photographer?
arno wasn't out on the street long when he heard a whistle -- a signal from a "spotter" to his cohorts.
ageia has $38 million in venture capital from firms such as apex partners and taiwan semiconductor manufacturing.
apple writes software only for its own hardware and can be ruthless about  not supporting machines that are past their prime.
with each introduction of a new nikon digital single lens reflex model, nikon updates the available sdk selection to provide new information; this is the situation with the d2x, d2hs and d50 models.
recently, speculative statements which appear to be based  on misunderstandings and misinformation about the d2x camera's  "encryption" of certain white balance data have propagated on the  internet.
so the idea i had to buy my own digital slr from nikon is now out the window.
« march 2005 | main | may 2005
if you crash a plane into some trees  and none fall, it destroys the fantasy...
posted by frank boosman at 08:33 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) trackbacks disabled i've temporarily disabled trackbacks on my blog.
leaving aside partisanship for a moment -- and only for a moment -- i find it curious that the republicans seem to be focused on the powers theydon't have instead of the powers theydo: senator bill frist, the majority leader, has agreed to join a handful of prominent christian conservatives in a telecast portraying democrats as "against people of faith" for blocking president bush's [judicial] nominees.
in the former, the republicans (and some democrats), disagreeing with years and years of consistent judicial decisions, many (if not most) by judges appointed by their own party, tried to overrule the judiciary by legislative fiat, all to preserve a life when it was impossible to findanyone who could say that they would want theirown life preserved in such a state, and all in the name of god.
[editor's note - we've been told by studio sources that this isn't a done deal.
soon after, one of them whizzed by on a vespa, evaluating the goods on arno's  wrist (the real thing can fetch $3,500 on the black market).
i love that term, "bona fide software companies".
he said,  "this is not the homo land, this is the holy land."
nikon has provided its confidential sdk software to many software developers.
more than a year after married founders stewart butterfield and caterina fake started the company, it has drawn more than a million users -- without promotional expenses, of course.
here's the new logo for the 2010 winter olympics to be held in vancouver: according to the vancouver 2010 website: for centuries, the inuit people of canada's arctic stacked rock  in human form to create the inukshuk, a steadfast guidepost that provided  direction across the vast horizons of the north...
what strikes me about spammers is how much work they're willing to create  for vast numbers of people to get very little benefit to themselves.
but webshots has 23 million members (flickr has less than a  million).
the publication of the comments resulted in ahenakew being charged with the  wilful promotion of hatred against an identifiable group.
"it hurts all of the religions.
"...without compromising the integrity of  the nef's original concept"?
as such, he says the  chip will be more powerful at specific physics tasks than a microprocessor.
this might just be a bigger photo deal than flickr going to yahoo.
in the former, the  republicans (and some democrats), disagreeing with years and years of  consistent judicial decisions, many (if not most) by judges appointed by their  own party, tried to overrule the judiciary by legislative fiat, all to preserve  a life when it was impossible to findanyone who could say that they  would want theirown life preserved in such a state, and all in the name  of god.
when you think that the triangle has apopulation of about  1.2 million -- about 0.4 percent of the us as a whole -- that's fairly amazing.
how does it "compromise integrity" for software to directly read in a file?
fliers for the telecast, organized by the family research council and  scheduled to originate at a kentucky megachurch the evening of april 24, call  the day "justice sunday" and depict a young man holding a bible in  one hand and a gavel in the other.
and if there's another tech swoon, or if another set of hungry entrepreneurs cook up an even better photo-sharing mousetrap, flickr will have yahoo's might to protect itself.
in the interview, which was played in court monday, ahenakew referred to jews as "a disease" and said hitler "made damn sure" jews didn't take over germany and europe.
posted by frank boosman at 08:24 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0) apple announced their q2 2005 results yesterday (announcement here, conference call coveragehere).
it depends on how you measure winning.
this is potentially very cool: [g]ame creators haven't taken the time to calculate the physics that govern the behavior of objects such as falling bricks.
my assumption is that the difference is in the hardware  base.
so cross your fingers and let's hope it comes to fruition.]the rumor has always been that lynch's first cut ofdune came in around four hours or so -- at least an hour and a half longer than the theatrical version.
but i'm fairly sure it goes back tosomething
that's the company that didheypix
it is why the disc was delayed, but lynch's involvement is still in  discussion and no work has been started yet.
the purpose of this advisory is to clarify this matter with facts and explanations.
nikon’s choices for opening and processing  nef files have been and continue to include: *
in other words, it's entirely possible  that they could haveanother new version out by the time longhorn ships.
posted by frank boosman at 07:38 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0) john ludwig writes about the frustrations of a multi-ipod household: and itunes really sucks at handling this.
this process has been available since the first nikon sdk for nef.wow!
as opposed to opening up the format, in which case independent developerscouldn't open and process...
after a developer's software is created using the nikon sdk, a  nef file can be opened, edited in either tiff or jpeg format, and then saved in  formats available in the developers' software.
i sat at the table next to the fireplace in the photograph above (thanks to my friend christophe, who made the reservations for me, given that my french wasn't quite good enough a couple of months ago).
posted by frank boosman at 08:15 am | permalink | comments (1) | trackbacks (0) with the republicans' election wins in november, the united states now has the rough equivalent of a parliamentary majority.
the nikon d2x is capable of producing high quality images that can be saved in a variety of file formats, including the proprietary nikon electronic format (nef), standard tiff and several levels of standard jpeg compressed files.
ageia has $38 million in venture capital from firms such as apex partners  and taiwan semiconductor manufacturing.
revenue for the quarter was $3.24 billion, up 70 percent from the year-ago quarter...
parker covered a conference on aboriginal health in december of 2002, when ahenakew -- a former senator with the federation of saskatchewan indian nations and a member of the order of canada -- made a speech in which he blamed jews for starting the second world war.
within a 15-mile radius, we have three teams with great basketball histories -- unc, duke, and north carolina state.
parker spoke to ahenakew outside the conference, recording their  conversation.
but i think the web community (if it's possible to say such a  thing) now understands the roach motel concept, and though it's too late with  regard to office, we don't want to let it happen again.
posted by frank boosman at 09:57 am | permalink | comments (0) |  trackbacks (0) april 11, 2005 hardware acceleration for physics this is potentially very cool: [g]ame creators haven't taken the time to calculate the physics  that govern the behavior of objects such as falling bricks.
the republicans want to use their expanded powers to remove -- or at least minimize -- secular influences in government.
i don't believe the average iq is any higher in cupertino than it is  in redmond, nor do i believe apple has some secret project management sauce  that microsoft lacks.
by the way, i'm fully aware that people either hated or loved david lynch's  version ofdune, with most of them hating it, so being excited about this  probably isn't a popular position.
some deft, subtle strategy that eludes me?
and then there's the issue of playback frequency -- itunes makes it easy to create smart playlists that key off frequency and last-played date, but with multiple users, this isn't really useful for any one person.
one reason ageia has garnered such support is its chip could tip the scales  in the pc's battle with game consoles.
is there some larger purpose at work here?
the nef, a nikon proprietary raw file design, was introduced with  the nikon d1 camera and nikon's original capture software.
yahoo isn't just getting a photo sharing community, or the technology that powers it -- they're getting the people who arguably know more right now than anyone in the world about creating web-based ecosystems.
the  food was wonderful.
the party in power --
in fact, all three made the sweet 16 of the ncaa  tournament this year.
i'll  have these photos with me for the rest of my life, always in digital format.
posted by frank boosman at 07:53 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0) via boing boing, this is the funniest thing i've seen in a long while -- the trailer forrevenge of the sith with 1337 subtitles (well, technically, a combination of 1337 and mmporg):
now major leaders of the three faiths -- christianity, judaism and islam --  are making a rare show of unity to try to stop the festival.
it's worse than that.
unlike those other digital camera vendors, who don't  have proprietary formats, and so don't have "tightly knit" systems.
once approved, the sdk is  provided to the developer at no charge and they are authorized to use it.
in the april 2005 issue of national geographic traveler (unavailable online, even with a subscription --geographic doesn't get it) is an article on petty crime around the world, "thieves among us".
though it does look kind of likestrong sad: with the deepest appreciation for canada's aboriginal heritage and for the joy canadians share in celebrating winter's snow and ice, the emblem of the vancouver 2010 olympic winter games is a contemporary interpretation of the inukshuk.
the gang miscalculated, however, as the rolex was fake.
sharing playlists across the network.
with the nikon sdk, developers may design excellent and creative
i suppose that's the larger purpose at work.
" meanwhile, apple is about to ship tiger, and from the looks of it, tiger might have just as many new features -- if not more -- than longhorn.
that's the  company that didheypix
nikon continues to welcome dialogue with bona fide software developers.
having said that, ahenakew is a canadian citizen and must  know the laws there.)
basketball may not have been invented here, but this has  to be where the soul of college basketball resides these days.
posted by frank boosman at 01:58 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0) my friend and general good-guy robert scoble had this to say about cnet acquiringheypix: congrats to james park.
with each introduction of a new nikon digital single lens reflex  model, nikon updates the available sdk selection to provide new information;  this is the situation with the d2x, d2hs and d50 models.
in the latter, the republicans are now invoking the name of god again,  saying that the removal of a longstanding senate rule, used quite often by  themselves when they were the minority party, is somehow against god's will.
you mean if developers license your sdk, their software can open the photos i take?
basketball may not have been invented here, but this has to be where the soul of college basketball resides these days.
and it hopes at least five games will exploit its hardware physics by the time the add-on cards go on sale.
nikon strives to provide photographers with excellent picture taking performance, compatible nikon in-system image processing performance and by extension, compatibility with additional software developers' products, with the ultimate goal of delivering a high level of integrity for a photographer's creative vision.
it is called "ilanaaq", which is the inuit word for friend.
at the news conference in jerusalem, he called the festival "the spiritual rape of the holy city."
but hegde said ageia's first physics chip will be akin to network processors, with many processors operating in parallel.
(i should note, by the way, that i don't agree with canadian law in this  regard.
he said, "this is not the homo land, this is the holy land." posted by frank boosman at 08:58 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0)
but after that, multi-user support degenerates quickly.
bankruptcy reform is a reasonable idea in theory, but the bill passed was so one-sided against consumers, it could have come straight out of the middle ages.
i couldn't do  everything that everybody wanted from the customer perspective, and they were  very clear in what trade-off they wanted us to make," he said.
social security reform is a good idea in theory, but the president has  never actually advanced a plan, and the plans advanced by his vassals have been  incompetent at best.
... mr. giovinetti circulated a petition against the festival, titled  "homosexuals to desecrate jerusalem," which he said had been signed  by every member of the ultra-orthodox shas party in the israeli parliament.
(i should note, by the way, that i don't agree with canadian law in this regard.
now, don't know about webshots?
i  have some experience with this myself, though not with nearly as complex a  setup as john has.
from acbc story on the trial: david ahenakew's lawyer says the reporter who wrote the newspaper  article that led to the aboriginal leader being charged with a hate crime  should have been charged with the same offence.
i honestly don't know which is the superior approach.
clearly some of that  is due to the mac mini, but the hypothesized "halo effect" -- ipod  purchasers later switching to the mac -- must be real.
photoshop *  nikon pictureproject software *
"that's why he fried six million of  those guys," ahenakew said.
ageia's president, curtis davis, argues that they will when  they realize physics is key to situations where they try to do something in a  game and the environment doesn't respond.
"we'll be taken care of and  can concentrate on what we like doing best, which is building the  product," butterfield says.
my friend and general good-guy robert scoble had this to say about cnet  acquiringheypix: congrats to james park.
the publication of the comments resulted in ahenakew being charged with the wilful promotion of hatred against an identifiable group.
i suppose i haven't paid much attention to them because they aren't really talked about all that much in the blog world: this might just be a bigger photo deal than flickr going to yahoo.
posted by frank boosman at 08:32 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackbacks (0)