not compatible with ef-s lenses.
there's no problem reviewing your images on a bright day, and it offers enough  resolution to make manual focus during live view a reality.
anyone with a collection of high-end canon ef lens will appreciate the camera's 22-megapixel full-frame sensor, which is the same size as a frame of 35mm film—so your 28mm lens will give you the same field of view on the digital camera as it does on a film body.
rather than taking the front and rear command dial approach that the other major d-slr players use, canon engineers opted to employ the front main dial and rear quick control dial to adjust settings.
if you prefer a more-substantial camera, the mark iii's size and  weight can be increased via the bg-e11 battery grip ($349), which connects to  the bottom of the camera, and adds vertical shooting controls.
excellent high iso performance.
1996-2012 ziff davis, inc.
you'll likely get better results manually focusing.
the rear lcd is simply amazing.
one quick note before we dig in: if you'll use this camera to earn  your living, you should avoid grabbing one of the first units to hit the  street, as canon has identified anexposure issue that can occur under very  specific circumstances.
you can't use ef-s lenses, which are designed for aps-c cameras, on a full-frame canon body.
if you haven't spent a lot of time behind the lens of a canon d-slr , it may take some getting used to—but seasoned canon shooters are sure to feel right at home.
this problem didn't rear its head in any of my test shots, and since it's been addressed by canon, it did not affect the 5d mark iii's rating.
it's not that far off from thed800 ($2,995.95), its closest competition on the nikon side of the fence.
alpha 77 ($1,999.99, 4.5 stars)—that camera's  pellicle mirror design allows it to use its fast phase detect autofocus system  for both stills and video in any shooting mode.
it tops out at  1080p30, but you can opt for 720p60 footage to capture smooth, fast motion or  1080p24 for those times when you want to give your video a cinematic look.
the mark iii records video in quicktime format in a variety of resolutions and frame rates.
the 3.2-inch display is packed with over a  million dots—it's one of the most vivid that i've seen on any camera.
the camera body measures 4.6 by  6.0 by 3.0 inches (hwd) and weighs 2.09 pounds with battery and  memory card.
this problem didn't rear its head in any of my  test shots, and since it's been addressed by canon, it did not affect the  5d mark iii's rating.
design and features the 5d mark iii is refreshingly  compact when you consider that its 35mm full-frame image sensor is much larger  than those found in more common aps-c d-slrs.
write a review view slideshow compact for a full-frame slr.
slow focus in live view and video modes.
the grip can  accommodate two rechargeable batteries, doubling the operating life of the  camera, and gives you the option to power the mark iii using disposable aa  cells for use in those photogenic parts of the world where electricity is not  readily available.
view slideshow see all (11) slides more anyone with a collection of high-end canon ef lens will appreciate the  camera's 22-megapixel full-frame sensor, which is the same size as a frame of  35mm film—so your 28mm lens will give you the same field of view on the  digital camera as it does on a film body.
it does it in a manner like the nikon d4—you need to press a button and the camera works to reacquire focus.
when shooting in live view or recording video, the camera does support  autofocus.
it does it in a manner like the nikon d4—you need to press a  button and the camera works to reacquire focus.
there's also a  monochrome information display on the top of the camera so you can  evaluate the current shooting settings at a glance.
the camera impressed me, but it doesn't quite manage to knock out the more versatile—and more expensive—nikon d4 ($5,995, 4.5 stars) as our editors' choice for full-frame d-slrs.
as its name implies, the company's 22-megapixel  eos 5d mark iii ($3,499 list, body only) is an evolutionary upgrade rather than  a revolutionary one.
it's a slow process that involves hunting back and forth until the focus is locked—this is much, much slower than the autofocus when shooting stills.
the grip can accommodate two rechargeable batteries, doubling the operating life of the camera, and gives you the option to power the mark iii using disposable aa cells for use in those photogenic parts of the world where electricity is not readily available.
the long-awaited successor to canon's extremely popular eos 5d mark ii camera is finally here.
alpha 77 ($1,999.99, 4.5 stars)—that camera's pellicle mirror design allows it to use its fast phase detect autofocus system for both stills and video in any shooting mode.
the downside to this improved coverage is that you'll no longer be able  to change the focus screen out as you can with the mark ii.
if you're a canon user who is looking to upgrade from one of the company's popular aps-c d-slrs, like theeos 7d ($1,699, 4 stars), you should take an appraisal of your lenses.
that d-slr is 4.8 by 5.7 by 3.2 inches and weighs 1.98 pounds—and manages to fit in a built-in flash.
you can't use  ef-s lenses, which are designed for aps-c cameras, on a full-frame canon body.
design and features the 5d mark iii is refreshingly compact when you consider that its 35mm full-frame image sensor is much larger than those found in more common aps-c d-slrs.
you'll also be able to see settings in the camera's large, bright viewfinder.
there's no problem reviewing your images on a bright day, and it offers enough resolution to make manual focus during live view a reality.
when shooting in live view or recording video, the camera does support autofocus.
the camera body measures 4.6 by 6.0 by 3.0 inches (hwd) and weighs 2.09 pounds with battery and memory card.
pc magazine is a registered trademark of ziff davis, inc.
it shows you 100 percent of  the frame, so what you see through the finder is exactly what you'll get in  your photo—this is an improvement over the mark ii's 97 percent coverage  finder.
there are numerous other control  buttons on the camera, including a multi-controller to scroll through menus and  manually select autofocus points, and buttons to adjust the drive mode, iso,  and metering mode.
most  physical controls on the camera control two functions using these two dials,  and the on-screen menu lets you know which dial modifies which  setting.
there aren't any full-frame cameras on the market that currently offer full-time continuous autofocus like our editors' choice aps-c digital slr, thesony
it's a slow process that  involves hunting back and forth until the focus is locked—this is much,  much slower than the autofocus when shooting stills.
it's a solid option for advanced shooters with an investment in canon glass, but doesn't match the rapid-fire shooting capabilities of the eos-1d x or nikon d4.
6fps continuous shooting.
use of this site is governed by our terms of use and privacy policy .copyright
large optical viewfinder.
the full-frame mark iii's improvements are largely under the hood, but its larger, sharper rear lcd is one that's noticeable at a glance.
the mark iii records video in  quicktime format in a variety of resolutions and frame rates.
1080p video recording.
there's also a monochrome information display on the top of the camera so you can evaluate the current shooting settings at a glance.
this is a limitation that nikon users don't face—it's possible to use aps-c dx lenses on a full-frame nikon body like the d4 via a special crop mode.
the canon eos 5d mark iii looks a lot like its predecessor on the outside, but offers plenty of improvements under the hood.
each year, you'll receive a notice and you authorize that your credit/debit card will be charged the annual subscription rate(s).
this is a limitation that nikon users don't face—it's possible to use  aps-c dx lenses on a full-frame nikon body like the d4 via a special crop  mode.
there aren't any full-frame cameras on the market  that currently offer full-time continuous autofocus like our editors' choice  aps-c digital slr, thesony
you'll also be able to see  settings in the camera's large, bright viewfinder.
rather than taking the front and rear command dial  approach that the other major d-slr players use, canon engineers opted to  employ the front main dial and rear quick control dial to adjust settings.
bright, high-res rear lcd.
next > canon eos 5d mark iii price: $3,499.00
that d-slr is 4.8 by 5.7 by 3.2  inches and weighs 1.98 pounds—and manages to fit in a built-in  flash.
it shows you 100 percent of the frame, so what you see through the finder is exactly what you'll get in your photo—this is an improvement over the mark ii's 97 percent coverage finder.
if you've shot with a canon slr before, you'll feel comfortable with the  mark iii's user interface.
canon eos 5d mark iii performance and conclusions the long-awaited successor to canon's extremely popular eos 5d mark ii   camera is finally here.
it's not that far off from thed800 ($2,995.95), its closest  competition on the nikon side of the fence.
next >next > price: $3,499.00 price: $1,449.00 price: $1,929.00 - $1,999.99 automatic renewal program: your subscription will continue without interruption for as long as you wish, unless you instruct us otherwise.
the camera  impressed me, but it doesn't quite manage to knock out the more  versatile—and more expensive—nikon d4 ($5,995, 4.5 stars) as our  editors' choice for full-frame d-slrs.
reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of ziff davis, inc. is prohibited.
22-megapixel resolution.
if you prefer a more-substantial camera, the mark iii's size and weight can be increased via the bg-e11 battery grip ($349), which connects to the bottom of the camera, and adds vertical shooting controls.
if your credit/debit card or other billing method can not be charged, we will bill you directly instead.
if you've shot with a canon slr before, you'll feel comfortable with the mark iii's user interface.
you'll likely get better  results manually focusing.
the full-frame mark iii's improvements are largely  under the hood, but its larger, sharper rear lcd is one that's noticeable at a  glance.
there are numerous other control buttons on the camera, including a multi-controller to scroll through menus and manually select autofocus points, and buttons to adjust the drive mode, iso, and metering mode.
the camera is quite impressive, but 5d mark ii owners will want to weigh upgrading carefully based on their specific needs.
most physical controls on the camera control two functions using these two dials, and the on-screen menu lets you know which dial modifies which setting.
one quick note before we dig in: if you'll use this camera to earn your living, you should avoid grabbing one of the first units to hit the street, as canon has identified anexposure issue that can occur under very specific circumstances.
it tops out at 1080p30, but you can opt for 720p60 footage to capture smooth, fast motion or 1080p24 for those times when you want to give your video a cinematic look.
the downside to this improved coverage is that you'll no longer be able to change the focus screen out as you can with the mark ii.
as its name implies, the company's 22-megapixel eos 5d mark iii ($3,499 list, body only) is an evolutionary upgrade rather than a revolutionary one.
your subscription will automatically renew at the end of the term unless you authorize cancellation.
if you haven't spent a lot of time behind the lens of a  canon d-slr , it may take some getting used to—but seasoned  canon shooters are sure to feel right at home.
the 3.2-inch display is packed with over a million dots—it's one of the most vivid that i've seen on any camera.
the camera is quite impressive, but 5d mark ii owners will want to  weigh upgrading carefully based on their specific needs.
you may cancel at any time during your subscription and receive a full refund on all unsent issues.
if you're a canon user who is looking  to upgrade from one of the company's popular aps-c d-slrs, like theeos 7d  ($1,699, 4 stars), you should take an appraisal of your lenses.