operation is simple and the interface is clear,  if not elegant.
purple fringing is very visible at high contrast, even on  medium-sized prints.
even worse, since it’s a tn  panel-based display, so everything becomes dark – and thus useless  – when taking a downward-angled shot.
from 800 iso, details are diluted.
it’s slow – barely over one frame per second  – and it hangs after the fifth frame.
where is the panasonic lumix line at?
it’s slow – barely over one frame per second – and it hangs after the fifth frame.
the new controls related to the inclusion of the projector (see  inset) are located on the upper part of the body.
sort of devalues the objectivity of this site, and the validity of its author.
purple fringing is very visible at high contrast, even on medium-sized prints.
response t he s1000pj’s responsiveness inspires no particular comment.
we’ll be charitable and not even mention the higher values.
the  fit of the battery compartment lid, for example, isn’t great – on  our test model, it tended to stay closed even when unlatched.
for sensor sensitivity, nikon isn’t among the best.
for the rest, the s1000pj is laid  out like other coolpix models.
however, it’s very plastic-looking construction and mediocre surface finish are disappointing.
handling with its picasso-style nose in the middle of its face and second eye above, the nikon s1000pj is instantly recognizable.
we’ll let you decide how elegant-looking you think it is, but just about everyone on the team here found it extremely ugly.
in short, it has everything you need to show your shots and movies to your friends.
nikon coolpix s1000pj two camera giants, two point-and-shoots over $300.
you can move from one picture to another, zoom and move around within a picture, and play video files – though the sound quality from the built-in speaker is very limited.
the video performance is no worse than with a lot of compacts, true; but some do much better.
purplish zones in  darker areas, a chronic weakness of this little 12 mp, already appear at 400  iso, along with the first evidence of smoothing intended to contain digital  noise.
purplish zones in darker areas, a chronic weakness of this little 12 mp, already appear at 400 iso, along with the first evidence of smoothing intended to contain digital noise.
regards, tom hogarty adobe systems, lightroom, camera raw, dng product manager nice to know that adobe has their finger on the pulse...kaiser_25 12/28/2009 3:04 pm ya pretty stupid article, the nikon pj is a new concept and for the tech to make projection there is alot of compromise to still be compact, they are comparing apples and oranges here...omnimodis78 12/29/2009 5:16 am i read the full review, but one thing wasn't explained: why put these 2 cameras head to head?
you can move from one  picture to another, zoom and move around within a picture, and play video files  – though the sound quality from the built-in speaker is very limited.
® 2012 bestofmedia all rights reserved.
leave it up to dpreview and similar sites that are dedicated to that hardware.
image quality we’ll cut to the chase: if  the s1000pj has a weakness, this is it.
the video projector built into the s1000pj, not surprisingly, is fairly limited.
with the s1000pj, nikon is trying out a new concept: “your personal theater on the go” – a camera that lets you show your photos and video to your friends.
as far as the projector goes, despite the inevitable technical limitations, the camera delivers what it promises.
that means the room you’ll be doing your projecting in has to be really dark.
for the rest, the s1000pj is laid out like other coolpix models.
start-up is a  little quicker than average, and focusing is neither slow nor fast.
the lens really lacks evenness,  especially at wide-angle, with a fairly good centre but edges that are  particularly fuzzy.
unfortunately, this doesn't overshadow the fact that the camera is just plain mediocre.
the nikon is a new-concept camera, and so it really shouldn't be put side by side with a rather orthodox canon model.
preferably dmc-zs3thogarty 12/28/2009 3:29 am please note that the distortion correction sidebar is incorrect.
the remote control that comes with the camera works in projector mode, of course, but also in snapshot mode.
living-room projectors produce over 1,000 lumens!
once you’ve darkened the room, any plain white surface will do as a screen.
just stay out of camera comparisons if this is the quality to expect.
why is it that on every article the 'more on this topic' link never works and fails to load?
even worse, since it’s a tn panel-based display, so everything becomes dark – and thus useless – when taking a downward-angled shot.
when shooting raw files with the s90, adobe's lightroom 2.6 and the photoshop camera raw plug-in 5.6 will provide geometric distortion correction results to raw files similar to the native jpeg files and raw files processed by canon dpp.
canon vs nikon: point-and-shoot face-off canon vs nikon: point-and-shoot face-off 11:00 am - december 27, 2009  - bydigital versus previous 2.
the projector the video projector built into the s1000pj, not surprisingly, is fairly  limited.
that means  the room you’ll be doing your projecting in has to be really dark.
nikon is taking a long shot – a digital camera with a built-in video projector.
so you can use it to control the s1000pj (including the zoom)  remotely, which may be an interesting feature for tripod users.
we’ll let you decide how  elegant-looking you think it is, but just about everyone on the team here found  it extremely ugly.
nikon is  taking a long shot – a digital camera with a built-in video projector.
image quality we’ll cut to the chase: if the s1000pj has a weakness, this is it.
will the  projector-equipped s1000pj prevail, or will the "standard" features  on the s90 win out?
traciatim 12/30/2009 3:52 pm
response t he  s1000pj’s responsiveness inspires no particular comment.
canon s90 should be compared to panasonic lx3.
the new controls related to the inclusion of the projector (see inset) are located on the upper part of the body.
the definition is limited to vga and the brightness tops out at 10  lumens.
the 640x480 non-hd definition is unexciting, the  recorded sound is mediocre, and the optical zoom doesn’t work during  recording and the image shows clouding in the shadows.
had the same trouble with the nokia n900 article and others too.
at a time when all – or almost all – compacts have a 5x optical  zoom, a 12 mp sensor, a 2.7-inch or 3-inch display screen, and similar size and  cost, it’s getting hard to set yourself apart from the pack.
in  short, it has everything you need to show your shots and movies to your  friends.
at the rear is a 2.7-inch 230,000 dpi lcd screen, with a highly visible  weave and pronounced clouding in shadows.
will the projector-equipped s1000pj prevail, or will the "standard" features on the s90 win out?
the metal body looks sturdy, but the build quality isn’t perfect.
operation is simple and the interface is clear, if not elegant.
the definition is limited to vga and the brightness tops out at 10 lumens.
start-up is a little quicker than average, and focusing is neither slow nor fast.
you just press a button, adjust the focus, and browse at will, either using the buttons on the camera or the remote control.
in telephoto, the contrast is never good, even in the  center, and the purple fringing is no fainter.
it’s an original solution that makes the coolpix s1000pj unique among the hundred or so cameras released in 2009.
nikon coolpix s1000pj
the lens really lacks evenness, especially at wide-angle, with a fairly good centre but edges that are particularly fuzzy.
as far as the projector goes, despite the inevitable technical  limitations, the camera delivers what it promises.
it’s an original solution that makes the coolpix s1000pj unique among the  hundred or so cameras released in 2009.
the delay  between shots is a little long (2.5 seconds), and the burst mode is really  quite disappointing.
video video is not a strong point either.
the remote control  that comes with the camera works in projector mode, of course, but also in  snapshot mode.
however,  it’s very plastic-looking construction and mediocre surface finish are  disappointing.
video video  is not a strong point either.
rameon01 12/27/2009 11:59 pm
so you can use it to control the s1000pj (including the zoom) remotely, which may be an interesting feature for tripod users.
once  you’ve darkened the room, any plain white surface will do as a screen.
we’ll be charitable and not  even mention the higher values.
the delay between shots is a little long (2.5 seconds), and the burst mode is really quite disappointing.
at a time when all – or almost all – compacts have a 5x optical zoom, a 12 mp sensor, a 2.7-inch or 3-inch display screen, and similar size and cost, it’s getting hard to set yourself apart from the pack.
in telephoto, the contrast is never good, even in the center, and the purple fringing is no fainter.
the video performance is  no worse than with a lot of compacts, true; but some do much better.
handling with its picasso-style nose in the middle of its face and second eye above,  the nikon s1000pj is instantly recognizable.
you just press a button, adjust the focus, and browse at will, either using the  buttons on the camera or the remote control.
two camera giants, two point-and-shoots over $300.
at the rear is a 2.7-inch 230,000 dpi lcd screen, with a highly visible weave and pronounced clouding in shadows.
wow, this article is really pathetic.
the fit of the battery compartment lid, for example, isn’t great – on our test model, it tended to stay closed even when unlatched.
the 640x480 non-hd definition is unexciting, the recorded sound is mediocre, and the optical zoom doesn’t work during recording and the image shows clouding in the shadows.
anonymous 01/06/2010 1:58 am agree with kaiser_25 and omnimodis79, the comparison is not appropriate.