no - you may also flag this review share this review displaying reviews 1-20 back to top previous | next » not compatible with cameras using firmware ver.
this camera will also allow you to  do this, and it makes a noticeable improvement.•
(do not press the disk too hard over the lens or you could damage it)
the camera does lag a bit when switching from preview to shooting mode.
photo enthusiast pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i wanted a full featured point and shoot camera type of camera with a viewfinder, as i shoot a lot of scenery and wildlife while backpacking in the mountains.
the camera only tells you  the battery power remaining when it's about to die!?!
the 3 user settings on  the main command dial.
after three or four failed attempts the  camera actually will display a "reinitializing the lens" message, and  will retract and redeploy the lens..
sign up for b&h news and special offers thank you for joining the b&h email list!
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/11/2011 5.0 great product!
i hate holding the camera at arms length to aim it: think camera shake and discrete image-making.
honestly some i took with both
having a dedicated dial to  adjust the ev settings is very convenient.
for low light situations, or tacking pictures quickly of fast  moving subjects there is no substitute for an slr.
i could live with that for a  ultra wide.
turn this on and see for yourself.
the nikon hesitates before refreshing the screen.
i'm so pleased i purchased another with the intent to convert to ir.
this is so eight years ago.2)
alas, there are several deal breakers that put...
image quality seems near- or equal-dslr.
the right thumb rest on the back of the body got warm after only a few minutes of use.
and, no replacement battery is available as of this writing.5
by dam510 from italy about me photo enthusiast pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: very easy to use in auto mode, very similar to professional camera in auto mode.
sufficient memory is not included.
by joe from new york, ny about me casual photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i am extremely satisfied with my new nikon coolpix p7000.i always wanted a cross-over between an easy to use and a pro camera...
the image quality, build, and abilities of the camera are wonderful.
pictures are  noticeably noisy starting at iso 400, so i try to limit it to only 200 or so.
the p7000 can be carried in a pocket for convenience.
in optimum situations it works fine, but when zoomed out it can really start hunting for a lock on.
for low light situations, or tacking pictures quickly of fast moving subjects there is no substitute fo...read complete review p7000 review first off let me say this, this camera is not a replacement for an slr.
it's a very nice camera if you understand its limitations, anyone who loves fine tuning with settings on their slr's will love this as a causal take everywhere camera.
i hate holding the camera at arms length to aim it:  think camera shake and discrete image-making.
you can program three preset custom white balance cards.
by zoogirl from memphis, tn about me
i bought the camera yesterday from the 9th ave store and i'm returning it today.
i wonder if that's optimistic.
prices, specifications, and images are subject to change without notice.
they are no intuitive to me.
alas, there are  several deal breakers that put...
i saw a review and forum postings on [@] and didn't believe them.
you can program some very unique settings into the camera and quickly recall them for many situations.
vs most liked negative review big disappointment i eagerly awaited this camera as a replacement for my canon g10.
we guarantee your peace of mind with our 30-day return policy.
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/10/2011 4.0 low end camera with high end options!
i really loved the results exspecially the landscape setting since most of my photos were taken while moving around 30-50mph they turned out better then i could have imagined.
and, no replacement battery is available as of this writing.5) where's the articulated lcd?
digital camera: i love how its a great babystep i can take before taking the plunge into a slr camera bottom line
i am extremely happy with this purchase and the performance improvement.
yes, i would recommend this to a friend was this review helpful?
very noisy right from the screen!
i like the viewfinder option.
we have the most highly-trained staff in the industry who are pros in their fields, and their professional expertise will help you get the most from your purchase.
from full manual control to a worthy zoom it is basically everything i wanted in a compact.
for low light situations, or tacking pictures quickly of fast moving subjects there is no substitute for an slr.
alas, there are several deal breakers that put this camera behind it's chief rival.
manufacturer rebates, terms, conditions, and expiration dates are subject to manufacturers printed forms nyc dca lic.:
the p7000 has all this and then some.
also you can adjust the white balance manually by degrees kelvin, just as  with a pro slr.cons:• iso performance.
and i thought the coolpix did just as well some times.
what it covers is perfectly centered, but you have to bear that in mind  when composing images.
my only complaint was the shutter stuck half way thru my trip and i had to manuelly help it open, although when i came home b&h sent me a brand new camera and took care of the problem quickly.
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/7/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)4.0 high end point and shoot
photo enthusiast pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: basically feels great in the hands, pics are true to color, a few too many buttons on the back for my taste, i do not have large hands but find i am conscious of touching them when using the camera, love the auto exposure lock button, have always wanted the ability to lock in a different exposure and then lock in the focus (like a "semi-auto" mode), all in all i expect this to be my main camera for many years to come.
i'm a  nikon fan-boy and was glad to see nikon in this market segment.
the hot shoe is  great for mounting on a real flash.
by dll from nj about me photo enthusiast pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i normally shoot a d300 but needed a small camera to put in my pocket.
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/6/2011 5.0 "great value, solid performance" by tom j from centennial, co about me
2 stars (10) 1 stars (10) 90% of respondents would recommend this to a friend.
having a dedicated dial to adjust the ev settings is very convenient.
what it covers is perfectly centered, but you have to bear that in mind when composing images.
nikon is known for it's ergonomics, but who tested this camera?4)
i will see how this one does and i'm hoping it works well because i do like the results of the images.
weve made iphone and android mobile apps available for your service and shopping convenience.
(do not press the disk too hard over the lens or you could damage  it)
am disappointed with the quality of the digital zoom.
very happy with the p7000.
i'm not entirely happy with the zoom, i thought it was a little longer range, but the indoor photos are great and so is the close up feature.
this is easily overcome by fine tuning the white balance, but it's still an extra step that might cause you to miss a good shot.
i also have a nikon d40x that i have been using for quite some time and was wanting a backup camera to carry in my bag.
there are certain functions in the camera that are locked out depending on which shooting mode you have the camera set.
no, i would not recommend this to a friend (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)
i have found that the camera tends  to make shots alittle to dark for my tastes, so i often shoot at it +.3 to  overcome this• picture controls.
to fix these objections, the camera might have to be larger, but it would be a real photography tool.
especially annoying after changing iso or white balance.
alas, there are  several deal breakers that put this camera behind it's chief rival.
no - you may also flag this review share this review12/15/2011 5.0 just the right size, by joe from penna about me casual photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: just the right size if you don't want to drag around a dslr.takes nice pictures and has all the setting that i need.
canon g11 has one, other nikon models have them.
by flyboy from boulder, co about me pro photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i love this little camera!
the camera only tells you the battery power remaining when it's about to die!?!
this  is easily overcome by fine tuning the white balance, but it's still an extra  step that might cause you to miss a good shot.
you can focus manually, and it displays a  magnified image of what you're focusing on in the center to assist you.
i wasn't disappointed!
the canon has a iso dial.
there  was no floor sample for me to try.
also you can adjust the white balance manually by degrees kelvin, just as with a pro slr.cons:• iso performance.
visit our mobile apps page to download.
and you can shoot using jpeg or raw format for ultimate control over your images.
best shot selector (bss) automatically takes up to ten shots while the shutter is pressed, then selects and saves the sharpest image, while the electronic virtual horizon display gives you a guide for precise leveling of the camera in landscape or portrait orientation during lcd monitor shooting.
my previous 'travel' camera was the sigma dp1 (phenomenal sensor/image quality), which is great in its own right but the p7000 goes a step further in overall usefulness.
the image quality and simple settings make me look like a profesional...!
only complaint i can muster is the viewfinder, but the lcd does a good job
that said, this is still am impressive little camera.
wasting energy here; nikon claims 350 exposures per charge.
manage wishlists and view order history.
the g10 returns to the image preview  instantly after a setting has been changed.
firmware 1.2 fixes pretty much all the software issues that plagued this much maligned but capable camera.
there are so many different options for "scenes"... night, portrait, sports, beach, indoor- just to name a few.. the list is long and each one seems to help!
by starfish9 from oakhurst, ca about me semi-pro photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i bought this camera
it also provides us with an extra video camera for the footage we are planning to release on the website soon.
four stars for a point and shoot you can't go wrong with.
so it was a matter of adjustment really.
i own a d700 and love how i can fine tune the saturation and hue to make colors pop.
by ty the photographer from ohio about me pro photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i went on a motorcycle trip for 18 days and 6000 miles with the coolpix wrapped around my neck to take photos of the magnificant views outwest.
dslr's are too bulky to haul around and lcd screens tend to wash out in bright light.
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/6/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)5.0 fantastic camera in a portable size!
for me, although i am a nikon guy, i held out to the bitter end and at one point even considered purchasing a g12, until the price drop and the firmware update.
i really like the ease of changing the shutter speed and aperture over my d40x. i haven't been able to find anything that i don't like about it, although the viewfinder could be a bit larger, more similar to what is on the d40x.
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/4/2011 5.0 very good camera
in fact, my last trip to the philippines i brought this along instead of one my slrs.
for example interval timer is locked out of the main p,s,a,m priority settings…...why?• wb balance.
this built in flash works well on anything that is close to the camera, but it is very weak in even slightly demanding situations.
download product manuals and guides for many popular items.
i took my d200 also and used it for when we stopped for my professional photos.
the hot shoe is great for mounting on a real flash.
for low light situations, or tacking pictures quickly of fast  moving subjects there is no substitute fo...read complete review p7000 review first off let me say this, this camera is not a replacement  for an slr.
i didn't bother with reviewing the images after i realized i don't want a camera with this kind of performance.
i am not dissapointed at all with nikon, they promised a lot of good features and they indeeed delivered.
by tom a from washington dc about me semi-pro photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: good to use, quick and fase bottom line
but i'm growing acustom to them and i am getting to like them.
you can program some very unique settings into the  camera and quickly recall them for many situations.
i have to disagree strongly with the cameras proclaimed ability to do very well in low light.
after three or four failed attempts the camera actually will display a "reinitializing the lens" message, and will retract and redeploy the lens..
the ancient nikon sp range finder film camera had one, the leica has one.
this camera is the best of both worlds, compact, has superior zoom capabilities, along with hd video.
by zanypoet from richmond, va about me photo enthusiast see all my reviews pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: ok, it doesn't have the articulating screen and the second command dial as p7100 but for a lot less, i can live with it.
nikon is known for  it's ergonomics, but who tested this camera?4)
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/10/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)4.0 a great "point and shoot"
turn this on and see for  yourself.
you can easily reach an in-house expert while browsing our site for your shopping needs.
i was quite impressed with the flash, small size but lots of power.
at least the nikon has a dial for exposure  compensation.3) itsy-bitsy dials and buttons.
you can adjust many things, and you are not carrying a big camera.
along came the p7000.
i don't have large hands, but the  controls seemed tiny to me, especially compared to the g10.
i wanted something with a faster start up time, good zoom and better auto-focusing for playing outside.
here's my experience with the camera, as limited as it is.1)
the lcd is great, very sharp.
i'm a nikon fan-boy and was glad to see nikon in this market segment.
slow refresh after menu settings.
the g10 returns to the image preview instantly after a setting has been changed.
was this review helpful?
with no standard restocking fee and few restrictions, youll enjoy a return process as easy as shopping with us.
what are the engineers thinking?7) still no 100% optical view finder.
1.2view more why shop at b&h make your online shopping trip personal with our online live chat representatives.
for example interval timer is  locked out of the main p,s,a,m priority settings…...why?• wb  balance.
i use an expodisc for my d700, you can use it for this little  camera too!
by jaws451 from bayville, nj about me photo enthusiast pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: lots to learn, but that means there are many options available.
please visit our return policy page for further details.
the nikon hesitates before  refreshing the screen.
the ancient  nikon sp range finder film camera had one, the leica has one.
but  it's a cumbersome system.• battery indicator.
there are certain functions in the camera that are locked out depending on  which shooting mode
under  normal in the house lighting everything is yellow, and i mean very yellow.
low noise night mode for beautiful photos without flash at night, with minimal noise.
it is slow to turn on and zoom which is my main gripe.
so i wouldn't have to take my dslr on vacation with me.
if you are a nikon shooter like me this camera will take some of your existing flash accessories including the su800.
not responsible for typographical or illustrative errors.
this camera will also allow you to do this, and it makes a noticeable improvement.•
next »12/23/2011 4.0 almost a p7100 with firmware update ...
by jan baard from johannesburg about me photo enthusiast pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: outdoor and family photo.
if you have to use the screen to aim the camera, why not have the convenience  one that swings and rotates?
the right  thumb rest on the back of the body got warm after only a few minutes of use.
you can focus manually, and it displays a magnified image of what you're focusing on in the center to assist you.
at least the nikon has a dial for exposure compensation.3) itsy-bitsy dials and buttons.
i could live with that for a ultra wide.
review snapshot®by powerreviews (based on 307 reviews) ratings distribution 5 stars (151) 4 stars (120) 3 stars (16)
if you have to use the screen to aim the camera, why not have the convenience one that swings and rotates?
the 3 user settings on the main command dial.
battery consumption is very favorable and the picture quality under a variety of conditions i do like.
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/17/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)4.0 p7000 review
there was no floor sample for me to try.
it does everything that my main camera does, plus a whole lot more.
captures images in raw.
by kingscapes from new york tri-state area about me semi-pro photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: main cameras are hasselblad film and nikon d3x this is a superb second camera that is easily carried in a pocket.
see high-resolution product images in close-up detail.
it has all the bells and whistles.
but there's a lot more.
perhaps i speak for my colleagues  when i contend we would prefer a true, 100% optical view finder.
the control wheel  on the back of the camera, near the top of the body is too small to move  easily, as are the other controls on the top of the body.
don't get caught without memory, get a high-capacitymemory card.
while definitely not a replacement for my slrs, it is a great little camera to have along at all times.
reviews reviewed by 307 customers sort bynewestoldesthighest ratinglowest ratingmost helpfulleast helpful displaying reviews 1-20 back to top previous |
no - you may also flag this review share this review12/8/2011 5.0 big bang for your buck!
pictures are noticeably noisy starting at iso 400, so i try to limit it to only 200 or so.
this built in flash works well on anything  that is close to the camera, but it is very weak in even slightly demanding  situations.
pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000
place your domestic order with us for shipment via ups, fedex economy, or fedex priority by 4 pm et monday through thursday or 11 am et friday and your order will be shipped that day.
we appreciate your purchase from us, and we understand that sometimes the products you buy dont turn out to be the right choice for you.
6) why not a 24mm equivalent?
by clutch56 from norco about me semi-pro photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: many features of pro dslr's in a small package.
delivery times are subject to payment verification.
but it's a cumbersome system.• battery indicator.
the screw on 20 or 21mm accessory lens is a colossal inconvenience;  i had one on a konica minolta a2.
no - you may also flag this review share this review11/25/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)5.0 the right camera for me
hello, nikon, i  thought you were listening to your customers.
this item can only be shipped to a us address.
yes, i would recommend this to a friend (1 of 2 customers found this review helpful)
there's also the smart portrait system, with in-camera red-eye fix, improved face-priority af, blink warning, smile timer, and skin softening to make your friends and family actually happy to see themselves in your pictures.
this is a compact camera for serious image-making.
or subject tracking to automatically track and auto focus on a moving subject; video recording with optical zoom and stereo sound; and 18 scene modes including the scene auto selector, which automatically recognizes any shooting situation and optimizes all the settings for that scene.
read complete review i eagerly awaited this camera as a replacement for my canon g10.
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/10/2011 (1 of 2 customers found this review helpful)4.0 small size but very similar to the dslrs by bart from bethlehem, pa about me
i bought  the camera yesterday from the 9th ave store and i'm returning it today.
digital camera: this product is so good to start leaning about doing pictures.
by stillkruzn from conway, ar about me semi-pro photographer pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i use this camera to shoot some of the pictures for my website.
it's a great size to just slip into your bag - although it is a tad large for your pocket.
by g2df from dallas, tx about me photo enthusiast pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i was at first confounded by the menus
what item is right for you?
the viewfinder is useful for bright sunny days, but it only covers 80% of the frame.
i have to disagree strongly with  the cameras proclaimed ability to do very well in low light.
also the panarama maker software does not work properly.
battery life, so far is good.
the email address you entered was an invalid email.
most liked positive review loaded with features p7000 review first off let me say this, this camera is not a replacement  for an slr.
it's a very nice camera if you  understand its limitations, anyone who loves fine tuning with settings on their  slr's will love this as a causal take everywhere camera.
no - you may also flag this review share this review11/21/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)4.0 really a good product by dad's girl from beminster, nj about me photo enthusiast
no - you may also flag this review share this review12/11/2011 3.0 great point and shoot
under normal in the house lighting everything is yellow, and i mean very yellow.
most enthusiasts and pros shoot raw.
no - you may also flag this review share this review12/12/2011 4.0 coolpix p7000 digital camera by nikon
store #0906712 elec. & home app.
packing this along instead of my slrs is cake.
what are the engineers thinking?7) still no  100% optical view finder.
no - you may also flag this review share this review11/8/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)4.0 great point and shoot
i own a d700 and love how i can fine tune  the saturation and hue to make colors pop.
pros cons best uses most liked positive review loaded with features p7000 review first off let me say this, this camera is not a replacement for an slr.
the camera locks after a raw image is captured and does not release until the file is written.
photo enthusiast pros cons best uses comments about nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera: i have two nikon dslrs but they are bulky and sometimes not welcome at concerts.
i wonder if that's  optimistic.
the nikon coolpix p7000 digital camera isn't loaded down with frivolous bells and whistles--it's gotseriously awesome bells and whistles like a 10.1mp ccd sensor, a sharp, wide-angle to telephoto 7.1x optical zoom lens (28-200mm 35mm equivalent) made with nikon ed glass, 720p hd video, 1.3 frames per second shooting at full resolution, 5-way image stabilization for sharp photos even in low light, and a beautiful 921,000-dot high resolution 3" lcd display.
ok, maybe it would  have to be only 135mm or 180mm at the long end.
the control wheel on the back of the camera, near the top of the body is too small to move easily, as are the other controls on the top of the body.
i saw a review and forum postings on [@] and  didn't believe them.
i have found that the camera tends to make shots alittle to dark for my tastes, so i often shoot at it +.3 to overcome this• picture controls.
use filtered search to find and purchase almost any item we sell and ship worldwide.
i had an older coolpix but it was only 3mp, so the time for upgrade was evident.
no - you may also flag this review share this review12/14/2011 4.0 fills my need
(battery and charger are included which is a plus!)... and buying a spare battery always allows you to have power on hand!
it should really help nikon and the vendors move the remaining stock of this "unloved" camera.
visit our shipping delivery times page for further details.
that said, this is still am  impressive little camera.
you have the camera set.
perhaps i speak for my colleagues when i contend we would prefer a true, 100% optical view finder.
in optimum situations it works fine, but when zoomed out it  can really start hunting for a lock on.
you can program three preset custom white  balance cards.
where's the articulated lcd?
ok, maybe it would have to be only 135mm or 180mm at the long end.
my day job as a commercial pilot takes me all over and having an almost slr-like camera in a small package is huge to me.
no real learning curve going from a nikon dslr to this.
yes, i would recommend this to a friend (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)
yes i listed the wb as a pro above, but it also has a negative.
the screw on 20 or 21mm accessory lens is a colossal inconvenience; i had one on a konica minolta a2.
the camera locks after a raw image is captured and does not release  until the file is written.
i didn't bother  with reviewing the images after i realized i don't want a camera with this kind  of performance.
fast auto focus and start-up, so you never miss a picture waiting for your camera to catch up.
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/5/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)4.0 love my coolpux p7000 by mal pal from wa about me photo enthusiast
no - you may also flag this review share this review10/15/2011 (1 of 1 customers found this review helpful)4.0 great landscape snapshots
to fix these  objections, the camera might have to be larger, but it would be a real  photography tool.
i don't have large hands, but the controls seemed tiny to me, especially compared to the g10.
the  viewfinder is useful for bright sunny days, but it only covers 80% of the  frame.
hello, nikon, i thought you were listening to your customers.
i use an expodisc for my d700, you can use it for this little camera too!