when we shot film we shot in both small (35mm)  and medium (645,  6×6 and 6×7) format at the same wedding.
the camera and the lens mounted are the tools of my trade.
search for:search for: wedding, photographer, malaysia, photographyblog design by tofurious | wpp
great question that i can’t answer as i shoot both.
you can leave a response, or trackback from your own  site.
for some people  (lazy jpeg shooters) this causes huge problems with matching colour.
jumping shots are so cliche!
leave a reply click here to cancel reply.
just as then, we use  different camera for different requirements.
not a religious experience or something lust worthy.
hope this answers some questions.
as one of my partners also has a mamiya with a phaseone back, we actually shoot 3 systems.
i am neither a fan boy, nor am i sponsored, by either brand.
this entry was posted on tuesday, september 14th, 2010 at 3:28 am and is  filed underfor photographers.
because we  shoot in raw to maximise quality, we face no colour variations between cameras.
the camera and the lens  mounted are the tools of my trade.
as one of my partners also has a  mamiya with a phaseone back, we actually  shoot 3 systems.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
just as then, we use different camera for different requirements.
because we shoot in raw to maximise quality, we face no colour variations between cameras.
with regard to the 2 “big brands”: my nikons are much faster  handling during an event and have a great flash system.
i am  neither a fan boy, nor am i sponsored, by either brand.
although i have shot many different types of weddings in many different locations, i believe the secret to my success is that i shoot every wedding as though it were my own.
otoh my canons while slower to use, have higher resolution, 1080p video mode, and some lenses i want to use not available from nikon.
otoh my canons while  slower to use, have higher resolution, 1080p video mode, and some lenses i want  to use not available from nikon.
although i have shot many different types of weddings in many different  locations, i believe the secret to my success is that i shoot every wedding as  though it were my own.
you can follow any responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
with regard to the 2 “big brands”: my nikons are much faster handling during an event and have a great flash system.
for some people (lazy jpeg shooters) this causes huge problems with matching colour.
you can follow any responses to this entry  through therss 2.0 feed.
my photojournalistic style of shooting ensures candid,  natural images that tell a unique romantic story – yours!
you can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
when we shot film we shot in both small (35mm) and medium (645, 6×6 and 6×7) format at the same wedding.
this entry was posted on tuesday, september 14th, 2010 at 3:28 am and is filed underfor photographers.
website i am an international photographer from new zealand, based in malaysia.
previous article:format your cards….or else!
canon or nikon…which is better?
my photojournalistic style of shooting ensures candid, natural images that tell a unique romantic story – yours!
not a religious experience or something lust  worthy.