- learn python - hello, world!
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
on the next page, we will look atthe php version of this setup and see how we can code the program to allow command-line execution and debugging.
previous this is not the beginning the python bang line the tasks this python program must do holding the user data in python with cgi holding the user data in python with php defining the first python function reading the rss feed as a python file object using a python iterator calling python's function, retrieving the feed address next part 2: getting feed information from the data file with python rssreader.cgi - python cgi for an rss reader python cgi - programming cgi with python - how to program cgi in python installing a guestbook - build
if you are at all uncomfortable with the cgi library, i encourage  you to read [link url=/od/cgiformswithpython/ss/pycgitut1.htm] my tutorial on  programming cgi with python.
the code looks like this: ## cgi version import cgi import cgitb; cgitb.enable() form = cgi.
a part of the new york times company.
your own using forms and cgi
if cgi is used for this program, the application  should have a 'cgi' suffix instead of the usual 'py'.
- python text editors - string methods - 1 of 2 by category - python tutorials - web programming - rss reader - advanced projects - cgi - beginning python - python 3.0 - python library - regular expressions - web development - advanced python - database programming - networking - scriptips - python jobs - programming glossary - suggested resources python - about.com - computing & technology - python - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
see more about: - "hello, world!" - line-by-line file analysis - what is python?
the way we assign data to feedname depends on whether we are using php or cgi as the intermediary.
let's call it something obscure like 'feedname'.
in addition to receiving the user data, we need to define a variable to hold the data.
if we use cgi, we will need to import the cgi and cgitb libraries, enablecgitb, and then assign the data from cgi.
in addition to receiving the user data, we need to define a variable to  hold the data.
previous next - this is not the beginning - the python bang line - the tasks this python program must do - holding the user data in python with cgi - holding the user data in python with php - defining the first python function - reading the rss feed as a python file object - using a python iterator - calling python's function, retrieving the feed address related articles - part 2: getting feed information from the data file with python - rssreader.cgi - python cgi for an rss reader - python cgi - programming cgi with python - how to program cgi in python - installing a guestbook - build your own - using forms and cgi explore python must reads most popular - what is python?
the way we  assign data to feedname depends on whether we are using php or cgi as the  intermediary.
fieldstorage to a dictionary from which we will cull the feedname by its html name  value, 'selection'.
if you are at all uncomfortable with the cgi library, i encourage you to read [link url=/od/cgiformswithpython/ss/pycgitut1.htm] my tutorial on programming cgi with python.
- python 3.0 - regular expressions
fieldstorage to a dictionary from which we will cull the feedname by its html name value, 'selection'.
the code looks like this: ## cgi version import cgi import cgitb; cgitb.enable() form =
fieldstorage() feedname =
previous next holding the user data in  python with cgi
form["selection"].value
- about.com - computing & technology - python python search - python - basic python - intermediate python - pro python discuss in our forum part 2: getting feed information from the data file with python from al lukaszewski, former about.com guide see more about: - python tutorials - web programming - rss reader - advanced projects - cgi 4 of 9 previous next holding the user data in python with cgi
if cgi is used for this program, the application should have a 'cgi' suffix instead of the usual 'py'.
on the next page, we will  look atthe php version of this setup and see how we can code the program to  allow command-line execution and debugging.