«« next » « previous «« next » «
reply is editable for 5 minutes.
develop, deploy and maintain in coda - 6.
- join dzone - why join?
the day i become unnecessary - the game of distributed systems programming.
new book: practical unit testing with testng and mockito 2.
develop, deploy and maintain in coda 6.
use [code lang="java|ruby|sql|css|xml"][/code] to post code snippets.
the presentation touches on light features but progresses into more complex ones.
tags: java, mobile, other languages upcoming links see all the newest links - using oauth2 for google apis with php - bandwidth media queries | css-tricks - setting the foundations for 802.11ac and 802.11ad - uniform function call syntax -
it shows this in the context of a simple android application.
by ittayd java to scala presentation via tikalk.com published: may 24 2011 / 12:58
how to rock out with jrebel and google web toolkit (gwt) 5.
head to head – jboss v ibm, tca 7.
the presentation shows how moving from java to scala improves productivity, modularity and robustness of the code.
how to rock out with jrebel and google web toolkit (gwt) - 5.
«« next » « previous protocol specifications written in python .net 4.5 and how it sits in the .net ecosystem best practices for getting started with django ja.net
provides support for compilation of java to .net a tutorial on paging and iterating over large mongodb collection advantages of managing your servers in the cloud google apps vault improves usage for enterprises browse links by tag all .net agile ajax announcement apple books  c-and-cpp cloud coldfusion css-html database eclipse flash-flex frameworks games groovy gui hardware how-to humor java javascript methodology microsoft mobile  news open source opinion other languages perl php python research  reviews ria ruby security server standards tools trends unix-linux usability  web 2.0 web design web services windows xml eclipse
head to head – jboss v ibm, tca - 7.
- protocol specifications written in python - .net 4.5 and how it sits in the .net ecosystem - best practices for getting started with django - ja.net provides support for compilation of java to .net - a tutorial on paging and iterating over large mongodb collection - advantages of managing your servers in the cloud - google apps vault improves usage for enterprises browse links by tag all .net agile ajax announcement apple books c-and-cpp cloud coldfusion css-html database eclipse flash-flex frameworks games groovy gui hardware how-to humor java javascript methodology microsoft mobile news open source opinion other languages perl php python research reviews ria ruby security server standards tools trends unix-linux usability web 2.0 web design web services windows xml eclipse written by: ed burnette featured refcardz: top refcardz: - eclipse for spring - mvvm pattern - eclipse rcp - silverlight/wp7 - eclipse plug-ins - jquery selectors - java - ajax - spring config.
vote up vote down tweet savesharesend
implementing drag and drop functions with html5 and javascript 4.
new book: practical unit testing with testng and mockito - 2.
- css part 1 150+ refcardz available · get them all add a link | popular links | new links |
add your comment - html tags not supported.
- - voters for this link (10) - ittayd - yoursrafiq - mswatcher - rjernigan - eriksensei - yardena - ojowoo - alireza.haghighatkhah@gmail.com - igobranco - adelarsq voters against this link (0)
saved | shared | top | online link details previous | next surprise me!
implementing drag and drop functions with html5 and javascript - 4.
intellij idea 11.1 is released and makes the mission complete!
- home - microzones - nosql - html5 - devops - solr-lucene - windows phone - python - .net - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides & tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - refcardz - itquestions - snippets - about - about dzone - tools & buttons - send feedback - advertising - log in username password remember me forgot your password?