here is a.m. kuchling's python-dev summary for december 15.
the information is licensed under the gnu free documentation license.
the free software foundation europe is currently in creation and it is planned to take up work in germany, france, sweden and italy within the first quarter of 2001.
tk: the forgotten language (linux.com).
sorted by section and sorted by license our software announcements are provided courtesy of freshmeat see also: last week's back page page.
after examining many potential topics and discarding them, the question was asked, what has changed the most since 1999?
could the rush to invest in companies which base their business models on free software be the last straw?
perhaps  most strikingly, the release of mysql under the gpl license (its former license  was not completely free) was pushed primarily by commercial considerations.
midgard 1.4 "bifrost" released.
for those of you following alan's patches to the prepatch system, his latest patch is2.4.0test13pre4ac2.
stories covered this past week included the fundamentals of real-time linux software design, an update on indrema's linux-based set-top game console, and the launch of several embedded linux training programs.
el/ix finds a home on netsilicon socs (linuxdevices).
there is a newr-base package available.
"does the average user really need a bunch of terminal apps, several hex editors, a mail and web server, and a bevy of compilers?
section editor: rebecca sobol please note that not every distribution will show up every week.
more stunnel updates are being released to address these additional problems.
the new features, gnome-integration, and bugfixes are too numerous to list here.
the new business climate demands that they do so,  or at least clearly chart how quickly they are going to get there.
it is an extensive work, looking at zope's capabilities and disadvantages (the main one being the well-known difficulty of mastering the system).
lwn looked at pocketlinux running on the compaq ipaq color palmtopat comdex, last november.
think blue linux (oracle's nic) nic linux (pa-risc) pa-risc linux (playstation) runix (powerpc) black lab linux linuxppc mklinux yellow dog (sparc) splack ultralinux (older intel) clarkconnect monkey linux tiny dos/windows install armed linux dragonlinux phat linux diskless terminal gnu/linux terminalserver for schools k12ltsp ltsp
it is also important to note the increase in the tendancy for unix desktop user to prefer html-rendering mail clients.
" abiword 0.7.12 released.
just as the success of microsoft  spawned many small companies looking to make money off of integration, add-ons,  support, etc., the heavy use of linux and open source at ibm, hp, compaq, dell  and, dare we say, sun, will produce a fertile field for small companies.
here is the  permanent site for this page.
nsa security-enhanced linux available.
this week's updates: dns-based irc server denial-of-service vulnerabilities.
lacking a proper database, we make no claims for absolute accuracy.
that's an important part of this community.
rackspace.com actually filed its ipo, but  has been quiet ever since.
using a broad rule of thumb, we searched for repeating themes that came up virtually every month and found five of them: a corollary of this plan was the tendency of open source development projects to become tightly tied to a single commercial entity.
i was anxious to add my signature to what i assumed would be a petition to british telecom urging them to drop their absurd lawsuit.
section editor: rebecca sobol.
"before you attempt to use any of the add-on development toolkits, i recommend that you first install the handhelds.org environment, and become familiar with its resources.
the following cgi-bin scripts were reported to contain vulnerabilities: commercial products.
the confusion stems from an assumption that dependant operations are queued to the disk device all together.
one such vulnerability involves the logging of the stunnel process id to a non-existent directory.
do heavy investments from the big companies presage the end or failure of small linux-based companies?
afaik, the main problem is a "symlink attack": if an attacker can guess that a program might open the file /tmp/foo for writing, they can create a symbolic link from /tmp/foo to /etc/passwd, say.
some exciting products not  yet to a stable release included helix code'sevolution and eazel's nautilus,  both exciting projects for the future of the desktop.
some of the most notable include  sun's release of star office under the gpl, ibm's release of afs, sashxb and  and the jikes java compiler, trg's release of the nwfs 2.2 netware file system,  inprise's release of the interbase database, and sgi's release of opengl, along  with c, c+ and fortran compilers for the ia-64 architecture, to provide only a  few examples.
it seemed worthwhile to see if we couldn't produce some rough numbers to illustrate this change.
the year for open source (upside).
that's because the add-ons rely heavily on the handhelds.org environment as a base for many of their services.
you'll probably get a lot of letters like this one ... http://lwn.net/2000/1221/security.php3: > into this model was introduced /tmp, a shared directory to which > anyone had write privileges and the ability to delete files created by > other users.
all the details are handled transparently so you can just run your perl script like normal.
c|net's news.com reports onlinux beating windows to the itanium punch. "
this "petition" is not addressed to british telecom and does not actually make any request.
major differences in beta 2 include glibc2.2, 2.4.0-test10 kernel and post-2.0.1 kde.
this article is the second in a linuxdevices.com series by jerry epplin that explores linux on pdas and handheld devices.
the python  team moved en masse, first to beopen, and later to digital creations.
leading items and editorials
if that isn't ease of use, i don't know what is."
this is *not*, in fact, a petition.
"this is an impressive desktop.
note that the change mentioned above is political in nature and could be just as easily reversed.
note that this is a work in progress; comments and feedback from our readers is essential in order to complete the timeline.
this distribution was first discussed in thejanuary 13th, 2000 distributions summary and was aimed at isps and e-business customers.
helix gnome: linux on the desktop, part 1 (computer source).
the latest issue of dr. dobb's tcl-url is now available.
the weather at nearby coogee beach has been brilliant recently!"
this is an installation routine a neophyte could use.
db2 magazine has taken a look atlinux as a contender in the enterprise market.
what were the major trends for linux and open source/free software in 2000?
nsa security-enhanced linux, 9  new vulnerability reports, 10 distribution updates.
never a month went by without the  announcement of new mergers and acquisitions.
inside this week's linux weekly news: this week's lwn was brought to you by: see also: last week's security page.
lwn security summary for the initial report of this problem.
upcoming releases of zope 2.2.5 and zope 2.3 alpha are discussed.
the development kernel was version 2.3.35 and the stable kernel was still version 2.2.13, but the fix of a major ide bug would allow version 2.2.14 to move forward.
"on starting the program up, i immediately understood where the rumors of emacs' gnomeification had come from: where the program used to present a very sparse, black and white window with simple, unadorned, menus it now has a toolbar providing a set of basic buttons familiar to anyone who's ever used gnome or a gtk app.
the weekly embedded linux newsletter from linuxdevices.com has been published.
"inline lets you write perl subroutines in other programming languages like c. you don't need to compile anything.
although the default color scheme was pleasing, i was able after a few minutes to choose an alternative one i liked better.
" python-dev summary.
from the announcement: "this release represents a huge step forward for the abiword team.
linux.com's mark stone discusses tcl/tk and discusses the process of writing a graphical network configuration utility.
their plans are covered inthis cnet article.
meanwhile, compatible production versions of linux from red hat, turbolinux and caldera systems are scheduled to debut at the same time as the chip itself, the linux companies said.
it is amazing to look back on some of the lwn security summaries from 1999 and find some that display in a single page view or contain no more than six paragraphs of information.
sid has been released under the gnu general public license.
more stunnel vulnerabilities have been reported, in addition to the ones discussedlast week.
this week, i.c. wiener published a securid token emulator, prompting a discussion on bugtraq of the implications.
if this verdict holds, it should provide a more solid ground for the safety of cryptographic development in the us, as well as a wonderful precedent for future software- and freedom-related lawsuits.
linuxplanet plays with an emacs 21.0 prerelease.
it took him longer to fill in his information and download the source code from ibm than it took for him to install and configure the db2 database on the linux box.
reader contributions are kept in a log, so credit will be given where due.
the new business climate demands that they do so, or at least clearly chart how quickly they are going to get there.
this was a relatively light week for the linux-kernel mailing list, with about half of the normal volume of posts.
dr. dobbs' tcl-url (dec. 26th).
it is much closer to what the new user needs - an install program that holds your hand and gets you into the system as soon as possible.
this week's updates: kerberized telnetd.
"in the last edition for the year 2000 of the people behind kde series, tink introduces us to stefan taferner, co-author of kmail and a main contributor to central technologies in the kde project.
we'll take another step down the road towards becoming a ubiquitous part of "how things are done".
support for the ibm s/390 was to be included in version 2.2.14.
that  is one trend that we hope not to see repeated!
bifrost blue cat linux bluepoint embedded compact linux coollinux dsplinux
continued progress on the  desktop.
zdnet reports on e-smith's partner program.
the osdem is happening february 3 - 4, 2001 at the universite libre de bruxelles.
for the second item, we found the average size of a security summary in 1999 to be around 6.2kb, while in 2000, the average was 16.1kb, an even larger growth.
i especially like your editorializing of bugtraq threads...this week's comments on the /tmp discussion is a great example.
mergers happen outside the  business world as well, such as the merger of the linux standard base (lsb) and  linux internationalization initiative (li18nux) (may 2000), which resulted in  the formation of a new entity, thefree standards group.
there are mock awards followed by a serious recognition of those who have worked hard on the project.
stallman finished the 'serious part' of his speech by stating that 'freedom isn't granted, we have to fight for it', and 'battle isn't won yet, it's only beginning', and asking for our help - primarily in helping the fsf to reach as many gnu/linux users as possible, and evangelising the 'freedom of software' whenever possible.
debian sent out two reports on december 22, 2000.
here's the latest news on linux.conf.au in sydney, australia, january 17 - 20, 2001.
the site describes what has been done, though in fairly abstract terms.
heck, the average developer doesn't even need all that."
additionally, the "new" red hat network-aware update agent that first shipped with red hat linux 7.0 is now available for red hat linux 6.2.
when you understand nt....you will understand nt" - richard thiemehttp://www.slothnet.com - is currently unavailable :( date: thu, 21 dec 2000 11:13:20 -0500
e-smith's partner program initially has signed up 19 companies.
however, the rtlinux patent, the amazon patent on its  affiliate program, microsoft's successful enforcement of its patent on the  active stream file format against thevirtualdub (gpl'd) project and the latest,  british telecom's suit against prodigy for violation of, essentially, a patent  on the concept of a "link", stand out as infamous examples.
were also going to look at some of the new universal clients available for gnu/linux that let you use aol, msn, yahoo and icq all at the same time, with only one client.
version 0.9 of the javascript&dom factoryis available.
(thanks to joseph klemmer).
that is one trend that we hope not to see repeated!
sourceforge sweetcode javascript&dom factory version 0.9.
what were the major trends for linux and open source/free software  in 2000?
adam shostack commented that such code has been in the wild since 1996 and that its current publication will have the value of allowing a real test of the assertion that the numbers on the securid card do not reveal sufficient information to determine the card's secret.
inside this week's linux weekly news: security: so what was different in 2000?
note that the change mentioned above is political in nature and could be  just as easily reversed.
qgtkwidget and qgtkapplications are classes for combining qt and gtk widgets in a single application.
mergers and acquisitions.
bsd information has been added, now that our bsd coverage is officially included, and a new section with pointers to web pages that contain subscription information for security and security announcement lists for various distributions is now available as well.
a securid module is available for apache, for example.
a total of 485 release-critical bugs need to be stamped out.
the  trend we found was actually more a story of planned or announced ipos that  never happened.
new mozilla roadmap posted (mozilla.org).
a new release of the midgard content management system has been announced.
transvirtual technologies, inc. is the developer of pocketlinux , an embedded distribution.
the folks at loki have set out to prove the linux 2.x kernel and glibc2 can render special effects that rival anything seen on windows.
when he stopped by that evening, i set up the same two systems and had him install red hat 6.1, which took about 30 minutes, and then the db2 database on both red hat boxes.
we'll take another step down the road towards becoming a ubiquitous part  of "how things are done".
spurred by this excellent post by matt power (bindview) to bugtraq this past week, the security links listed in our right-hand column have had a major overhaul.
thesecond report is a bug stamp list.
le choix de zope comme plateforme d'enseignement à distance.
all of the major software companies out  there are focused on linux and free software, no longer as a get-rich trick,  but as an essential part of their business plan.
here's a report on richard stallman's talk at mandrakesoft on the linux-mandrake forum site. "
since it is amazing how many otherwise experienced people don't know about the "sticky bit" on directories, you really should have mentioned here that /tmp is usually created with permissions 1777, which means it is "append-only": you can't delete other people's files.
linuxfund  announced an ipo, but never filed.
we've hammered on this issue so much this year that we'll  tread lightly for now.
what else, then, will next year bring?
the event will be held october 10-12, 2001, in davis, ca, usa.
i handed him all the necessary how-to information and asked him to come by my computer lab when he thought he could install linux and db2.
but no one has volunteered to do cobol yet.").
people of kde: stefan taferner.
numerous bugs have been fixed with this release.
lunar penguin bites the dust.
and so the year comes to the  close.
check the november 23rd
"rsbac appears to have similar goals to the security-enhanced linux.
other patches and updates released this week include: section editor: jonathan corbet
this announcement includes the list of speakers and other important information for attendees.
companies that cannot do one or the other will be looking either at failure or a sale.
peanut linux pklinux relax linux ta-linux tomukas ttylinux vectorlinux wireless bambi linux flying linux hardware-specific (arm) arm linux (beowulf) scyld beowulf (ibm)
"e-smith targets small businesses 5 to 100 users with its linux wares.
rsbac uses a different architecture (the generalized framework for access control or gfac) than the security-enhanced linux, although the flask paper notes that at the highest level of abstraction, the the flask architecture is consistent with the gfac.
i don't know of any legitimate application that require symbolic links in /tmp, so this solution should perhaps be considered as an option for linux.
of course, the prices  we'll be seeing won't match the types of sales and acquisitions we saw during  the ipo boom; bargain-basement prices are much more likely, particularly for  companies that are not yet in the black.
instead, only a few  successful ipos actually happened over the past year (caldera, lineo).
eric raymond made it into the list of the 25 most powerful executives in networking, according to network world, based on his role as president of theopen source initiative.
open source and 'sexy' projects (osopinion).
softupdates deals with these interdependant cases by actually unrolling portions of the buffers when writing them to disk to guarentee consistency on-disk, allowing it to operate almost completely asynchronously without endangering the filesystem a log-structured filesytem deals with such cases by writing a sequential log, but there is nothing preventing even a log structured filesystem from writing a bunch of log blocks in random order as long as it doesn't try to recover past any holes created due to a crash or commit the file structure until after the (asynchronous) log block i/o has completed.
companies  that cannot do one or the other will be looking either at failure or a sale.
linux and free software is gaining in popularity, more and more people are using and scrutinizing the software, therefore more problems are being found and reported.
also fixed with the security patch was a problem withdetached signatures, which could cause false-positive verfications.
a sneak preview of emacs 21.0 (linuxplanet).
some exciting products not yet to a stable release included helix code'sevolution and eazel's nautilus, both exciting projects for the future of the desktop.
announced in january, sourceforge has grown to host over 12,000 software development projects, all of them free/open source.
on the other hand, members of the center will be the ones reviewing and approving new benchmarks and ratings as they come out, so it may well be difficult to both move forward in a timely manner and prevent bias toward member products.
note that this problem has not been confirmed on other bsd or linux systems.
stefan taferner, co-author of kmail and a main contributor to central technologies in the kde project, was the latest contributor profiled in thepeople behind kde series.
not a comprehensive list, by any means.
the menus, except for the inclusion of no less than five text editors/word processors, was complete and yet not overbearing."
lineo took the lead with multiple  acquisitions, including zentropix, use inc., moreton bay, inup, fireplug and  rt-control.
this is the time of year when we take a step back and try to get  an overall perspective, as well as some guesses as to what lies ahead.
a couple of new gnupg security problems were covered inlast week's lwn security summary.
for  those of you interested in previous such efforts, feel free to check out the  end-of-year coverage from1999 and 1998 as well.
although we wish them the best, we'll reiterate our stance in favor of competition and hope to see a staunch free software advocate or two come out with a comparable system in the coming year.
many of these clients - especially the ones that are incorporated into a browser - may have active scripting vunerabilies that could allow manipulation or deletion of the user's local files.
now for the hard part.
mergers happen outside the business world as well, such as the merger of the linux standard base (lsb) and linux internationalization initiative (li18nux) (may 2000), which resulted in the formation of a new entity, thefree standards group.
-- "when you understand unix, you will understand the world.
linuxcare's ipo was announced, then cancelled.
you do a great job with the security page at lwn.
regards, davina armstrong
however, the gfac does not seem to fully address the issue of policy changes and revocation, as discussed in the flask paper.
the call for papers for the fourth international symposium on the recent advances in intrusion detection (raid 2001) has been released.
kernel: development versions of gcc encouraged for debugging, dirty  buffers get cleaned up, wait queues and semaphores, oh my! distributions: linux mandrake donates to the free software foundation,  lunar penguin bites the dust, the first annual ppc/linux community awards.
there are 71 packages up for adoption.
review: best linux 2000 r3 (duke of url).
a  lot of work remains to be done to provide all the tools that desktop customers  need and want, particularly tools that meet our standards: full-featured,  high-performanceand robust.
forrest cook see also: last week's announcements page.
well, we'll  refrain from any attempt to predict the overall economic health of the us or  any other country in the world.
starting with the first item, we quickly scanned through old issues and estimated the number of new vulnerabilities we reported each month for both 1999 and 2000.
the december 21, 2000 edition of the zope weekly news is available.
the staff at the linux hardware database have put togetherthe ultimate guide to finding the perfect linux laptop .
"gone is the talk about changing the software industry as we know it.
abiword 0.7.12 has been released.
a lot of work remains to be done to provide all the tools that desktop customers need and want, particularly tools that meet our standards: full-featured, high-performanceand robust.
date: thu, 21 dec 2000 00:43:31 -0800 (pst) from: matt dillon  to: letters@lwn.net subject: yet more on elevator algorithms and write ordering i'm afraid there is considerable confusion over write ordering in a filesystem.
a new mozilla roadmap has been posted by brendan eich on mozilla.org.
" linux laptop superguide (zdnet).
this assumption is not true of ffs with softupdates.
this week's updates: ethereal buffer overflow.
i suspect that the reason we have not seen more email-born malware in the unix environment is not due to the slightly limited scope of the damage that can be done.
" open source stalwart sendmail looks to wireless for profits (upside) .
in its place stands a familiar set of the goals: earning money, building market share, maximizing shareholder return and, of course, keeping an even keel in case this new economy thing was everything it was made out to be three years ago.
ffs with softupdates turned on will queue all *non* dependant buffers to disk all at once and doesn't care in the least whether the kernel, the disk device, or the physical disk itself reorders the writes.
increased international presence.
it will protect them  from increasing software costs.
on the legal front, a good step forward was made in april, when the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit published its decision regarding peter junger's challenge to the export administration regulations which prevented him from posting information on the internet that contained cryptographic example code.
pygmy xdenu linux mandrake donates to the free software foundation.
of course, although sizes are easy to calculate accurately, they are less reliable as an indication of increased activity; maybe we are just getting more loquacious.
transvirtual integrates jabber into pocketlinux platform.
" birth of a new embedded linux company (linuxdevices).
when times are tight and  people are examining the bottom line carefully, the long-term advantage of  using free software will shine.
that is estimated to be  over 75% of the "free software universe".
loki's myth ii: soulblighter is examined in this selection of video and computer game reviews.
with an open license, instead of all that packaging, all you need to keep track of are license numbers or unlocking keycodes - and those can even be delivered by e-mail.
it will provide a safe environment for  collaboration and cooperation between companies, for strategic partnerships and  more.
check the december 14th
a new, 71-member organization, thecenter for internet security, plans to build benchmarks and rating methodologies in order to provide "a "security ruler" defining a minimum level of security and then incrementally greater levels of security from which an organization can choose the desired level of security for its systems".
mr. powell discusses the use of lprng to achieve mr. carter's goals of featherweight printing, simple filters, security, and print status reporting.
note that the discussion last week mentioned two vulnerabilities but only discussed one of them, a problem with trust circumvention.
some major development milestones we'd like to celebrate: xfree86  4.0, kde 2.0, perl 5.6.0, php 4.0, postgresql 7.0, gnucash 1.4, python 1.6 and  2.0, and netscape 6 (the first based on mozilla).
jython 2.0 alpha 3 released.
(see also:ted ts'o's comments on slashdot on this release).
it will help protect them from lawsuits based on the number of copies of a piece of software they may be using.
despite the large wave of linux based ipos going on at the time, that one failed to materialize.
this version has lots of bug fixes and new features.
"the sequel to 1997's acclaimed myth: the fallen lords brings a rich, 3-d experience to linux war games.
" e-smith launches partner program (zdnet).
although we wish them the  best, we'll reiterate our stance in favor of competition and hope to see a  staunch free software advocate or two come out with a comparable system in the  coming year.
ext2fs is roughly similar to ffs.
(thanks to stéfane fermigier).
tiny linux, intended for small, obsolete computers, was released.
when times are tight and people are examining the bottom line carefully, the long-term advantage of using free software will shine.
"so what is an 'open license'?
the icons are beautiful, and the menus are well-coordinated.
while this sort of thing doesn't make much sense under normal circumstances, it can be used to help kde and gnome applications interact better (think of adding gnome control-center plugins to kcontrol and vice versa).
some striking examples include the chinese government's  interest in and support of linux (january 2000), the integration of open source  into plans to improve the european software industry (february 2000), a  proposed french law requiring open standards and the availability of source  code for software used by the government (april 2000), and the strong stance in  support of open source by siegmar mosdorf, german secretary of state in the  federal ministry for economy and technology (july 2000).
a security patch against gnupg-1.0.4 was also issued.
2000 stands out for highs and lows for linux and  free software.
"i may resurrect it later but it's gone for now... :-(".
after examining the reasons for choosing linux, they move on, not too surprisingly, to talking about the combination of linux and db2.
i suspect that you made the above comment because the email attatchment can only run in the context of the user reading the mail, and that user should not be root.
from: joe louderback  to: letters@lwn.net subject: defamation of fortran in this forum mr. kastrup took linus torvalds to task for incorrectly claiming arrays in pascal start at 1.
what will the next year bring?
local and regional integrators and resellers as well as system builders represent the company's primary channel to reach that customer set.
(thanks to cesar a. k. grossmann).
ofir arkin has released version 2.5 of his icmp usage in scanning research paper.
nonetheless, we will predict that free software and the value of the concepts behind it will weather both good news and bad.
mandrakesoft announced a donation of 2500 euro to the free software foundation europe, the acknowledged sister organization of the free software foundation in the united states.
so what was different in 2000?.
" linux: a contender for the enterprise market (db2).
itanium is scheduled to ship in the first half of 2001, but a new version of windows tailored for the chip won't arrive until the second half, intel and microsoft representatives said.
elinos elks embedded debian embedix etlinux flightlinux hard hat linux jailbait linux/coldfire lem midori neolinux oncore systems peeweelinux redblue linux redice-linux royal linux rtlinux tynux uclinux white dwarf linux handhelds/pdas agenda-vr familiar (ipaq) intimate (ipaq) linux da pocketlinux psilinux secured distributions: astaro security castle engarde secure linux immunix kaladix linux nsa security enhanced openwall gnu/linux trustix special purpose/mini 2-disk xwindow system mindi linux smoothwall floppy-based brutalware byld coyote linux dlx fd linux fli4l (floppy isdn/dsl) floppyfw floppix freesco linux in a pillbox (liap) linux router project loaf mulinux nuclinux proxyfloppy sharethenet small linux tomsrtbt viralinux_ii cd-based basiclinux bblcd toolkit cdlinux crash recovery kit demolinux devil-linux finnix gibraltar innominate bootable business card linuxcare bootable business card lnx-bbc mkcdrec runoncd sentry firewall superrescue timo's rescue cd ututo virtual linux zip disk-based nbrok zipslack small disk hal91 microlinux -->
well, aside from those constant trends, there were a few successes that stood out above the rest.
all of the advance work paid off and computers all around the world sailed smoothly into year19100.
richard stallman visits mandrakesoft.
" linux is too much (zdnet).
upside names the year 2000 as the "year for open source" in a two part series covering thefirst half and second half of the year.
after further discussion on the list, theofficial position is that the bug is not reproduceable.
instead, i found the following: "british telecom is claiming they own the rights to the hyperlink.
the discussion centered on whether adding the complexity of a web server to the kernel was justifiable, even if it produced an incredibly fast web server.
the inclusion of the kernel based web server, khttpd, was debated.
here are a couple of discussion items that came up this week: so go dig up the new compilers, folks.
jérôme alet of the faculté de médecine de nice has posteda lengthy study (in french) on the use of zope in remote teaching applications.
" redmond linux beta 2 released.
don't shoot us for leaving out the other 99% -- this edition would never have made it out the door.
real atone(50) integer atminusthree(-3:50) logical atsix(6:50) joe louderback, itinerant physicist and occasional fortran programmer date: tue, 26 dec 2000 13:04:42 -0800 from: davina armstrong  to: letters@lwn.net subject: rick collette's "petition" to british telecom
they are currently suing prodigy for this, and it's only going to worsen.
upcoming security events.
"readers in australia, new zealand and elsewhere had better make sure to arrange their travel and be sure to bring adequate sunscreen and beachwear.
it will protect them from increasing software costs.
the lunar penguin distribution has been removed from the lwn distributions list upon confirmation from project founder chuck smead that the project is dead.
debian needs developers.
most corporate environments have decent backup policies for end users, but home users typically don't back up files as often as they should, and a piece of malware that destroyed local user files could be very nasty for them.
red hat also went  on a buying spree, picking up hell's kitchens, bluecurve, c2net and, most  notably, cygnus (whereby they acquired their current cto, michael tiemann).
one new prepatch for 2.2.19 has been released this week,2.2.19pre3.
that's just the commercial world, of course.
high profile python projects.
more and more companies will also see the legal  advantage of open source.
" vendor security information update.
yet another cool application running on a handheld device.
in the midst of a massive loss of value for linux stocks on the nasdaq exchange, ibm announced plans to pour a billion us dollars into linux next year and more billions of dollars over the years to come.
some hackers are writing an open source cobol, something i never expected would happen (i have a january 1993 copy of the gnu's bulletin, pg. 11, quote: "?
john gowin from linux orbit writes about various instant messaging programs for linux.
when someone starts a real petition to british telecom about this issue, i will be more than happy to add my signature to it.
if the program is running as root, it overwrites the password file, unless the program was clever enough to use o_excl, but even then, there may be a possibility for a denial-of-service of attack.
if the *nix world starts to be predominated by a single email client, it will start to attract malware authors.
that  arena will be particularly fertilebecause open source protects the  rights and opportunities of all comers, providing natural obstacles to  monopolies.
that's an important  part of this community.
it covers a number of development topics, including unit testing, the proposed (and rejected)__findattr__ extension, and the progress of several enhancement proposals.
corresponding to the failed ipos was the first layoffs in linux-related  companies.
edmund date: thu, 21 dec 2000 11:09:18 +0000 (gmt) from: joey maier  to: lwn@lwn.net subject: to: liz coolbaugh hi liz, first off, thanks for the good work.
zdnet's evan leibovitch looks at "open licensing" schemes.
a new release of jython, the java implementation of python,has been announced.
(loss of data can be enough of a problem, even if the system configuration is unharmed.)
you can find out more atred hat's sid page.
date event location for additional security-related events, included training courses (which we don't list above) and events further in the future, check out security focus' calendar, one of the primary resources we use for building the above list.
why would anyone sign it?
planned or filed ipos that didn't happen.
tuxia's initial embedded linux product family, expected to become available early in 2001, is a software suite called "taste" (which stands for tuxia appliance synthesis technology enabled).
loki's game gets a review.
the link provided is just to the press release; the full coverage is likely only available in the print magazine, at least for now.
xhtml 1.0 reference with examples.
we must stand up and put a stop to this craziness.
penguinppc.org presents a roast/toast for the year 2000.
" wei zhong oriental language environment.
date event location additional events can be found in the lwn event calendar.
if this verdict holds, it should provide a more  solid ground for the safety of cryptographic development in the us, as well as  a wonderful precedent for future software- and freedom-related lawsuits.
also from db2 magazine: serving up linux, with details on the beta version of ibm's db2 universal database enterprise-extended edition (db2 udb eee) for linux.
version 1.0 came out in april, 2000 and the project is still active.
following older examples, such as the tie between sendmail and sendmail, inc., zope and digital creations, this year postgresql gained great bridges as a sponsor.
the debian advisory below is the first and only reference to the problem we have found so far.
this document gives a good idea of where the mozilla project is headed in 2001.
examples can be found each and every month.
on the legal front, a good step forward was made in  april, when the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit published  its decision regarding peter junger's challenge to the export administration  regulations which prevented him from posting information on the internet that  contained cryptographic example code.
version 0.6 of the bluefish html editor is now available.
"in this article series, we're going to take a look at some of the im clients available for gnu/linux and rate them.
the kpart component model is extended to allow embedding of any process within a kde window, including gtk+ based applications like mozilla, in this white paper.
wide open still exists, of course, but no longer produces  original content.
following older  examples, such as the tie between sendmail and sendmail, inc., zope and digital  creations, this year postgresql gained great bridges as a sponsor.
this week's updates: more stunnel vulnerabilities.
gnumeric 0.61 released.
companies were lining up to become strategic partners to the mysql development, but wanted to see the gpl used to protect their interests.
the following commercial products were reported to contain vulnerabilities: gnupg web of trust circumvention.
the center itself is not-for-profit, so we presumably shouldn't see expensive fees for getting products or systems "rated" by the center.
a new version ofupdate agent is available which has more features and fixes many bugs present in the existing agent.
lwn security summary for the original report of denial-of-service vulnerabilities and more in multiple irc clients, including bitchx 1.0c17-2 and earlier.
more and more companies will also see the legal advantage of open source.
securid from rsa is a proprietary two-factor authentication process, utilizing a combination of a password and a security card, on which rsa has based products for remote access and e-business.
december/january/february events.
from the perspective of writing this column, the sheer volume of information that is being reported stands out as the largest change.
this osopinion piece gives some answers. "
this is a tool that aids in the debugging of javascript and dom code by providing object reference materials.
reader contributions are kept in a log, so credit will be given where  due.
the reality is that many companies  are not yet making a profit.
miloslav nic has provided this xhtml 1.0 reference on zvon.org, the document describes the reformulation of html 4.0 as an xml 1.0 application.
red hat has introduced sid, a framework for building computer system simulations.
nonetheless, our rough numbers strongly back up the assertion that security activity has more than doubled over the past year.
a one-byte buffer overflow was reportedlast week in the ftpd server provided with bsd.
" linux companies beat microsoft in itanium support (news.com).
correspondingly though, the likelihood of one of those small  companies growing large enough to push the entrenched beasts out of the field  is much less likely.
inline 0.30 released.
a corollary of this plan was the tendency of open source development  projects to become tightly tied to a single commercial entity.
this is merely a statement of fact.
correspondingly though, the likelihood of one of those small companies growing large enough to push the entrenched beasts out of the field is much less likely.
only distributions with recent news to report will be listed.
while this is correct, it simply means that malware is limited in the amount of damage that it can do to the system configuration.
hacking the ipaq with linux, for fun and profit (linuxdevices).
matt kraai reported a symlink problem with the manner in which dialog handles lockfiles.
multiple buffer overflows and format string vulnerabilities have been reported in the halflifeserver.
dialog lockfile symlink vulnerability.
theweb site has been recently updated and contains all the info you need about schedules, topics, speakers, sponsors, sign ups and more.
on the up-side, the european patent convention voted in november against  legitimizing software patents, at least for now.
at the beginning of 2000, we  looked forward to a boatload of linux-related ipos.
he's currently working on merging the 2.2.18 fixes into the 2.4.0 tree.
and they achieve their goal with verve."
of course, to provide a counter-example of the potential dangers when  governments get involved, poland taxed a commercial company for its use of open  source software, contending that it must be accounted for as a donation.
i was very interested in your coverage of british telecom's patent infringement lawsuit against prodigy (lwn 12/21/00).
wzole supports large character sets.
all of the major software companies out there are focused on linux and free software, no longer as a get-rich trick, but as an essential part of their business plan.
the mysql packages shipped in red hat linux 7 as well as the updateshad bugs which caused the db engine to return bad results or crash.
" their gain, your pain (zdnet).
a malicious program in a unix environment could still destroy all of the files of the user.
see also: last week's lwn.
red hat unveils new open source simulation tool.
however, it does give us a kind of scary feeling about 2001 ...
in part 1 of this series, we'll look at the aol im service and the linux clients available.
in may, 2000, we saw both 35% of linuxcare's staff laid off and, in  addition, almost the entire staff ofwide open news, red hat's attempt at a  linux news service.
in  the midst of a massive loss of value for linux stocks on the nasdaq exchange,  ibm announced plans to pour a billion us dollars into linux next year and more  billions of dollars over the years to come.
the python team moved en masse, first to beopen, and later to digital creations.
lists of distributions distrowatch ibiblio kernelnotes linux.com linuxlinks woven goods embedded distributions: 3ilinux
leading caldera openlinux debian gnu/linux linux-mandrake red hat slackware suse turbolinux also well-known asplinux best linux conectiva linux e-smith kondara mnu/linux progeny rock linux non-technical desktop easylinux icepack linux independence libranet redmond linux winslack education boston university kmlinux linuxfromscratch openclassroom red escolar general purpose alzza linux axon linux bad penguin linux bearops black cat linux bluepoint linux byo linux caen linux cafe linux chainsaw linux circle mudlinux clienux complete linux console linux corel linux crux darkstar linux dlite easylinux elfstone linux esware linux eurielec linux executive linux fried chicken ftosx fullpliant gentoo go!linux ha linux halloween linux hispafuentes icelinux ivrix ix86 linux j-linux jblinux jurix krud ksi-linux lanthan linux laonux laser5 leetnux linpus linux linux cyrillic edition linux mld linuxone os linuxppp linux pro plus linux-sis lnx system looplinux lsd lute linux magenet mastodon maxos minilinux msc.linux nmrcos nomad linux omoikane gnu/linux pingoo linux plamo linux pld project ballantain prosa rabid squirrel repairlix root linux scrudgeware serial terminal sorcerer spylinux stampede stataboware techlinux timesys linux/rt tom linux trinux turkuaz ute-linux va-enhanced red hat vine linux virtual linux wholelinux winlinux 2000 xteamlinux zipspeak country-specific argentina gnu/linux ututo britain definite linux eridani china cosix red flag france linux/mnis italy linuxespresso madeinlinux vedova
it will provide a safe environment for collaboration and cooperation between companies, for strategic partnerships and more.
to submit an event directly to us, please send a plain-text message tolwn@lwn.net.
here'sa babelfish link to translate the front page into english, but using babelfish on a document of this length is an unrewarding activity.
midgard 1.4 "bifrost" provides object-oriented handling for all data, introduces repligard, a powerful xml-based replication system, and now sports multiple virtual database support, a new administration interface (asgard) and more.
the term apparently evolved from what most folks refer to as volume purchasing: buying software licenses in bulk without the extra boxes and cd-roms.
companies were lining up to become strategic partners to the mysql development,  but wanted to see the gpl used to protect their interests.
red hat bug fix advisories.
dependant buffers are not queued until non-dependant buffers have completed their i/o's.
spain linux esware thailand kaiwal linux thai linux extension related projects chinese linux extension historical (non-active) dualix gentus giotto mcc interim linux os2000 storm linux yggdrasil see also: last week's development page.
here's an article in upsidelooking at sendmail's acquisition of nascent technologies.
in may, 2000, we saw both 35% of linuxcare's staff laid off and, in addition, almost the entire staff ofwide open news, red hat's attempt at a linux news service.
the zope team will also have a presence at the linux world expo in new york on january 31 through february 2, 2001.
" open source and free software developers' european meeting.
see the man pages for mktemp and mkstemp.
recent links of interest include a tcl binding for the gdk-pixbuf image manipulation library and a new mailing list for tclpro contributors.
like the security-enhanced linux, it separates policy from enforcement and supports a variety of security policies.
don't shoot us for  leaving out the other 99% -- this edition would never have made it out the door.
we were impressed by the wap-xml based multimedia applications that were running with the jabber protocol.
netsilicon announced they will be adding support for red hat's el/ix api and ecos os on their system on chip (soc) designs.
webster's dictionary defines a petion as "1 a solemn, earnest supplication or request to a superior or deity or to a person or group in authority; prayer or entreaty" or "2 a formal writing or document embodying such a request, addressed to a specific person or group and often signed by a number of petitioners".
dedicated to keeping linux users up-to-date, with concise news for all interests other lwn stuff: daily updates calendar linux stocks page book reviews penguin gallery archives/search use lwn headlines advertise here contact us recent features: - rms interview - 2001 timeline - o'reilly open source conference - ols 2001 - gaël duval - kernel summit - singapore linux conference - djbdns
it includes a growing library of components for modeling hardware and software parts, and can represent some specific systems.
red hat is looking software testers and debuggers and other help with the project.
the helix gnome installer and basic features are examined in this article from computer source magazine.
it is up to the filesystem code to handle dependant operations.
embedded linux newsletter for december 21, 2000.
it hasn't stopped being fun yet.
what makes an application "sexy"?
if you hadn't linked to it in lwn, this would have caused me to miss kris kennaway's post.
one additional stunnel vulnerability that apparently does not impact linux or bsd systems is the reportedweak encyrption vulnerability.
this week's lwn was brought to you by: jonathan corbet, executive editor elizabeth o. coolbaugh, managing editor december 28,  2000
if you want to convince your boss that python is good for serious projects, this list will certainly help.
all r-base packages, including errata, released for red hat powertools 7 experience problems with gcc optimizations.
on sco unixware a brute-force solution to this problem is used: the kernel does not allow symbolic links to be created in a directory with the sticky bit set which does not belong to the caller.
the splash screen, i also noticed, showed something besides fixed-width fonts for a change: emacs has support for scaled, proportional fonts.
an update to ethereal 0.8.14 should fix this problem.
we must not only match our competitors but  exceed them.
an imaginary visit to the board rooms of many  private companies would find many more ipo plans now littering the wastebaskets.
the first annual ppc/linux community awards.
that arena will be particularly fertilebecause open source protects the rights and opportunities of all comers, providing natural obstacles to monopolies.
va linux's sourceforge must stand out as another notable success.
redmond linux is a caldera-based distribution with a target audience for non-technical desktop customers.
given those parameters, we found that the average number of vulnerabilities reported per month in 1999 was 13.67, while the equivalent number in 2000 was 26.41, almost exactly double.
development: a mozilla project roadmap, kde & gnome interoperability,  xhtml commerce: red hat unveils sid, jabber integrated into pocketlinux, loki's  myth ii reviewed.
patrick powell, developer of the lprng unix printing system has sent us an article entitledlpd is dead that discusses gerald carter's article, lpd must die!
announced in january, sourceforge has grown to host over 12,000 software  development projects, all of them free/open source.
perhaps most strikingly, the release of mysql under the gpl license (its former license was not completely free) was pushed primarily by commercial considerations.
given those options, sales will be much more popular.
section editor: forrest cook one year ago (december 30, 1999 lwn): lwn took a close look at the linuxone amended s-1 filing, and noted some suspicious claims within.
gnumeric 0.61, aka the "your mother was a hamster" release, is now available.
we're not ready to plan for a victory celebration in 2001, though.
the u.s. national security agency has madeits security-enhanced version of linux available for download.
note that the benchmarks are to be released to the public domain.
people are building an open source delphi community -- and delphi is a development of pascal, a wonderful learner's language, but with limitations for serious work.
i happily clicked on the link to rick collette's "petition" to british telecom, thereby myself infringing upon their patent (or at least contributing to your infringement).
see theaugust 3rd, 2000 lwn distributions summary for a link to an interview with redmond project organizer joseph cheek.
the "-current" tree for the slackware sparc port isnow available on ftp.slackware.com in /pub/slackware/sparc.
see also: last week's linux in the news page.
so this isn't a prediction so much as a wish; let the  fun continue forever (even if we can't predict its form!).
this week's updates: cgi-bin scripts.
for other kernel news, see: other resources: see also: last week's distributions page.
section editor: forrest cook see also: last week's commerce page.
corresponding to the failed ipos was the first layoffs in linux-related companies.
kde and gnome interoperability advances (kde dot news).
continued growth within corporate business plans.
the new, festive appearance of tink's site greets us with the photo of a happy konqi".
embedding external parts into kde.
"sendmail, you'll remember, was the first open source to win backing by major investors way back in 1998 when it secured a $6 million round of financing from the silicon valley investment group band of angels.
some major development milestones we'd like to celebrate: xfree86 4.0, kde 2.0, perl 5.6.0, php 4.0, postgresql 7.0, gnucash 1.4, python 1.6 and 2.0, and netscape 6 (the first based on mozilla).
stephen smalley also posted an excellent short summary of the features of the flask architecture, used by security-enhanced linux, and a comparison with rsbac (rule set based access control) for linux, another open source security extension.
last week, we mentioned a potential memory lead in proftpd.
jabber.com, inc. is the developer of jabber, an open source xml-based instant messaging system.
do heavy investments from the big companies presage the end or failure of  small linux-based companies?
this was a critical need; the security-hardening of linux has  blossomed as a result, though of course, still more work remains to be done.
this would also have been a good place to educate some of your readers about what exactly the "problems in /tmp" are.
the end of the year has come, and with it, an opportunity to look back on the year from a security perspective.
more mergers and acquisitions.
this installment looks at the contribution made by handhelds.org.
anyway, i really like your work, and i appreciate the fact that you don't snub openbsd users ;-) wrt, the kaspersky lab virus review, you said:>...or, perhaps, it's the fact that it takes a little more than >a bogus email attachment in the linux environment...?
the signatures collected here will be sent to the linux journal, deeplinux, msn, and any other media outlet that i can think of."
thefirst report lists the packages that are looking for a maintainer.
it will be interesting to see how this venture does.
on the up-side, the european patent convention voted in november against legitimizing software patents, at least for now.
the latest distributions review from the duke of url coversbest linux 2000 r3.
he then wrote, "most probably mr. torvalds is confusing pascal with fortran which indeed has its arrays starting at 1."
bsd ftpd single byte buffer overflow.
also along the same lines, if you haven't yet checked out the year 2000 lwn timeline, now is your chance.
this week's updates: icmp usage in scanning.
section editor: liz coolbaugh lwn
if you look back at our  predictions for the year 2000, this is one area where our attempts (and most  everyone else's) at predicting the future failed.
resourceslwn resources see also: last week's kernel page.
that is estimated to be over 75% of the "free software universe".
i stopped following the thread (and the offshoots from it) after the first few posts seemed to say the same thing.
lug events: december 28 - january 11, 2001.date event location additional events can be found in the lwn event calendar.
we excluded vulnerabilities in commercial software and web scripts, since our coverage of those issues was not consistent between 1999 and 2000.
note that this is a work in progress;  comments and feedback from our readers is essential in order to complete the  timeline.
raid 2001 - call for papers.
wide open still exists, of course, but no longer produces original content.
jerry spicklemire posted this list of high-profile python projects to the comp.language.python newsgroup.
of course, the prices we'll be seeing won't match the types of sales and acquisitions we saw during the ipo boom; bargain-basement prices are much more likely, particularly for companies that are not yet in the black.
slackware sparc development tree now available.
this is a package that renders chinese, japanese, and korean text on a vga screen (not running the x window system).
redmond linux beta 2 has been announced.
if you've held off on using abiword because you felt that it was 'too unstable' or not well integrated with gnome, this release might be right for you.
this version is released as a high priority upgrade with fixes for some problems with cell comments and sheet objects.
a run_task_queue fix, resolving a lockup problem some people have been seeing, should be welcome.
event submissions should be sent tolwn@lwn.net in a plain text format.
certainly, many observers who have long looked askance at the last few years of internet insanity have seized upon the va linux ipo as just the latest, freakiest example of how crazy things are getting." last, but not least, the dark gloom of impending disaster loomed heavily over sys-admins and programmers everywhere, just a few hours until all hell would break loose due to zillions of unfixedy2k bugs.
here's a zdnet opinion piece claiming that linux is too big and too complicated.
so this isn't a prediction so much as a wish; let the fun continue forever (even if we can't predict its form!).
this week's updates: proftpd memory leak.
it's available under the gpl, of course.
for our choice,  we would look atthe relaxation of us cryptography rules as one of those  successes.
of course, to provide a counter-example of the potential dangers when governments get involved, poland taxed a commercial company for its use of open source software, contending that it must be accounted for as a donation.
what this means is that a kernel, disk device, and physical disk should be allowed to reorder blocks however they please.
if they can help turn up kernel bugs, then best use them before the first stable version of 2.4 is announced.
the security of rsa's securid token emulator is challenged.
other, minor discussions.
version 0.30 of inline has been released.
zope weekly news for december 21, 2000.
just as the success of microsoft spawned many small companies looking to make money off of integration, add-ons, support, etc., the heavy use of linux and open source at ibm, hp, compaq, dell and, dare we say, sun, will produce a fertile field for small companies.
we must not only match our competitors but exceed them.
dell has announced major  commitments to the linux platform.
filesystems are more complex then they seem.
also along the same lines, if you haven't yet checked out the year 2000  lwn timeline, now is your chance.
here is the permanent site for this page.
most critical in the ruling: "because computer source code is an expressive means for the exchange of information and ideas about computer programming, we hold that it is protected by the first amendment."
the current stable kernel release is still 2.2.18.
lwn mentioned a salon article that questioned the stability of the linux and dot com stock market frenzy: "sooner or later, dot-com mania must be headed for a fall -- whenever you see this many lemmings gathered together in one place, you just know a steep cliff has got to be nearby.
now jabber.com has announced that transvirtual technologies, inc. has completed their integration of the jabber instant messaging system into the pocketlinux platform.
section editor: forrest cook application links gimp mozilla galeon high availability ht://dig mnogosearch magicpoint wine worldforge zope open source code collections berlios freshmeat opensourcedirectory savannah le serveur libre
tuxia in augsburg, germanylaunched itself into the embedded linux market. "
this is especially true if the client is html/active scripting aware.
most critical in the ruling:  "because computer source code is an expressive means for the exchange of  information and ideas about computer programming, we hold that it is protected  by the first amendment."
however, both ext2fs and ffs (without softupdates) have cases related to directories, inodes, and file blocks where *no* write ordering is correct even if you do things synchronously.
nonetheless, we will predict that free software  and the value of the concepts behind it will weather both good news and bad.
wzole, the wei zhong oriental language environment,is available free of charge for non-commercial use.
bringing you the latest news from the linux world.
to do so, we looked at two pieces of information: the number of open source software vulnerability reports covered and the size of the lwn security summary.
taste derives from infomatec's jnt internet appliance oriented embedded linux technology.
the reality is that many companies are not yet making a profit.
well, we'll refrain from any attempt to predict the overall economic health of the us or any other country in the world.
dell has announced major commitments to the linux platform.
ffs without softupdates will use synchronous writes where necessary to (try to) ensure that dependant buffers are not queued until after such i/o's have completed.
linux links, this week in linux history, and letters to the  editor ...plus the usual array of reports, updates, and  announcements.
instead, i suspect that the currently heterogenious use of email clients make it more difficult to write a virus that will affect a large number of people in the way the outlook-dominated windows platform can be affected.
well, like most statistics, you can use them to bolster just about any theory you might have, but our personal guess is that the increase is a simple demonstration of the result of more eyes on the code.
continued progress on the desktop.
kde dot news discusses the release of theqgtkwidget and qgtkapplications classes, which facilitate the interoperability of kde and gnome applications. "
telnetd's allowance of arbitrary environment variables and a buffer overflow in the kerberos v4 library combined to allow a local root exploit on netbsd.
this week's updates: halflifeserver.
"the install routine is arguably one of the better ones out there, rivaled by mandrake and caldera.
that's saying that everything you click on a website, the method used to bring you from one page to another, belongs to them.
idg's network world names industry's most influential companies, players and trends.
unfortunately, noone seems to be taking this seriously, and i have not seen any viable solutions offered.
simulated systems may range from a cpu's instruction set to a large multi-processor embedded system.
not only is business booming  overseas, which is easily visible both commercially and in the vibrancy of  international contributions to development projects, but governments outside of  the us have been notably interested in, and voicing support for, the open  source content.
a final version of the timeline will be released in early january.
using a broad rule of thumb, we searched for repeating themes that  came up virtually every month and found five of them: commercial companies releasing software as open source/free software .
" bluefish 0.6 released.
other notable mergers/acquisition include va linux and andover.net  (completed in 2000), walnut creek and bsdi, and linuxmall.com's trips to the  altar, first with frank kaspar and associates and later ebiz.
instant messaging on gnu/linux (linux orbit).
of  course, a couple of other hard-to-forget joinings: first, sco and caldera and  second, sun and cobalt.
it will help protect them from lawsuits based on the  number of copies of a piece of software they may be using.
date: thu, 21 dec 2000 10:44:44 +0000 from: edmund grimley evans  to: letters@lwn.net subject: problems in /tmp
"for a true test of the installation process, i went to a local college and recruited a student who was completely new to linux and databases.
group crafts rating system for server security (cnet).