log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets python zone
this technique is typically known as “divide and conquer”.
easy implementation another cool reason is that merge sort is easy to implement.
implementation the good news is that this algorithm is fast, but not too difficult to implement and that sounds quite good from a developer’s point of view.
here’s the implementation in php.
note that even quicksort’s complexity is o(n2) in the worst case, which for n = 20 is about 4.6 times slower!
insertion sort, bubble sort and shell sort are  based on the comparison model.
python zone is brought to you in partnership with:    stoimen popov - bio - website - @stoimenpopov - - i've been working on web based projects built mainly with php and javascript, where i mostly use zend framework and jquery.
i already posted about some of the algorithms of the first group.
two reasons why merge sort is useful 1.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
stoimen is a dzone mvb and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 54 posts at dzone.
note that even quicksort’s complexity can be o(n2) in the worst case.
so far so good, so let’s say  we have a very large list of data, which we want to sort.
obviously it will be better if we divide the list into two sub-lists with equal length and then sort them.
three reasons why merge sort is not useful 1.
email views: 9071 this content is part of the python zone, which is presented to you by dzone andnew relic.
although i don’t think this can be the main reason why not to use merge sort some people say that it can be difficult to implement for beginners, especially the merge part of the algorithm.
the thing is that in some step of the algorithm we have two sorted lists and the tricky part is to merge them.
the python zone is sponsored bynew relic, the all-in-one web application performance tool that lets yousee performance from the end user experience, through servers, and down to the line of application code.
it is written in c# but it can be easily converted to java or any other language.
normally if a problem is too difficult to solve, we can try to break it  apart into smaller sub-sets of this problem and try to solve them.
it’s complexity is the same even in the worst case and it is  o(n*log(n)).
indeed most  developers consider something fast to be difficult to implement, but  that’s not the case of merge sort.
i am interested in  any webpage optimizations techniques - for a faster web!
fast no matter the input merge sort is a great sorting algorithm mainly because it’s very fast  and stable.
recommended links "appops": the new frontier in apm pros and cons of saas performance monitoring how mashable delivers a quality ux groupon: dealing with massive user load what browser really is the fastest?
it has flourished as a beginner-friendly language that is penetrating more and more industries.
note that in the  best case insertion and bubble sort complexity is o(n), while merge  sort’s best case is o(n*log(n)).
(note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) python is a fast, powerful, dynamic, and versatile programming language that is being used in a variety ofapplication domains.
the nature of those three algorithms mentioned above is that we almost compared each two items from initial list.
then somehow we can merge the results of the solved problems.
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
more this section is brought to you in partnership with: basically sorting algorithms can be divided into two main groups: those  based on comparisons and those that are not.
stoimen is a dzone mvb  and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 54 posts at dzone.
share it with your friends: |
comments chaker nakhli replied on wed, 2012/03/07 - 5:43am hello, in this article you only present a recursive version of the merge sort algorithm.
after  sorting the smaller lists, which is supposed to be easier than sorting the  entire initial list, we can try to merge the result into one sorted list.
instead we can try to divide the list into smaller lists and then sort them.
via jdk and visualvm
typically recursion is “replaced” by additional memory space in iterative solutions.
obviously it will be  better if we divide the list into two sub-lists with equal length and then sort  them.
i already posted about some of the  algorithms of the first group.
of course, this depends on the input data, so we must be careful of the  input.
array(6, 5, 3, 1, 8, 7, 2, 4); function merge_sort($arr) {
snippets python zone
overview merge sort is a comparison model sorting algorithm based on the  “divide and conquer” principle.
it’s complexity is the same even in the worst case and it is o(n*log(n)).
cloud feedhenry powers mobile application on cloud found... web builder devops and drupal survey: the results mobile windows phone local database tip: working with enc...
note that every algorithm that follows  the divide and conquer principles can be easily implemented in a recursive  solution.
view full user profile algorithm of the week: merge sort 03.06.2012
you can read more from them attheir website.
tags: published at dzone with permission of stoimen popov, author and dzone mvb (source).
here’s a recursive version of merge sort.
provides the resources  andbest practices to help you monitor these applications.
note that in the best case insertion and bubble sort complexity is o(n), while merge sort’s best case is o(n*log(n)).
this  technique is typically known as “divide and conquer”.
note that every algorithm that follows the divide and conquer principles can be easily implemented in a recursive solution.
typically recursion is “replaced” by additional memory  space in iterative solutions.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
insertion sort, bubble sort and shell sort are based on the comparison model.
normally if a problem is too difficult to solve, we can try to break it apart into smaller sub-sets of this problem and try to solve them.
recommended links "appops": the new frontier in apm pros and cons of saas performance monitoring groupon: dealing with massive user load what browser really is the fastest?
this section is brought to you in partnership with: spotlight features html5 canvas refcard learn html5 in 5 minutes!
i am interested in any webpage optimizations techniques - for a faster web!
fast no matter the input merge sort is a great sorting algorithm mainly because it’s very fast and stable.
this, of course, is not the best approach and we don’t need to do that.
however this is not so difficult.
- netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests - introduction to log parser studio - visual studio installer projects:
the nature of those three algorithms mentioned above is that we almost  compared each two items from initial list.
you can read  more from them attheir website.
we  can start comparing the first items of the lists and than we can pop the  smaller of them both and put it into a new list containing the merged (sorted)  array.
note that even quicksort’s complexity can be o(n2) in the  worst case.
javascript, where i mostly use zend framework and jquery.
the problem with these three algorithms is that their complexity is o(n2) so they are very slow.
the problem with these three algorithms is that  their complexity is o(n2) so they are very slow.
note that even quicksort’s complexity is o(n2) in the worst  case, which for n = 20 is about 4.6 times slower!
more this section is brought to you in partnership with: basically sorting algorithms can be divided into two main groups: those based on comparisons and those that are not.
i have republished your linked post here: recursive and interative merge sort implementations.
- login or register to post comments chris smith replied on wed, 2012/03/07 - 1:51pm chaker, thanks for the information.
indeed if the input is  nearly sorted the insertion sort or bubble sort can be faster.
so far so good, so let’s say we have a very large list of data, which we want to sort.
so we can be sure that merge sort is very stable no matter the input.
- follow us - - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
we can start comparing the first items of the lists and than we can pop the smaller of them both and put it into a new list containing the merged (sorted) array.
the python zoneis a community that features a diverse collection of news, tutorials, advice, and opinions about python and django.
instead  we can try to divide the list into smaller lists and then sort them.
slower than non-comparison based algorithms merge sort is however based on the comparison model and as such can be slower than algorithms not based on comparisons that can sort data in linear time.
python zone is brought to you in partnership with:  &lt;a  href="http://avpa.dzone.com/servlet/click/zone?zid=183&amp;pid=0&amp;lookup=true&amp;custom1=textad&amp;position=1"  rel="nofollow" target="_blank"&gt; &lt;img  src="http://avpa.dzone.com/servlet/view/banner/image/zone?zid=183&amp;pid=0&amp;custom1=textad&amp;position=1"  height="60" width="468" hspace="0"  vspace="0" border="0" alt="click here!"&gt;  &lt;/a&gt; stoimen popov website @stoimenpopov i've been working on web based projects built mainly with php and
however recursion can be bitter so you can go for a iterative  solution.
if they remain too large, we can continue breaking them down until we get to something very easy to sort as shown on the diagram bellow.
view full user profile algorithm of the week: merge sort 03.06.2012  email views: 9071 tweet this content is part of the python zone, which is  presented to you by dzone andnew relic.
overview merge sort is a comparison model sorting algorithm based on the “divide and conquer” principle.
if  (count($arr)  0 && count($right) > 0) { if ($left[0]  <= $right[0]) { array_push($result, array_shift($left)); } else {  array_push($result, array_shift($right)); } } array_splice($result,  count($result), 0, $left); array_splice($result, count($result), 0, $right);  return $result; } // 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 $output = merge_sort($input); complexity it’s great that the complexity of merge sort is o(n*log(n)) even in  the worst case!
an iterative approach is presented here: http://www.javageneration.com/?p=389.
so is it possible to sort a list of items by comparing their items faster  than o(n2)?
so we can be sure that merge sort is very stable no matter the  input.
visit the python zone for news, tips, and tutorials on the python programming language.
so is it possible to sort a list of items by comparing their items faster than o(n2)?
this,  of course, is not the best approach and we don’t need to do that.
- defining a restful framework - developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio - groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work - interfaces in dynamic languages - client-side server monitoring with jolokia and jmx - getting started with data mining - test driven development without tears latest articles - groovy will replace the java language as dominant language - a domain-specific language for unit manipulations - higher-order functions with groovy, part 1 - from java to groovy, part 2: closures and native syntax for lists - dynamic typing vs dynamic language explained - alex tkachman on static groovy: the inside scoop - the war on grails is really a war on spring - grails 1.0 released!
first official release - 4:groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - 5:simple servlets in groovy - 6:spock framework 0.6 released - 7:the big three – scala, clojure and groovy see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed on useless testing...
then somehow  we can merge the results of the solved problems.
slower than non-comparison based algorithms merge sort is however based on the comparison model and as such can be  slower than algorithms not based on comparisons that can sort data in linear  time.
if (count($arr)  0 && count($right) > 0) { if ($left[0] <= $right[0]) { array_push($result, array_shift($left)); } else { array_push($result, array_shift($right)); } } array_splice($result, count($result), 0, $left); array_splice($result, count($result), 0, $right); return $result; } // 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 $output = merge_sort($input); complexity it’s great that the complexity of merge sort is o(n*log(n)) even in the worst case!
implementation the good news is that this algorithm is fast, but not too difficult to  implement and that sounds quite good from a developer’s point of view.
you might also like popular on groovy zone - the 10 commandments of good source control management - algorithm of the week: merge sort - github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple sources - unit testing is for lazy people - some useful java classes that you might not know about - all the mouse events in javascript - creating a build pipeline using maven, jenkins, subversion and nexus.
visit the python zone for news, tips,  and tutorials on the python programming language.
although i don’t think this can be the main reason why not to use  merge sort some people say that it can be difficult to implement for beginners,  especially the merge part of the algorithm.
the answer is yes and here’s how we can do it.
if they remain too large, we can continue breaking them down until we get  to something very easy to sort as shown on the diagram bellow.
as a conclusion i can say that merge sort is practically one of the best sorting algorithms because it’s easy to implement and fast, so it must be considered by every developer!
indeed most developers consider something fast to be difficult to implement, but that’s not the case of merge sort.
how mashable delivers a quality ux like this piece?
life after visual studio 2010 - final thoughts on s#arp lite - how to create multiview editors for nodes - analyzing s#arp lite - tasks - use windows 8 icons with segoe ui symbol spotlight resources html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
difficult to implement for beginners
maven: great idea, poor implementation around the dzone network web builder popular at dzone - 1:scala for building dsls (domain-specific languages) - 2:griffon 0.9.5-rc2 released - 3:groovyfx
indeed if the input is nearly sorted the insertion sort or bubble sort can be faster.
as a conclusion i can say that merge sort is practically one of the best  sorting algorithms because it’s easy to implement and fast, so it must be  considered by every developer!
architects using jmx to profile neo4j
provides the resources andbest practices to help you monitor these applications.
of course, this depends on the input data, so we must be careful of the input.
slower than insertion and bubble sort for nearly sorted input again it is very important to know the input data.
after sorting the smaller lists, which is supposed to be easier than sorting the entire initial list, we can try to merge the result into one sorted list.
however recursion can be bitter so you can go for a iterative solution.
d nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop t...
the thing is that in some step of the algorithm we have two sorted lists  and the tricky part is to merge them.