in the first installment, i introduced freebase, an open shared  database of the world's knowledge and its json-based query language, the  metaweb query language (mql, pronounced mickle).
ronald bradford (8) artem livshits (7) jonathan perkin (6)  liran zelkha(6) top 10 most active team blogs mysql performance blog (72) skysql (18)  mysql community(15) technocation (13)
to use it you will need just to include the applet  and js-library into your page, after the first load applet will detect platform  and will download embeded mysql and native libraries.
i just received a confirmation that mypresentation proposal for the mysql user conference 2011 was accepted!
as always, the hyatt regency hotel in  santa clara, california serves as the venue.
provide robust resistance to attempts to concentrate power, and other abuses of same."
abstract: mql is a json-based database query  language that has some very interesting features as compared to sql, especially  for modern ( [read more...]
i met lots of smart people and  travelled to a bunch of places i would probably not've had the chance [read more...]
as i read most blogs using google reader.
another layer in the web 2.0  story tim's been telling for years, with some interesting [read more...] follow-up to loading css and js  conditionally +0 -0 posted by artem russakovskii on fri 15 jan 2010 20:07
speaking at the mysql conference 2011 +6 -0 posted by roland bouman on thu 06
we uploaded our slides as promised.
the conference will be held from  april 11-14.
this tutorial demonstrates the usage of the java persistence apis to  implement server side pagination (recommended for large sets of data) and to  get and display the results in a text field featuring ajax functionality.
utc tags:  ( edit) javascript, sun, cmt, parallelism ( close) response times of any web application are very critical for the end-user  experience.
i was also  attracted by the company itself, the flexible working hours, working from home,  travelling abroad, and, very important, being one of the few companies that is  capable creating foss software on a commercial basis.
- announcing the skysql & mariadb solutions day for the mysql®
utc tags:  ( edit) mysql,  javascript, web2.0, glassfish, netbeans, totd, scriptaculous, autocompleter,  prototype ( close)
it is really possible to create  the application such as gears, but independent from google, that will run on  most platofrms and browsers.
so i thought a good example would be to build a zip code verifier.
last week, it looked like apple was all "you're not welcome here,  java."
so the user first sees this: once the zip code is entered, and the response received it looks like this: if the zip code is not found in the db: ok, now lets build it... download prototype, and a zip  [read more...]
here are some discussions and mentions around the web: [read more...] - an article on weblog tools collection - a forum post on wp tavern - twitter vote for me! ...
here are some discussions and mentions around the web: an article on weblog tools collection a forum post on wp tavern twitter vote for me! ...
before i joined mysql ab i was working as a database consultant and  application developer.
utc tags: ( edit) mysql, sql, javascript, google, cloud, web2.0, education, visualization ( close) jsterm -- ansi-capable telnet terminal built in html5 with javascript, websocket, and node.js.
announcing the skysql & mariadb solutions day for the mysql®
- fun with partitions and myisam, part #2 vote!
utc tags: ( edit) mysql, javascript, planetmysql, planet, rss ( close) most likely you have seen giuseppe's post showing the latest feature ofplanet mysql.
- the cap theorem and mysql cluster vote!
sample:"of interest are alternatives that are designed from the beginning to: ensure the greatest freedom for the greatest number, without simultaneously abridging the freedoms of others; permit individuals with common goals and beliefs to act in their own interest at the global level and with all the privileges afforded nation states, even when those individuals are separated by distance;
- 1 billion queries per minute – mysql cluster 7.2 is ga!
this second entry in the series will cover the tutorial, "creating an ajax application with script.aculo.us", which is based on a blog entry by arun gupta.
mysql buzz | faq | feeds | submit your blog feed | feedback | archive | aggregate feed english search help: searching, tag searching, edit tags profile votes: you must be logged in with a mysql account to vote on planet mysql entries.
it is not reviewed in advance by oracle and does not necessarily represent the opinion of oracle or any other party.
the pythian group (13) tokuview blog (13) the 451 group(11) continuent team blog (9)
pecl/mysqlnd_ms: mysql 5.6.4-m8+ global transaction identifier feature  supported vote!
the article was well  received and will hopefully spark some optimizations around loading styles and  scripts.
top 20 most active authors dave stokes (29) chris calender (25)
found viathinkphp, thanks.
this is  achieved by by sending an ajax request to the data source on server, passing
it was created by  joel spolsky of joelonsoftware.com, jeff atwood of codinghorror.com, and some  other incredibly smart guys who truly care about user experience.
in addition, i  discussed [read more...]
now, i don't remember if it was dups  who asked me, or if i asked him, but all i remember is that i ended up writing  a little javascript widget, that you can add to your blog.
ajax and nb, mural and mdm, restful  comet, gf with hibernate and mysql, opensource contributors, grizzlies, fast  javascript and more iphone rejections
more information on planetmysql voting.
assume that all these components are perfectly parallel and optimized,amdhal's law still suggests that response time improvements will be very modest, or barely measurable.
as i've noted before, this makes sense for apple, because it gets them out  of the jvm business, and makes oracle the one-stop shopping solution for all  your jdk and jre needs.
four short links: 2 mar 2009 +0 -0 posted by o'reilly radar on mon 02 mar 2009 22:00 utc tags:  (  edit) javascript, opensource, open government, big data ( close) you open the letterbox.
utc tags: ( edit) ajax, javascript, mysql user conference, json, mql-to-sql, mql,  mash-up ( close)
ronald bradford (8) artem livshits (7) jonathan perkin (6) liran zelkha(6) top 10 most active team blogs mysql performance blog (72) skysql (18) mysql community(15) technocation (13)
monty program group blog (8) howtoforge(7) mysql links mysql forge mysql forge wiki user groups mysql conference mysql guilds online manual developer zone forums mailing lists report bugs downloads other links google news newsforge freshmeat
i also wrote that i will attend and thati will be speaking on mql-to-sql.
the titles of the videos look very much like “must watch”.
a few changes have been made to  tutorials, among which is the featuring ofmysql as the database of  choice.
srenga points that the datamashup service engine from  mural is part of glassfish esb and also points to manish's tutorial on building  a server-side data mashup.
utc tags: ( edit) mysql, javascript, web2.0, glassfish, netbeans, totd, scriptaculous, autocompleter, prototype ( close)
[read more...] ajax tutorial  with prototype +0 -0 posted by pete freitag on tue  13 dec 2005 22:13 utc tags:  ( edit) web, ajax, tutorial, example,  javascript, xml, cfml, css ( close) here's the ajax prototype example that i used in my ajax presentation today.
utc tags: ( edit) javascript, sun, cmt, parallelism ( close) response times of any web application are very critical for the end-user experience.
+0 -0 posted by pete freitag on tue 13 dec 2005 22:13 utc tags: ( edit) web, ajax, tutorial, example, javascript, xml, cfml, css ( close) here's the ajax prototype example that i used in my ajax presentation today.
i +3 -0 posted by roland bouman on thu 06
the conference will be held from april 11-14.
ubuntu showing entries 1 to 21 displaying posts with tag: javascript (reset) mql-to-sql: a  json-based query language for your favorite rdbms - part iii +1 -0 posted  byroland bouman on fri 07 jan 2011 01:30
you open the letterbox.
now, i don't remember if it was dups who asked me, or if i asked him, but all i remember is that i ended up writing a little javascript widget, that you can add to your blog.
widget for your blog.
utc tags: ( edit) mysql, php, javascript, programming, python, django, ajax (style) guide, dojo ( close)
utc tags: ( edit) java, sql, javascript, programming, developerwir ( close)
utc tags: ( edit) php, ajax, javascript, security, chorizo, xss, security2.0, web2.0 ( close)
what we need: - compile embeded mysql (very lite edition) for most platforms (windows, linux and macosx, i believe that would be enough) - create java applet and jni-wrapping library to access mysql - create javascript library that will access mysql through the applet
read more...] posted by andrew dashin on fri 14 mar 2008 10:18 utc tags: ( edit) mysql, coding, javascript ( close) the last day i’m suffering from different thoughts.
one of most developer problems is documentation.
mar 2009 22:00 utc tags: ( edit) javascript, opensource, open government, big data ( close)
autcomplete widget with mysql, glassfish, netbeans +0 -0 posted by arun gupta on tue 29 jul 2008 12:00
i met lots of smart people and travelled to a bunch of places i would probably not've had the chance [read more...]
there are several javascript libraries that can be embedded in your webapplication to create a visually appealing interface.
it is not  reviewed in advance by oracle and does not necessarily represent the opinion of  oracle or any other party.
utc tags: ( edit) mysql, php, sql, ajax, javascript, mysql user conference, mysqlconf, drizzle, couchdb, mariadb, nosql, mongodb, mql-to-sql, freebase, mql ( close)
this tutorial demonstrates the usage of the java persistence apis to implement server side pagination (recommended for large sets of data) and to get and display the results in a text field featuring ajax functionality.
for english readers/speakers: johann held an english security talk some  time ago.
so i’ve  decided to share’em with you.
it’s an amazing story that makes a good parable about how the [read more...] sequential web frontends/browsers are
i also wrote that i will  attend and thati will be speaking on mql-to-sql.
please bear with me as i try  to [read more...] a pirate captain visiting the pacific  northwest +0 -0 posted by zak greant on wed 20 may  2009 09:54
script.aculo.us is one of the popular ones and is built on the prototype javascript framework.
another layer in the web 2.0 story tim's been telling for years, with some interesting [read more...] follow-up to loading css and js conditionally +0 -0 posted by artem russakovskii on fri 15 jan 2010 20:07
utc tags:  ( edit) open source, free software, events,  javascript, freedom, canada, drupal, mozilla, iphone, android, electronic  frontier, net, angela byron, boris mann, david ascher, jeff griffiths, malcolm  van delst, mike cantelon, mozilla messaging, open web, open web vancouver,  openyvr, owv0 ( close) about three weeks from now, rickard falkvinge (founder of the pirate party)  will be kicking off thevancouver open web conference.
so, tanks to  jay pipes for his tip.
i am still open for any  suggestions we did talk about web-2.0 security +0 -0 posted by thinkphp /dev/blog - php of team blog thinkphp on mon 05  feb 2007 09:39
inside are four interesting links covering  politics, mobile business, javascript, and mysql: the minimal compact (adam greenfield) -- a manifesto on "open source  constitutions for post-national entities".
it also means that the mac can be added as a regression-tested target for a new version of java, hopefully [read more...] four short links: 16 september 2010
why would you want to add this javascript to your blog?
i promised i would  explain a little bit more background about my talk, so here's the first  installment.
after having worked for two years and one quarter of a year with mysql ab (now sun), i have decided to resign and pursue another career.
so, tanks to jay pipes for his tip.
the story update 6/21/09: this server is currently under very heavy load (10-200), even with caching plugins enabled.
utc tags: ( edit) open source, free software, events, javascript, freedom, canada, drupal, mozilla, iphone, android, electronic frontier, net, angela byron, boris mann, david ascher, jeff griffiths, malcolm van delst, mike cantelon, mozilla messaging, open web, open web vancouver, openyvr, owv0 ( close) about three weeks from now, rickard falkvinge (founder of the pirate party) will be kicking off thevancouver open web conference.
cool technology and usability in tungsten enterprise vote!
fun with partitions and myisam, part #2 vote!
at now many languages have special javadoc-like tools.
this is the third article in a series providing  background information tomy talk for the mysql user's conference, entitled  mql-to-sql: a json-based query language for rdbms access from ajax applications.
creating an ajax application with script.aculo.us +0 -0 posted by james branam on wed 26 nov 2008 13:16 utc tags: ( edit) mysql, web, ajax, javascript, netbeans, application, jpa, scriptaculous ( close) hi all, today i'd like to continue a blog series in which i highlight web application tutorials for netbeans 6.5.
because you  want to make it very [read more...]
it also means that the mac can be added as a  regression-tested target for a new version of java, hopefully [read  more...] four short links: 16 september 2010
(you can see my stackoverflow badge on the right sidebar).
ubuntu showing entries 1 to 21 displaying posts with tag: javascript (reset) mql-to-sql: a json-based query language for your favorite rdbms - part iii +1 -0 posted byroland bouman on fri 07 jan 2011 01:30
utc tags: ( edit) ajax ,javascript, mysql user conference, ms sql server, json, mql-to-sql, mql, mash-up ( close) yesterday, i wrote about how i think this year's mysql conference will differ from prior editions.
except for the venue and period, i think this year's conference will bear few similarities to previous editions.
and only when needed by the posts post.
the pythian group (13) tokuview blog (13)  the 451 group(11) continuent team blog (9)
live mozilla netbeans openoffice.org opensolaris open source ha perl php planet index postgresql python ruby on rails sun suse
showing entries 1 to 21 planet mysql © 1995-2008 mysql ab, 2008-2010 sun microsystems, inc., 2012, oracle corporation and/or its affiliates.
layout: top voted (last week) view more... - getting the best performance out of mysql cluster – white paper vote!
utc tags: ( edit) ajax, javascript, mysql user conference, json, mql-to-sql, mql, mash-up ( close)
developer week in review +0 -1 posted by o'reilly radar on wed 17 nov 2010 15:30
+0 -0 posted by nat torkington of team blog o'reilly radar on thu 16
prototype/script.aculo.us
last week, it looked like apple was all "you're not welcome here, java."
except for the venue and period, i think this year's conference  will bear few similarities to previous editions.
first of all, i'd like to thank everyone who read and gave their 2 cents  about the[wordpress plugin development] how to include css and javascript  conditionally
as i've noted before, this makes sense for apple, because it gets them out of the jvm business, and makes oracle the one-stop shopping solution for all your jdk and jre needs.
i’ve made a little research,  and decided to usejsdoc and phpdoc in my project.
the killer +0 -0 posted by zoran radovic on fri 15 may 2009 14:42 utc tags: ( edit) javascript, sun, cmt, parallelism ( close) response times of any web application are very critical for the end-user experience.
the library provides an easy-to-use, cross-browser user interface javascripts that allows you to create fancy effects commonly visible on web pages these days.
this widget allows readers to vote for your blog on planet mysql, all from within your blog.
ajax and nb, mural and mdm, restful comet, gf with hibernate and mysql, opensource contributors, grizzlies, fast javascript and more iphone rejections
so i’ve decided to share’em with you.
(via  eonarts on twitter) google code university -- updated with new classes, including c++ and  android app development.
basically, you type a character in a text field and suggestions for  possible correct values starting with that character are shown .
announcing mariadb 5.3.5 vote!
sample:"of interest are  alternatives that are designed from the beginning to: ensure the greatest  freedom for the greatest number, without simultaneously abridging the freedoms  of others; permit individuals with common goals and beliefs to act in their own  interest at the global level and with all the privileges afforded nation  states, even when those individuals are separated by distance; provide robust  resistance to attempts to concentrate power, and other abuses of same."
view more... - scalable, persistent, ha nosql memcache storage using mysql cluster vote! - 70x faster joins with aql now ga with mysql cluster 7.2 vote!
keith larson(24) baron schwartz (xaprb) (22) colin charles (16) sheeri k. cabral (16) henrik ingo(15) shlomi noach (14) andrew morgan (13) webyog (13) mark callaghan (11) anders karlsson (10) ulf wendel (10) sean hull (9) giuseppe maxia (8) reggie burnett(8)
- pecl/mysqlnd_ms: mysql 5.6.4-m8+ global transaction identifier feature supported vote!
+0 -0 posted by andrew dashin on fri 14 mar 2008 10:18 utc tags: ( edit) mysql, coding, javascript ( close)
to download them, click here.
in the first installment, i introduced freebase, an open shared database of the world's knowledge and its json-based query language, the metaweb query language (mql, pronounced mickle).
+3 -1 posted by diego medina on tue 11 aug 2009 03:50
the title for my proposal ismql-to-sql: a json-based query language for rdbms access from ajax applications, and it covers pretty much everything implied by the title.
we would like to thank you for the response and also we´d like to thank jürgen from mysql, our webinar-host.
anil calling "trend" on  multiplatform native apps with cloud storage.
russakovskii on sun 21 jun 2009 19:38
sourceforge technorati  technorati tag bloglines icerocket del.icio.us twitter zuula blog search planetarium android apache classpath debian drizzle drupal fedora  freedesktop.org gnome jabber
i wanted to give an example of a good use of ajax, and at the same time keep it simple.
what we need: compile embeded mysql (very lite edition) for most platforms (windows,  linux and macosx, i believe that would be enough)
database: free training for developers, dbas, & it architects vote!
as i read  most blogs using google reader.
i have had a  splendid time at mysql ab, and later sun.
so i thought a good example would be to build a zip code  verifier.
we had about 140 participants and some very good questions in the following q&a session.
java kde linuxchix live mozilla netbeans  openoffice.org opensolaris open source ha perl php planet index postgresql  python ruby on rails sun suse
hidden  features of perl, php, javascript, c, c++, c#, java, ruby, python, and others  [collection of incredibly useful lists] +2 -0 posted by artem
planet mysql your blogs, news and opinions.
as always, the hyatt regency hotel in santa clara, california serves as the venue.
(viawaxpancake on twitter) mysql explainer -- visualize the output of the mysql explain command.
ajax is a technology that combines (x)html, javascript, and css with the power of xmlhttprequest in the creation of [read more...] changing lanes: leaving sun/mysql +0 -0 posted byroland bouman on fri 26 sep 2008 14:00 utc tags: ( edit) mysql, php, ajax, javascript, sun, hacking, pentaho ( close)
from carol a screencast on restful comet, based
if you missed the web-seminar you get a chance to see the recording of it here (http://www.mysql.de/news-and-events/on-demand-webinars/security-20070130.php.de).
(via eonarts on twitter) google code university -- updated with new classes, including c++ and android app development.
mql-to-sql: a json-based query  language for your favorite rdbms - part
srenga points that the datamashup service engine from mural is part of glassfish esb and also points to manish's tutorial on building a server-side data mashup.
getting the best performance out of mysql cluster – white paper vote!
scalable, persistent, ha nosql memcache storage using mysql cluster vote!
utc tags: ( edit )mysql, php, oracle, java, vb.net, code, databases, delphi, perl, c, c++, javascript, css, eclipse, ruby, programming, python, feature, language, bash, hidden, program, c sharp, asp.net, haskell, mod_rewrite, secret ( close) introduction stackoverflow is an amazing site for coding questions.
for english readers/speakers: johann held an english security talk some time ago.
i wanted to give an example of a good use of ajax, and at the same time  keep it simple.
traditional parallelization techniques and caching are without a doubt very effective in the design of scalable web servers, databases, operating systems and other mission-critical software and hardware components.
here's what's new for the trendy developer this week: java's future on apple: slightly less in doubt
basically, you type a character in a text field and suggestions for possible correct values starting with that character are shown .
as soon as the person enters the zip code it makes a request to the  server to see if the zip code is in the database, and returns the city and  state.
this year's theme is "mysql, the ecosystem and [read more...]
this blog entry gets you started by using  ajax.
in addition, i discussed [read more...]
to use it you will need just to include the applet and js-library into your page, after the first load applet will detect platform and will download embeded mysql and native libraries.
content reproduced on this site is the property of the respective copyright holders.
autcomplete widget  with mysql, glassfish, netbeans +0 -0 posted by arun gupta on tue 29 jul 2008 12:00
i have had a splendid time at mysql ab, and later sun.
utc tags:  ( edit) ajax ,javascript, mysql user conference, ms sql server, json, mql-to-sql, mql,  mash-up ( close) yesterday, i wrote about how i think this year's  mysql conference will differ from prior editions.
1 billion queries per minute – mysql cluster 7.2 is ga!
[read more...] totd #39:
i was also attracted by the company itself, the flexible working hours, working from home, travelling abroad, and, very important, being one of the few companies that is capable creating foss software on a commercial basis.
myweber - creating documentation on the fly +0 -0 posted by andrew dashin on wed 04 jul 2007 15:22 utc tags: ( edit) mysql, coding, javascript, my projects, myweber ( close)
at now many  languages have special javadoc-like tools.
we did talk about web-2.0 security +0 -0 one of most developer problems is documentation.
as soon as the person enters the zip code it makes a request to the server to see if the zip code is in the database, and returns the city and state.
utc tags:  ( edit) php, javascript, css,  wordpress, performance, programming, optimization, time, style, script, load,  action, admin_print_scripts, admin_print_styles, conditional, enqueue, hook, js, ob_flush, ob_start, output buffer, wp_enqueue_script, wp_enqueue_style,  wp_print_scripts, wp_print_styles ( close)
traditional parallelization techniques and caching are without a doubt very  effective in the design of scalable web servers, databases, operating systems  and other mission-critical software and hardware components.
widget for  your blog.
we would like to thank you for  the response and also we´d like to thank jürgen from mysql, our  webinar-host.
myweber - creating documentation on the fly +0  -0 posted by andrew dashin on wed 04 jul 2007 15:22  utc tags:  ( edit) mysql, coding, javascript, my projects, myweber ( close)
assume that all  these components are perfectly parallel and optimized,amdhal's law still  suggests that response time improvements will be very modest, or barely  measurable.
developer week in review +0 -1 posted by o'reilly radar on wed 17 nov 2010 15:30 utc tags: ( edit) java, sql, javascript, programming, developerwir ( close) here's what's new for the trendy developer this week: java's future on apple: slightly less in doubt
this is the third article in a series providing background information tomy talk for the mysql user's conference, entitled mql-to-sql: a json-based query language for rdbms access from ajax applications.
ajax  is a technology that combines (x)html, javascript, and css with the power of  xmlhttprequest in the creation of [read more...] changing lanes: leaving sun/mysql +0 -0 posted byroland bouman on fri 26 sep 2008 14:00 utc tags:  ( edit) mysql, php, ajax, javascript, sun, hacking, pentaho (  close) after having worked for two years and one quarter of a year with  mysql ab (now sun), i have decided to resign and pursue another career.
i am still open for any suggestions posted by thinkphp /dev/blog - php of team blog thinkphp on mon 05 feb 2007 09:39
utc tags:  ( edit) php, ajax, javascript, security,  chorizo, xss, security2.0, web2.0 ( close)
+3 -1 posted by diego medina on tue 11  aug 2009 03:50
autocompleter that allows for server-powered autocompleting of text fields.
it’s an amazing story that makes a good  parable about how the [read more...] sequential web  frontends/browsers are the killer +0 -0 posted by zoran radovic on fri 15 may 2009 14:42 utc tags:  ( edit) javascript, sun, cmt, parallelism ( close) response times of any web application are very critical for the end-user  experience.
anil calling "trend" on multiplatform native apps with cloud storage.
sourceforge technorati technorati tag bloglines icerocket del.icio.us twitter zuula blog search planetarium android apache classpath debian drizzle drupal fedora freedesktop.org gnome jabber java kde linuxchix
opensource googlegears
if you missed the web-seminar you get a chance to see the recording of  it here  (http://www.mysql.de/news-and-events/on-demand-webinars/security-20070130.php.de).
it is really possible to create the application such as gears, but independent from google, that will run on most platofrms and browsers.
login | register home |
i have been a  total fan of so since it went mainstream and it's now a borderline addiction
utc tags:  ( edit )mysql, php, oracle, java, vb.net, code, databases, delphi, perl, c, c++,  javascript, css, eclipse, ruby, programming, python, feature, language, bash,  hidden, program, c sharp, asp.net, haskell, mod_rewrite, secret ( close) introduction stackoverflow is an amazing site for coding questions.
utc tags:  ( edit) mysql, javascript, planetmysql,  planet, rss ( close) most likely you have seen giuseppe's post  showing the latest feature ofplanet mysql.
hi all, today i'd like to continue a blog series in which i highlight web  application tutorials for netbeans 6.5.
script.aculo.us is one of the popular ones and is built on the prototype  javascript framework.
this second entry in the series will cover the tutorial, "creating  an ajax application with script.aculo.us", which is based on a blog  entry by arun gupta.
+0 -0 posted by the aquarium on mon 22 sep 2008 11:00 utc tags:  ( edit) ajax,  javascript, opensource, netbeans, iphone, communityservice, notd, grizzly, store ,webkit ( close) a compilation of today's news of interest: the netbeans folks have a new introductory tutorial to  ajax, now updated to the forthcoming netbeans 6.5.
the article was well received and will hopefully spark some optimizations around loading styles and scripts.
utc tags: ( edit) php, javascript, css, wordpress, performance, programming, optimization, time, style, script, load, action, admin_print_scripts, admin_print_styles, conditional, enqueue, hook, js, ob_flush, ob_start, output buffer, wp_enqueue_script, wp_enqueue_style, wp_print_scripts, wp_print_styles ( close)
i was really hoping for, since the dayvoting was announced.
in the changeable world that is jobsland, this week apple was offering to marry the language, reiterating their support for java in os x, and  indicating that they would be supplying code and resources to the openjdk  project.
a few changes have been made to tutorials, among which is the featuring ofmysql as the database of choice.
this widget allows  readers to vote for your blog on planet mysql, all from within your blog.
so the user first sees this: once the zip code is entered, and the response received it looks like this: if the zip code is not found in the db: ok, now lets build it... download prototype, and a zip [read more...]
i knew that joining mysql would mean giving that up, but i was happy to do so because i really liked the mysql product.
i’ve made a little research, and decided to usejsdoc and phpdoc in my project.
voting from rss readers, was one
baron schwartz (xaprb) (22) colin charles (16) sheeri k. cabral (16)  henrik ingo(15) shlomi noach (14) andrew morgan (13) webyog (13) mark callaghan  (11) anders karlsson (10) ulf wendel (10) sean hull (9) giuseppe maxia (8)  reggie burnett(8)
voting from rss readers, was one  feature i was really hoping for, since the dayvoting was announced.
four short links: 2 mar 2009 +0 -0 posted by o'reilly radar on mon 02
before i joined mysql ab i was working as a database consultant and application developer.
in my last post i’ve asked for any help on my project.
the last day i’m suffering from different thoughts.
but be aware: it´s in german!!!
creating an ajax application with  script.aculo.us +0 -0 posted by james branam on wed  26 nov 2008 13:16 utc tags:  ( edit) mysql, web, ajax, javascript,  netbeans, application, jpa, scriptaculous ( close)
and a good solution was initially appeared in java with javadoc.
mql-to-sql: a json-based query language for your favorite rdbms - part
let me try and explain.
steve souders takes a detailed look at several large web sites and concludes that 80-90% of the end-user response time is spent on the frontend, i.e., program code that is running inside your web browser.
i +3 -0 posted by roland  bouman on thu 06
in the changeable world that is jobsland, this week apple was offering to marry the language, reiterating their support for java in os x, and indicating that they would be supplying code and resources to the openjdk project.
google test automation conference 2007 +0 -0 posted by wolfram kriesing on thu 30 aug 2007 06:32
i have been a total fan of so since it went mainstream and it's now a borderline addiction
[read more...] ajax tutorial with prototype
content reproduced on  this site is the property of the respective copyright holders.
sequential web frontends/browsers are the killer +0 -0 posted byzoran radovic on fri 15 may 2009 14:42
he’ll be presenting  a keynote on how, in just three years, a party with an odd name organized  around a narrow electronic frontier platform has become the fourth largest  political party in sweden.
we had about 140 participants and some very  good questions in the following q&a session.
the title for my proposal ismql-to-sql: a json-based query  language for rdbms access from ajax applications, and it covers pretty much  everything implied by the title.
there are several javascript libraries that can  be embedded in your webapplication to create a visually appealing interface.
the library provides an easy-to-use, cross-browser user  interface javascripts that allows you to create fancy effects commonly visible  on web pages these days.
+0 -0 posted by nat torkington of team blog o'reilly radar on thu 16 sep 2010 10:00
i knew that joining mysql would mean giving that up, but  i was happy to do so because i really liked the mysql product.
the cap theorem and mysql cluster vote!
create java applet and jni-wrapping library to access mysql create javascript library that will access mysql through the applet
google test  automation conference 2007 +0 -0 posted by wolfram kriesing on thu 30 aug 2007 06:32
please bear with me as i try to [read more...] a pirate captain visiting the pacific northwest +0 -0 posted by zak greant on wed 20 may 2009 09:54
monty program group blog (8)  howtoforge(7) mysql links mysql forge mysql forge wiki user groups mysql conference  mysql guilds online manual developer zone forums mailing lists report bugs  downloads other links google news newsforge freshmeat
70x faster joins with aql now ga with mysql cluster 7.2 vote!
top voted (last month)
- cool technology and usability in tungsten enterprise vote!
he’ll be presenting a keynote on how, in just three years, a party with an odd name organized around a narrow electronic frontier platform has become the fourth largest political party in sweden.
utc tags:  ( edit) mysql, sql, javascript, google, cloud,  web2.0, education, visualization ( close) jsterm -- ansi-capable telnet terminal built in html5 with javascript,  websocket, and node.js.
this blog entry gets you started by using ajax.
it was created by joel spolsky of joelonsoftware.com, jeff atwood of codinghorror.com, and some other incredibly smart guys who truly care about user experience.
first of all, i'd like to thank everyone who read and gave their 2 cents about the[wordpress plugin development] how to include css and javascript conditionally
because you want to make it very [read more...] hidden features of perl, php, javascript, c, c++, c#, java, ruby, python, and others
i promised i would explain a little bit more background about my talk, so here's the first installment.
steve souders takes a detailed look at several large web sites and  concludes that 80-90% of the end-user response time is spent on the frontend,  i.e., program code that is running inside your web browser.
inside are four interesting links covering politics, mobile business, javascript, and mysql: the minimal compact (adam greenfield) -- a manifesto on "open source constitutions for post-national entities".
- announcing mariadb 5.3.5 vote!
speaking at the  mysql conference 2011 +6 -0 posted by roland bouman on thu 06 jan 2011 00:43
autocompleter that allows for server-powered autocompleting of text  fields.
utc tags:  ( edit) mysql, php, sql, ajax,  javascript, mysql user conference, mysqlconf, drizzle, couchdb, mariadb, nosql,  mongodb, mql-to-sql, freebase, mql ( close) i just received a  confirmation that mypresentation proposal for the mysql user conference 2011  was accepted!
on tuesday our cio, johann-peter hartmann, gave a web-seminar about security issues in the web 2.0 era.
abstract: mql is a json-based database query language that has some very interesting features as compared to sql, especially for modern ( [read more...]
on tuesday our cio, johann-peter hartmann, gave a web-seminar about  security issues in the web 2.0 era.
the story update 6/21/09: this server is currently under very heavy  load (10-200), even with caching plugins enabled.
[collection of incredibly useful lists] +2 -0 posted by artem
this is achieved by by sending an ajax request to the data source on server, passing
+0 -0 posted by the aquarium on mon 22 sep 2008 11:00 utc tags: ( edit) ajax, javascript, opensource, netbeans, iphone, communityservice, notd, grizzly, store ,webkit ( close) a compilation of today's news of interest: the netbeans folks have a new introductory tutorial to ajax, now updated to the forthcoming netbeans 6.5.
cloudtop applications (anil dash) --
utc tags:  ( edit) mysql, php, javascript, programming, python, django, ajax (style) guide, dojo ( close)