as a solution for organizations worried about data in the public cloud, stackato enables customers to deploy an application to either a full public or a private internal cloud
there's no tuning or tweaking required with tools like the webmatrix, which helps you easily install and configure robust php apps on the  windows platform.
references reference: stackato gets management and monitoring for private paas your rating: 0 windows has become a full-featured platform for developing and deploying php applications of all types with very little effort.
his interests include a diverse range of industries from manufacturing  to property technology.
ben is a dzone mvb  and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 67 posts at dzone.
anyway, stackato is an infrastructure-agnostic paas built on top of cloud foundry.
transporting java data objects from a cics transaction java client program to a cics ts java program - embedded jetty, vaadin and weld - the depths of java: api leak exposed through covariance - gatling - an effective, akka and scala based hi-perf stress tool, a jmeter alternative - quick tip on using blocking method in java - see more popular at dzone - subscribe to the rss feed more javalobby spring batch - hello world how to fix memory leaks in java lucene's fuzzyquery is 100 times faster in 4.0 9 programming languages to watch
the offering is now out of private beta and is fully open to any cloud/it  administrators or developers that want to try or test a private paas.
focusing on the private arena means that stackato needs to provide some  functionality that is important to enterprise users and in line with this, they  are today rolling out some additions to he product; new admin dashboard: the stackato admin dashboard now offers visibility  into the activity and events in a private cloud to help administrators better  manage usage application monitoring with new relic integration: earlier this year,  activestate announced its partnership with new relic to provide real-time  application monitoring.
it extends cloud foundry and enables a private paas forpython, java, ruby,php, perl, and node.js applications.
as a commentator he has a broad presence both in the  traditional media and as an extensive blogger.
tools and tutorials for joomla fast, free php web deployment with webmatrix this section is brought to you in partnership with: spotlight features lucene revolution 2012 -details-
his interests include a diverse range of industries from manufacturing to property technology.
ben is a dzone mvb and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 67 posts at dzone.
related microzone resources tools and tutorials for joomla video:
more this section is brought to you in partnership with: i’ve been really positive about cloud foundry, seeing it as doing the sort of things for paas thatopenstack does for iaas. if cloud foundry succeeds in its aim, organizations will have a paas solution that they can use where they want, with whichever cloud provider they want and with many different languages and frameworks.
many of us have long said that paas holds the future of cloud services  – given that large enterprises are till reluctant to move stuff en masse  to the public cloud, offering such as stackato will help broaden the appeal and  usage of paas. the functionality they’re rolling out today will help  allay the concerns and fears of potential users.
explore php development and other windows technologies that  can greatly benefit the php programmer in the php on windows microzone,  sponsored bymicrosoft.
drupal website in 20 minutes php caching tips and tricks wordpress installation in minutes!
there's no tuning or tweaking required with tools like the webmatrix, which helps you easily install and configure robust php apps on the windows platform.
- from c# to c++, the short guide that isn't (all that short) - send me a patch for that - limit your abstractions: application events–proposed solution #2–cohesion - teamcitysharp now builds with mono spotlight resources essential emf the eclipse modeling framework (emf) is a powerful framework and code generation facility for building java applications based on simple model...
in 2011 is hibernate the best choice?
even rich applications like content management systems can be deployed quickly by developers with little, if any, windows it experience.
anyway, stackato is an infrastructure-agnostic paas built on top of cloud  foundry.
many of us have long said that paas holds the future of cloud services – given that large enterprises are till reluctant to move stuff en masse to the public cloud, offering such as stackato will help broaden the appeal and usage of paas. the functionality they’re rolling out today will help allay the concerns and fears of potential users.
it extends cloud foundry and enables a private paas forpython, java,  ruby,php, perl, and node.js applications.
explore php development and other windows technologies that can greatly benefit the php programmer in the php on windows microzone, sponsored bymicrosoft.
the stackato admin dashboard now offers visibility into the activity and events in a private cloud to help administrators better manage usage - application monitoring with new relic integration: earlier this year, activestate announced its partnership with new relic to provide real-time application monitoring.
scala · heroku · solr ·  indexeddb · amazon cloud · cloud foundry · wp7 ·  asp.net lucene 3.6 gets query time joining windows 8:  the facts about arm, metro, and the blu... pypy 1.8 improves  performance, maintains busin... code migrations evolved: ef 4.3  released ie blog tries to make case for metro-style apps php on  windows zone
ben kepes bio ben kepes is an analyst, and entrepreneur, an commentator, and a business adviser.
how to create visual applications in java?
view full  user profile stackato, a private paas for python, php, java, and more, gets management  and monitoring november 08, 2011 at 1:23 pm tweet
he sits on the boards of a  number of organizations, both commercial and not-for-profit.
even rich applications like content management systems  can be deployed quickly by developers with little, if any, windows it  experience.
related microzone resources video:
new relic standard edition is now integrated with stackato for java, php, python and ruby applications and is included in stackato’s standard pricing - improvements in java deployment to stackato from spring tool suite (sts) and eclipse:
more this section is brought to you in partnership with: i’ve been really positive about cloud foundry, seeing it as doing the  sort of things for paas thatopenstack does for iaas. if cloud foundry succeeds  in its aim, organizations will have a paas solution that they can use where  they want, with whichever cloud provider they want and with many different  languages and frameworks.
advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2011, dzone, inc.
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets trending: lucene · css · python · pypy · scala · heroku · solr · indexeddb · amazon cloud · cloud foundry · wp7 · asp.net lucene 3.6 gets query time joining windows 8: the facts about arm, metro, and the blu... pypy 1.8 improves performance, maintains busin... code migrations evolved: ef 4.3 released ie blog tries to make case for metro-style apps php on windows zone
latest articles - how to write and run a c program in visual studio 2010 - limit your abstractions: application events–what about change?
focusing on the private arena means that stackato needs to provide some functionality that is important to enterprise users and in line with this, they are today rolling out some additions to he product; - new admin dashboard:
new relic standard edition is now integrated with  stackato for java, php, python and ruby applications and is included in  stackato’s standard pricing improvements in java deployment to stackato from spring tool suite (sts)  and eclipse:
he sits on the boards of a number of organizations, both commercial and not-for-profit.
activestate enables java developers to use their existing desktop development environments to deploy directly from their desktop to the cloud.
trending: lucene · css ·  python · pypy ·
as a solution for organizations  worried about data in the public cloud, stackato enables customers to deploy an  application to either a full public or a private internal cloud
references   reference: stackato gets management and monitoring for private paas your rating: 0 windows has become a full-featured  platform for developing and deploying php applications of all types with very  little effort.
the story of the java 7 lucene bug - popular at dzone - implement "remember me" controller with servlets and jsps - get smart...paddy power technology series - passing data objects between cics java environments: part 3:
view full user profile stackato, a private paas for python, php, java, and more, gets management and monitoring november 08, 2011 at 1:23 pm this story is part of the dzone php on windows microzone, which is brought to you in collaboration with microsoft.
visit the php on windows microzone for additional tutorials, videos, opinions, and other resources on this topic.
dzone has great portals for python, cloud, nosql, and html5!
visit the php on  windows microzone for additional tutorials, videos, opinions, and other  resources on this topic.
share it with your friends: |
this story is part of the dzone php on windows microzone,  which is brought to you in collaboration with microsoft.
dzone has great portals for python,  cloud, nosql, and html5!
ben kepes bio ben kepes is an analyst, and entrepreneur, an commentator, and a business  adviser.
activestate enables java developers to use their existing desktop  development environments to deploy directly from their desktop to the cloud.
tags: - paas - python - php - ruby - architecture - login or register to post comments - 3199 reads - printer-friendly version (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.)
the offering is now out of private beta and is fully open to any cloud/it administrators or developers that want to try or test a private paas.
drupal website in 20 minutes php caching tips and tricks fast, free php web deployment with webmatrix wordpress installation in minutes!
as a commentator he has a broad presence both in the traditional media and as an extensive blogger.