category: link // tags: library, python, web webkit2png - creates png screenshots of webpage  // 2010-04-11 webkit2png is a command line tool that creates png screenshots of webpages.
tags: book, django, python crunchy is an interactive python tutorials served through a web browser.
tags: django, python, software whoosh is a fast, featureful full-text indexing and searching library implemented in pure python.
tags: database, python, software scons is a next-generation build tool.
not in the sense that it makes multi-threaded (mt) programming a breeze (i doubt this is possible), but in the sense that it provides everything that’s needed to write mt programs, and only that.
tags: data mining, python,  software pymvpa - pattern classification analyses in python //
not in the sense that it  makes multi-threaded (mt) programming a breeze (i doubt this is possible), but  in the sense that it provides everything that’s needed to write mt  programs, and only that.
tags: data visualization, library, python writing  a non-relational django backend // 2010-04-07 "the django orm is pretty complicated and it takes too much time  for contributors to understand all the necessary details.
tags: presentation, python,  scalability mongoengine - mongodb orm for python //
tags: django, presentation, python,  software, web pytc - tokyo cabinet python bindings // 2009-02-15 tokyo cabinet python bindings category: link //
tags: cloud computing, python hg init: a mercurial  tutorial // 2010-02-25 mercurial is a modern, open source, distributed version control system, and  a compelling upgrade from older systems like subversion.
presentation covered a brief history, architecture, features, and the short  example.
tags: python, software, tutorial, web stephen marsland shared all python scripts from his book "machine learning: an algorithmic perspective".
tags: python python infrequently answered questions //
tags: comparison, python, software mozilla addons: migrating from cakephp  to django // 2009-11-18 addons.mozilla.org plans to move from cakephp to django in 2010.
in other words, pthreads solves a single problem, and solves it well."
tags: comparison, python, software, web functional programming in python //
tags: django, python, software whoosh: a fast pure-python  search engine // 2009-02-12 whoosh is a fast, featureful full-text indexing and searching library  implemented in pure python.
but what about python?
tags: database, django, presentation, python "there are many unicode tutorials available for python, but few offer an understanding of how unicode works or how it's applied in the real world.
tags: django, presentation, python, software django people lists django developers from around the world.
tags: python, tutorial pyprocessing - python environment for graphics // 2010-01-08 pyprocessing provides a python package that creates an environment for  graphics applications that closely resembles that of theprocessing system.
", walking randomlycategory: link //
it uses a simple declarative api, similar to that of the django orm category:link //
some of whoosh's features include pythonic api,  pure-python, fielded indexing and search, fast indexing and retrieval,  pluggable scoring algorithm (text analysis, storage, posting format, etc.), and  powerful query language.
it also contains sample code, so you can better understand what each function does."
and people  don't learn python because it will get them a job; they learn it because they  genuinely like to program and aren't satisfied with the languages they already  know.
tags: data mining,  mathematics, python, software unladen swallow improves the python  performance // 2009-03-27 ryan paul wrote "google's python engineers have launched a new  project called unladen swallow that seeks to improve the performance of the  python programming language.
tags: blog, python, software the first time in poland, pycon pl 2008 conference took place in rybnik on 18-19th october 2008, where i had a pleasure of presentingdjango web framework.
presentation covered a brief history, architecture, features, and the short example.
it combines the power of many existing open-source packages into a common python-based interface.
by marcin swierczynski category:link //
tags: database, python, software scons - a software construction tool // 2009-02-14 scons is a next-generation build tool.
in other words, pthreads solves a single problem, and  solves it well."
tags: library, python objgraph is a module that lets you visually explore python object graphs.
tags: database, django, presentation, python making sense of python unicode  // 2010-05-12 "there are many unicode tutorials available for python, but few  offer an understanding of how unicode works or how it's applied in the real  world.
tags: finance, presentation, python functional programming with python – part 1 // 2010-02-24 category:  link //
tags: django, python, software using python to encode  cassette recordings // 2010-08-23 category: link //
tags: django, python, social network his week in django is your ongoing source for all things django.
tags: design, django, python find developers.
it is a  tandem of virtualenv and pip."
tags: python, software firepython - python logger  console into firebug // 2009-02-13 firepython is a python logger console integrated into firebug.
tags: database, django, python "the pthreads api is inherently simple.
tags: data visualization, python python's docx module creates, reads and writes microsoft office word 2007 docx files.
tags: python, software comparison script languages for fractal geometry //
tags: django, presentation, python, software this page is devoted to various tips and tricks that help improve the performance of your python programs (sorting, string concatenation, loops, local variables, etc).category: link //
tags:  django, python saas with django and postgresql //
2009-04-09 steve huffman’s and alexis ohanian’s told on pycon keynote why  reddit uses python.
think of scons as an improved, cross-platform substitute for the classic make utility with integrated functionality similar to autoconf/automake and compiler caches such as ccache.
we will see, how scripting languages behave if applied to fractal geometry, more precisely an family mandelbrot algorithm."
tags: cloud computing,  presentation, python, ruby, video comparison between django, rails and  grails.
the aim of the site is to help django developers find like-minded souls near them, and hopefully kick-start some local meet-ups and user groups.
tags: data mining, data  visualization, python picloud - cloud computing, simplified // 2010-03-01 picloud is a cloud-computing platform that integrates into the python  programming language.
tags:  comparison, python, ruby where are all the python jobs?
tags:  comparison, python, software why is python more fun than java? //
tags: interview, python, software,  web easy ai with python // 2009-04-02 raymond hettinger's presentation about artificial intelligence in python.
tags:  library, python, software alertgrid - instant notification in python/django  // 2010-07-23 alertgrid is an interesting online instant notifications service (written  in python/django) that helps reacting on the custom events (server down, script  error, machine stopped) by sending sms/phone/email notification.
tags: django, python, startup, web why did quora choose python? //
mean by this that java programmers are dumb.
pymvpa provides high-level abstraction of typical processing steps and a number of implementations of some popular algorithms.
2010-01-03 python's docx module creates, reads and writes microsoft office word 2007  docx files.
tags: comparison, python, software addons.mozilla.org plans to move from cakephp to django in 2010.category:link //
tags: django, python time-complexity of various operations in python //
i didn't mean by this that java programmers are dumb.
", walking randomly category: link //  tags: python, science fractal benchmark // 2009-12-03 ruby, io, php, python, lua, java, perl, applescript, tcl, elisp,  javascript, ocaml, ghostscript, and c fractal benchmark.
by all buttons pressedcategory: link //
it is a tandem of virtualenv and pip."
tags: python, science ruby, io, php, python, lua, java, perl, applescript, tcl, elisp, javascript, ocaml, ghostscript, and c fractal benchmark.
since i was a python guy before i ever started using ruby, the transition has mostly been an easy one, but there are some fairly significant differences in design and philosophy between the two frameworks that are worth thinking about if you’re picking a platform for a new project.
company about & contactcompany about & contact projects selected projectsprojects selected projects archive blog, articles & linksarchive blog, articles & links polski wersja polskapolski wersja polska "in the java world there was always a problem with dependencies.
i’ve used the contenttypes framework with generic  relations and it works pretty well!"
2010-04-13 flask is a micro webdevelopment framework for python.
the main requirement was to get as loosely-coupled design  as possible.
tags: python, science the  rise of python in computational science // 2009-12-21 "one of my plans for next year is to start giving short talks and  tutorials about scientific python to various groups around the university of  manchester.
presentation contains several basic ai techniques implemented with short, open-source python code recipes.
tags: cloud computing, python mercurial is a modern, open source, distributed version control system, and a compelling upgrade from older systems like subversion.
category: link // tags: python, software python & django on 4developers - presentation  // 2009-03-09 4developers conference took place in krakow, poland on 7th march 2009,  where i had a pleasure of presentingpython language and django web framework.
tags: django ,job, python, startup top 10 tips to a new django developer // 2010-01-29 don't put project name in the imports, don't hard code media_root and  template_dirs, don't hard code static files in your templates, don't write core  business logic in your views, ... category: link //
tags: python, science "one of my plans for next year is to start giving short talks and tutorials about scientific python to various groups around the university of manchester.
tags: design, django, python django gigs // 2009-01-23 category: link //
by all buttons pressed category: link //
tags: python, software the history  of python // 2009-01-29 a series of articles on the history of the python programming language and  its community by guido van rossum.
tags: python python vs. ruby: a battle  to the death // 2011-01-03 category: link //
thankfully there is a maven project which helps us in requirements management.
tags: python category: link //
one of the project's goals is to replace the python virtual machine with an llvm-based jit".
2010-08-06 category: link //
pymvpa provides high-level abstraction of typical processing steps and a number  of implementations of some popular algorithms.
tags: blog, django, python, software django - the web  framework in python // 2009-01-23 django is a high-level python web framework that encourages rapid  development and clean, pragmatic design.
in short, scons is an easier, more reliable and faster way to build software.
tags: python, software, tutorial pandas: python data analysis library //
tags: python, software, testing django  1.0 template development book // 2009-07-02 packt publishing from uk informed me that they published an interesting  book "django 1.0 template development", written by scott newman.
tags: python, software paul graham wrote on his blog "you could get smarter programmers to work on a python project than you could to work on a java project.
tags: database, django, python pthreads as a case  study of good api design // 2010-07-25 "the pthreads api is inherently simple.
2010-05-24 presentation by nice alex gaynor (berlin, germany).
in the perfect world the “shortenable” classes should  know absolutely nothing about link-shortening mechanism.
it combines the power of many existing open-source packages into a common  python-based interface.
tags: comparison, django,  python, software pybrain - python machine learning library // 2009-10-04 category: link //
tags: comparison, complexity, python python 2.6 quick  reference // 2010-01-08 category: link //
tags: library, python objgraph - drawing python  object reference graphs // 2010-04-09 objgraph is a module that lets you visually explore python object graphs.
tags: python, software mathematica vs  matlab vs python // 2009-07-06 code comparison (size and complexity) between mathematica, matlab and  python.
i  have not read yet, but it has many positive reviews (e.g.lowkster and  contenthere).
by marcin swierczynskicategory:link //
can i do ++x and x++?, is there a similar shortcut for objects?, etc...category: link //
2010-02-05 mongoengine is a document-object mapper for working with mongodb from  python.
tags: django,  python, software django sites // 2009-01-23 the most comprehensive listing of websites that are powered by django, the  python web framework for perfectionists with deadlines.
in the neuroimaging contexts such analysis techniques are also known as decoding or mvpa analysis.
2010-07-13 "since adam d'angelo, the founder, had worked for facebook, which  heavily uses php.
tags: python, software, testing packt publishing from uk informed me that they published an interesting book "django 1.0 template development", written by scott newman.
tags: python, software
tags: data mining, python, software i will give a presentation on 4developers conference about the rapid and easy development of web application using django and python.
well, no, but it has inspired me into a personal renaissance for software writing.
tags: comparison, python django for  rails devs // 2009-10-06 lennon day-reynolds wrote on his blog: "i’ve recently made  the transition from full-time rails development to a mix of technologies  including, in large part, django.
the conference will take place in my hometownkraków (poland) on march 7th 2009.category:article //
this tutorial will teach you what you need to know about unicode by  example, as succinctly as possible."
i am trying to understand the technical challenges the  founders of quora faced before they decided to go with python rather than  php.
it enables you to leverage the computing power of amazon  web services without having to manage, maintain, or configure virtual servers.
tags: library, python, software alertgrid is an interesting online instant notifications service (written in python/django) that helps reacting on the custom events (server down, script error, machine stopped) by sending sms/phone/email notification.
it enables you to leverage the computing power of amazon web services without having to manage, maintain, or configure virtual servers.
tags: interview, python, software, web raymond hettinger's presentation about artificial intelligence in python.
// 2010-11-07 category: link //
tags: comparison, mathematics, python, source  code python testing tools taxonomy // 2009-07-03 list of python testing tools divided into unit testing tools, mock/stub  testing tools, fuzz testing tools, web testing tools, acceptance/business logic  testing tools, gui testing tools, source code checking tools, code coverage  tools, continuous integration tools, and miscellaneous python testing tools  categories.
tags: finance, library, python mongoengine is a document-object mapper for working with mongodb from python.
tags: comparison, python, software, web "this article will compare the latest incarnations of ruby, with the latest in python, groovy, php, lua, perl and java too, to have a comparison with a pre-compiled language.
tags: django, python, startup, web "since adam d'angelo, the founder, had worked for facebook, which heavily uses php.
please find attached presentation from this talk.
tags: database, django, python "python is the greatest thing to happen to computer science since the turing machine!
tags: python lennon day-reynolds wrote on his blog: "i’ve recently made the transition from full-time rails development to a mix of technologies including, in large part, django.
please find attached presentation  from this talk.
tags: data mining, python, software pymvpa (python multivariate pattern analysis) is a python module intended to ease pattern classification analyses of large datasets.
tags: python code coverage analysis in django //
tags: data mining, data visualization, python picloud is a cloud-computing platform that integrates into the python programming language.
tags: django, python, software the most comprehensive listing of websites that are powered by django, the python web framework for perfectionists with deadlines.
tags: django, python an optimization branch of cpython, intended to be fully compatible and  significantly faster.
tags: django, python "last week i’ve completed an interesting task within our project: building internal link-shortening system based on persisted objects, not on constant urls.
and people don't learn python because it will get them a job; they learn it because they genuinely like to program and aren't satisfied with the languages they already know.
2009-02-12 pymvpa (python multivariate pattern analysis) is a python module intended  to ease pattern classification analyses of large datasets.
can i do ++x and x++?, is  there a similar shortcut for objects?,
it also  contains sample code, so you can better understand what each function  does."
tags: python, software 4developers conference took place in krakow, poland on 7th march 2009, where i had a pleasure of presentingpython language and django web framework.
2010-08-02 how to isolate customer's data from one another (one database per customer).
in order to make the  process as easy as possible we've implemented a backend template which provides  a simple starting point for a new backend based on our simplified api.
category:  article //
python in quantitative finance  // 2010-02-24 category: link //
in the neuroimaging  contexts such analysis techniques are also known as decoding or mvpa analysis.
tags:  data mining, python, software python and django on 4developers conference  // 2009-02-10 i will give a presentation on 4developers conference about the rapid and  easy development of web application using django and python.
is there any way to handle necessary libraries?
tags: django, eclipse, python flask is a micro webdevelopment framework for python.
i’ve used the contenttypes framework with generic relations and it works pretty well!"
i have not read yet, but it has many positive reviews (e.g.lowkster and contenthere).category: link //
etc... category: link //
ever since i attended euroscipy in leipzig earlier this year i have  been excited about the possibilities offered by python for students,  researchers and teachers.
its flexibility, widespread community  support, and leveraging of legacy c and fortran code also make it an  outstanding language for social science researchers." via zero  intelligence agents.
python making django and nosql play nice //
tags: django, python pyprocessing provides a python package that creates an environment for graphics applications that closely resembles that of theprocessing system.
tags: data mining, mathematics, python, software ryan paul wrote "google's python engineers have launched a new project called unladen swallow that seeks to improve the performance of the python programming language.
tags: comparison, django,  framework, presentation, python python: virtualenv + pip // 2010-10-31 "in the java world there was always a problem with dependencies.
2010-03-30 "python is the greatest thing to happen to computer science since  the turing machine!
2010-01-10 category:link //
tags:  comparison, python, software python-on-a-chip // 2010-06-11 project's goal is to develop the pymite virtual machine, device drivers,  high-level libraries and other tools to run a significant subset of the python  language on microcontrollers without an os.
tags: finance, library, python pycon 2010:
tags: library, python sage -  open-source mathematics software // 2009-12-21 sage is a free open-source mathematics software system licensed under the  gpl.
i meant that python programmers  are smart.
category: article //
tags: python the code in a finally clause will never fail to execute?, polymorphism is great; i can sort a list of elements of any type?,
by lobster technologies.
tags: python, software, tutorial pandas is a python package providing convenient data structures for time series, cross-sectional, or any other form of “labeled” data, with tools for building statistical and econometric models.
presentation covered a introduction to python and brief history, architecture, features, and the short example of django.
a series of articles on the history of the python programming language and its community by guido van rossum.
tags: django, presentation, python, software python  performance tips // 2009-02-10 this page is devoted to various tips and tricks that help improve the  performance of your python programs (sorting, string concatenation, loops,  local variables, etc).
tags: django ,job, python, startup don't put project name in the imports, don't hard code media_root and template_dirs, don't hard code static files in your templates, don't write core business logic in your views, ...
presentation covered a introduction to python and brief history, architecture,  features, and the short example of django.
2010-06-11 "this article will compare the latest incarnations of ruby, with  the latest in python, groovy, php, lua, perl and java too, to have a comparison  with a pre-compiled language.
2009-07-31 category: link //
the main requirement was to get as loosely-coupled design as possible.
2010-02-24 pandas is a python package providing convenient data structures for time  series, cross-sectional, or any other form of “labeled” data, with  tools for building statistical and econometric models.
tags: database, django, library, python "compared to other programming languages, python and ruby are so similar that hearing arguments between them is like trying to figure out which identical twin is more handsome.
tags: comparison, django, python, software code comparison (size and complexity) between mathematica, matlab and python.
by marco mastrodonato category: link //
python wins 2010 tiobe programming language award //  2011-01-09 category: link //
it's a lot of work to learn a new programming language.
tags: data mining, python, software python vs  ruby, slightly more in-depth // 2009-08-04 category: link //
it uses a simple declarative api, similar to that of the django ormcategory:link //
tags:  django, eclipse, python flask: a micro web framework for python //
tags: blog, django, python, software django is a high-level python web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design.
tags: library, python, web webkit2png is a command line tool that creates png screenshots of webpages.
tags: python, tutorial factory, singleton, flyweight, observer, and command dispatch pattern.
2010-07-08 category: link //
tags: django, python an optimization branch of cpython, intended to be fully compatible and significantly faster.
one of the project's goals is to replace the  python virtual machine with an llvm-based jit".
tags: django, python generic relationships in django // 2010-08-31 "last week i’ve completed an interesting task within our  project: building internal link-shortening system based on persisted objects,  not on constant urls.
in the perfect world the “shortenable” classes should know absolutely nothing about link-shortening mechanism.
presentation by nice alex gaynor (berlin, germany).category: link //
how to get such a  flexibility in django?
tags: blog, python,  software introduction to django 1.0 - presentation // 2009-01-23 the first time in poland, pycon pl 2008 conference took place in rybnik on  18-19th october 2008, where i had a pleasure of presentingdjango web framework.
we will see, how scripting languages behave if  applied to fractal geometry, more precisely an family mandelbrot  algorithm."
the aim of the  site is to help django developers find like-minded souls near them, and  hopefully kick-start some local meet-ups and user groups.
the conference  will take place in my hometownkraków (poland) on march 7th 2009.
ever since i attended euroscipy in leipzig earlier this year i have been excited about the possibilities offered by python for students, researchers and teachers.
tags: python django templates (tags, blocks, variables, filters, html tags, javascript and css) syntax coloring support for eclipse.
tags: comparison, python, ruby thread on hacker news about python jobs.
i am trying to understand the technical challenges the founders of quora faced before they decided to go with python rather than php."category: link //
this tutorial will teach you what you need to know about unicode by example, as succinctly as possible."
tags: library, python sage is a free open-source mathematics software system licensed under the gpl.
some of whoosh's features include pythonic api, pure-python, fielded indexing and search, fast indexing and retrieval, pluggable scoring algorithm (text analysis, storage, posting format, etc.), and powerful query language.
thankfully there is a  maven project which helps us in requirements management.
all the jars we had to mange by hand – quite awful.
tags: python, software, tutorial, web machine learning:  an algorithmic perspective // 2009-04-20 stephen marsland shared all python scripts from his book "machine  learning: an algorithmic perspective".
tags: django, presentation, python, software django people //  2009-01-23 django people lists django developers from around the world.
tags: django, job, python copyright 2007-2011 © zenzire company //
tags: python, tutorial scaling python webapps from 0 to 50 million  users // 2010-02-23 category: link //
tags: comparison, mathematics, python, source code list of python testing tools divided into unit testing tools, mock/stub testing tools, fuzz testing tools, web testing tools, acceptance/business logic testing tools, gui testing tools, source code checking tools, code coverage tools, continuous integration tools, and miscellaneous python testing tools categories.
since i was a python guy before i ever  started using ruby, the transition has mostly been an easy one, but there are  some fairly significant differences in design and philosophy between the two  frameworks that are worth thinking about if you’re picking a platform for  a new project.
how to get such a flexibility in django?
in order to make the process as easy as possible we've implemented a backend template which provides a simple starting point for a new backend based on our simplified api.
i meant that python programmers are smart.
tags: comparison, python, software project's goal is to develop the pymite virtual machine, device drivers, high-level libraries and other tools to run a significant subset of the python language on microcontrollers without an os.category: link //
by marcin swierczynski category:  link //
tags: database,  django, python must-have python packages for social scientists  //
tags: data visualization, python python docx library //
presentation contains several basic ai techniques implemented with short,  open-source python code recipes.
tags: data visualization, library, python "the django orm is pretty complicated and it takes too much time for contributors to understand all the necessary details.
by marco mastrodonatocategory: link //
we have  interviews, tips, special topics, screencasts, callcasts and a ton of fun.
tags: python, software firepython is a python logger console integrated into firebug.
its flexibility, widespread community support, and leveraging of legacy c and fortran code also make it an outstanding language for social science researchers." via zero intelligence agents.
think of scons as an improved,  cross-platform substitute for the classic make utility with integrated  functionality similar to autoconf/automake and compiler caches such as ccache.
category: link // tags: django, python, social network this week in django // 2009-01-23 his week in django is your ongoing source for all things django.
we have interviews, tips, special topics, screencasts, callcasts and a ton of fun.
tags: database, django, library, python what pythonistas  think of ruby // 2010-02-03 "compared to other programming languages, python and ruby are so  similar that hearing arguments between them is like trying to figure out which  identical twin is more handsome.
tags: django, python, software how to isolate customer's data from one another (one database per customer).category: link //
well, no, but it has inspired me into a personal  renaissance for software writing.
// 2010-02-02 thread on hacker news about python jobs.
tags:  book, data mining, mathematics, python, software why reddit uses python //
by marcin swierczynskicategory: link //
tags: django, presentation, python, software, web tokyo cabinet python bindingscategory: link //
tags: book, data mining, mathematics, python, software steve huffman’s and alexis ohanian’s told on pycon keynote why reddit uses python.
tags: python, software the  python paradox // 2009-01-31 paul graham wrote on his blog "you could get smarter programmers  to work on a python project than you could to work on a java project.
tags:  python how to think like a pythonista // 2010-04-18 category: link // tags: python, software django editor - plugin for eclipse // 2010-04-13 django templates (tags, blocks, variables, filters, html tags, javascript  and css) syntax coloring support for eclipse.
tags: book, django, python crunchy:  interactive python tutorials // 2009-04-27 crunchy is an interactive python tutorials served through a web browser.
tags: django, job, python
2010-04-22 the code in a finally clause will never fail to execute?, polymorphism is  great; i can sort a list of elements of any type?,