tumblr — a free short-form blogging platform that allows users to  post images, video, links, quotes and audio.
it’s written for intelligent  nontechies in (mostly) plain english.
the language used, actionscript, is owned by adobe; this contrasts with many other popular programming languages that are open source.
(also see oauth,  open id) facebook community page — introduced in april 2010, community pages  were created as a counterpart to “official fan pages,” which are  built around a specific person, company, organization, product, or brand.
first released in december 2002 by the nonprofit creative commons organization, which was inspired by the open source gnu gpl license, the licenses are now used on an estimated 130 million works worldwide.
unlike legacy media, where the audience is usually on the receiving end of content creation, social media generally allows three stages of interaction with content: 1) producing, 2) consuming and 3) sharing.
the name joomla means “all together” in swahili.
mysql is a relational database management system, not a  document-oriented database system.
creators must  use adobe’s creative suite products and web surfers must install a flash  plug-in for their browser.
mysql is a relational database management system, not a document-oriented database system.
google adsense — google’s online advertising network that  allows content publishers to embed a piece of code to display google ads on  their sites.
mit has a center for future civic media.
cpm is well suited for “brand” or “awareness” advertising, in which the primary purpose of the ad is not necessarily to prompt an immediate response.
for instance, web development frameworks like ruby on rails (written in ruby, meaning programmers use ruby to do the “fill in the blanks” tasks) and django (written in python), have easy-to-use, built-in support for common web development tasks, such as reading and writing to a database, writing content in html, and so forth.
programming languages  are used by software developers to create applications, including those for the  web, for mobile phones, and for desktop operating systems.
used in the content it is describing,  or more general terms that may not be explicitly stated, such as themes.
while it has deep roots in academia, data visualization has begun to emerge on content sites as a way to handle the masses of data that are being made public, often by government.
perl still has an active development community and is noted for the scope of its freely available libraries, which simplify development.
many blogger sites are hosted at blogspot.com.
despite a relatively modest user base at the beginning, foursquare quickly attracted a lot of attention for its potential for marketing and customer brand loyalty.
it is mashing up one data source (the addresses of movie theaters) with another data source (the geographic location of those addresses on a map).
it is often used as a contrast to “citizen journalism”  because it also encompasses mapping, wikis and databases.
computing platforms  include windows pc and macintosh.
foursquare and gowalla are location-based services.
while it has deep roots in academia,  data visualization has begun to emerge on content sites as a way to handle the  masses of data that are being made public, often by government.
while open id has  seen adoption among technical communities, its authentication method is not  particularly intuitive, and it has not gained wide consumer acceptance.
this is a crowdsourced document that provides a guide to  technologies involved in modern content distribution, coordinated by  hacks/hackers, a grassroots group that brings journalists and technologists  together.
it is  mashing up one data source (the addresses of movie theaters) with another data  source (the geographic location of those addresses on a map).
however, facebook recently released its internally developed  version of hiphop for php, which is designed to make the language dramatically  more efficient.
however, because there is a 5,000-person limit to friends, some celebrities have fan pages instead.
the new york times used s3 with ec2 in this way to process its archives.
geotag — a piece of information that goes with content and contains  geographically based information.
it connects to the internet via wifi.
web pages often have hidden metadata that helps with their  search engine ranks.
html (hypertext markup language) — the dominant formatting language used on the world wide web to publish text, images and other elements.
cpc is well-suited for “directed” advertising, intended to prompt an immediate response, because a user’s clicking on an ad shows engagement with it.
twitter users came up with their own conventions, including the @ symbol to denote user names (@nytimes), and #, the hashtag, to denote subjects (#sxsw).
- facebook connect, oauth, and openid are different ways that users can use  one account’s information to log onto another website without having to  create a new username and password.
cms (content management system) — software designed to organize large  amounts of dynamic material for a website, usually consisting of at least  templates and a database.
hp recently announced that it would acquire palm, which was once the leading smart phone company.
instructions here: http://hckhc.kr/asjt3s ______________________________ api (application programming interface) — the way computer programs share data and functionality with other computer programs.
it attracted criticism when google automatically and publicly connected users with people they had e-mailed most often in the past, making private information unexpectedly available.
it was initially released in 2007 and is occasionally spotted on the web.
json  is considered the better data exchange format whereas xml is considered a  better document exchange format.
popular websites that are written in php are wikipedia,  facebook and wordpress.
cloud computing is appealing because  companies can reduce the amount they spend on their own computer servers and  software but can also quickly and easily expand as the company grows.
however, it’s not commonly used since it’s extremely difficult to measure: it is often unclear when or how to attribute an action to a specific ad.
in addition, words that appear in urls often help boost search rankings, which is why many content sites are now shifting to urls with headlines as opposed to data strings.
there are many  tools for data visualizations, including seattle-based tableau and ibm’s  many eyes.
microsoft silverlight — microsoft’s answer to adobe flash,  allowing the integration of multimedia, graphics, animations, and interactivity  into web pages.
it is popular because it is a free and flexible alternative to  expensive systems like oracle.
it is most familiarly in “http:” form, but also encompasses “ftp:” or “mailto:” url (uniform resource locator) — often used interchangeably with the “address” of a web page, such as http://hackshackers.com.
some well-known android phones are the nexus one, the motorola droid and htc evo.
while originally perceived to be light on  reporting and heavy on commentary, a number of blogs are now thoroughly  reported, and legacy media organizations have also launched various blogs.
mobile platforms include android, iphone and  palm’s webos.
location-based services — a service, usually in a mobile web or mobile device application, that uses your location in order to perform a certain task, such as finding nearby restaurants, giving you directions, or locating your friends.
cloud computing is appealing because companies can reduce the amount they spend on their own computer servers and software but can also quickly and easily expand as the company grows.
users can work collaboratively on documents,  editing them simultaneously.
mashup — a combination of data from multiple sources, usually through the use of apis.
programming language — a special type of language used to unambiguously instruct a computer how to perform tasks.
some news organizations, including the new york times,  wired and national geographic, have created special applications designed for  the ipad.
apis are an increasingly critical part of the internet’s interconnection.
launched in 2007, twitter became  popular in part because it had a set of apis that allowed other developers to  build tools on top if it.
rss (really simple syndication) — a standard for websites to push their content to readers through web formats to create regular updates through a “feed reader” or “rss reader.”
feel free to distribute or contribute.
it is a type of  cloud computing.
server-side — referring to when network software runs in a central location, the server, rather than on the user’s computer, often known as the client.
we relate the different terms to each other and make sense of the whole  thing.
major projects built in django include disqus, everyblock.com and theonion.com.
instructions here: http://hckhc.kr/asjt3s ______________________________ api (application programming interface) — the way computer programs  share data and functionality with other computer programs.
example below: “name”,”address”,”email” “jack”,”1 main st., town,  ny”,”jack@hill.com” “jill”,”2 elm st., city,  ca”,”jill@hill.com” data visualization — a growing area of content creation in which  information is represented graphically and often interactively.
amazon offers two cloud computing services: ec2, which many start-ups now  use as a cheap way to launch their products, and s3, an online storage system  many companies use for cheap storage.
in web development, key/value stores are often (though not always) used for optimization.
fan pages can gather thousands or millions of fans though “likes,” and official posts by the page administrator generally go into the fans’ news streams.
mysql — the dominant open-source database management system on the internet.
despite an initial burst of publicity, google buzz has not gained  tremendous traction.
- wordpress, joomla and drupal (listed in increasingly levels of complexity) are all content management systems written in php.
android — usually used in the context of android phone, android is a free and open source operating system developed by google that powers a variety of mobile phones from different manufacturers and carriers.
watch django and ruby creators discuss the merits of their frameworks on djangoproject.com.
embed — a term meaning to place a specific piece of content from one web page inside of another one.
there is not a  way to actively add content to the page, unlike with facebook groups.
the work is done within the browser, rather than  at the hosting website.
html can be considered code, but it is not a programming language; it’s a markup language, which is a separate beast.
this list is released under the creative commons attribute share-alike 3.0 license (distribute this list as much as you please as long as you attribute it to hacks/hackers, and any changes/corrections you make also become freely shareable).
html (hypertext markup language) — the dominant formatting language  used on the world wide web to publish text, images and other elements.
cpa (cost per action) — a pricing model in which the advertiser is charged for an ad based on how many users take a specific, pre-defined action—such as buying a product from an online store—based on viewing an ad.
it is more powerful than wordpress but not as powerful as drupal.
the letters stand for the linux operating system, apache web server,  mysql database, and either php, perl or python.
there are many  open source licenses.
twitter has implemented geotagging, and facebook has announced  plans to do so.
document-oriented database — an increasingly popular type of database.
many of the most popular technologies used in content distribution, including languages and publishing platforms, are open source.
microsoft silverlight is also a rival to flash, but don’t worry if you have never heard of it.
launched in 2007, twitter became popular in part because it had a set of apis that allowed other developers to build tools on top if it.
if you watch a web  page that loads slowly, you will often see the text first load and then  “snap into place” with its look and feel.
s3 — an online storage system run by amazon that’s often used  as a cheap way to store (and serve) photos and videos used on websites.
there are six main creative commons licenses based on four conditions that creators can choose to apply: attribution, share alike, non-commercial, and no derivative works.
some licenses are considered permissive (e.g. mit and bsd), allowing inclusion in proprietary works, while others (e.g. gnu gpl) require that the resulting derivative works remain under the same license if distributed.
most modern websites use some kind of relational database to store content.
drupal is  very powerful, but it is somewhat difficult to use for simple tasks when  compared to wordpress.
the work is done within the browser, rather than at the hosting website.
iphone — apple’s smart phone has sold more than 50 million units worldwide since it launched in 2007.
iphone — apple’s smart phone has sold more than 50 million  units worldwide since it launched in 2007.
instead, inputs, operators and chunks of logic are represented visually — as consoles connected by pipes — with information flowing from sources to output.
it is often used in the  context of journalists being open about their reporting process and material by  sharing with their readers before the final project emerges or providing more  context in addition to the final product.
some have hoped that it would be the “jesus” tablet that  would breathe new life into legacy print publications.
sometimes “legacy media” is used interchangeably with  “msm,” for “mainstream media.”
drupal provides options to create a static website, a multi-user blog, an internet forum or a community website for user-generated content.
twitter has implemented geotagging, and facebook has announced plans to do so.
key-value stores have a simple structure, matching values to accessible “keys,” or indices.
in addition, the activity posted in groups does not get pushed into users’ feeds.
in contrast to relational databases, which rigidly require  information to be stored in pre-defined tables, document-oriented databases are  more free-flowing and flexible.
(also sometimes referred to as cost per acquisition.)
saas (software as a service) —
foursquare — one of many new mobile services, along with gowalla, scvngr and others, that combines geolocation with game mechanics.
(also see document-oriented database) oauth — a new method that allows users to share information stored on  one site with another site.
unlike facebook fan pages, groups do not have to be administered by official representatives.
example below: “name”,”address”,”email” “jack”,”1 main st., town, ny”,”jack@hill.com” “jill”,”2 elm st., city, ca”,”jill@hill.com” data visualization — a growing area of content creation in which information is represented graphically and often interactively.
tag — a common type of metadata used to describe a piece of content that associates it with other content that has the same tag.
sites that use wordpress include the new york times blogs, cnn and the lolcats network.
html5 — the upcoming, powerful standard of hypertext markup language,  which has added advanced interactive features, such as allowing video to be  embedded on a web page.
some have hoped that it would be the “jesus” tablet that would breathe new life into legacy print publications.
social media is incredibly broad and refers to blogging, wikis, video-sharing sites like youtube, photo-sharing sites like flickr and social networking sites like facebook and twitter.
don’t know drupal from django, api from ajax, mashup from metadata?
the power of ruby on rails, which was developed by the chicago-based firm 37 signals, comes from how quickly it can be used to create a basic website.
facebook connect— a technology from facebook that allows a reader to  log into a third-party website with their facebook account, rather than  creating a new profile for that website.
(also see atom) ruby — an increasingly popular programming language known for being  powerful yet easy to write with.
a more sophisticated version of gmail “status updates,” buzz allows users to post updates about what they are doing, link to what they are reading and post their current locations.
a pricing strategy and business  model, where companies build a software solution, usually business-to-business,  and charge a fixed monthly rate to access it on the internet.
sem (search engine marketing) — a type of marketing that involves  raising a company or product’s visibility in search engines by paying to  have it appear in search results for a given word.
in the world of content, this can be a hierarchy of terms (generally called nodes or entities) that are used to classify the category or subject content belongs to as well as terms that are included in the content.
so were we, which is why we put together this hacks/hackers survival glossary as an explanation of terms that help us understand the information landscape.
postgresql is preferred  by some in the technology community for its ability to operate as a spatial  database, using postgis extensions.
however it is known  for its extensive design options.
open source — open source refers to a philosophy and a means of  developing and licensing software and other copyrighted works so that others  are free to inspect, use and adapt the original source material.
- ruby on rails and django are similar and often considered rival systems  because they both use a “model, view, controller” architecture.
that are used to classify the category or subject content belongs to as well as  terms that are included in the content.
today, skype and  bittorrent are based on peer-to-peer technologies.
ux (user experience) — generally referring to the area of design that involves the holistic interaction a user has with a product or a service.
mobile technology  usually demands a different set of standards — design and otherwise  — than desktop computers, and has opened up an entirely new area for  geo-aware applications.
this is a common model for  “search advertising” (the all-text ads associated with search  results) and for text ads in general.
facebook community and fan pages are strong players in ongoing efforts to bring content to people where they already are, instead of requiring them to come to the content.
it is  an alternative to xml that is more concise because, unlike xml, it is not a  markup language that requires open and close tags.
it allows for having several applications open at the same time, unlike the current iphone.
google released enhanced privacy controls after the controversy.
apps for webos are developed using web standards (html, javascript and css), which means there is a low barrier to entry for web developers to create mobile apps for webos as compared to other mobile platforms.
ruby is the basis for ruby on rails, a web framework.
however, facebook recently released its internally developed version of hiphop for php, which is designed to make the language dramatically more efficient.
originally short for “web log,” blog is now an accepted word in  scrabble.
on the web, apis are generally special urls that give back  machine-readable data, in formats like json or xml, rather than human-readable  data, which is usually html.
javascript — a web scripting language used to enhance websites; it can make them more interactive without requiring a browser plugin.
key/value store — a simpler way of storing data than a relational or  document database.
many say that the future of the internet lies in apis because they help distribute and combine content.
______________________________
other sites that have been branded “wiki” include wikinews, wikitravel, and wikileaks (which was originally but is no longer a wiki).
google wave — an online collaborative space introduced by google in  which people can communicate and work together in real time; it resembles a  “souped up instant messenger.”
while it was created as an alternative to rss (real simple syndication) to improve upon rss’s deficiencies (such as ambiguities), it still is secondary to rss.
key-value stores have a simple structure, matching values to  accessible “keys,” or indices.
however, it’s not commonly used since it’s extremely difficult to  measure: it is often unclear when or how to attribute an action to a specific  ad.
cpa (cost per action) — a pricing model in which the advertiser is  charged for an ad based on how many users take a specific, pre-defined  action—such as buying a product from an online store—based on  viewing an ad.
social graph — a mapping of the connections between people and the  things they care about that could provide useful insights.
the ads are selected based on the content of the page.
it is officially pronounced my-s-q-l, but you will often hear it referred to as “my sequel.”
ipod touch — essentially an iphone without the phone.
semantic web — a vision of the web that is almost entirely machine  readable, in which documents are published in languages that are designed  specifically for data.
ad revenue is split between google and the publisher in an undisclosed proportion, generally believed to be two-thirds to the publisher.
it is generally synonymous with online publishing system.
the service can integrate with other google services, as well as feed into twitter.
upon its announcement in january 2010, many noted its name was reminiscent of feminine hygiene products.
open source — open source refers to a philosophy and a means of developing and licensing software and other copyrighted works so that others are free to inspect, use and adapt the original source material.
some news organizations, including the new york times, wired and national geographic, have created special applications designed for the ipad.
popular scripting languages include php, perl, python and ruby.
what information is controlled (in theory) by the individual.
projects that use mysql include facebook and wikipedia.
this is the “gold standard” for advertisers  because it most directly matches the cost of an ad to its effectiveness.
apps for webos are developed using web  standards (html, javascript and css), which means there is a low barrier to  entry for web developers to create mobile apps for webos as compared to other  mobile platforms.
_____ •  this list is released under the creative commons attribute  share-alike 3.0 license (distribute this list as much as you please as long as  you attribute it to hacks/hackers, and any changes/corrections you make also  become freely shareable).
email glossary@hackshackers.com 1 comment hits, clicks and traffic and the telegraph |
django — a web framework that is popular among news and information  sites, in part due to its origin at lawrence journal-world in kansas.
serverwatch.com has a good explanation.
social media  —  a broad term referring to the wide swath  of content creation and consumption that is enabled by the many-to-many  distributed infrastructure of the internet.
despite  its name, it is not related to the java language.
more recently, in an extension of its commonly used  definition, facebook has created a “platform,” allowing developers  to build applications on top of it.
postgresql – an alternative to mysql, another free and open-source  relational database management system on the internet.
postgresql – an alternative to mysql, another free and open-source relational database management system on the internet.
used in the content it is describing, or more general terms that may not be explicitly stated, such as themes.
operations together to simplify otherwise complicated tasks.
many claim that flash players are unstable and  inefficient, slowing down web pages and crashing operating systems.
this allows sites to validate users’ identities without having full  access to their personal accounts.
all urls are uris, but not vice versa.
widget — in a web context, this refers to a portable application that can be embedded into a third-party site by cutting and pasting snippets of code.
it is often used as a contrast to “citizen journalism” because it also encompasses mapping, wikis and databases.
the glossary you are reading is released under a creative commons attribution share alike license in an effort to encourage wide distribution and contribution.
cooking, for example, has over 2 million fans.
it is supported by numerous sites, including livejournal, yahoo!, and wordpress.
other sites that  have been branded “wiki” include wikinews, wikitravel, and  wikileaks (which was originally but is no longer a wiki).
drupal — a popular content management system known for a vibrant  open-source community that creates diverse and robust extensions.
facebook community and fan  pages are strong players in ongoing efforts to bring content to people where  they already are, instead of requiring them to come to the content.
python — a sophisticated computer language that is commonly used for internet applications.
participants can add rich text,  images, attachments, videos and maps to create a multimedia collaboration.
taxonomies and ontologies are important in content to help related articles or topics pages.
it is  short for simple storage service.
while graphic design is an element of user interface design, it is only a portion of the consideration.
however, because  there is a 5,000-person limit to friends, some celebrities have fan pages  instead.
despite rave reviews, the  product is generally acknowledged to have come out too late to gain meaningful  traction against the iphone or google’s android operating system.
(also see taxonomy) open id — an open standard that lets users log in to multiple web  sites using the same identity through a third party.
(also see client side).
semantic web — a vision of the web that is almost entirely machine readable, in which documents are published in languages that are designed specifically for data.
uri (uniform resource identifier) — the way to identify the location for something on the internet.
ec2 — a computing power rental system by amazon that has become  popular among technology companies because it is much cheaper than maintaining  your own computer servers.
json (javascript object-notation) — a web data publishing format that  is designed to be both easily human — and machine — readable.
postgresql is preferred by some in the technology community for its ability to operate as a spatial database, using postgis extensions.
social media is incredibly broad and refers to  blogging, wikis, video-sharing sites like youtube, photo-sharing sites like  flickr and social networking sites like facebook and twitter.
no derivatives, which grants only redistribution.
this is important when you don’t know  what is going to be thrown at you.
smart phones also  have operating systems.
peer-to-peer (p2p)  — a network architecture in which users  share resources on their own computers directly with others.
to prevent confusion about commas in the data, the terms are often surrounded by double quotes (“).
ontology —  a classification system with nodes or entities, that  allows non-hierarchical relationships, in contrast to a taxonomy, which is  hierarchical.
it is officially  pronounced my-s-q-l, but you will often hear it referred to as “my  sequel.”
legacy media sits in contrast with social media, where the production and sharing is of equal weight to the consumption.
this means they are designed to separate the data (model) from the analysis of  the data (controller) and its presentation to the user (view).
desktop widgets, such as ones offered for the macintosh dashboard or by yahoo!, can be placed on the desktop of a computer, such as for weather or stocks.
google buzz — launched in february 2010, buzz is google’s attempt to counter twitter and facebook by leveraging the social graphs from users’ e-mail accounts.
this is  a common way for video content to be spread around the internet and is  increasingly being used for interactive components.
blogger — a simple, free blogging platform created by pyra labs, which was sold to google in 2003.
seo is often  divided into “white hat” techniques, which (to simplify) try to  boost ranking by improving the quality of a website, and “black  hat” techniques, which try to trick search engines into thinking a page  is of higher quality than it actually is.
ajax — a bundle of technologies and techniques that allow a web page to do things quietly in the background without reloading the whole page.
drupal is very powerful, but it is somewhat difficult to use for simple tasks when compared to wordpress.
ec2 is an example of cloud computing.
mashup — a combination of data from multiple sources, usually through  the use of apis.
slimmer than the iphone, the ipod touch can play music and run iphone apps.
google released enhanced  privacy controls after the controversy.
content management systems are sometimes built custom  from scratch with frameworks such as ruby on rails or django.
widget — in a web context, this refers to a portable application that  can be embedded into a third-party site by cutting and pasting snippets of  code.
mobile technology usually demands a different set of standards — design and otherwise — than desktop computers, and has opened up an entirely new area for geo-aware applications.
in many cases it is used to refer to the transparency of government releasing data to journalists and to the public.
a playback option allows new users to get up to speed on projects and creates an environment that is both real-time and asynchronous.
technologies such as ajax, which allow for rapid communication  between the browser and the web server, underlie many web 2.0 sites.
sinatra  - a lightweight framework written in ruby that can be used to  set up web services, apis and small sites at lightning speed.
popular scripting  languages include php, perl, python and ruby.
(also see cloud computing)
in web development, key/value stores  are often (though not always) used for optimization.
projects that use mysql include facebook and  wikipedia.
some licenses are considered permissive (e.g. mit and  bsd), allowing inclusion in proprietary works, while others (e.g. gnu gpl)  require that the resulting derivative works remain under the same license if  distributed.
it can import and out put in almost any common data format, including  rss, csv, and json.
- wordpress, joomla and drupal (listed in increasingly levels of  complexity) are all content management systems written in php.
scribd — a document-sharing site that is often described as a  “youtube for documents” because it allows other sites to embed its  content.
in many cases it is used to refer to the transparency of government  releasing data to journalists and to the public.
perl can be  used to pull large quantities of data down from websites and standardize and  replace information in batch.
first released in december 2002
many claim that flash players are unstable and inefficient, slowing down web pages and crashing operating systems.
app — short for application, a program that runs inside another service.
tag — a common type of metadata used to describe a piece of content  that associates it with other content that has the same tag.
amazon offers two cloud computing services: ec2, which many start-ups now use as a cheap way to launch their products, and s3, an online storage system many companies use for cheap storage.
many libraries are freely shared.
perl still has an active  development community and is noted for the scope of its freely available  libraries, which simplify development.
glossary@hackshackers.com name ( required ) email ( required ) website
taxonomies and ontologies are important in content to help  related articles or topics pages.
a news story might have columns for a headline, date, text and author, where author points to another table containing the author’s first name, last name and email address.
it allows people to upload files and others to download in various  formats.
napster was an early example of a popular use of peer-to-peer architecture, although it was not fully peer-to-peer.
users can work collaboratively on documents, editing them simultaneously.
launched in 2009 at sxsw interactive conference, foursquare allows users to “check in” at locations (bars, restaurants, playgrounds and more) to inform people in their social networks of their whereabouts while earning badges, collecting points and becoming the “mayor” of certain locations.
common web widgets include a twitter box that can sit on a blog, or a small google map that sits within an invitation.
the sql stands for “structured query language” and “my” is the name of the inventor’s daughter.
that look and feel is  controlled by the css.
a rival alternative would be a bundle of microsoft  products.
an example of a mashup would be an app that shows the locations of all the movie theaters in a particular town on a google map.
the latest releases of most browsers support html5 to  varying degrees.
many security  breaches have been designed using iframes.
salesforce.com is the best example, but other notables include  mailchimp and even amazon web services.
often used to speed up videos and large multimedia pieces that can take a long time to download.
posterous — a blogging and publishing platform to which users can  submit via e-mail.
css, which was first introduced by the world wide web  consortium in the late 1990s, helped eliminate the clumsy and often repetitive  markup in the original html syntax.
this can be used for subjects as diverse as an analysis of a speech by the president and the popularity of baby names over time.
it is an alternative to xml that is more concise because, unlike xml, it is not a markup language that requires open and close tags.
cloud computing —  an increasingly popular computing model in  which information and software are provided on demand from over the internet  rather than staying on local computers.
using html5 will allow web pages to work more like  desktop applications.
scripting language — a programming language designed to be easy to  use for everyday or administrative tasks.
thus it is a common way for people, including governments, to make their data available.
despite rave reviews, the product is generally acknowledged to have come out too late to gain meaningful traction against the iphone or google’s android operating system.
latin for one thousand; we use “k” for  “kilo” almost everywhere else in tech, but “m” for  “mille” here, which causes some confusion.)
the symbol is  generally a orange square with radiating white quarter circles.
this is a common model for “search advertising” (the all-text ads associated with search results) and for text ads in general.
apps generally are built using software  toolkits provided by the underlying service, whether it is iphone or facebook.
scripting language — a programming language designed to be easy to use for everyday or administrative tasks.
the new york times and npr have also released apis that allow other programs to  draw on archives of movie reviews, restaurant reviews and articles.
one well-known library is jquery, released in 2006 and now the most popular javascript library, which boasts that it allows coders to “write less, do more.”
an ontology is similar to a taxonomy in that it is also a classification system with nodes or entities, but it is more complex and flexible because ontologies allow for non-hierarchical relationships.
this is the list for you.
app — short for application, a program that runs inside another  service.
sites that use wordpress include the new york  times blogs, cnn and the lolcats network.
first released by matt mullenweg in 2003, wordpress attracts contributions from a large community of programmers and designers who give it additional functionality and visual themes.
attempt to counter twitter and facebook by leveraging the social graphs from  users’ e-mail accounts.
it is criticized as being slow because it generates web  pages on request.
a wiki  enables the audience to contribute to a knowledge base on a topic or share  information within an organization, like a newsroom.
but  because they are autogenerated, based on likes, they can quickly build gigantic  memberships.
in addition, the activity posted in groups does not get pushed  into users’ feeds.
it  generally refers to untethered computing devices that can access the internet  over radiofrequency waves, though sometimes also via wi-fi.
wiki — a web site with pages that can be easily edited by visitors
instead, inputs, operators and chunks of logic are represented visually —  as consoles connected by pipes — with information flowing from sources to  output.
legacy media — an umbrella term to describe the centralized media  institutions that were dominant during the second half of the 20th century,  including — but not limited to — television, radio, newspapers and  magazines, all which generally had a uni-directional distribution model.
can also refer to a program or tool that can be used within a website.
this enables developers to create  applications that sort information based on geography, which can mean sorting  by whether various places are within a certain county or pointing out the  places that are geographically closest to the user.
the service is often used in  conjunction with other amazon web services, such as ec2, to allow customers to  process large amounts of data with low capital investment.
microsoft silverlight — microsoft’s answer to adobe flash, allowing the integration of multimedia, graphics, animations, and interactivity into web pages.
(also see open source)
mobile platforms include android, iphone and palm’s webos.
despite a relatively modest user base at the beginning, foursquare quickly  attracted a lot of attention for its potential for marketing and customer brand  loyalty.
html5 is emerging as an open alternative to flash.
document-oriented databases retrieve information more quickly, but store it less efficiently.
- xml and json are different ways of  interchanging information.
android — usually used in the context of android phone, android is a  free and open source operating system developed by google that powers a variety  of mobile phones from different manufacturers and carriers.
mit has a center for  future civic media.
while originally perceived to be light on reporting and heavy on commentary, a number of blogs are now thoroughly reported, and legacy media organizations have also launched various blogs.
ajax provides much of  the functionality associated with web 2.0.
ruby on rails — a popular web framework based on the ruby programming language that makes common development tasks easier “out of the box.”
the glossary you’re reading right  now was collaboratively created in google docs.
cpc is well-suited for  “directed” advertising, intended to prompt an immediate response,  because a user’s clicking on an ad shows engagement with it.
but as long as it has fewer than 5,000 members,  facebook groups are allowed to mass-message all their members.
google wave — an online collaborative space introduced by google in which people can communicate and work together in real time; it resembles a “souped up instant messenger.”
(also see  semantic web) webos — operating system used on the latest generation of palm smart  phones, including the pre and the pixi.
users can host their applications on ec2 and pay depending on usage.
the critical mass of iphones, along with apple’s pre-existing itunes infrastructure, allowed apple to launch the first truly robust marketplace for mobile applications, creating a whole new microeconomy for innovation.
cpc (cost per click) — a pricing model in which the advertiser is  charged for an ad based on how many users click it.
the power of ruby on rails, which was developed by the  chicago-based firm 37 signals, comes from how quickly it can be used to create  a basic website.
it is the most popular javascript library.
while there has been progress toward this  front, many say this vision remains largely unrealized.
metadata  helps to organize information online and make it machine-readable.
each row of data is represented by a line of text.
it is written in python, a sophisticated dynamic language.
javascript  is interpreted by your browser instead of by a web server, otherwise known as a  client-side scripting language.
many security breaches have been designed using iframes.
google  adwords is generally priced on a cpc basis.
python  files generally end in .py.
web 2.0 — referring to the generation of internet technologies that allow for interactivity and collaboration on websites.
jquery — a incredibly popular open source javascript library designed for manipulating html pages and handling events.
it was one of the first mass blogging  services and is credited with popularizing the format.
ajax  is not a programming language, but rather an acronym used to describe that  bundle, “asynchronous javascript and xml.”
metadata — data about data.
(also see taxonomy) open id — an open standard that lets users log in to multiple web sites using the same identity through a third party.
it gained further popularity with the emergence of ajax as a way to send back data from web services, but has since lost ground to json, another data encoding format, which is seen as easier to work with.
commonly used on photo sites such as flickr or in conjunction with user-generated content, to show where a photo, video or article came from.
advantages of doing so include speed and bandwidth.
it allows people to upload files and others to download in various formats.
it incorporates many disciplines, including engineering, graphic design, content creation and psychology.
user interface is one element of user experience.
as of 2009, individuals can choose a username, which makes their page  available at facebook.com/username.
data visualization should 1) tell a story, 2) allow users to ask  their own questions and 3) start conversations.
html and xml are not programming languages, they are markup  languages.
seo (search engine optimization)  — a suite of techniques for  improving how a website ranks on search engines such as google.
html and xml are not programming languages, they are markup languages.
key/value store — a simpler way of storing data than a relational or document database.
however it is known for its extensive design options.
unlike wordpress, it is not open source.
sem (search engine marketing) — a type of marketing that involves raising a company or product’s visibility in search engines by paying to have it appear in search results for a given word.
this is different from a facebook personal page, which must be  owned by an individual, and different from a facebook community page, which is  built around an interest not related to a brand, such as “cooking.”
many of the most popular technologies used in content  distribution, including languages and publishing platforms, are open source.
each column is delimited/separated by a comma (,).
information must be structured, but this allows for powerful queries.
the search terms, called  keywords, are purchased by advertisers; availability of a given keyword is  based in part on an auction system, and in part on the responsiveness of the  audience.
wordpress — the most popular blogging software in use today, in large part because it is free and relatively powerful, yet easy to use.
typically the  model is stored in a database, the view is stored in html templates, and the  controller is implemented directly in the underlying programming language (ruby  for ruby on rails, python for django).
html5 is emerging as an  open alternative to flash.
whitehouse.gov uses drupal.
the least restrictive of the licenses  is attribution, which grants anyone, from an individual to a large company, the  right to distribute, display, or otherwise make use of the work so long as the  creator is credited.
html can be  considered code, but it is not a programming language; it’s a markup  language, which is a separate beast.
don’t know drupal from django, api from ajax, mashup from  metadata?
(also see atom) ruby — an increasingly popular programming language known for being powerful yet easy to write with.
the symbol is generally a orange square with radiating white quarter circles.
no  derivatives, which grants only redistribution.
mobile — an umbrella term in technology that was long synonymous with cellular phones but has since grown to encompass tablet computing (the ipad) and even netbooks.
seo can also refer to individuals and companies that offer to provide search engine optimization for websites.
invented  by tim berners lee in the early 1990s, html uses pairs of opening and closing  tags (also known as elements), such as  and ; each  pair assigns meaning to the text that appears between them.
in retrospect, an early mobile technology was the pager.
despite an initial burst of publicity, google buzz has not gained tremendous traction.
client side — referring to network software where work takes place on the user’s computer, the client, rather than at the central computer, known as the server.
ajax provides much of the functionality associated with web 2.0.
smart phones also have operating systems.
this is the “gold standard” for advertisers because it most directly matches the cost of an ad to its effectiveness.
sometimes “legacy media” is used interchangeably with “msm,” for “mainstream media.”
it's out there leave a response
it attracted criticism when google automatically and  publicly connected users with people they had e-mailed most often in the past,  making private information unexpectedly available.
a rival alternative would be a bundle of microsoft products.
drupal — a popular content management system known for a vibrant open-source community that creates diverse and robust extensions.
more recently, in an extension of its commonly used definition, facebook has created a “platform,” allowing developers to build applications on top of it.
- xml and json are different ways of interchanging information.
seo is often divided into “white hat” techniques, which (to simplify) try to boost ranking by improving the quality of a website, and “black hat” techniques, which try to trick search engines into thinking a page is of higher quality than it actually is.
creative commons — a flexible set of copyright licenses that allow content creators to specify which rights they reserve and which they waive regarding their work that is supposed to codify collaborative spirit of the internet.
framework — a software package that makes writing programs easier by providing all the “plumbing” for a particular type of task (like writing a web app), allowing programmers to just “fill in the blanks” with their own project-specific needs.
iframes are usually constructed via javascript as a way around web browsers’ security features, which try to prevent javascript on one page from quickly talking to javascript on an external page.
in html, tags usually come in sets of open and closed, with the closed tag containing an extra slash (“/”) inside.
in  addition, words that appear in urls often help boost search rankings, which is  why many content sites are now shifting to urls with headlines as opposed to  data strings.
cms (content management system) — software designed to organize large amounts of dynamic material for a website, usually consisting of at least templates and a database.
for example,  the ap stylebook is similar to (but includes more rules than) a structured  thesaurus in that it gives writers preferred terms to use and standards to  follow, so everyone following ap style writes the word “website”  the same way.
the best-known wiki in  existence is wikipedia, which burst onto the scene around 2000 as one of the  first examples of mass collaborative information aggregation.
the glossary you’re reading right now was collaboratively created in google docs.
twitter users came up with their own conventions,  including the @ symbol to denote user names (@nytimes), and #, the hashtag, to  denote subjects (#sxsw).
iframe — an html tag that allows for one web page to be wholly  included inside another; it is a popular way to create embeddable interactive  features.
while humans are familar with urls as a way to see web pages, computer programs often use urls to pass each other machine-readable content, such as rss feeds or twitter information.
despite a massive amount of attention, google wave has not gotten much traction.
it is a rival of  the iphone platform.
but because they are autogenerated, based on likes, they can quickly build gigantic memberships.
ipad — released in april 2010, the ipad is apple’s tablet  computing device, akin to a large ipod touch; it uses the same operating system  and development tools as the iphone.
cloud computing — an increasingly popular computing model in which information and software are provided on demand from over the internet rather than staying on local computers.
google adwords is generally priced on a cpc basis.
flash — a proprietary platform owned by adobe systems that allows for  drag-and-drop animations, program interactivity, and dynamic displays for the  web.
________________________
originally short for “web log,” blog is now an accepted word in scrabble.
this is important when you don’t know what is going to be thrown at you.
the glossary you are reading was developed using open source methodology and is available under a creative commons license.
once a page  has more than 25 fans, it can claim a short form url, such as  facebook.com/nytimes or facebook.com/wikileaks.
using their web browser, but generally now gaining acceptance as a prefix to  mean “collaborative.”
(also see semantic web) webos — operating system used on the latest generation of palm smart phones, including the pre and the pixi.
the sql stands for “structured query language” and  “my” is the name of the inventor’s daughter.
uri (uniform resource identifier) — the way to identify the location  for something on the internet.
in turn, the reader’s activities on the website can also be displayed on her or his facebook profile.
the term originally  promoted by facebook and is now gaining broader usage.
the least restrictive of the licenses is attribution, which grants anyone, from an individual to a large company, the right to distribute, display, or otherwise make use of the work so long as the creator is credited.
php — a popular web scripting language to generate web pages that was  first developed in 1995, when it stood for “personal home page.”
pipes — an online service from yahoo!
relational database — a piece of software that stores data in a  series of tables, with relationships defined between them.
flash — a proprietary platform owned by adobe systems that allows for drag-and-drop animations, program interactivity, and dynamic displays for the web.
the latest releases of most browsers support html5 to varying degrees.
facebook connect, which is an api, also allows the third parties to pull certain data from the user’s profile, such as his or her name and age.
html5 does not cover css and javascript, but often when people refer to html5, they often are using it as a blanket term, applying not only to changes to the html, but also to changes in css and javascript.
it generally refers to untethered computing devices that can access the internet over radiofrequency waves, though sometimes also via wi-fi.
examples of cloud computing applications include google docs and yahoo  mail.
originally introduced in 1995 by yukihiro “matz” matsumoto, ruby has gained increasing traction since 2005 because of the ruby on rails development framework, which can create websites quickly.
civic media — an umbrella term describing media technologies that  create a strong sense of engagement among residents through news and  information.
recently scribd, which is based in san francisco, moved from flash-based technology to html5 standards.
a  playback option allows new users to get up to speed on projects and creates an  environment that is both real-time and asynchronous.
for instance, web  development frameworks like ruby on rails (written in ruby, meaning programmers  use ruby to do the “fill in the blanks” tasks) and django (written  in python), have easy-to-use, built-in support for common web development  tasks, such as reading and writing to a database, writing content in html, and  so forth.
for example: this is the  title.. taxonomy — a hierarchical classification system.
html is an  example of metadata — it organizes the data in a web page so browsers can  display it sensibly.
if you watch a web page that loads slowly, you will often see the text first load and then “snap into place” with its look and feel.
framework — a software package that makes writing programs easier by  providing all the “plumbing” for a particular type of task (like  writing a web app), allowing programmers to just “fill in the  blanks” with their own project-specific needs.
it is, as some people have said, “a technological solution in search of a problem.”
perl — a dynamic language that is often used to parse and sort information because of its powerful abilities in manipulating text.
it connects to  the internet via wifi.
operating system — a basic layer of software that controls computer  hardware, allowing other applications to be built on it.
the critical mass of iphones,  along with apple’s pre-existing itunes infrastructure, allowed apple to  launch the first truly robust marketplace for mobile applications, creating a  whole new microeconomy for innovation.
• questions, corrections, comments?
the company is based in new york city and competes with posterous.
yahoo pipes is an excellent resources for tech-minded,  non-programming journalists.
seo can also refer to individuals and  companies that offer to provide search engine optimization for websites.
the letters stand for the linux operating system, apache web server, mysql database, and either php, perl or python.
mongodb is a popular open source document-oriented database.
launched in 2007, facebook connect was one of the first examples of facebook extending itself into a platform for the entire web.
scribd — a document-sharing site that is often described as a “youtube for documents” because it allows other sites to embed its content.
in many implementations, tags would identify the information, such as  or .
facebook fan page — a facebook profile for a specific person, product, company or organization, usually administered by official representatives.
the term was popularized by a 2004 conference, held by o’reilly media and medialive, called web 2.0.
news applications  teams, including those at the chicago tribune and los angeles times, use the  framework to present large data sets online in easily accessible ways.
the material can include documents, photos or videos.
an ontology is similar to  a taxonomy in that it is also a classification system with nodes or entities,
- html5, which allows for more sophisticated use of graphics and videos in  web pages,  is considered an open standards rival to flash, which is  proprietary technology developed by adobe systems.
transparency — in the context of news and information, a term describing openness about information that has become increasingly popular.
examples of cloud computing applications include google docs and yahoo mail.
it is a type of cloud computing.
for example, some web-based twitter clients will use oauth to connect to your account, instead of requiring you to provide your password directly to that third-party site.
it’s written for intelligent nontechies in (mostly) plain english.
technologies such as ajax, which allow for rapid communication between the browser and the web server, underlie many web 2.0 sites.
it is often used in the context of journalists being open about their reporting process and material by sharing with their readers before the final project emerges or providing more context in addition to the final product.
glossary of tech talk (hacks/hackers survival glossary) a roadmap for journalism x technology version 1.0, released june 22, 2010 under a creative commons attribution  share-alike 3.0 license.
in the context of search, algorithms are used to provide the most relevant results first based on those instructions.
it was first articulated by tim berners-lee in 2001.
watch django and ruby creators discuss the merits of their  frameworks on djangoproject.com.
a roadmap for journalism x technology version 1.0, released june 22, 2010 under a creative commons attribution share-alike 3.0 license.
ux (user experience) — generally referring to the area of design that  involves the holistic interaction a user has with a product or a service.
blogger — a simple, free blogging platform created by pyra labs,  which was sold to google in 2003.
ec2 — a computing power rental system by amazon that has become popular among technology companies because it is much cheaper than maintaining your own computer servers.
yahoo pipes is an excellent resources for tech-minded, non-programming journalists.
in the world of  content, this can be a hierarchy of terms (generally called nodes or entities)
it allows for having several applications open at the same  time, unlike the current iphone.
c, c++, objective c,  java, javascript, perl, php, python and ruby are examples of programming  languages.
napster was an early example of a popular use of peer-to-peer  architecture, although it was not fully peer-to-peer.
perl was more popular in past years, especially in the computer-assisted reporting community, but it has been overtaken in popularity by languages such as python and ruby.
csv is popular precisely because it can be  easily read by many different applications, including spreadsheets, word  processors, programming text editors and web browsers.
while the first generation of content management systems were custom and proprietary, in recent years there has been a surge in free open-source systems such as drupal, wordpress and joomla.
posterous — a blogging and publishing platform to which users can submit via e-mail.
there has been some discussion of its increasing  relevance with geographically connected social networking sites, such as  foursquare.
while in a taxonomy a node can be either a broader term or narrower term, in an ontology nodes can be related in any way.
there has been some discussion of its increasing relevance with geographically connected social networking sites, such as foursquare.
iframe — an html tag that allows for one web page to be wholly included inside another; it is a popular way to create embeddable interactive features.
whereas html is generally  concerned with the semantic structure of documents, xml allows other  information to be defined and passed such as , ,  , ,  for a car.
the language used, actionscript, is owned by adobe; this contrasts with  many other popular programming languages that are open source.
(also see document-oriented database) oauth — a new method that allows users to share information stored on one site with another site.
it features a multitouch screen and comes  in 3g and wifi versions.
mp3s have metadata such as the  artist name, track title, album name and so on.
(also see cloud  computing)
in contrast to apple’s tightly controlled architecture and app store, android allows users to install apps from the android market and from other channels, such as directly from a developer’s website — which allows for x-rated content, for example.
it has been criticized for security  flaws.
these pages are a bit confusing, and facebook is still working on the kinks.
all urls  are uris, but not vice versa.
in large part, community pages are mostly auto-generated around interests  or affiliations found in people’s profiles, like cooking.
client side — referring to network software where work takes place on  the user’s computer, the client, rather than at the central computer,  known as the server.
the definitive feature of jquery is its support for “chaining” operations together to simplify otherwise complicated tasks.
through apis, it can push the content to other sites such as flickr, twitter and youtube.
this is often done using an embed code (a few lines of html and/or javascript) that you can copy or paste.
ward cunningham created the first wiki,  naming it wikiwikiweb after the hawaiian word for “quick.”
the latest standard of html is html5,  which adds powerful interactive functionality.
despite a massive amount  of attention, google wave has not gotten much traction.
programming language — a special type of language used to  unambiguously instruct a computer how to perform tasks.
ruby on rails — a popular web framework based on the ruby programming  language that makes common development tasks easier “out of the  box.”
the palm pre uses webos, numerous phones use  google’s android operating system, and the iphone uses ios (formerly  known as iphone os).
palm pre — a smart phone introduced in 2009 by palm which uses webos  and allows for multitasking, unlike the iphone.
a wiki enables the audience to contribute to a knowledge base on a topic or share information within an organization, like a newsroom.
php is used in wordpress and drupal.
to prevent confusion about commas in the data, the terms are  often surrounded by double quotes (“).
cpm is well suited for  “brand” or “awareness” advertising, in which the  primary purpose of the ad is not necessarily to prompt an immediate response.
programming languages are used by software developers to create applications, including those for the web, for mobile phones, and for desktop operating systems.
examples of metadata include descriptors indicating when information was created, by whom and in what format.
s3 — an online storage system run by amazon that’s often used as a cheap way to store (and serve) photos and videos used on websites.
these pages  are a bit confusing, and facebook is still working on the kinks.
in many cases, website navigation systems appear taxonomical in that users narrow down from broad top-level categories to the granular feature they want to see.
common web widgets include a twitter box that can sit on a blog, or a  small google map that sits within an invitation.
for example, some web-based twitter clients will  use oauth to connect to your account, instead of requiring you to provide your  password directly to that third-party site.
javascript is interpreted by your browser instead of by a web server, otherwise known as a client-side scripting language.
it is popular because it is a free and flexible alternative to expensive systems like oracle.
the first smartphone to introduce  multitouch screen capability, it is considered in the same vertical as the  blackberry, google’s android and palm pre.
w3cschools.com has a great introduction to css with tutorials.
(see also server side)
note: this is different from the newsroom sense of “embed,” popularized during the 2003 iraqi invasion, which means to have a journalist work from within a military unit.
while the term originally stemmed from software practices, the  concept has now been incorporated into other fields such as medicine and  agriculture.
typically the model is stored in a database, the view is stored in html templates, and the controller is implemented directly in the underlying programming language (ruby for ruby on rails, python for django).
it is written in php and distributed under the gpl open source  license.
in  many implementations, tags would identify the information, such as   or .
in contrast to apple’s tightly controlled  architecture and app store, android allows users to install apps from the  android market and from other channels, such as directly from a  developer’s website — which allows for x-rated content, for  example.
ui (user interface) — the part of a software application or website that users see and interact with, which takes into account the visual design and the structure of the program.
google adwords — google’s text-based flagship advertising product, which provides the lion’s share of the company revenue.
embed — a term meaning to place a specific piece of content from one  web page inside of another one.
note: this is different from the newsroom sense of  “embed,” popularized during the 2003 iraqi invasion, which means to  have a journalist work from within a military unit.
the  term “tag” is also used in the context of markup languages, such as   identifying the name of the web page.
mobile — an umbrella term in technology that was long synonymous with  cellular phones but has since grown to encompass tablet computing (the ipad)  and even netbooks.
this is a crowdsourced document that provides a guide to technologies involved in modern content distribution, coordinated by hacks/hackers, a grassroots group that brings journalists and technologists together.
relational database — a piece of software that stores data in a series of tables, with relationships defined between them.
legacy media — an umbrella term to describe the centralized media institutions that were dominant during the second half of the 20th century, including — but not limited to — television, radio, newspapers and magazines, all which generally had a uni-directional distribution model.
iframes are usually constructed via javascript as a way around  web browsers’ security features, which try to prevent javascript on one  page from quickly talking to javascript on an external page.
apple has  not allowed adobe to create a flash player for the iphone operating system,  which has created a feud between the two companies.
perl — a dynamic language that is often used to parse and sort  information because of its powerful abilities in manipulating text.
invented by tim berners lee in the early 1990s, html uses pairs of opening and closing tags (also known as elements), such as  and ; each pair assigns meaning to the text that appears between them.
many mobile phones allow apps to be downloaded, leading to a  burgeoning economy for modestly priced software.
so were we, which is why we put together this hacks/hackers  survival glossary as an explanation of terms that help us understand the  information landscape.
first  released by matt mullenweg in 2003, wordpress attracts contributions from a  large community of programmers and designers who give it additional  functionality and visual themes.
this can be  used for subjects as diverse as an analysis of a speech by the president and  the popularity of baby names over time.
perl was more popular in past years, especially  in the computer-assisted reporting community, but it has been overtaken in  popularity by languages such as python and ruby.
css, which was first introduced by the world wide web consortium in the late 1990s, helped eliminate the clumsy and often repetitive markup in the original html syntax.
newshour’s oil spill tracker widget, which was placed on many news  sites around the country.
using html5 will allow web pages to work more like desktop applications.
participants can add rich text, images, attachments, videos and maps to create a multimedia collaboration.
it is gaining in popularity compared to proprietary  standards, like adobe flash, because it is an open standard and does not  require third-party plugins.
the latest standard of html is html5, which adds powerful interactive functionality.
lamp — an acronym referring to a bundle of free open-source web technologies that have become incredibly popular as a method for building websites.
commonly used on photo sites such as  flickr or in conjunction with user-generated content, to show where a photo,  video or article came from.
this is a common way for video content to be spread around the internet and is increasingly being used for interactive components.
the  definitive feature of jquery is its support for “chaining”
thus it is a common way  for people, including governments, to make their data available.
json (javascript object-notation) — a web data publishing format that is designed to be both easily human — and machine — readable.
the term “tag” is also used in the context of markup languages, such as  identifying the name of the web page.
in contrast to web 1.0  (roughly the first decade of the world wide web) where static content was  downloaded into the browser and read, web 2.0 uses the internet as the  platform.
it is written in php and distributed under the gpl open source license.
it may involve trade-offs such as sacrificing some performance for ease of programming.
- ruby, php and python are all scripting languages that are commonly used in website development.
c, c++, objective c, java, javascript, perl, php, python and ruby are examples of programming languages.
sinatra - a lightweight framework written in ruby that can be used to set up web services, apis and small sites at lightning speed.
the search terms, called keywords, are purchased by advertisers; availability of a given keyword is based in part on an auction system, and in part on the responsiveness of the audience.
javascript — a web scripting language used to enhance websites; it  can make them more interactive without requiring a browser plugin.
we relate the different terms to each other and make sense of the whole thing.
w3cschools.com has a great introduction to  css with tutorials.
it first appeared in 1991 and was originally created by guido van rossum, a dutch computer programmer who now works at google.
facebook fan page — a facebook profile for a specific person,  product, company or organization, usually administered by official  representatives.
expect to see competitors to the ipad running a version of android.
platform — in the technology world, platform refers to the hardware or software that other applications are built upon.
the  service can integrate with other google services, as well as feed into twitter.
ui (user interface) — the part of a software application or website  that users see and interact with, which takes into account the visual design  and the structure of the program.
rss (really simple syndication) — a standard for websites to push  their content to readers through web formats to create regular updates through  a “feed reader” or “rss reader.”
but it is more complex and flexible because ontologies allow for  non-hierarchical relationships.
the glossary you are reading was developed using open source methodology and is  available under a creative commons license.
each row of  data is represented by a line of text.
released in 2006, jquery  quickly gained widespread adoption because of its efficiency and elegance.
as of 2009, individuals can choose a username, which makes their page available at facebook.com/username.
structured thesaurus —  a group of preferred terms created for  editorial use to normalize and more effectively classify content.
• contributors: jennifer 8.
lee, burt herman, robin smail, david cohn, michelle minkoff, michael donohoe, greg linch, john keefe, philip neustrom, chris amico, ashley marty, morgan sully, shmuel ross, paul henrich, dave goodchild, michele mclellan, jessica chapel and [your name could be here].
despite its name, it is not related to the java language.
it is, as some people  have said, “a technological solution in search of a problem.”
- html5, which allows for more sophisticated use of graphics and videos in web pages, is considered an open standards rival to flash, which is proprietary technology developed by adobe systems.
today, skype and bittorrent are based on peer-to-peer technologies.
this enables developers to create applications that sort information based on geography, which can mean sorting by whether various places are within a certain county or pointing out the places that are geographically closest to the user.
designed to be a very readable language, it is named after monty python.
the term  was popularized by a 2004 conference, held by o’reilly media and  medialive, called web 2.0.
it is the parent language of many xml-based languages such as rss, atom, and others.
whereas html is generally concerned with the semantic structure of documents, xml allows other information to be defined and passed such as , , , ,  for a car.
platform — in the technology world, platform refers to the hardware  or software that other applications are built upon.
an  example is javascript, a programming language that allows developers to build  interactivity into websites.
in html, tags usually come  in sets of open and closed, with the closed tag containing an extra slash  (“/”) inside.
while in a taxonomy a node can be either a  broader term or narrower term, in an ontology nodes can be related in any way.
palm pre — a smart phone introduced in 2009 by palm which uses webos and allows for multitasking, unlike the iphone.
facebook, twitter and google maps all have apis that allow other websites or computer programs to use their underlying tools.
salesforce.com is the best example, but other notables include mailchimp and even amazon web services.
most modern websites use  some kind of relational database to store content.
this is often done using an embed code (a  few lines of html and/or javascript) that you can copy or paste.
metadata helps to organize information online and make it machine-readable.
google docs — a free online service offered by google, comprising word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and other software, all of which is “in the cloud.”
in large part, community pages are mostly auto-generated around interests or affiliations found in people’s profiles, like cooking.
recently scribd, which is based in san francisco, moved from  flash-based technology to html5 standards.
ajax is not a programming language, but rather an acronym used to describe that bundle, “asynchronous javascript and xml.”
one of the first big uses of ajax  was gmail, which allowed it to be much more responsive than other web e-mail at  the time.
server-side — referring to when network software runs in a central  location, the server, rather than on the user’s computer, often known as  the client.
(see also,rss) blog — one of the first widespread web-native publishing formats, generally characterized by reverse chronological ordering, rapid response, linking, and robust commenting.
it is gaining in popularity compared to proprietary standards, like adobe flash, because it is an open standard and does not require third-party plugins.
one of the first big uses of ajax was gmail, which allowed it to be much more responsive than other web e-mail at the time.
facebook, twitter and google maps all have apis  that allow other websites or computer programs to use their underlying tools.
(note: ads on  google’s own sites are covered by google adwords, not adsense.)
upon its announcement in  january 2010, many noted its name was reminiscent of feminine hygiene products.
document-oriented database — an increasingly popular type of  database.
the new york times and npr have also released apis that allow other programs to draw on archives of movie reviews, restaurant reviews and articles.
- ruby on rails and django are similar and often considered rival systems because they both use a “model, view, controller” architecture.
json is considered the better data exchange format whereas xml is considered a better document exchange format.
it is most familiarly in “http:”  form, but also encompasses “ftp:” or “mailto:” url (uniform resource locator) — often used interchangeably with the  “address” of a web page, such as http://hackshackers.com.
the name joomla means “all  together” in swahili.
location-based services — a service, usually in a mobile web or  mobile device application, that uses your location in order to perform a  certain task, such as finding nearby restaurants, giving you directions, or  locating your friends.
it is short for simple storage service.
(note: ads on google’s own sites are covered by google adwords, not adsense.)
python files generally end in .py.
it may involve trade-offs such as  sacrificing some performance for ease of programming.
ajax — a bundle of technologies and techniques that allow a web page  to do things quietly in the background without reloading the whole page.
tags can be specific terms, people, locations, etc.
html is an example of metadata — it organizes the data in a web page so browsers can display it sensibly.
news applications teams, including those at the chicago tribune and los angeles times, use the framework to present large data sets online in easily accessible ways.
once a page has more than 25 fans, it can claim a short form url, such as facebook.com/nytimes or facebook.com/wikileaks.
atom — a syndication format for machine readable web feeds that is usually accessible via a url.
ruby is open source and is very popular for content-based sites.
many applications support the use  of alternative column delimiters (the pipe character, |,  is popular).
users can host their applications on ec2 and pay  depending on usage.
google adsense — google’s online advertising network that allows content publishers to embed a piece of code to display google ads on their sites.
cpc (cost per click) — a pricing model in which the advertiser is charged for an ad based on how many users click it.
released in 2006, jquery quickly gained widespread adoption because of its efficiency and elegance.
web 3.0 — sometimes used to refer to the semantic web.
each column is delimited/separated by a  comma (,).
desktop widgets, such as ones  offered for the macintosh dashboard or by yahoo!, can be placed on the desktop  of a computer, such as for weather or stocks.
lee, burt herman, robin smail, david cohn,  michelle minkoff, michael donohoe, greg linch, john keefe, philip neustrom,  chris amico, ashley marty, morgan sully, shmuel ross, paul henrich, dave  goodchild, michele mclellan, jessica chapel and [your name could be here].
sometimes the term is used interchangeably with “wireless.”
ad revenue  is split between google and the publisher in an undisclosed proportion,  generally believed to be two-thirds to the publisher.
fan pages can gather thousands or  millions of fans though “likes,” and official posts by the page  administrator generally go into the fans’ news streams.
some well-known android phones are the nexus one, the motorola droid  and htc evo.
tumblr — a free short-form blogging platform that allows users to post images, video, links, quotes and audio.
it has been criticized for security flaws.
wordpress — the most popular blogging software in use today, in large  part because it is free and relatively powerful, yet easy to use.
a recent example is  pbs
drupal provides options to create a static website, a  multi-user blog, an internet forum or a community website for user-generated  content.
library — in the context of programming, this contains code that can be accessed for software and web development, enabling one to perform common tasks without writing new code every time.
(also see open source) css  (cascading style sheets) — instructions used to describe  the look and formatting for documents, usually html, so that the presentation  is separate from the actual content of the document itself.
launched in 2007, facebook connect was one of the first examples of  facebook extending itself into a platform for the entire web.
it is a rival of the iphone platform.
there is not a way to actively add content to the page, unlike with facebook groups.
it is the most  popular javascript library.
the most popular  operating systems today for desktop computers are the various versions of  microsoft windows, mac os x and the open-source linux.
creators must use adobe’s creative suite products and web surfers must install a flash plug-in for their browser.
hp recently announced that it would acquire palm, which was once the  leading smart phone company.
it is similar to facebook connect.
peer-to-peer (p2p) — a network architecture in which users share resources on their own computers directly with others.
seo (search engine optimization) — a suite of techniques for improving how a website ranks on search engines such as google.
django — a web framework that is popular among news and information sites, in part due to its origin at lawrence journal-world in kansas.
php — a popular web scripting language to generate web pages that was first developed in 1995, when it stood for “personal home page.”
designed to be a very readable language, it is named  after monty python.
apple has not allowed adobe to create a flash player for the iphone operating system, which has created a feud between the two companies.
google buzz — launched in february 2010, buzz is google’s
structured thesaurus — a group of preferred terms created for editorial use to normalize and more effectively classify content.
web 2.0 — referring to the generation of internet technologies that  allow for interactivity and collaboration on websites.
but as long as it has fewer than 5,000 members, facebook groups are allowed to mass-message all their members.
the glossary you are reading is released under a creative  commons attribution share alike license in an effort to encourage wide  distribution and contribution.
ipad — released in april 2010, the ipad is apple’s tablet computing device, akin to a large ipod touch; it uses the same operating system and development tools as the iphone.
mp3s have metadata such as the artist name, track title, album name and so on.
python — a sophisticated computer language that is commonly used for  internet applications.
while it was created as an alternative to rss  (real simple syndication) to improve upon rss’s deficiencies (such as  ambiguities), it still is secondary to rss.
facebook group — facebook groups are analogous to offline clubs.
while open id has seen adoption among technical communities, its authentication method is not particularly intuitive, and it has not gained wide consumer acceptance.
there are many open source licenses.
this is often referred to as a “lamp stack.”
the term originally promoted by facebook and is now gaining broader usage.
while humans are familar with urls as a way to  see web pages, computer programs often use urls to pass each other  machine-readable content, such as rss feeds or twitter information.
computing platforms include windows pc and macintosh.
for example, the ap stylebook is similar to (but includes more rules than) a structured thesaurus in that it gives writers preferred terms to use and standards to follow, so everyone following ap style writes the word “website” the same way.
content management systems are sometimes built custom from scratch with frameworks such as ruby on rails or django.
it is a for-profit company based in san francisco that came out of the ycombinator seed start-up program.
can also refer to a program or  tool that can be used within a website.
in the context of news and information, a term  describing openness about information that has become increasingly popular.
slimmer than  the iphone, the ipod touch can play music and run iphone apps.
it is the parent language  of many xml-based languages such as rss, atom, and others.
many mobile phones allow apps to be downloaded, leading to a burgeoning economy for modestly priced software.
photos uploaded to flickr carry metadata such as time taken, camera model and shutter speed.
csv is popular precisely because it can be easily read by many different applications, including spreadsheets, word processors, programming text editors and web browsers.
it was one of the first mass blogging services and is credited with popularizing the format.
many applications support the use of alternative column delimiters (the pipe character, |, is popular).
it gained further  popularity with the emergence of ajax as a way to send back data from web  services, but has since lost ground to json, another data encoding format,  which is seen as easier to work with.
in contrast to relational databases, which rigidly require information to be stored in pre-defined tables, document-oriented databases are more free-flowing and flexible.
much of  online advertising — particularly display advertising — is priced  on a cpm basis.
the same  document-oriented database might let you store the information for an article  (headline, byline, data, content, miscellaneous) or for a photo (file,  photographer, date, cutline).
similarly, android offers the  ability to add widgets to the home screens.
(see also,rss) blog — one of the first widespread web-native publishing formats,  generally characterized by reverse chronological ordering, rapid response,  linking, and robust commenting.
google docs — a free online service offered by google, comprising  word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and other software, all of which is  “in the cloud.”
it is criticized as being slow because it generates web pages on request.
the service is increasingly being seen as eroding microsoft office’s market share.
the most restrictive is attribution non-commercial
ads are  displayed on google’s own sites based on search terms that users type in,  and advertisers pay only when the users click on them.
creative commons — a flexible set of copyright licenses that allow  content creators to specify which rights they reserve and which they waive  regarding their work that is supposed to codify  collaborative spirit of  the internet.
document-oriented databases retrieve  information more quickly, but store it less efficiently.
joomla — a free, open-source content management built in php.
latin for one thousand; we use “k” for “kilo” almost everywhere else in tech, but “m” for “mille” here, which causes some confusion.)
similarly, android offers the ability to add widgets to the home screens.
perl can be used to pull large quantities of data down from websites and standardize and replace information in batch.
an example is javascript, a programming language that allows developers to build interactivity into websites.
twitter computes trending topics, which give a real-time view into the most talked about topics on the service.
atom — a syndication format for machine readable web feeds that is  usually accessible via a url.
through apis, it can push the content to other sites such as  flickr, twitter and youtube.
an example of a mashup would be an app that shows the  locations of all the movie theaters in a particular town on a google map.
mysql — the dominant open-source database management system on the  internet.
microsoft silverlight is  also a rival to flash, but don’t worry if you have never heard of it.
its fees are often pennies per month per  gigabyte, depending on location and bulk discount.
data visualization should 1) tell a story, 2) allow users to ask their own questions and 3) start conversations.
the best-known wiki in existence is wikipedia, which burst onto the scene around 2000 as one of the first examples of mass collaborative information aggregation.
many say  that the future of the internet lies in apis because they help distribute and  combine content.
(also see oauth, open id) facebook community page — introduced in april 2010, community pages were created as a counterpart to “official fan pages,” which are built around a specific person, company, organization, product, or brand.
examples include mysql, oracle, postgresql and sqlite.
css (cascading style sheets) — instructions used to describe the look and formatting for documents, usually html, so that the presentation is separate from the actual content of the document itself.
twitter — a microblogging and social media service where users can send out messages limited to 14o characters.
its fees are often pennies per month per gigabyte, depending on location and bulk discount.
this is often referred to as a  “lamp stack.”
the palm pre uses webos, numerous phones use google’s android operating system, and the iphone uses ios (formerly known as iphone os).
while graphic design is an element of user  interface design, it is only a portion of the consideration.
python is the basis for django.
jquery — a incredibly popular open source javascript library designed  for manipulating html pages and handling events.
wiki — a web site with pages that can be easily edited by visitors using their web browser, but generally now gaining acceptance as a prefix to mean “collaborative.”
this is different from a facebook personal page, which must be owned by an individual, and different from a facebook community page, which is built around an interest not related to a brand, such as “cooking.”
apis are an  increasingly critical part of the internet’s interconnection.
a news story might  have columns for a headline, date, text and author, where author points to  another table containing the author’s first name, last name and email  address.
this allows sites to validate users’ identities without having full access to their personal accounts.
on the web, apis are generally special urls that give back machine-readable data, in formats like json or xml, rather than human-readable data, which is usually html.
mongodb is a popular open source  document-oriented database.
geotag — a piece of information that goes with content and contains geographically based information.
html5 does not cover css and javascript, but often when  people refer to html5, they often are using it as a blanket term, applying not  only to changes to the html, but also to changes in css and javascript.
while there has been progress toward this front, many say this vision remains largely unrealized.
while the term originally stemmed from software practices, the concept has now been incorporated into other fields such as medicine and agriculture.
one well-known library is jquery, released in 2006 and now the most popular  javascript library, which boasts that it allows coders to “write less, do  more.”
the first smartphone to introduce multitouch screen capability, it is considered in the same vertical as the blackberry, google’s android and palm pre.
launched in  2009 at sxsw interactive conference, foursquare allows users to “check  in” at locations (bars, restaurants, playgrounds and more) to inform  people in their social networks of their whereabouts while earning badges,  collecting points and becoming the “mayor” of certain locations.
xml (extensible markup language) —a set of rules for encoding  documents and data that goes beyond html capacities.
social graph — a mapping of the connections between people and the things they care about that could provide useful insights.
in the context of  search, algorithms are used to provide the most relevant results first based on  those instructions.
the most popular operating systems today for desktop computers are the various versions of microsoft windows, mac os x and the open-source linux.
it is a for-profit company based in san francisco  that came out of the ycombinator seed start-up program.
foursquare — one of many new mobile services, along with gowalla,  scvngr and others, that combines geolocation with game mechanics.
in many cases, website navigation  systems appear taxonomical in that users narrow down from broad top-level  categories to the granular feature they want to see.
twitter computes trending topics, which give a  real-time view into the most talked about topics on the service.
this means they are designed to separate the data (model) from the analysis of the data (controller) and its presentation to the user (view).
it is also different from a facebook group.
google adwords  — google’s text-based flagship advertising  product, which provides the lion’s share of the company revenue.
it can import and out put in almost any common data format, including rss, csv, and json.
the same document-oriented database might let you store the information for an article (headline, byline, data, content, miscellaneous) or for a photo (file, photographer, date, cutline).
there are six main creative commons licenses based on four  conditions that creators can choose to apply: attribution, share alike,  non-commercial, and no derivative works.
unlike wordpress, it is  not open source.
unlike facebook fan pages, groups do not have to be administered by official  representatives.
civic media — an umbrella term describing media technologies that create a strong sense of engagement among residents through news and information.
it is  more powerful than wordpress but not as powerful as drupal.
the new york times  used s3 with ec2 in this way to process its archives.
ward cunningham created the first wiki, naming it wikiwikiweb after the hawaiian word for “quick.”
it is generally synonymous with online publishing  system.
a more sophisticated version of gmail  “status updates,” buzz allows users to post updates about what they  are doing, link to what they are reading and post their current locations.
tags can be  specific terms, people, locations, etc.
- ruby, php and python are all scripting languages that are commonly used  in website development.
popular websites that are written in php are wikipedia, facebook and wordpress.
algorithm — a set of instructions or procedures used in order to  accomplish a task, such as creating search results in google.
- facebook connect, oauth, and openid are different ways that users can use one account’s information to log onto another website without having to create a new username and password.
that provides a  drag-and-drop visual interface to create interesting combinations of data.
facebook personal page — a profile page tied to a single individual.
it first appeared in 1991 and was originally created by  guido van rossum, a dutch computer programmer who now works at google.
unlike legacy media, where the  audience is usually on the receiving end of content creation, social media  generally allows three stages of interaction with content: 1) producing, 2)  consuming and 3) sharing.
originally introduced in 1995 by yukihiro  “matz” matsumoto, ruby has gained increasing traction since 2005  because of the ruby on rails development framework, which can create websites  quickly.
a recent example is pbs newshour’s oil spill tracker widget, which was placed on many news sites around the country.
it  is written in python, a sophisticated dynamic language.
examples of metadata include descriptors  indicating when information was created, by whom and in what format.
the service is increasingly being seen as eroding  microsoft office’s market share.
facebook connect— a technology from facebook that allows a reader to log into a third-party website with their facebook account, rather than creating a new profile for that website.
it features a multitouch screen and comes in 3g and wifi versions.
major projects built in  django include disqus, everyblock.com and theonion.com.
taxonomy — a hierarchical classification system.
operating system — a basic layer of software that controls computer hardware, allowing other applications to be built on it.
for example: this is the title..
library — in the context of programming, this contains code that can  be accessed for software and web development, enabling one to perform common  tasks without writing new code every time.
while the first  generation of content management systems were custom and proprietary, in recent  years there has been a surge in free open-source systems such as drupal,  wordpress and joomla.
a pricing strategy and business model, where companies build a software solution, usually business-to-business, and charge a fixed monthly rate to access it on the internet.
it is supported by  numerous sites, including livejournal, yahoo!, and wordpress.
photos uploaded to flickr carry metadata such as time  taken, camera model and shutter speed.
by the nonprofit creative commons organization, which was inspired by the open  source gnu gpl license, the licenses are now used on an estimated 130 million  works worldwide.
in turn, the reader’s  activities on the website can also be displayed on her or his facebook profile.
that look and feel is controlled by the css.
algorithm — a set of instructions or procedures used in order to accomplish a task, such as creating search results in google.
that provides a drag-and-drop visual interface to create interesting combinations of data.
javascript files generally end in .js.
much of online advertising — particularly display advertising — is priced on a cpm basis.
legacy media sits in  contrast with social media, where the production and sharing is of equal weight  to the consumption.
csv (comma-separated values) — an extremely simple data format which  stores information in a text file.
html5 — the upcoming, powerful standard of hypertext markup language, which has added advanced interactive features, such as allowing video to be embedded on a web page.
social media — a broad term referring to the wide swath of content creation and consumption that is enabled by the many-to-many distributed infrastructure of the internet.
(it is now a recursive acronym, standing for “php: hypertext  preprocessor.”)
lamp —  an acronym referring to a bundle of free open-source web  technologies that have become incredibly popular as a method for building  websites.
in contrast to web 1.0 (roughly the first decade of the world wide web) where static content was downloaded into the browser and read, web 2.0 uses the internet as the platform.
apps generally are built using software toolkits provided by the underlying service, whether it is iphone or facebook.
ontology — a classification system with nodes or entities, that allows non-hierarchical relationships, in contrast to a taxonomy, which is hierarchical.
twitter — a microblogging and social media service where users can  send out messages limited to 14o characters.
cpm (cost per mille) — cost per one thousand (often views).
it was initially released in 2007 and is occasionally spotted  on the web.
it  incorporates many disciplines, including engineering, graphic design, content  creation and psychology.
ads are displayed on google’s own sites based on search terms that users type in, and advertisers pay only when the users click on them.
csv (comma-separated values) — an extremely simple data format which stores information in a text file.
often used to  speed up videos and large multimedia pieces that can take a long time to  download.
(it is now a recursive acronym, standing for “php: hypertext preprocessor.”)
facebook connect, which is an api,  also allows the third parties to pull certain data from the user’s  profile, such as his or her name and age.
this is stuff you would otherwise need to know how to program to do.
web pages often have hidden metadata that helps with their search engine ranks.
the service is often used in conjunction with other amazon web services, such as ec2, to allow customers to process large amounts of data with low capital investment.
the company is based in new york  city and competes with posterous.
there are many tools for data visualizations, including seattle-based tableau and ibm’s many eyes.
xml (extensible markup language) —a set of rules for encoding documents and data that goes beyond html capacities.