in the perfect world the “shortenable” classes should  know absolutely nothing about link-shortening mechanism.
", walking randomlycategory: link //
tags: cloud computing, python mercurial is a modern, open source, distributed version control system, and a compelling upgrade from older systems like subversion.
tags: comparison, django,  framework, presentation, python python: virtualenv + pip // 2010-10-31 "in the java world there was always a problem with dependencies.
tags: python, software firepython is a python logger console integrated into firebug.
tags: python, software firepython - python logger  console into firebug // 2009-02-13 firepython is a python logger console integrated into firebug.
tags: data mining, python,  software pymvpa - pattern classification analyses in python //
i meant that python programmers are smart.
tags: data mining, python, software i will give a presentation on 4developers conference about the rapid and easy development of web application using django and python.
// 2010-02-02 thread on hacker news about python jobs.
tags: comparison, python, ruby thread on hacker news about python jobs.
by marcin swierczynskicategory:link //
2010-02-24 pandas is a python package providing convenient data structures for time  series, cross-sectional, or any other form of “labeled” data, with  tools for building statistical and econometric models.
we have  interviews, tips, special topics, screencasts, callcasts and a ton of fun.
tags: django, python time-complexity of various operations in python //
the main requirement was to get as loosely-coupled design as possible.
pymvpa provides high-level abstraction of typical processing steps and a number of implementations of some popular algorithms.
tags: database, django, python "python is the greatest thing to happen to computer science since the turing machine!
tags: python, software, testing packt publishing from uk informed me that they published an interesting book "django 1.0 template development", written by scott newman.
one of the project's goals is to replace the  python virtual machine with an llvm-based jit".
tags: data mining, python, software pymvpa (python multivariate pattern analysis) is a python module intended to ease pattern classification analyses of large datasets.
tags: comparison, django,  python, software pybrain - python machine learning library // 2009-10-04 category: link //
tags: comparison, python, software, web "this article will compare the latest incarnations of ruby, with the latest in python, groovy, php, lua, perl and java too, to have a comparison with a pre-compiled language.
and people  don't learn python because it will get them a job; they learn it because they  genuinely like to program and aren't satisfied with the languages they already  know.
tags: database, python, software scons - a software construction tool // 2009-02-14 scons is a next-generation build tool.
it's a lot of work to learn a new programming language.
tags: library, python objgraph - drawing python  object reference graphs // 2010-04-09 objgraph is a module that lets you visually explore python object graphs.
tags: python, software 4developers conference took place in krakow, poland on 7th march 2009, where i had a pleasure of presentingpython language and django web framework.
tags: data mining,  mathematics, python, software unladen swallow improves the python  performance // 2009-03-27 ryan paul wrote "google's python engineers have launched a new  project called unladen swallow that seeks to improve the performance of the  python programming language.
tags: django, python, startup, web "since adam d'angelo, the founder, had worked for facebook, which heavily uses php.
tags: finance, presentation, python functional programming with python – part 1 // 2010-02-24 category:  link //
tags: django, python, startup, web why did quora choose python? //
tags: book, django, python crunchy is an interactive python tutorials served through a web browser.
by marcin swierczynskicategory: link //
tags: python lennon day-reynolds wrote on his blog: "i’ve recently made the transition from full-time rails development to a mix of technologies including, in large part, django.
tags: design, django, python find developers.
how to get such a flexibility in django?
tags: python python infrequently answered questions //
tags: django, python, software whoosh: a fast pure-python  search engine // 2009-02-12 whoosh is a fast, featureful full-text indexing and searching library  implemented in pure python.
2010-07-13 "since adam d'angelo, the founder, had worked for facebook, which  heavily uses php.
presentation covered a introduction to python and brief history, architecture,  features, and the short example of django.
i am trying to understand the technical challenges the founders of quora faced before they decided to go with python rather than php."category: link //
it enables you to leverage the computing power of amazon web services without having to manage, maintain, or configure virtual servers.
tags: data mining, data visualization, python picloud is a cloud-computing platform that integrates into the python programming language.
2010-08-06 category: link //
2010-05-24 presentation by nice alex gaynor (berlin, germany).
2010-04-22 the code in a finally clause will never fail to execute?, polymorphism is  great; i can sort a list of elements of any type?,
it is a tandem of virtualenv and pip."
i’ve used the contenttypes framework with generic  relations and it works pretty well!"
in short, scons is an easier, more reliable and faster way to build software.
tags: data mining, data  visualization, python picloud - cloud computing, simplified // 2010-03-01 picloud is a cloud-computing platform that integrates into the python  programming language.
tags: data visualization, library, python "the django orm is pretty complicated and it takes too much time for contributors to understand all the necessary details.
tags: comparison, django, python, software code comparison (size and complexity) between mathematica, matlab and python.
tags: python, software
2009-04-09 steve huffman’s and alexis ohanian’s told on pycon keynote why  reddit uses python.
in order to make the  process as easy as possible we've implemented a backend template which provides  a simple starting point for a new backend based on our simplified api.
it uses a simple declarative api, similar to that of the django ormcategory:link //
is there any way to handle necessary libraries?
presentation by nice alex gaynor (berlin, germany).category: link //
tags:  python how to think like a pythonista // 2010-04-18 category: link // tags: python, software django editor - plugin for eclipse // 2010-04-13 django templates (tags, blocks, variables, filters, html tags, javascript  and css) syntax coloring support for eclipse.
and people don't learn python because it will get them a job; they learn it because they genuinely like to program and aren't satisfied with the languages they already know.
we will see, how scripting languages behave if  applied to fractal geometry, more precisely an family mandelbrot  algorithm."
by all buttons pressed category: link //
tags: comparison, mathematics, python, source code list of python testing tools divided into unit testing tools, mock/stub testing tools, fuzz testing tools, web testing tools, acceptance/business logic testing tools, gui testing tools, source code checking tools, code coverage tools, continuous integration tools, and miscellaneous python testing tools categories.
tags: django, python, software how to isolate customer's data from one another (one database per customer).category: link //
tags: design, django, python django gigs // 2009-01-23 category: link //
category: link // tags: library, python, web webkit2png - creates png screenshots of webpage  // 2010-04-11 webkit2png is a command line tool that creates png screenshots of webpages.
all the jars we had to mange by hand – quite awful.
thankfully there is a  maven project which helps us in requirements management.
ever since i attended euroscipy in leipzig earlier this year i have been excited about the possibilities offered by python for students, researchers and teachers.
by lobster technologies.
tags: database, django, python pthreads as a case  study of good api design // 2010-07-25 "the pthreads api is inherently simple.
well, no, but it has inspired me into a personal  renaissance for software writing.
in order to make the process as easy as possible we've implemented a backend template which provides a simple starting point for a new backend based on our simplified api.
tags: comparison, complexity, python python 2.6 quick  reference // 2010-01-08 category: link //
tags:  book, data mining, mathematics, python, software why reddit uses python //
tags: python, tutorial factory, singleton, flyweight, observer, and command dispatch pattern.
tags: django, presentation, python, software django people lists django developers from around the world.
think of scons as an improved,  cross-platform substitute for the classic make utility with integrated  functionality similar to autoconf/automake and compiler caches such as ccache.
tags: data visualization, python python docx library //
tags: python, software comparison script languages for fractal geometry //
tags:  library, python, software alertgrid - instant notification in python/django  // 2010-07-23 alertgrid is an interesting online instant notifications service (written  in python/django) that helps reacting on the custom events (server down, script  error, machine stopped) by sending sms/phone/email notification.
it combines the power of many existing open-source packages into a common  python-based interface.
tags: library, python objgraph is a module that lets you visually explore python object graphs.
tags: data mining, mathematics, python, software ryan paul wrote "google's python engineers have launched a new project called unladen swallow that seeks to improve the performance of the python programming language.
tags: python, software paul graham wrote on his blog "you could get smarter programmers to work on a python project than you could to work on a java project.
some of whoosh's features include pythonic api,  pure-python, fielded indexing and search, fast indexing and retrieval,  pluggable scoring algorithm (text analysis, storage, posting format, etc.), and  powerful query language.
this tutorial will teach you what you need to know about unicode by example, as succinctly as possible."
tags: blog, django, python, software django - the web  framework in python // 2009-01-23 django is a high-level python web framework that encourages rapid  development and clean, pragmatic design.
presentation covered a brief history, architecture, features, and the short example.
tags: django ,job, python, startup don't put project name in the imports, don't hard code media_root and template_dirs, don't hard code static files in your templates, don't write core business logic in your views, ...
i meant that python programmers  are smart.
it uses a simple declarative api, similar to that of the django orm category:link //
tags: python the code in a finally clause will never fail to execute?, polymorphism is great; i can sort a list of elements of any type?,
tags: presentation, python,  scalability mongoengine - mongodb orm for python //
we have interviews, tips, special topics, screencasts, callcasts and a ton of fun.
tags: blog, python,  software introduction to django 1.0 - presentation // 2009-01-23 the first time in poland, pycon pl 2008 conference took place in rybnik on  18-19th october 2008, where i had a pleasure of presentingdjango web framework.
// 2010-11-07 category: link //
2009-07-31 category: link //
can i do ++x and x++?, is  there a similar shortcut for objects?,
tags: django, python pyprocessing provides a python package that creates an environment for graphics applications that closely resembles that of theprocessing system.
tags: django, python an optimization branch of cpython, intended to be fully compatible and  significantly faster.
tags: database, django, library, python what pythonistas  think of ruby // 2010-02-03 "compared to other programming languages, python and ruby are so  similar that hearing arguments between them is like trying to figure out which  identical twin is more handsome.
tags: comparison, python, software, web functional programming in python //
it enables you to leverage the computing power of amazon  web services without having to manage, maintain, or configure virtual servers.
tags: python, science the  rise of python in computational science // 2009-12-21 "one of my plans for next year is to start giving short talks and  tutorials about scientific python to various groups around the university of  manchester.
tags: python, science "one of my plans for next year is to start giving short talks and tutorials about scientific python to various groups around the university of manchester.
tags: data visualization, library, python writing  a non-relational django backend // 2010-04-07 "the django orm is pretty complicated and it takes too much time  for contributors to understand all the necessary details.
tags: comparison, python, software mozilla addons: migrating from cakephp  to django // 2009-11-18 addons.mozilla.org plans to move from cakephp to django in 2010.
tags:  comparison, python, software why is python more fun than java? //
tags: database, django, presentation, python "there are many unicode tutorials available for python, but few offer an understanding of how unicode works or how it's applied in the real world.
tags: python, software the history  of python // 2009-01-29 a series of articles on the history of the python programming language and  its community by guido van rossum.
tags: blog, python, software the first time in poland, pycon pl 2008 conference took place in rybnik on 18-19th october 2008, where i had a pleasure of presentingdjango web framework.
the aim of the site is to help django developers find like-minded souls near them, and hopefully kick-start some local meet-ups and user groups.
the main requirement was to get as loosely-coupled design  as possible.
tags: python, tutorial pyprocessing - python environment for graphics // 2010-01-08 pyprocessing provides a python package that creates an environment for  graphics applications that closely resembles that of theprocessing system.
tags: comparison, mathematics, python, source  code python testing tools taxonomy // 2009-07-03 list of python testing tools divided into unit testing tools, mock/stub  testing tools, fuzz testing tools, web testing tools, acceptance/business logic  testing tools, gui testing tools, source code checking tools, code coverage  tools, continuous integration tools, and miscellaneous python testing tools  categories.
in other words, pthreads solves a single problem, and  solves it well."
2009-02-12 pymvpa (python multivariate pattern analysis) is a python module intended  to ease pattern classification analyses of large datasets.
in other words, pthreads solves a single problem, and solves it well."
tags: library, python, software alertgrid is an interesting online instant notifications service (written in python/django) that helps reacting on the custom events (server down, script error, machine stopped) by sending sms/phone/email notification.
tags:  data mining, python, software python and django on 4developers conference  // 2009-02-10 i will give a presentation on 4developers conference about the rapid and  easy development of web application using django and python.
python wins 2010 tiobe programming language award //  2011-01-09 category: link //
tags: data visualization, python python's docx module creates, reads and writes microsoft office word 2007 docx files.
but what about python?
presentation contains several basic ai techniques implemented with short,  open-source python code recipes.
the aim of the  site is to help django developers find like-minded souls near them, and  hopefully kick-start some local meet-ups and user groups.
some of whoosh's features include pythonic api, pure-python, fielded indexing and search, fast indexing and retrieval, pluggable scoring algorithm (text analysis, storage, posting format, etc.), and powerful query language.
by marcin swierczynski category:  link //
since i was a python guy before i ever started using ruby, the transition has mostly been an easy one, but there are some fairly significant differences in design and philosophy between the two frameworks that are worth thinking about if you’re picking a platform for a new project.
thankfully there is a maven project which helps us in requirements management.
tags:  comparison, python, software python-on-a-chip // 2010-06-11 project's goal is to develop the pymite virtual machine, device drivers,  high-level libraries and other tools to run a significant subset of the python  language on microcontrollers without an os.
2010-03-30 "python is the greatest thing to happen to computer science since  the turing machine!
tags: django, python an optimization branch of cpython, intended to be fully compatible and significantly faster.
tags: finance, library, python pycon 2010:
tags: book, django, python crunchy:  interactive python tutorials // 2009-04-27 crunchy is an interactive python tutorials served through a web browser.
by marcin swierczynski category:link //
tags: database, django, presentation, python making sense of python unicode  // 2010-05-12 "there are many unicode tutorials available for python, but few  offer an understanding of how unicode works or how it's applied in the real  world.
pymvpa provides high-level abstraction of typical processing steps and a number  of implementations of some popular algorithms.
presentation contains several basic ai techniques implemented with short, open-source python code recipes.
in the neuroimaging contexts such analysis techniques are also known as decoding or mvpa analysis.
tags: django, eclipse, python flask is a micro webdevelopment framework for python.
tags: django, job, python
tags: python python vs. ruby: a battle  to the death // 2011-01-03 category: link //
tags: django,  python, software django sites // 2009-01-23 the most comprehensive listing of websites that are powered by django, the  python web framework for perfectionists with deadlines.
tags: python django templates (tags, blocks, variables, filters, html tags, javascript and css) syntax coloring support for eclipse.
mean by this that java programmers are dumb.
tags:  django, eclipse, python flask: a micro web framework for python //
tags: python, software mathematica vs  matlab vs python // 2009-07-06 code comparison (size and complexity) between mathematica, matlab and  python.
tags: django, python, social network his week in django is your ongoing source for all things django.
tags: database, django, python "the pthreads api is inherently simple.
category: link // tags: django, python, social network this week in django // 2009-01-23 his week in django is your ongoing source for all things django.
tags: python, software, testing django  1.0 template development book // 2009-07-02 packt publishing from uk informed me that they published an interesting  book "django 1.0 template development", written by scott newman.
tags: interview, python, software, web raymond hettinger's presentation about artificial intelligence in python.
tags: library, python, web webkit2png is a command line tool that creates png screenshots of webpages.
i’ve used the contenttypes framework with generic relations and it works pretty well!"
by all buttons pressedcategory: link //
tags: django, presentation, python, software, web tokyo cabinet python bindingscategory: link //
the conference will take place in my hometownkraków (poland) on march 7th 2009.category:article //
python in quantitative finance  // 2010-02-24 category: link //
tags: django ,job, python, startup top 10 tips to a new django developer // 2010-01-29 don't put project name in the imports, don't hard code media_root and  template_dirs, don't hard code static files in your templates, don't write core  business logic in your views, ... category: link //
one of the project's goals is to replace the python virtual machine with an llvm-based jit".
tags: django, job, python copyright 2007-2011 © zenzire company //
we will see, how scripting languages behave if applied to fractal geometry, more precisely an family mandelbrot algorithm."
tags: comparison, python, software addons.mozilla.org plans to move from cakephp to django in 2010.category:link //
tags: django, python, software whoosh is a fast, featureful full-text indexing and searching library implemented in pure python.
since i was a python guy before i ever  started using ruby, the transition has mostly been an easy one, but there are  some fairly significant differences in design and philosophy between the two  frameworks that are worth thinking about if you’re picking a platform for  a new project.
i have not read yet, but it has many positive reviews (e.g.lowkster and contenthere).category: link //
2010-08-02 how to isolate customer's data from one another (one database per customer).
2010-02-05 mongoengine is a document-object mapper for working with mongodb from  python.
tags: python, software, tutorial, web stephen marsland shared all python scripts from his book "machine learning: an algorithmic perspective".
please find attached presentation from this talk.
category: article //
tags: python, tutorial scaling python webapps from 0 to 50 million  users // 2010-02-23 category: link //
i didn't mean by this that java programmers are dumb.
ever since i attended euroscipy in leipzig earlier this year i have  been excited about the possibilities offered by python for students,  researchers and teachers.
tags: python, software, tutorial pandas: python data analysis library //
tags: comparison, python, software project's goal is to develop the pymite virtual machine, device drivers, high-level libraries and other tools to run a significant subset of the python language on microcontrollers without an os.category: link //
in the perfect world the “shortenable” classes should know absolutely nothing about link-shortening mechanism.
category:  article //
tags: library, python sage -  open-source mathematics software // 2009-12-21 sage is a free open-source mathematics software system licensed under the  gpl.
it also contains sample code, so you can better understand what each function does."
presentation covered a brief history, architecture, features, and the short  example.
etc... category: link //
tags: interview, python, software,  web easy ai with python // 2009-04-02 raymond hettinger's presentation about artificial intelligence in python.
tags: django, presentation, python, software python  performance tips // 2009-02-10 this page is devoted to various tips and tricks that help improve the  performance of your python programs (sorting, string concatenation, loops,  local variables, etc).
this tutorial will teach you what you need to know about unicode by  example, as succinctly as possible."
tags: django, presentation, python,  software, web pytc - tokyo cabinet python bindings // 2009-02-15 tokyo cabinet python bindings category: link //
think of scons as an improved, cross-platform substitute for the classic make utility with integrated functionality similar to autoconf/automake and compiler caches such as ccache.
i  have not read yet, but it has many positive reviews (e.g.lowkster and  contenthere).
its flexibility, widespread community support, and leveraging of legacy c and fortran code also make it an outstanding language for social science researchers." via zero intelligence agents.
tags: data mining, python, software python vs  ruby, slightly more in-depth // 2009-08-04 category: link //
tags: database,  django, python must-have python packages for social scientists  //
python making django and nosql play nice //
tags: cloud computing,  presentation, python, ruby, video comparison between django, rails and  grails.
", walking randomly category: link //  tags: python, science fractal benchmark // 2009-12-03 ruby, io, php, python, lua, java, perl, applescript, tcl, elisp,  javascript, ocaml, ghostscript, and c fractal benchmark.
the conference  will take place in my hometownkraków (poland) on march 7th 2009.
its flexibility, widespread community  support, and leveraging of legacy c and fortran code also make it an  outstanding language for social science researchers." via zero  intelligence agents.
tags:  comparison, python, ruby where are all the python jobs?
tags: python, software, tutorial pandas is a python package providing convenient data structures for time series, cross-sectional, or any other form of “labeled” data, with tools for building statistical and econometric models.
it combines the power of many existing open-source packages into a common python-based interface.
tags: python, software the  python paradox // 2009-01-31 paul graham wrote on his blog "you could get smarter programmers  to work on a python project than you could to work on a java project.
2010-06-11 "this article will compare the latest incarnations of ruby, with  the latest in python, groovy, php, lua, perl and java too, to have a comparison  with a pre-compiled language.
not in the sense that it makes multi-threaded (mt) programming a breeze (i doubt this is possible), but in the sense that it provides everything that’s needed to write mt programs, and only that.
tags: database, django, library, python "compared to other programming languages, python and ruby are so similar that hearing arguments between them is like trying to figure out which identical twin is more handsome.
it also  contains sample code, so you can better understand what each function  does."
a series of articles on the history of the python programming language and its community by guido van rossum.
tags: python category: link //
category: link // tags: python, software python & django on 4developers - presentation  // 2009-03-09 4developers conference took place in krakow, poland on 7th march 2009,  where i had a pleasure of presentingpython language and django web framework.
by marco mastrodonatocategory: link //
company about & contactcompany about & contact projects selected projectsprojects selected projects archive blog, articles & linksarchive blog, articles & links polski wersja polskapolski wersja polska "in the java world there was always a problem with dependencies.
tags: django, python, software the most comprehensive listing of websites that are powered by django, the python web framework for perfectionists with deadlines.
by marco mastrodonato category: link //
tags: django, python "last week i’ve completed an interesting task within our project: building internal link-shortening system based on persisted objects, not on constant urls.
tags: comparison, python django for  rails devs // 2009-10-06 lennon day-reynolds wrote on his blog: "i’ve recently made  the transition from full-time rails development to a mix of technologies  including, in large part, django.
tags: cloud computing, python hg init: a mercurial  tutorial // 2010-02-25 mercurial is a modern, open source, distributed version control system, and  a compelling upgrade from older systems like subversion.
tags:  django, python saas with django and postgresql //
can i do ++x and x++?, is there a similar shortcut for objects?, etc...category: link //
tags: database, python, software scons is a next-generation build tool.
presentation covered a introduction to python and brief history, architecture, features, and the short example of django.
tags: django, presentation, python, software django people //  2009-01-23 django people lists django developers from around the world.
tags: python, software, tutorial, web machine learning:  an algorithmic perspective // 2009-04-20 stephen marsland shared all python scripts from his book "machine  learning: an algorithmic perspective".
tags: blog, django, python, software django is a high-level python web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design.
how to get such a  flexibility in django?
i am trying to understand the technical challenges the  founders of quora faced before they decided to go with python rather than  php.
tags: django, python generic relationships in django // 2010-08-31 "last week i’ve completed an interesting task within our  project: building internal link-shortening system based on persisted objects,  not on constant urls.
tags: finance, library, python mongoengine is a document-object mapper for working with mongodb from python.
tags: book, data mining, mathematics, python, software steve huffman’s and alexis ohanian’s told on pycon keynote why reddit uses python.
please find attached presentation  from this talk.
in the neuroimaging  contexts such analysis techniques are also known as decoding or mvpa analysis.
tags: django, python, software using python to encode  cassette recordings // 2010-08-23 category: link //
tags: library, python sage is a free open-source mathematics software system licensed under the gpl.
2010-04-13 flask is a micro webdevelopment framework for python.
not in the sense that it  makes multi-threaded (mt) programming a breeze (i doubt this is possible), but  in the sense that it provides everything that’s needed to write mt  programs, and only that.
2010-01-03 python's docx module creates, reads and writes microsoft office word 2007  docx files.
well, no, but it has inspired me into a personal renaissance for software writing.
tags: python, science ruby, io, php, python, lua, java, perl, applescript, tcl, elisp, javascript, ocaml, ghostscript, and c fractal benchmark.
tags: django, presentation, python, software this page is devoted to various tips and tricks that help improve the performance of your python programs (sorting, string concatenation, loops, local variables, etc).category: link //
it is a  tandem of virtualenv and pip."
2010-07-08 category: link //
2010-01-10 category:link //
tags: python code coverage analysis in django //