a part of the new york times company.
as long as we do not call or rely upon the first value feedname, python pays no mind.
by reference - definition creating custom delphi components - inside and out - page 3/9 explore python  must reads
from then we can assign values to different variables, thus allowing us to use the feed's name as the key and the feed's address as the value.
the code looks like this: while line: â â â â data = string.split(line, ';') â â â â feedname =
the code looks like this: while line: â â â â data =
if you are at all unclear  about dictionary keys and values, you should read my treatment of python data  types.
when the function finishes, the function variablefeedname ceases to exist in the mind of the computer.
= address â â â â line =  datafile.readline()
at the end of it, one has a dictionary called record that holds each line of the file.
the value of the dictionary record is then returned as the output  of the function.
the value of the dictionary record is then returned as the output of the function.
data[0] â â â â address = data[1
but, you might say, won't the feedname variable interfere or replace thefeedname variable that we defined in the beginning?
in  python, variables have an aspect called scope that allows variables  defined within functions to exist within those functions and cease to exist  when the function ends.
] â â â â record[feedname] = address â â â â line = datafile.readline()
but, you might say, won't the feedname variable interfere or  replace thefeedname variable that we defined in the beginning?
the result is a list of values being passed to the variable, heredata.
- learn python - hello, world!
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
â â â â address = data[1] â â â  â record[feedname]
- python text editors - string methods - 1 of 2 by category - python tutorials - web programming - rss reader - advanced projects - iterators - beginning python - python 3.0 - python library - regular expressions - web development - advanced python - database programming - networking - scriptips - python jobs - programming glossary - suggested resources python - about.com - computing & technology - python - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
see more about: - "hello, world!" - line-by-line file analysis - what is python?
the site name of the feed is the key, and the value of each key is the address of that site's rss file.
it is essentially the same loop that i analyse in my tutorial on reading a file all-at-once.
the result is a list of values  being passed to the variable, heredata.
previous next using a python iterator now, for the loop.
python - building an rss reader with python - getting the  fee...
string.split(line, ';') â â â â feedname =
previous this is not the beginning the python bang line the tasks this python program must do holding the user data in python with cgi holding the user data in python with php
if you are at all unclear about dictionary keys and values, you should read my treatment of python data types.
- python 3.0 - regular expressions
the site name of the feed is the key, and the value of  each key is the address of that site's rss file.
previous next - this is not the beginning - the python bang line - the tasks this python program must do - holding the user data in python with cgi - holding the user data in python with php - defining the first python function - reading the rss feed as a python file object - using a python iterator - calling python's function, retrieving the feed address related articles - part 2: getting feed information from the data file with python - learning assembler with delphi - page 3/5 - rss reader in python - building an rss reader with python - getting the fee... - pass by reference - definition - creating custom delphi components - inside and out - page 3/9 explore python must reads most popular - what is python?
- about.com - computing & technology - python python search - python - basic python - intermediate python - pro python discuss in our forum part 2: getting feed information from the data file with python from al lukaszewski, former about.com guide see more about: - python tutorials - web programming - rss reader - advanced projects - iterators 8 of 9 previous next using a python iterator now, for the loop.
defining the first python function reading the rss feed as a python file object using a python iterator calling python's function, retrieving the feed address next part 2: getting feed information from the data file with python learning assembler with delphi - page 3/5 rss reader in
at the end of it, one has a dictionary called record that holds  each line of the file.
in python, variables have an aspect called scope that allows variables defined within functions to exist within those functions and cease to exist when the function ends.
from then we can assign values  to different variables, thus allowing us to use the feed's name as the key and  the feed's address as the value.
when the function finishes, the function  variablefeedname ceases to exist in the mind of the computer.
in using the string library function split, we pass the  string to be split followed by its delimiter.
in using the string library function split, we pass the string to be split followed by its delimiter.
it is essentially the same loop that i analyse in  my  tutorial on reading a file all-at-once.