| nlsscroller-break the acronym lamp (or l.a.m.p.) refers to a set of free software programs commonly used together to run dynamic web sites or servers: though php does very well run on windows but it produces synergic effect when used on linux.
indeed, mysql ab has since based some of its marketing  efforts on the popularity of the lamp stack.
php 5 included new features such as: - robust support for object-oriented programming (or oop) through php data objects - performance enhancements taking advantage of the new engine - better support for mysql through a completely rewritten extension - better xml support through a suite of interoperable tools - embedded support for sqlite - integrated soap support - data iterators - error handling through exceptions the latest version as of october 2006 is php 5.1.6.
- oracles' comparison of php & asp.net please read following to know what, how we can assist you: - php at precision - php methodology - we are available - php services
precision technologies usa, inc. opens at usa.
the  latest version as of september 2006 is 4.4.4.
other such  stacks include unified application development environments such as apple  computer's webobjects, java/java ee, grails, and microsoft's .net architecture.
the  article aimed to show that a bundle of free software could provide a viable  alternative to commercial packages.
lerdorf initially created php to display his résumé and to collect certain data, such as how much traffic his page was receiving.
they also founded zend technologies in ramat gan, israel, which is actively involved with php development.
the acronym has three major uses: define a web server infrastructure define a programming paradigm of developing software define a software distribution package to be precise, it is an open source web platform.
php can be used with a large number of relational database management systems, runs on all of the most popular web servers and is available for many different operating systems.
though the originators of these open source programs did not design them  all to work specifically with each other, the combination has become popular  because of its low acquisition cost and because of the ubiquity of its  components (which come bundled with most current linux distributions  particularly as deployed by isps).
- php & asp.net comparison - where and when to use php, asp or asp.net?
the development team officially released php/fi 2 in november 1997 after months of beta testing.
the development team  officially released php/fi 2 in november 1997 after months of beta testing.
usage php generally runs on a web server, taking php code as its input and creating web pages as output, but command-line scripting and client-side gui applications are part of the three primary uses of php as well.
the latest version as of september 2006 is 4.4.4.
history php was written as a set of cgi binaries in the c programming  language by the danish-canadian programmer rasmus lerdorf in 1994, to replace a  small set of perl scripts he had been using to maintain his personal homepage.
available under the php license, php is an open source language and is  considered to be free software by the free software foundation.
history php was written as a set of cgi binaries in the c programming language by the danish-canadian programmer rasmus lerdorf in 1994, to replace a small set of perl scripts he had been using to maintain his personal homepage.
the article aimed to show that a bundle of free software could provide a viable alternative to commercial packages.
michael kunze coined the acronym lamp in an  article for the german computing magazine c't in 1998 (12/98, page 230).
they also founded zend technologies in ramat gan,  israel, which is actively involved with php development.
php competes with  visual basic and c++ as the third most popular programming language behind java  and c, based on world wide availability of practitioners, courses and vendors.
- command-line scripting php also provides a command line interface sapi for developing shell and desktop applications, log parsing, or other system administration tasks.
introduction php (php: hypertext preprocessor) is a reflective programming  language originally designed for producing dynamic web pages.
php 5 on july 13, 2004, php 5 was released, powered by zend engine  ii.
- client-side gui applications php provides bindings to gui libraries such as gtk+ and text mode libraries like ncurses in order to facilitate development of a broader range of cross-platform gui applications.
to more directly compete with the "framework" approach taken by these systems, zend is working on the zend framework - an emerging (as of june 2006) set of php building blocks and best practices; other php frameworks along the same lines include cakephp and symfony.
knowing about the it-world's love of  acronyms, kunze came up with lamp as a marketing-like term to popularize the  use of free software.
public testing of php 3 began immediately and the official launch came in june 1998.
the scripting component of the lamp stack has its origins in the cgi web interfaces that became popular in the early 1990s.
suraski and gutmans then started a new rewrite of php's core, producing  the zend engine in 1999.[4]
mysql, the database management system (or database server); perl, php, python, and/or (rarely) primate,  scripting/programming languages.
for this reason system designers often referred to such scripting systems as glue languages.
suraski and gutmans then started a new rewrite of php's core, producing the zend engine in 1999.[4]
programmers used scripting  languages with these programs because of their ability to manipulate text  streams easily and efficiently, even when they originate from disparate  sources.
it is increasingly used on the command line for tasks which have traditionally been the domain of perl, awk, or shell scripting.
michael kunze coined the acronym lamp in an article for the german computing magazine c't in 1998 (12/98, page 230).
php 3 zeev suraski and andi gutmans, two israeli developers at  the technion - israel institute of technology, rewrote the parser in 1997 and  formed the base of php 3, changing the language's name to the recursive  initialism "php: hypertext preprocessor".
php 4 is currently still supported by security updates for those applications which require it.
| nlsscroller-break precision technologies is now precision e-technologies pvt.
this technology allows the user of a web browser to execute a program on the web server, and to thereby receive dynamic as well as static content.
nagpur email web hosting web designing software iso sms printing branding erp crm website jobs vacancy nagpur phpprogrammersjobsvacanciesinnagpur phpvacanciesinnagpur phpjobsinnagpur phpprogrammersjobsinnagpur phpprogrammersvacanciesinnagpur nagpurphpjobs nagpurphpvacancies php digitalsignaturecertificates digital signature certificates auction bidding returns filing online nagpur laptops computers products services nagpur news events news events news events pune news events mumbai news events nagpur news events news events news events pune news events mumbai news events nagpur website designing development web development company php mysql programming web hosting domain name registration nagpur jobs vacancies raipur jobs vacancies pune jobs vacancies mumbai jobs vacancies nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender nagpur digital signature certificates nagpur online auction tender pune digital signature certificates pune online auction tender amravati digital signature certificates amravati online auction tender akola digital signature certificates akola online auction tender raipur digital signature certificates raipur online auction tender php, mysql, java, j2ee, asp.net, mssqlweb development for linux & windows a leading web development & designing company having highly experienced web developers & programmers.
other such stacks include unified application development environments such as apple computer's webobjects, java/java ee, grails, and microsoft's .net architecture.
the acronym has three major uses: to be precise, it is an open source web platform.
php 3 zeev suraski and andi gutmans, two israeli developers at the technion - israel institute of technology, rewrote the parser in 1997 and formed the base of php 3, changing the language's name to the recursive initialism "php: hypertext preprocessor".
this technology allows  the user of a web browser to execute a program on the web server, and to  thereby receive dynamic as well as static content.
php 4 is currently still  supported by security updates for those applications which require it.
while running the php parser with a web server and web browser, the php model can be compared to other server-side scripting languages such as microsoft's asp.net system, adobe coldfusion, sun microsystems' javaserver pages, zope, mod_perl and the ruby on rails framework, as they all provide dynamic content to the client from a web server.
available under the php license, php is an open source language and is considered to be free software by the free software foundation.
when used in combination they represent a  solution stack of technologies that support application servers.
public testing of php 3 began immediately and the official launch came in june  1998.
- server-side scripting originally designed to create dynamic web pages, server-side scripting is the principal focus for php.
| nlsscroller-break precision shifted to new facility.
knowing about the it-world's love of acronyms, kunze came up with lamp as a marketing-like term to popularize the use of free software.
the lamp architecture has become popular in the web industry as a way of deploying inexpensive, reliable, scalable, secure web applications.
this flexibility means that php has a wide installation base across the internet; over 18 million internet domains are currently hosted on servers with php installed.
"personal home page tools" was publicly released on june 8, 1995 after lerdorf combined it with his own form interpreter to create php/fi.
programmers used scripting languages with these programs because of their ability to manipulate text streams easily and efficiently, even when they originate from disparate sources.
when used in combination they represent a solution stack of technologies that support application servers.
though the originators of these open source programs did not design them all to work specifically with each other, the combination has become popular because of its low acquisition cost and because of the ubiquity of its components (which come bundled with most current linux distributions particularly as deployed by isps).
php competes with visual basic and c++ as the third most popular programming language behind java and c, based on world wide availability of practitioners, courses and vendors.
| nlsscroller-break click here to visit our new website  www.groupprecision.com lamp - linux, apache, mysql & php or perl or python the acronym lamp (or l.a.m.p.) refers to a set of free software programs  commonly used together to run dynamic web sites or servers: linux, the operating system;
the scripting component of the lamp stack has its origins in the cgi  web interfaces that became popular in the early 1990s.
"personal home page tools" was publicly released on june 8, 1995  after lerdorf combined it with his own form interpreter to create php/fi.
introduction php (php: hypertext preprocessor) is a reflective programming language originally designed for producing dynamic web pages.
ltd. | nlsscroller-break precision establishes itself as a leading web development company in pune.
o'reilly and mysql ab have popularized the term among english-speakers.
for this reason system designers often referred to such scripting  systems as glue languages.
php is commonly used as the p in this bundle alongside linux, apache and mysql.
click here for road directions.
please read following to know why, when, where to use php and what others say about it: - why chose php?
though php does very well run on windows but it produces synergic effect  when used on linux.
php is used  mainly in server-side application software, but can be used from a command line  interface or in standalone graphical applications.
o'reilly and mysql ab have popularized the term among  english-speakers.
| nlsscroller-break 32nd product - ehotel is in process of launch.
php 5 included new features such as: robust support for object-oriented programming (or oop) through php data  objects performance enhancements taking advantage of the new engine better support for mysql through a completely rewritten extension better xml support through a suite of interoperable tools embedded support for sqlite
expert php mysql web development programmers in pune, nagpur, mumbai, bangalore, chennai, delhi, and kolkata.
php 5 on july 13, 2004, php 5 was released, powered by zend engine ii.
| nlsscroller-break precision announces more vacancies | nlsscroller-break precision technologies usa, inc. opens at usa.
php is used mainly in server-side application software, but can be used from a command line interface or in standalone graphical applications.
lerdorf initially created php to display his résumé and to  collect certain data, such as how much traffic his page was receiving.
php 4 in may 2000, php 4, powered by the zend engine 1.0, was released.
indeed, mysql ab has since based some of its marketing efforts on the popularity of the lamp stack.