using this class will help you quickly and easily gain insight into which parts of your app could use some refactoring and optimization.
- pixy: php security scanner pixy is a java program that performs automatic scans of php 4 source code, aimed to detect xss and sql injection vulnerabilities.
php dox an ajax-powered php documentation search engine that enables  you to search titles from all php documentation pages.
you may also want to take a look at the following related posts: - 50 extremely useful and powerful css tools - 15 helpful in-browser web-development tools [offtopic: by the way, did you know that there is a smashing ebook series?
- propel propel is an object-relational mapping (orm) framework for php 5.
- {{macro}} template engine {{macro}} compiles initial templates into executable php scripts with very clean syntax (much cleaner than wact and smarty) and executes them very fast.
it can be  used in conjunction with phpunit to create and run automated tests within a web  browser.
yii framework here is a high-performance component-based php framework  that is supposed to be more efficient than codeigniter, cakephp, zf and  symfony.
it plugs into numerous php ide’s and can easily be  used with the command line.
library written in php.
also check out thequick php look-up widget example in case you’d like to include this awesome look-up feature on your website.
aptana php aptana php is an open-source ide extension/plug-in to be  used in conjunction with aptana studio.
comments - 35 excellent wireframing resources 2 comments - 50 fresh javascript tools that will improve your workflow 1 comment - wordpress plugins & tutorials: your pick 1 comment latest - gatorhost pdo don’t support sqlite3
see  sajax at work by going towall live demonstration.
- dbg dbg is a robust and popular php debugger for use in local and remote php debugging.
it has an innumerable amount of  features, including the ability to output in html, pdf, chm and xml docbook  formats, and has both a web-based and command-line interface as well as  source-code highlighting.
check out the onlinerss and atom feed reader, which demonstrates a simple web application that uses simplepie.
it abstracts php’s native database-specific api to create more portable code while also providing developers with a clean, fully object-oriented interface based loosely on the api for java’s jdbc.
- creole creole is a database abstraction layer for php5.
this will help you follow several of yahoo!’srules for high performance websites.
it has all the features you’d expect from a php source-code editor, such as code-folding, syntax highlighting, hover-over tool tips and support for xdebug and dbg.
it will keep your  projects modular and easier to maintain.
that’s why it makes perfect sense to  provide the huge community of php developers with an overview of useful tools  and resources that can make their development process easier and more effective.
it’s a useful utility to have around if you require user  registration for your web applications.
php is faster (updated), and it is the most used scripting language  in practice; it has detailed documentation, a huge community, numerous  ready-to-use scripts and well-supported frameworks; and most importantly,  it’s much easier to get started with php than with other scripting  languages (python, for example).
check out thelive demonstration of how htmlsql  works.
- wideimage wideimage is a php library for dynamic image manipulation and processing for php 5.
codeigniter is known for having a light footprint, thereby reducing your server’s work.
tags ajax apache api article client code coding configuration content css curl custom data database development download downloads facebook file flash freebies function hacks hooks hosting javascript linux mysql php php curl programming project result script search server showcases source techniques time tools ubuntu web windows
it’ll help you develop, deploy and manage rich internet applications  (rias) in an intuitive interface.
html purifier not only removes all malicious code  (better known as xss) with a thoroughly audited, secure yet permissive white  list, it also makes sure your documents are standards-compliant.
- simpletest simpletest is a straightforward unit-testing platform for php applications.
to learn more about what firephp can do, check out the firephp guide onhow to use firephp.
- cakephp cakephp is one of the leading php frameworks for creating robust, fully-featured web applications.
developers can easily add new languages for  highlighting and define easily customizable output formats.
this post presents 50 useful php tools that can significantly  improve your programming workflow.
tcpdf tcpdf is an open-source php class for generating pdf documents.
you can use php scripts to generate and gather data from databases, then pass it to this tool to generate flash (swf) charts and graphs.
- gubed php debugger
php manual search php manual search is a handy search bar that searches official php documentation from within your web browser.
- nlp book : my cousin loves to podcas all day long, he has this sort of podca... - xavier watson: mobile browsers would become greatly popular in the next few year...
with over 20 million indexed domains using php, including major websites like facebook, digg and wordpress, there are good reasons why many web developers prefer it to other server-side scripting languages, such as python and ruby.
- phpcodebeautifier phpcodebeautifier is a tool that saves you from hours of reformatting code to suit your own way of presenting it.
frameworks for php - dwoo dwoo is a php 5 template engine positioned as an alternative to smarty.
pdt includes all the necessary tools for you to create php-based web applications.
the netbeans php editor is dynamically integrated with netbeans html, javascript and css editing features such as syntax highlighting and the javascript debugger.
a gui version allows you to process files visually; a command-line version can be batched or integrated with other tools (like cvs, subversion, ide, etc.); and there is also an integrated tool of phpedit.
for php is a php module suite for working with theimagemagick api, which lets you create, compose and edit bitmap images.
it follows  the behavior-driven development principle and therefore allows you to write  behavior-oriented code, oftentimes in plain english.
solar solar is a php 5 development framework for web applications  derived from thesavant templating engine.
the purpose of the framework is to provide a structured library of open-source code for php users, a system for code distribution and package maintenance and a standard style for php code.
- php_dyn php_dyn is another excellent php debugging tool that’s open-source.
php is faster (updated), and it is the most used scripting language in practice; it has detailed documentation, a huge community, numerous ready-to-use scripts and well-supported frameworks; and most importantly, it’s much easier to get started with php than with other scripting languages (python, for example).
it’s a simple tool for outputting data tables that contain information about arrays, classes and objects, database resources and xml resources, making it very useful for debugging purposes.
if you want to learn via video tutorials, check out thecakephp screencasts.
- koders koders is a search engine for open-source and downloadable code.
it currently has over a billion lines of code indexed and isn’t  limited to just php.
check out thexajax multiplier demo and the graffiti wall  demo to see the xajax php class in action.
it is one of the most robust and feature-packed ides currently out on the market and has useful features such as a built-insource-code profiler to find bottlenecks in your php source code and excellent integration with third-party apps and services just as front-end code validation.
the greatest php snippet file ever (using quicktext for notepad++)
it is recommended to use this together with caching reverse-proxy to  minimize the response time.
writing test cases within the phpunit framework is easy; here’show to do it.
debugging tools webgrind webgrind is an xdebug profiling web front end in php 5.
phpcodebeautifier phpcodebeautifier is a tool that saves you from  hours of reformatting code to suit your own way of presenting it.
yii  supports mvc, dao/activerecord, i18n/l10n, caching, jquery-based ajax support,  authentication and role-based access control, scaffolding, input validation,  widgets, events, theming and web services.
useful in-browser development tools for php phpclasses.org a huge repository of various php classes.
dbug dbug is coldfusion’s cfdump for php.
check out thelive demonstration of how htmlsql works.
html purifier not only removes all malicious code (better known as xss) with a thoroughly audited, secure yet permissive white list, it also makes sure your documents are standards-compliant.
this is useful for dynamically generating excel spreadsheets for  downloading.
it’ll help you develop, deploy and manage rich internet applications (rias) in an intuitive interface.
check outdemos of applications that use qcodo and presentational material that covers qcodo.
netbeans ide 6.5 fully supports iterative  development, so testing php projects follows the classic patterns familiar to  web developers.
phormer phormer is a php-based photo gallery management application  that helps you to store, categorize and trim your photos online.
- xdebug xdebug is one of the most popular debugging php extensions.
codeigniter is  known for having a light footprint, thereby reducing your server’s work.
this will help you follow  several of yahoo!’srules for high performance websites.
- vs.php vs.php is a php ide for ms visual studio, making it a great ide for recently converted asp developers who have used ms vs to develop web applications.
it will keep your projects modular and easier to maintain.
in december, phpadvent.org collected the wisdom of  people in the php community who kindly donated their ideas and tips to see us  through the new year.
pixy: php security scanner pixy is a java program that performs  automatic scans of php 4 source code, aimed to detect xss and sql injection  vulnerabilities.
most of  today’s chart libraries have a cost; this one is free.
- phpedit phpedit is an excellent php editor/ide with a ton of useful features and a very intuitive user interface.
it can be used in conjunction with phpunit to create and run automated tests within a web browser.
it implements a subset of the features ofkcachegrind, installs in seconds and works on all platforms.
that’s why it makes perfect sense to provide the huge community of php developers with an overview of useful tools and resources that can make their development process easier and more effective.
php profile class php profile class is an excellent php profiling tool  for your web applications.
cakephp has an extensive and  well-organizedonline manual.
- phpexcel phpexcel is a set of useful php classes for working with microsoft excel files.
phplangeditor phplangeditor is a very handy firefox add-on for  translating language files and variables in your script.
- 30 useful php classes and components 30 useful php classes and components that you can use to test, develop, debug and deploy your php applications.
phpspec phpspec is a simple and intuitive php framework.
data can be  retrieved from sql queries or csv files or can be manually provided.
php lookup php lookup is a built-in search bar to help you quickly  look up references to php syntax.
- htmlsql htmlsql is a unique tool.
- php object generator php object generator is an open-source web-based tool that helps you quickly construct php objects and leverage object-oriented programming (oop) principles in your code.
also check out thequick php look-up widget example in  case you’d like to include this awesome look-up feature on your website.
{{macro}} template engine {{macro}} compiles initial templates into  executable php scripts with very clean syntax (much cleaner than wact and  smarty) and executes them very fast.
it abstracts  php’s native database-specific api to create more portable code while  also providing developers with a clean, fully object-oriented interface based  loosely on the api for java’s jdbc.
check out the phpdesigner online tutorials, as well as screencasts on phpdesigner to help you learn more  about the ide.
check out thexajax multiplier demo and the graffiti wall demo to see the xajax php class in action.
by jacob gube php is one of the most widely used open-source server-side  scripting languages that exist today.
to learn more, be sure to check out the online documentation about aptana php.
this post presents 50 useful php tools that can significantly improve your programming workflow.
among other things, you’ll  find a plethora of libraries and classes that aid in debugging, testing,  profiling and code-authoring in php.
scavenger scavenger is an open-source, real-time vulnerability  management tool.
version-control systems phing phing is a popular project version-control system for php.
minify is a php 5 app that can combine multiple css or  javascript files, compress their content (i.e. remove unnecessary white space  and comments) and serve the results with http encoding (via gzip/deflate) and
gotapi/php gotapi is a useful online tool for quickly looking up php  functions and classes.
to learn more about what firephp can do, check out the  firephp guide onhow to use firephp.
software’sonline tutorials as well as its online documentation.
it allows you to access your database using a set of objects, providing a simple api for storing and retrieving data.
the engine doesn’t use an xml-like  syntax; there are only two data scopes, global and local, and no more data  sources (all data is displayed with regular php variables); and the system  supports all wact features such as templates wrapping and including.
it works great with other systems such assubversion and phing.
it’s a useful tool for quickly incorporating image-editing  features in your php applications.
propel propel is an object-relational mapping (orm) framework for php  5.
- netbeans a dedicated php coding environment and complete integration with web standards.
xinc xinc is a continuous integration server version-control system  written in php 5 (i.e. continuous builds instead of nightly builds).
dbg dbg is a robust and popular php debugger for use in local and  remote php debugging.
it works  great with other systems such assubversion and phing.
you can get up and running with codeigniter in a jiffy: it has an awesomeonline manual, a couple of helpful video tutorials and an active user forum.
this is useful for dynamically generating excel spreadsheets for downloading.
using this class will help you quickly and easily  gain insight into which parts of your app could use some refactoring and  optimization.
by jacob gube php is one of the most widely used open-source server-side scripting languages that exist today.
check outdemos of applications that use  qcodo and presentational material that covers qcodo.
a gui version  allows you to process files visually; a command-line version can be batched or  integrated with other tools (like cvs, subversion, ide, etc.); and there is  also an integrated tool of phpedit.
it provides a ton of useful data to help you quickly find bugs in your source code.
image manipulation and graphs - php/swf charts php/swf charts is a powerful php tool that enables you to create attractive web charts and graphs from dynamic data.
in-browser tools (firefox add-ons) - firephp firephp is a firefox extension that allows you to log data in firebug.
- pchart – a chart-drawing php library pchart is a php class-oriented framework designed to create aliased charts.
qforms is an intuitive system for handling and creating  complex php-driven html web forms.
php online tools and resources minify!
pdt includes all the necessary tools for you to create  php-based web applications.
it is a useful tool for organizing and maintaining different builds of your project.
zend studio zend studio is an excellent php ide for eclipse.
- savant2 savant2 is another popular object-oriented php templating system.
php developer’s toolbox various php-related resources in a brief  overview.
it’s a helpful tool for maintaining uniform coding styles for large projects and teams.
this is designed to be used with quicktext for notepad++, but feel free to adapt it to whatever text editor you prefer.”
code generator handles the creation of object code and php and html front-end code from your data model.
- pecl pecl is a directory of all known php extensions and a hosting facility for downloading and developing php extensions.
- solar solar is a php 5 development framework for web applications derived from thesavant templating engine.
- phpspec phpspec is a simple and intuitive php framework.
[via ] phpmathpublisher with phpmathpublisher, you can publish mathematical  documents on the web using only a php script (no latex programs on the server  and no mathml).
wideimage wideimage is a php library for dynamic image manipulation  and processing for php 5.
vs.php vs.php is a php ide for ms visual studio, making it a great ide  for recently converted asp developers who have used ms vs to develop web  applications.
- php manual search php manual search is a handy search bar that searches official php documentation from within your web browser.
- zend framework the zend framework by zend technologies (the creators of php’s scripting engine) is a popular php web application framework that embraces the principles of php oop; it’s very extensible and has built-in utilities for working with free web service apis, such as those of google, flickr and amazon.
for quick ‘n’ dirty optimizations, it does the job.
related articles you might also want to take a look at the following related posts: - 50 extremely useful and powerful css tools - 15 helpful in-browser web-development tools (al) tags: php, tools about tung view all posts by tung → leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
php user class php user class is an excellent script that helps you  create a system for user authentication (i.e. registration, log in, account  profile, etc.).
to learn more about why phpedit  is a good ide, read the10 reasons to use phpedit and view the introductory  screencast about phpedit.
- php-gtk php-gtk is a php extension for the gtk+ toolkit (a robust toolkit for developing guis).
pchart – a chart-drawing php library pchart is a php  class-oriented framework designed to create aliased charts.
- tcpdf tcpdf is an open-source php class for generating pdf documents.
i'm happy that code help~... - david-j. chemla:
xdebug plugs right into many of the most popular php applications, such as phpeclipse and phpdesigner.
to get up and  running as fast as possible, you should check out the pragmatic symfony online  tutorial called “the symfony 1.2 advent calendar tutorial,” which  takes you through a step-by-step example of building your own symfony-based web  application.
simpletest simpletest is a straightforward unit-testing platform for  php applications.
- symfony symfony is an open-source php 5 web application framework that is well known for its modularity and useful library of classes.
developers can easily add new languages for highlighting and define easily customizable output formats.
- xajax php class library xajax is a php class for easily working with php ajax applications.
it helps system administrators respond to vulnerability  findings, track vulnerability findings and review accepted and false-positive  answered vulnerabilities, without “nagging” them with old  vulnerabilities.
useful extensions, utilities and classes simplepie simplepie is a php class that helps you work with rss feeds.
it has an innumerable amount of features, including the ability to output in html, pdf, chm and xml docbook formats, and has both a web-based and command-line interface as well as source-code highlighting.
- php lookup php lookup is a built-in search bar to help you quickly look up references to php syntax.
php_dyn php_dyn is another excellent php debugging tool that’s  open-source.
yii supports mvc, dao/activerecord, i18n/l10n, caching, jquery-based ajax support, authentication and role-based access control, scaffolding, input validation, widgets, events, theming and web services.
the  purpose of the framework is to provide a structured library of open-source code  for php users, a system for code distribution and package maintenance and a  standard style for php code.
- smarty smarty is a popular php templating system to help you separate php logic and front-end code (html, css, javascript).
it defines a set of query operators that can be used to query, project and filter data in arrays, enumerable classes, xml, relational databases and third-party data sources.
- selenium selenium remote control (rc) is a test tool that allows you to write automated web application ui tests in any programming language against any http website using any mainstream javascript-enabled browser.
it is recommended to use this together with caching reverse-proxy to minimize the response time.
headers that allow optimal client-side caching.
xdebug plugs right into many of the most popular php applications, such  as phpeclipse and phpdesigner.
geshi – generic syntax highlighter geshi is designed to be a  simple but powerful highlighting class, with the goal of supporting a wide  range of popular languages.
documentation tools phpdocumentor phpdocumentor (also known as phpdoc and phpdocu) is a  documentation tool for your php source code.
- phplinq linq is a component that adds native data querying capabilities to php using a syntax reminiscent of sql.
- php_codesniffer php_codesniffer is a php 5 script for detecting conformance to a predefined php coding standard.
code  generator handles the creation of object code and php and html front-end code  from your data model.
testing and optimization tools - phpunit phpunit is a complete port of the popular junit unit testing suite to php 5.
phpdesigner phpdesigner is a lightweight php editor/ide that also  handles front-end code and markup remarkably well.
see sajax at work by going towall live demonstration.
for developers using the zend php framework , you might find this guide onusing firephp with zend useful.
sources and resources - php function reference php function reference (phpfr) is a mac os x dashboard widget that provides a fast look-up of information about the php web programming language.
“a little something for all coders: a snippets file that i use for php  coding.
it is  a useful tool for organizing and maintaining different builds of your project.
[xgettext ]when charset=charset may 13, 2011 - amazon ec2神兵 – scalr april 29, 2011 - use curl to got content-disposition filename january 10, 2011 - advanced windows batch file scripting september 13, 2010 comments - sen sovithia: i give you guys my function to drop a column easily in sqlite3 ... - tung:
writing test cases within the  phpunit framework is easy; here’show to do it.
for quick ‘n’ dirty optimizations, it does  the job.
for php is a php module suite for  working with theimagemagick api, which lets you create, compose and edit bitmap  images.
30 useful php classes and components 30 useful php classes and  components that you can use to test, develop, debug and deploy your php  applications.
it’s a useful tool for quickly incorporating image-editing features in your php applications.
you may also want to take a look at the following related posts: 50 extremely useful and powerful css tools 15 helpful in-browser web-development tools [offtopic: by the way, did you know that there is a smashing ebook series?
pear – php extension and application repository pear is a  popular framework and distribution system for reusable php components.
- php-ids php-ids (php-intrusion detection system) is a simple-to-use, well-structured, fast and state-of-the-art security layer for your php-based web application.
koders koders is a search engine for open-source and downloadable  code.
- phormer phormer is a php-based photo gallery management application that helps you to store, categorize and trim your photos online.
proudly designed by theme junkie.
as the name implies, gubed php debugger is a php  debugging tool for hunting down logic errors.
- zend studio zend studio is an excellent php ide for eclipse.
- gotapi/php gotapi is a useful online tool for quickly looking up php functions and classes.
php code beautifier - php_beautifier php beautifier is a pear package for automatically formatting and “beautifying” php 4 and php 5 source code.
this is designed to be used with quicktext for notepad++, but feel free  to adapt it to whatever text editor you prefer.”
cakephp cakephp is one of the leading php frameworks for creating  robust, fully-featured web applications.
it allows you to access your database using a set of objects, providing a  simple api for storing and retrieving data.
- php developer’s toolbox various php-related resources in a brief overview.
book #2 issuccessful freelancing for web designers, 260 pages for just $9,90.]
if you’re working with php, there’s a big chance you’re set up in a lamp configuration.
it can output processing times of your php and sql, check the performance of particular code blocks and get variable dumps in graphical form, which is great if you need a more visual output than the one given to you by print_r() or var_dump().
related articles you might also want to take a look at the following related posts: 50 extremely useful and powerful css tools 15 helpful in-browser web-development tools (al)
http_staticmerger: automatic “merging” of css and javascript  files this library automatically merges sets of static files (css or  javascript) and speeds up page loading (by lowering the number of http  queries).
htmlsql htmlsql is a unique tool.
minify is a php 5 app that can combine multiple css or javascript files, compress their content (i.e. remove unnecessary white space and comments) and serve the results with http encoding (via gzip/deflate) and headers that allow optimal client-side caching.
- phpdesigner phpdesigner is a lightweight php editor/ide that also handles front-end code and markup remarkably well.
php code beautifier php_beautifier php beautifier is a pear package for automatically  formatting and “beautifying” php 4 and php 5 source code.
to be able to use the library, you should have thegd php extension installed on your web server.
phpedit phpedit is an excellent php editor/ide with a ton of useful  features and a very intuitive user interface.
data can be retrieved from sql queries or csv files or can be manually provided.
sajax sajax is a javascript and ajax application framework that works  well with php (as well as several other server-side scripting languages).
check out the onlinerss and atom feed reader, which demonstrates a simple web  application that uses simplepie.
it is a php class for querying html  values in an sql-like syntax.
it is a php class for querying html values in an sql-like syntax.
image manipulation and graphs php/swf charts php/swf charts is a powerful php tool that enables you  to create attractive web charts and graphs from dynamic data.
it  provides a ton of useful data to help you quickly find bugs in your source  code.
to get up and running with simpletest quickly, read through  this pragmatictutorial that shows you how to create a new test case.
xajax php class library xajax is a php class for easily working with  php ajax applications.
it follows the behavior-driven development principle and therefore allows you to write behavior-oriented code, oftentimes in plain english.
it has all the features you’d expect from a php source-code  editor, such as code-folding, syntax highlighting, hover-over tool tips and  support for xdebug and dbg.
- scavenger scavenger is an open-source, real-time vulnerability management tool.
it has all the features you’d expect from a fully featured debugger, such as the ability to step through your code and set breakpoints.
- php profile class php profile class is an excellent php profiling tool for your web applications.
in-browser tools (firefox add-ons)
as the name implies, gubed php debugger is a php debugging tool for hunting down logic errors.
if you want to learn via video tutorials, check  out thecakephp screencasts.
among other things, you’ll find a plethora of libraries and classes that aid in debugging, testing, profiling and code-authoring in php.
to get up and running with simpletest quickly, read through this pragmatictutorial that shows you how to create a new test case.
php ides and editors phpeclipse phpeclipse is a popular php source-code editor that is open  source and runs on all the major operating systems, such as windows, linux and  mac os.
wordpress blogroll - command-line-fu - licensewizard - macbook one 調效手冊 - phpconcept - phpquery作者 - planetluc (news,gallery) - quote book: - zebra-image(php圖形處理) - 英中繁簡編程術語對照 wordpress plugin - home - uncategorized - php - normal - headline - featured - google reader - 原創 - linux like © 2012 geek is a lift-style..
- the greatest php snippet file ever (using quicktext for notepad++) “a little something for all coders: a snippets file that i use for php
it  has all the features you’d expect from a fully featured debugger, such as  the ability to step through your code and set breakpoints.
- sajax sajax is a javascript and ajax application framework that works well with php (as well as several other server-side scripting languages).
savant2 savant2 is another popular object-oriented php templating  system.
it helps system administrators respond to vulnerability findings, track vulnerability findings and review accepted and false-positive answered vulnerabilities, without “nagging” them with old vulnerabilities.
version-control systems - phing phing is a popular project version-control system for php.
php_debug php_debug is an open-source project that gives you useful  information about your php code that can be used for debugging.
qforms is an intuitive system for handling and creating complex php-driven html web forms.
phpexcel phpexcel is a set of useful php classes for working with  microsoft excel files.
frameworks for php dwoo dwoo is a php 5 template engine positioned as an alternative to  smarty.
it plugs into numerous php ide’s and can easily be used with the command line.
you can trace execution and get an output of the argument and return values of your functions.
netbeans a dedicated php coding environment and complete integration  with web standards.
- yii framework here is a high-performance component-based php framework that is supposed to be more efficient than codeigniter, cakephp, zf and symfony.
the netbeans php editor is dynamically integrated with  netbeans html, javascript and css editing features such as syntax highlighting  and the javascript debugger.
qcodo qcodo is an excellent open-source php web application framework.
instead of a special syntax unique to savant2, you use php syntax to  develop your project’s template.
- dbug dbug is coldfusion’s cfdump for php.
php object generator php object generator is an open-source web-based  tool that helps you quickly construct php objects and leverage object-oriented  programming (oop) principles in your code.
it gives you an easy-to-use api for quickly managing ajax-related tasks.
html purifier html purifier is a standards-compliant html filter
- geshi – generic syntax highlighter geshi is designed to be a simple but powerful highlighting class, with the goal of supporting a wide range of popular languages.
the engine doesn’t use an xml-like syntax; there are only two data scopes, global and local, and no more data sources (all data is displayed with regular php variables); and the system supports all wact features such as templates wrapping and including.
smarty smarty is a popular php templating system to help you separate  php logic and front-end code (html, css, javascript).
phpexcel allows you to read excel files and write to them.
php-gtk php-gtk is a php extension for the gtk+ toolkit (a robust  toolkit for developing guis).
macgdbp is a live php debugger application for the mac os.
phplinq linq is a component that adds native data querying  capabilities to php using a syntax reminiscent of sql.
phped phped is an excellent ide for windows users.
- php dox an ajax-powered php documentation search engine that enables you to search titles from all php documentation pages.
xdebug xdebug is one of the most popular debugging php extensions.
- html purifier html purifier is a standards-compliant html filter library written in php.
- php user class php user class is an excellent script that helps you create a system for user authentication (i.e. registration, log in, account profile, etc.).
phpmyadmin is web-based tool for managing, building, importing, exporting and exploring mysql databases.
it is a suite of useful oop functions and classes to help you rapidly build cross-platform, client-side gui’s for your application.
pixy takes a php program as input and creates a report that lists possible vulnerable points in the program, along with additional information for understanding the vulnerability.
- codeigniter codeigniter is a powerful, high-performance, open-source php framework that helps you author php applications rapidly.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment popular - [php::pdo]sqlite drop columns function 3 comments - best of january 2007 2
zend framework the zend framework by zend technologies (the creators  of php’s scripting engine) is a popular php web application framework  that embraces the principles of php oop; it’s very extensible and has  built-in utilities for working with free web service apis, such as those of google, flickr and amazon.
pdt pdt is a php development tools framework that’s part of the  eclipse project.
an optimal solution for developing large-scale web applications.
to get you up and running asap with vs.php, check out  jcx.
phpmyadmin if you’re working with php, there’s a big  chance you’re set up in a lamp configuration.
- xinc xinc is a continuous integration server version-control system written in php 5 (i.e. continuous builds instead of nightly builds).
php_codesniffer php_codesniffer is a php 5 script for detecting  conformance to a predefined php coding standard.
open source  and highly customizable.
[via ] - phpmathpublisher with phpmathpublisher, you can publish mathematical documents on the web using only a php script (no latex programs on the server and no mathml).
you can trace execution and get an output of the argument and  return values of your functions.
it’s a helpful tool for  maintaining uniform coding styles for large projects and teams.
testing and optimization tools phpunit phpunit is a complete port of the popular junit unit testing  suite to php 5.
you can use php  scripts to generate and gather data from databases, then pass it to this tool  to generate flash (swf) charts and graphs.
- pdt pdt is a php development tools framework that’s part of the eclipse project.
php online tools and resources - minify!
security tools securimage securimage is a free, open-source php captcha script for  generating complex images and captcha codes to protect forms from spam and  abuse.
phpexcel allows you to read excel files and write to  them.
hello from france, i support taiwan against chinese dictators ! ...
- pear – php extension and application repository pear is a popular framework and distribution system for reusable php components.
php-ids php-ids (php-intrusion detection system) is a simple-to-use,  well-structured, fast and state-of-the-art security layer for your php-based  web application.
- phplangeditor phplangeditor is a very handy firefox add-on for translating language files and variables in your script.
instead of a special syntax unique to savant2, you use php syntax to develop your project’s template.
it defines a set of  query operators that can be used to query, project and filter data in arrays,  enumerable classes, xml, relational databases and third-party data sources.
it is (nearly) fully compatible with its templates and plug-ins, but it  is being written from scratch and is aimed to go one step further with a  cleaner code base.
it’s subdivided into two parts: (1) code generator, and (2) qforms.
check out the phpdesigner online tutorials, as well as screencasts on phpdesigner to help you learn more about the ide.
codeigniter codeigniter is a powerful, high-performance, open-source  php framework that helps you author php applications rapidly.
in december, phpadvent.org collected the wisdom of people in the php community who kindly donated their ideas and tips to see us through the new year.
it gives you an easy-to-use api for quickly managing  ajax-related tasks.
- phped phped is an excellent ide for windows users.
selenium selenium remote control (rc) is a test tool that allows you  to write automated web application ui tests in any programming language against  any http website using any mainstream javascript-enabled browser.
- http_staticmerger: automatic “merging” of css and javascript files this library automatically merges sets of static files (css or javascript) and speeds up page loading (by lowering the number of http queries).
it’s a useful utility to have around if you require user registration for your web applications.
solar uses the mvc architectural  pattern and has a host of classes and functions for securing your web app  against sql injection, cross-website scripting (xss) and other common exploits.
cakephp has an extensive and well-organizedonline manual.
march 26, 2012 2:04 am you are here: home featured  50 extremely useful php tools 50 extremely useful php tools posted by tung on june 17, 2010 in  featured | 0
solar uses the mvc architectural pattern and has a host of classes and functions for securing your web app against sql injection, cross-website scripting (xss) and other common exploits.
to get you up and running asap with vs.php, check out jcx.
it is (nearly) fully compatible with its templates and plug-ins, but it is being written from scratch and is aimed to go one step further with a cleaner code base.
pecl pecl is a directory of all known php extensions and a hosting  facility for downloading and developing php extensions.
- qcodo qcodo is an excellent open-source php web application framework.
phpmyadmin is web-based  tool for managing, building, importing, exporting and exploring mysql databases.
it can output  processing times of your php and sql, check the performance of particular code  blocks and get variable dumps in graphical form, which is great if you need a  more visual output than the one given to you by print_r() or var_dump().
php ides and editors - phpeclipse phpeclipse is a popular php source-code editor that is open source and runs on all the major operating systems, such as windows, linux and mac os.
to learn more about phpdocumentor, check out the online manual.
to get up and running as fast as possible, you should check out the pragmatic symfony online tutorial called “the symfony 1.2 advent calendar tutorial,” which takes you through a step-by-step example of building your own symfony-based web application.
security tools - securimage securimage is a free, open-source php captcha script for generating complex images and captcha codes to protect forms from spam and abuse.
most of today’s chart libraries have a cost; this one is free.
with over 20 million indexed domains  using php, including major websites like facebook, digg and wordpress, there  are good reasons why many web developers prefer it to other server-side  scripting languages, such as python and ruby.
it has a variety of useful logging features, such as the ability to  change your error and exception handling on the fly and to log errors directly  to the firebug console.
it’s a simple  tool for outputting data tables that contain information about arrays, classes  and objects, database resources and xml resources, making it very useful for  debugging purposes.
geek is a lift-style.
pixy takes a php program as input and creates a report that  lists possible vulnerable points in the program, along with additional  information for understanding the vulnerability.
- php_debug php_debug is an open-source project that gives you useful information about your php code that can be used for debugging.
symfony symfony is an open-source php 5 web application framework that  is well known for its modularity and useful library of classes.
debugging tools - webgrind webgrind is an xdebug profiling web front end in php 5.
- useful in-browser development tools for php - phpclasses.org a huge repository of various php classes.
march 26, 2012 2:04 am you are here: home featured 50 extremely useful php tools - home - uncategorized - php - normal - headline - featured - google reader - 原創 - linux like 50 extremely useful php tools posted by tung on june 17, 2010 in featured | 0
open source and highly customizable.
it is one of the  most robust and feature-packed ides currently out on the market and has useful  features such as a built-insource-code profiler to find bottlenecks in your php  source code and excellent integration with third-party apps and services just  as front-end code validation.
sources and resources php function reference php function reference (phpfr) is a mac os x  dashboard widget that provides a fast look-up of information about the php web  programming language.
useful extensions, utilities and classes - simplepie simplepie is a php class that helps you work with rss feeds.
it has a variety of useful logging features, such as the ability to change your error and exception handling on the fly and to log errors directly to the firebug console.
- aptana php aptana php is an open-source ide extension/plug-in to be used in conjunction with aptana studio.
to be able to use the library, you should have thegd  php extension installed on your web server.
time has a wonderful way of showing us what really matters.
it currently has over a billion lines of code indexed and isn’t limited to just php.
to learn more about why phpedit is a good ide, read the10 reasons to use phpedit and view the introductory screencast about phpedit.
firephp firephp is a firefox extension that allows you to log data in  firebug.
it  implements a subset of the features ofkcachegrind, installs in seconds and  works on all platforms.
documentation tools - phpdocumentor phpdocumentor (also known as phpdoc and phpdocu) is a documentation tool for your php source code.
creole creole is a database abstraction layer for php5.
it’s a tool that helps you test your web application’s stability and scalability.
it is a suite of useful oop functions and classes  to help you rapidly build cross-platform, client-side gui’s for your  application.
you can get up and running with codeigniter in a jiffy: it has an awesomeonline  manual, a couple of helpful video tutorials and an active user forum.
netbeans ide 6.5 fully supports iterative development, so testing php projects follows the classic patterns familiar to web developers.
it’s a tool that helps you test your web  application’s stability and scalability.
- macgdbp macgdbp is a live php debugger application for the mac os.