you may also be interested in knowing about the quickdiff?
i will still go through thectwocommentary page i have  created.
being on c2 ban list since mar05 -- dl continued...btu are u showing your name at c2 at least once a day, like  you suggested to me?
either they restrict solidarity to those within (heathen, religious  wars).
could you rephrase it?
these "lesser people" may be accepted if they just keep quiet and do the "wiki chores" (e.g. despam, fix up tabs).
i'd love a chance to compare notes with you to see if there is any  truth to this feeling.
--davidliu helmut your observations about c2 is excellent and eventually i would like  to copy it over to c2 for the benefit of the community there.
i thought you might find this interesting...  http://designingsocialinterfaces.com/patterns.wiki/index.php?title=main_page --  hanswobbe hans, thank you for this interesting link.
any chance there is some resemblance to reflection techniques used in gestalt therapy?
as to 3), i think costin is again not the only one who think i am  inexperienced.
one of many examples of how this plays into reality, is that the phrase  "con te" (i am with you,) short for a longer phrase (something like:  "i am with you my brother and sister in spirit,") is the standard  greeting.
sunir  has done a lot of work about the changes expected or needed within the  scientific system.
i think i contribted to the confusion between "costin the person" vs "costin like behavior".
22nov05 david, i've currently no time to look into this.
do you know the nrc committee representative personally?
i'm also not quite sure how i would incorporate this material into sunir's opening suggestions regarding how to brainstorm here at meatball, so i'm being a bit cautious for that reason too (especially, since i think i am more like you in that i may "prefer a more piecemeal approach").
i have managed to squeezed in a line or two in c2 wiki'wikisandbox to mention the sand 'box here for new users, in case they find c2 lock out from edits.
yes, helmut; i meant doubleclick? editing.
where do you want to insist and where are you willing to  compromise?
helmutleitner -- thu aug 27 06:40:08 2009 juanma, i've just added spanish at wikimatrix, thank you for pointing me  to this.
i recommend usemod software to everyone interested, it is one of the finest pieces of code i found during my 25+ years of software development.
and you could say to them, “but you’ve got a baby.
and like it or not, ra point of "ward may not want wiki to grow" is another consideration.
is there a date  and time that would be particularly convenient for you?
helmut, i think the discussion you had with costin at  wiki:wardswikiproblemsdiscussion, where costin held point of "no current  wiki community" is a real enough aspect to be considered by all who wants  c2 to succeed.
but  you would need to follow some links there to appreciate what i mean by  dishonest editing --davidliu
i can try myself, but i think he got the wrong idea by me
"+=cat" is a  kind of programmers slang, meaning "added a category".
the same behaviour can be seen in the contributions of other appreciated active  peers of this wiki.
i had this "pattern" too.
i think it would be more impolite to criticize their project at their  home than here.
isn't it more holistic, to  integrate the economic dimension into to all the more or less high-pitched  reflexions, we do in the wikis.
in the end i split it into two wikis, just the same.
i would have preferred otherwise (stand him longer, have a community decision).
it's still too early to know what will happen but i think it will be worthwhile  anyway, either small and family-like or bigger, a signal of breakthrough.
helmut where did i made observations on recentchangesattentionseeking?
please offer your views generously and frequently, or better still,  get moremeatball people to offer their views at wardswiki.
the better the balance, the less it hurts.
a community can handle bans in a better way.
sunirshah thank you for writing wikicooperationarticle .
you want to care aboutwardswiki and  therefore you do it, you invite people to discuss it.
it has an example section on  that encounter.
maybe a healthy fork will  emerge :)
i'll let you know as soon as they  finish.
-- provoked two points for me.
--sunirshah helmut sunir answered the question re: dummy's guide in prior revision  here.
and so, because i have changed my mind about this, i no  longer get excited about, "oh, this isn't equal!"
some examples (most are german): all these wikis are running from the same wiki:prowikisoftware executable and are only configured for their different purposes and layouts.
" re: " (c2) not my primary wiki to discuss general pattern or wiki issues.
helmutleitner helmut, i may be dense, but i don't see the problems the pages wikipediaisnottypical and wikipediaisnotanencyclopedia are meant to solve.
i  meant it is not so easy to read from body language whether someone will be a  good friend or fair partner.
i also have responded more to your contrbution to wiki:ctwobusinessvalue.
i'm trying to decide whether to attend or to offer to present.
:-) i hope, that you or some other friendly, appreciated, collaborative,  constructive peer takes the free tlds wikicat?.com, .net, .. for being  developed in someopenbusinesswiki like meatballwiki or whereever you suggest,  such that we can help each other tocreateandsharewealth.
in real  life, i could read his body language.
in real life, i could read his body language.
it is  then very efficient to read this sis file through a hash to get at sister pages  list.
helmutleitner didn't read it, but thought you might like it.
(think of this as a type of virtual collaboration or even thebrainstorming we tried a few years ago.)
but i think you can change the situation only from within.
where do you want to insist and where are you willing to compromise?
warmest regards --  brandoncssanders helmut i have more background information at your c2 home page.
i'll let you decide to delete them.
should i link to http://wiklossary.nearlythere.com/ at the end of it?
davidcary hi helmut, after a long quiet, i went away and implemented a new cdml evaluator (lex/yacc based in python) which i'm using in cerenity (http://cerenity.org/ )- which hasn't had a very wide release yet, but is fun so far.
i think the realities more than the models are broken: solidarity is inner agreement, not external agreement.
-- fridemar i think it's the right thing to note such changes in the digest, but to  mark them ascopyedits; that way, one can choose approximately the level of  detail one wants onrecentchanges.
my biggest lament about the site is that the worst enemies of the site started out as enthusiastic supporters.
completely open and free communities are impossible, not because a community can't be open for difficult people, but because the community is then closed for people that haven't grown a skin 2 inched thick.
or the systems are not general enough to work for all in a multi-cultural society, or they are invaded by status-quo traditions, and so on ...
its chaotic but it is wiki :) --
yes, i find it  interesting and i'm happy that you find cdml as useful as i do.
dsewiki ervinggoffman fightingisboring forkingofonlinecommunities gobycar guestrole linkspane multipattern openknowledge oldgeezers onlinecommunity opensociety
unwelcome to come here  and write nonsense like "da vinci was a robot expert !", yes, but he  may be able to contribute well.
or - perhaps less offensive - unfairediting?.
although there are more than 100 wiki clones, you need only consider these: now, everything depends on what you have available (squeak  more female participation) or general (smaller public => more comfortable).
helmutleitner david, yes i do.
i did create a lot of c2 pages, typically of three kinds 1) appln & implementation related; 2) management and life strategy oriented; 3) wiki community & communication oriented material.
ironic as it was only a few  days after i asked him whether hiswiki:wikichangepropoal can defend against a  hostile costin.
the first is straightfoward: i need set up a wiki to contain the prince and keep him at a respectful distance from the princess.
part of the reason there's so much solidarity is because the entire society is based in perpetual struggle consciously undertaken -- comfort is explicitly not an aim of the society.
you almost have to play a statistical  game.
memehunting is just one kind of doing  this, invent something and be positive, try to hype it.
it's not impossible, i've founded  a community that has 40+% of female authors!
how are de-facto decisions like the ra-ban treated (accepted, respected)?
but i think that theserough expectations are sufficient to communicate how the community sees itself.
cheers from davidliu jimbowales? will be at wikisym.
kat kinkade co-founded twin oaks some 30+ years ago.
i don't know whether he can contribute constructively or not, but i would like someone in this community to try to give him advise.
but when people answer, this becomes invisible (btw on  our wikis this isn't the case, look for example[3]).
what are the expectations when someone  creates a page?
then i would like to draw your attention towiki:communityproblems and related pages.
perhaps we can find one or another compromise, e.g.: at last in my humble opionion holds: if somebody destroys structure, built by work of another peer, s/he has the burden of proof (to prove that this makes sense and is welcome to the community), taking responsibility of this act.
of course it would have even be a better formulation of  "fridemar", if he had used the termdigestedsummary.
so whatever happens, we are neither able to initiate it nor  to control it.
but at the same time i did it in good faith and still think it was appropriate "at the time".
i think the majority of the contributors at c2 think "application development and implementation" mean writing compilers, devicing new perl scripts against newly identified exposures, intricate 3d game programming, etc.
even einstein said something like: "tax  declarations are more difficult than relativity theory".
as such, i would suggest to fridemar that you digest the summary whenever you  find another editor has left it stale — small-scalepeerreview :) --
one site that's  using it is the kamaelia site - here:http://kamaelia.sourceforge.net/home .
meatball internals may be felt offtopic at c2, but that's not our business. --
helmutleitner helmut, the common denominator i see, is the "holistic" approach.
but, that's okay, and is  supposed to be allowed: that's why they're guide posts, and not fences, after  all.
perhaps you could write a little about what you mean by dishonestediting? or - perhaps less offensive - unfairediting?.
re: " i'll look into wiki:sildabediscussions ..." i also have responded more to your contrbution to wiki:ctwobusinessvalue.
--hanswobbe hans, i got an e-mail and found you on skype.
personally i dislike  to talk about c2 in this situation, although i don't think it is inappropriate.
it  might be helpful to leave generic queries to google, because this saves keystrokes to the peers, who want to explore the context and to  elaborate shows possibly related work in other wikis (if camelcase queries are  used) to connect with authors with a wiki blog, can leave their rich link support on their  blog, allowing their peers to delete links in the base wiki, but with  notifying, that the deleted links are still on the author's blog.
would be nice if we could meet.
--davidliu helmut your observations about c2 is excellent and eventually i would like to copy it over to c2 for the benefit of the community there.
meta-discussion were never loved by the c2 community,  so that's why mb came into existance.
yes, why did you make this move -- fridemarpache (sorry for the belated  answer to you implicit question).
don't discuss our internal affairs on another site.
this brings the second thing that came to me -- damanhur.
they are verbose and are waste of time.
that this is a highly competitive market and that it turned out to be  less profitable than expected, that is a different story.
hans hans, just as you like.
if he agrees to do so there, we can see whether he will be accepted by members atwardswiki.
send me an email when you get back to work.
do you know the nrc  committee representative personally?
-- [fridemar] helmut... it gives me considerable comfort to know that you are "still lurking".
either they restrict solidarity to those within (heathen, religious wars).
but it would be probably trivial to add this, maybe  even without changing the code, just by adding some javascript to the page  template.
only a small percentage of the members (who were primarily interested in software) were also interested in talking about wiki details.
jonas, years ago, i thought like you, positively, try to include  everybody in our wikis, talk night long to convince people to go a cooperative  path.
"+=cat" is a kind of programmers slang, meaning "added a category".
to the gist: "nothing is  more powerful than an idea that comes at the right time".
in any old system you  wouldn't be allowed to do this, being "none of your business".
damanhur is not without it's problems: it's a lot of hard work, both  inwardly and outwardly, and damanhurians put a high emphasis oncontinuity and finishing what you start -- backing out of projects freely chosen is  strongly discouraged.
solidarity can be extended to another, but unless it is received and  reciprocated, it can only be a glimpse of a future possibility.
lionkimbro i sent an email to you a couple weeks ago to the email above about  visiting austria.
i think you slightly hurt yourself by doing so.
i do not doubt there is and can be solidarity.
thanks again --davidliu 22apr morning ummm...sunir, discussing something about meatball on c2 may well be argued to be inappropriate for some reason, but it seems really bizarre to forbid it, as you seem to have done above.
people who are expecting contributions from "better qualified (academic) people" has been disappointed with my "quality of contributions".
i'm so glad  that i got to meet you and hang out with you atwikisym.
the real difficulty is fundamentalattributionerror?.
and that trait is so ugly and destructive and hateful that i would rather give up equality than have that trait around.
then i would like to  draw your attention towiki:communityproblems and related pages.
i imagine three near-term clients for this effort: meatball, teatime, and  tim gowers' polymath.
often they pay by a loss of freedom, by being hierarchical or  autocratic.
it also gets into questions of enforcement if  someone disagreed...editwar that c2 page?
think caused by current external facing ip (changes from time to time)
it is true that i only started "contributing in 2004",  did not know a lot of "social norms" before i started to write, ask a  lot of "basic technical (unix) questions " etc.
until now, most of us were conditioned, to have "a good  feeling", when we contribute to wikis, although "this is paid  badly", or in less euphemistic terms: "having a good feeling with  unpaid work".
or the systems are not general enough to work for all in a  multi-cultural society, or they are invaded by status-quo traditions, and so on  ...
as for the dummy's guide, http://meatballsociety.org/cgi-bin/wiki-guide is supposed to be this guide, and i have to write it by october forwikisym.
there's two features that catches my attention for the time being: unlimited page revisions (btw) and categories, so i'm going to try to study it (learning through comparing).
(it will take a while) comment
what is your timezone?
i will still go through thectwocommentary page i have created.
sorry, it was an unsigned comment, i thought it was from you.
but i'm saying, if i were young again and were going to do a  community again, it would not start with such rigid egalitarianism.
to check, that i  have really bought the domains, click[4][5][6][7].
some pages to which i contributed: awardritual backstagecommunication christopheralexander communitymember culioswelt
no  superordinategoal? --
should this be the case, can we  help to harmonize?
since then i have been working as an independent software developer and consultant.
i currently use the method only for the 80 wikis on myprowiki servers.
andrewcates ref wiki's in schools, have you seen http://tech.canterburyschool.org/tech/frontpage ?
we are here to help each other.
i sent an email re a skype chat, but got a cryptic error message that indicated it might not have been transmitted.
that you invite me to an unpaid  discussion atstaypoor?
hans, do you want to skype?
but there is little in that page for me to comprehend.
openbusiness in wikis appears to be the advent of the vision of the cluetrainmanifesto.
would it be  worth while to add our names to a list of (potential) attendees?
i know i often say wikipedia isn't a wiki, but mostly for the same reasons i say votingisevil: to create enough room for a real discussion of why some hardsecurity thing they are doing is not necessarily the best or only solution.
one of many examples of how this plays into reality, is that the phrase "con te" (i am with you,) short for a longer phrase (something like: "i am with you my brother and sister in spirit,") is the standard greeting.
i'm sure they'd find it  helpful:criticismisfeedback. --
they are inspired by principles of solidarity and sharing.
you mean doubleclick?
i may take up invitation and copy (not transfer)your new pattern writeup  to c2.interwiki does not seem to work as well yet.
on suggestedwikirolemodel: personally, i found it fascinating and  very useful; i've used the terminology in two place now, (the  "evolutionary nexus" website, where i was arguing forsoftsecurity,  and showing the ways things can be, and oncommunitywiki, on several occasions.)
if i have to choose i prefer a  hundred civilized people to 3 difficult ones.
i tell you, they will find and/or create asocialcommonwealth.
--sunirshah helmut sunir answered the question re: dummy's guide in prior revision here.
it's going to be a bit of a juggling exercise for me to attend, but  i'll make an attempt.
i asked ron about that and we have an  e-mail exchange (this tendency towards backstage communications also bothers  me).
people like ra (the one no longer there) reflect a segment that the  "current contributors" (meaning costin camp) can do without.
i'm hoping that datafix?
i  hear method acting classes are helpful.
i think that wallace shows a lack of social intelligence and it is not the goal of mb to teach people the basics of how to get along with each other.
we are seeing now the awakening  of the web 2.o, which is not only a semantic web, but a social pragmatic web  too.
i asked ron about that and we have an e-mail exchange (this tendency towards backstage communications also bothers me).
this means that everyone has to compromise somewhat and accept that his view is not absolute, me, you, everyone!
since you have expressed interests in "growing" ctwo, i will create a section in my homepage here with links to c2 pages related to that aspect, and bigger issues (opportunities/risks)
-- chrispurcell chris,
is a bad habit, but there are even some founders who do it regularly.
-- fridemar fridemar, sorry for any inconvenience i caused ...
--nathanielthurstonit's actually very nice to see your "footprints" and to know that you still visit (if only every other month or so)!
what are  the options?
and they’ll say,  “oh, that doesn’t count.
with respect to your suggestions towards a kind of "polite-ical  correctness" or towards new "standards of how to behave and structure  our communication" i admit that i like to stick to common habits that have  grown in this and other communities, as long as you are alone promoting them.
i am also checking  email regularly via hwobbe@datafix.com --hanswobbe
thank you so very much, my wikifriend.
it took about four months until he got that support.
cerenity is now using a lex/yacc based parser for parsing the cdml.
fridemarpache fridemar, sorry for the mental turmoil i created.
the second project is the first task for the prince: creating a git underlayer for wikis.
it's necessary to find some common  ground.
--sunirshah sunir, i'm sorry, i don't remember such an e-mail.
should i link to  http://wiklossary.nearlythere.com/ at the end of it?
-- lionkimbro lion, maybe i didn't express myself well enough.
and i'll  tell you why.
but i declared that i would unban him as soon as two members supported him ( gründerwiki is a small community) and took some reponsibility for him.
i have more background information at your c2 home page.
all this isn't needed when communication is  working.
i agree partly with sunir: we should "just let people be  people."
if the mechanics of thenoosphere were understood, those people  at the top of the power/property/status pyramid would use it to stay on top and  secure the better part of the cake.
if they are looking for support, they may put up messages on several friendly-looking wikis.
my personal attitude is to neglect this casinomainstream?, trying to do things that make holistic sense instead.
there's two features  that catches my attention for the time being: unlimited page revisions (btw)  and categories, so i'm going to try to study it (learning through comparing).
memehunting is just one kind of doing this, invent something and be positive, try to hype it.
if a wiki participates it writes its page changes to sister site log files  /sistersite/pagename.sis in the format "second[+|-]interwiki".
i suppose you  refer to my removal of theprimarilypublicdomain notice from my page.
further, dreams are fundamental to the fabric of damanhurian reality, consciously cultivated, and the society reshaped to meet their fulfillment.
helmutleitner to sunir/helmut i apologize for getting people here upset for the meatball page i have  created over there.
wasn't working for me (led me in 60+ seconds timeout)
it  has not attracted much (edit) attention, so maybe we can continue again in ctwocommentary here.
the communities represent the ideal form of union and communal  living.
i have two related projects, and i thought you might like to assist.
damanhur is fundamentally rooted insolidarity.
lastly on markparrot, i take it this community has not yet starteddissuadeinteraction, so my suggestion is actually for him to go to wardswiki and chair the wiki:meatballcommentary discussion which i have created and welcome him to participate.
i'm vienna/munique  gmt+1.
i went to c2 and showed my face but there is little interest in what help i have to offer, so naturally i do not insist.
about a year later everything was in place to support all types of (currently about 60) wiki projects at a few servers circled aroundhttp://www.wikiservice.at.
thanks for the revert! --
i cannot add to  that observation as it would only add confusion.
a barnstar does not even come  close to letting me express my appreciation.
we are here to help each  other.
chrispurcell chris, you used an abbreviation "&mdsah", i don't know, and  you left the digest stale.
helmutleitner i'm less burnt out now.
no superordinategoal? --
it is true that i only started "contributing in 2004", did not know a lot of "social norms" before i started to write, ask a lot of "basic technical (unix) questions " etc.
what is acceptable content (to avoidofftopic for a moment)?
note that discussing ra issues is difficult, because he is banned and the issue has not settled.
there seems to be no way to have them both.
--fridemarpache fridemar, i don't know what you are talking about, i'm not aware of a  problem, and if there should be it is totally unrelated to you.
but at the same time i did it in good faith and still think  it was appropriate "at the time".
hans, just as you like.
she wrote an excellent  book on her experiences called "is it utopia
(at this moment computer science oriented page are mainstream, followed by xp and maybe technical wiki implementation stuff).
what are the expectations when someone creates a page?
there's a  few boundary cases (as you might expect) that cause a few problems, but  generally these have worked quite nicely.
is there a history of meatball on who was here type similar to c2?
i can talk most anytime during this month.
btw, just saw wikipediaisnottypical type discussions  earlier in your page.
helmut, it would be a pity, if your cryptic shortdigest message, points to some problems beneath the surface.
the second project is the first task for the prince: creating a git  underlayer for wikis.
currently lots of discussion is here at meatball in page ctwocommentary.
it will be under some  primarilypublicdomain or sharealike license just as soon as i get around to  putting that notice there.
but can i offer you some of my usages, as examplified inwiki:giveandtake?
--davidliu thanks helmut, i need a dummysguidetomeatball?
wed aug 26 18:13:38 2009 helmut, i noticed that spanish interface doesn't figure in properties of  prowiki in wikimatrix.
please make a suggestion how we can market this idea  for a maximum ofcreatingandsharingwealth in the community.
but solidarity is listed  as a core principle in the introduction to the constitution, and is listed as a  core principle in the very first point of the constitution.
even ctwocommentary is inappropriate.
thanks for your welcoming note.
regards, -- hanswobbe hans, that's all fine with me.
if a wiki participates it writes its page changes to sister site log files /sistersite/pagename.sis in the format "second[+|-]interwiki".
i must go read some relevant pages and come to understand bit more.
i might go, but i'm not exactly wealthy, and i don't have a lot of money  to blow between this and wikimania.
it is also a  fact that the world is turning more and more into a casino-like economy, where  reactions of an abstract market are unpredictable and people make their  "bets" and hope for their luck.
it saves  hijackingrecentchanges.
try[dar  wiki:barn raising] perhaps.
i'll send it again if you need  it.
categoryhomepage helmut, i noticed that spanish interface doesn't figure in properties of prowiki in wikimatrix.
i'm also no a referee for c2.
one site that's using it is the kamaelia site - here:http://kamaelia.sourceforge.net/home .
since i have zero exposure to "open source" application development and appear to be "promoting" the much hated microsoft i am not winning new friends fast enough.
michaelsamuels michael, thank you for your work and for the information.
-- chrispurcell chris, the answer goes with the request, just as i answer your question here,  where you have written.
my last programming was midi2kb, a program that lets you use a piano midi kb as a pc keyboard extension.
this solidarity is not visible and  we understand no processes to grow it.
isn't that contrary to your  usual philosophy, for one thing?
you are changing the  very nature of wiki (c.f.whatisawiki), so the burden of proof is on you to prove that this makes sense and is welcome to the community.
should this be the case, can we help to harmonize?
it had no community feeling, more like people working on their projects, takaing notes side by side....
fortunately we know how much our common success depends on good teamwork, so it should not be a great problem to find a good compromise between self-expression and self-sacrifice.
sunirshah helmut, see first sunir comments in above paragraph.
i, and others, where  just unable to cooperate with them and use this wiki and other wikis together  without conflicts.
i would  like to have a society in which we expect some people to have more than others.
i find this helps me word those things i really care about, much more carefully.
it isn't equal, and it's not gonna be."
kat kinkade  co-founded twin oaks some 30+ years ago.
wasn't working for me (led me in 60+ seconds timeout) an hour ago.
this time it worked within about 15 sec. --
first two are considered to be marginally acceptable by the current group which is still strongly unix biased.
helmut where do i look for contributors to http://spaghetti.scribblewiki.com ?
and i'll tell you why.
i agree with the recentchangesattentionseeking you observed.
i  shouldn't have been so curt or quick to respond when my wits weren't fully with  me.
but what digest are  you talking about?
i'll try to contact you as soon as i return for an actual conversation.
helmut asks what digest is  referred to.
in that sense i agree with you - it is just as easy to read body language  as written text.
helmut helmut, latest news is costin threatening a mindwipe?.
if bandwidth is sufficient, we may turn on video.
--hanswobbe hello helmut, pondering about your cryptic message "openbusiness +=cat", suggesting that something is added toopenbusiness, i googled for it google:"openbusiness+=cat" no entry google:"+=cat"  425,000,000, i.e. 425 million entries
-- [fridemar] fridemar, i never followed the staypoor meme.
it seems that people don't talk to each other, often hide their  identity - as if this behaviour is meant to protect them.
i should probably run  a quick microphone test since i haven't used it in a while.
what are the options?
she wrote an excellent book on her experiences called "is it utopia
cerenity also only uses cdml for  semantic or structural things, rather than simple markup, which i thought you  might find interesting.
-- helmutleitner helmut, you know, that i programmed in c++ and other object-oriented  c-dialects.
-- fridemar fridemar, it is a sad fact, that the meatballwiki community, however much  we appreciate it and try to make it socially open, people from  non-western-industrial countries or lower education don't join in.
it's going to be a bit of a juggling exercise for me to attend, but i'll make an attempt.
and nearly all modern computer languages offer the incremental  assignment operator ..
it will be under some primarilypublicdomain or sharealike license just as soon as i get around to putting that notice there.
(at this moment computer science oriented  page are mainstream, followed by xp and maybe technical wiki implementation  stuff).
i suspect there are lots of overlap
try[dar wiki:barn raising] perhaps.
i did create a lot of c2 pages, typically of three kinds 1) appln &  implementation related; 2) management and life strategy oriented; 3) wiki  community & communication oriented material.
but i'm saying, if i were young again and were going to do a community again, it would not start with such rigid egalitarianism.
ra, and to some extent i get included, represent people that do not have good understanding of it/computer science (e.g. teaching sector).
helmut (helmut and hans, i've personally had good luck using gizmoproject?
but when people answer, this becomes invisible (btw on our wikis this isn't the case, look for example[3]).
in  the end i split it into two wikis, just the same.
you must become important for the community before you can change things of  importance.
i imagine three near-term clients for this effort: meatball, teatime, and tim gowers' polymath.
--helmutleitner i don't think it's fair to paint everyone who confuses wikis with  geocities with the brush of robert and ernst, who both seem to have more  serious personal issues than misbehaviour on wikis.
and they’ll say, “oh, that doesn’t count.
the other  one might be called headlinepage?.
is there a date and time that would be particularly convenient for you?
you can duplicate the text on their wiki.
a barnstar does not even come close to letting me express my appreciation.
i avoid javascript, a little  too for the being time.
it's necessary to find some common ground.
each wiki peer, who works 8 hours daily in wikis and blogs should at least have an income of 2000 us$ a month from their wiki work, so that they are free to dedicate their best ideas, knowledge and skills to the prospering of the planet, without being hampered by paid work for "third parties", who are not interested in the wellbeing of the whole planet.
helmut it's a language like any other.
isn't it more holistic, to integrate the economic dimension into to all the more or less high-pitched reflexions, we do in the wikis.
as an aside, it won't take long and some hundred million newcomer kids (onelaptopperchild project of the mit) from developing countries will look for the lowest cost entry into the high tech content industry.
but it's not only  built into the human, but also into the system of equality.
and so, because i have changed my mind about this, i no longer get excited about, "oh, this isn't equal!"
he can write again, he  contributes occasionally and there have been no problems since.
this is quite aside from whether that c2 page should exist (i agree with helmut that it's off topic for c2, is all).
i am still interested in "tips to successful online collaboration within a business organization".
many people are opposed to anything that sounds like "new  world order," oftenspecifically on religious grounds, but that  would be poor reason to stop making the effort that may take centuries,  millenia, or longer to complete.
your morning might fit into my afternoon:
i tell  you, they will find and/or create asocialcommonwealth.
the point is, that i think society, organizations and processes  will change, because of the new ways to cooperate in online communities.
davidcary hi helmut, after a long quiet, i went away and implemented a new cdml evaluator  (lex/yacc based in python) which i'm using in cerenity (http://cerenity.org/ )-  which hasn't had a very wide release yet, but is fun so far.
yes, i find it interesting
he's not integrated in here enough (obviously)  and may not be accustomed to many things here, and this could be his way of  showing it.
my suggestion would be to concentrate on the content and not notify about  changing layout or links.
-- [fridemar] fridemar, isn't this a bit paradoxical?
it does look as if i am going to be able  to make this trip work since i have to be in san francisco at the end of  october, so i'm simply thinking i'll doing two conferences for the cost of one  flight.
everyone is invited to participate increatingandsharingwealth, especially  the wikizens.
for example i once banned eg (the only user i ever banned) because he simply became unbearable to me.
helmut, you said this of kmwiki: "...
a taste of her criticism is written out here:  http://www.thefec.org/node/897 "...
there are efforts (such as [humanities team]) that work to do the political work to develop the political reality.
of course it would have even be a better formulation of "fridemar", if he had used the termdigestedsummary.
--nathanielthurston nathaniel, for the next few months i'm completely immersed in my projects  as a software freelancer, milestones all arround, i'm sorry.
the really nice thing i like about your cdml though is the fact you can decide to markup text using a new cdml tag, and just let it exist with the text passed through before you write the code to understand the tag.
what's the disease at c2?
please suggest a wiki and/or awikipage to redirect the urls for practising openbusiness.
so many changes had been done to the usemod source, so many additions were visible ahead, that a fork was unavoidable.
i don't think it's fair to paint everyone who confuses wikis with geocities with the brush of robert and ernst, who both seem to have more serious personal issues than misbehaviour on wikis.
but somehow these community models are restricted.
i did not say the robert or ernst did something bad.
re: " i'll look into wiki:sildabediscussions ..."
ban the user from meatball if they go against your will on the subject?
i think that the religious/spiritual assertions connected with the humanities team effort prevent it from succeeding in it's present form, though i think their work is still worthwhile (in the spirit of: "keep your eye on the prize.")
i'm sure they'd find it helpful:criticismisfeedback. --
instead of this you left the original link notice in the digest (".. added  some queries for the convenience" ), such that peers, who appreciate the  pre-established one-click google-searches, are confused, when they don't find  them.
and if someone wants to see a given developmentsooner rather than later, they can get very frustrated.
my biggest lament about the site is that the worst enemies of the  site started out as enthusiastic supporters.
-- fridemar fridemar, it may not seem this way to you, but by overwhelming pages with  links to google,you are destroying the accepted structure of the wiki:  namely, that of apatternlanguage specific to that wiki.
it's not impossible, i've founded a community that has 40+% of female authors!
a second wiki was installed for a project of the university of graz[2].
andrewcates helmut: i like your suggestion of building a list of possible topics and the methodology you suggest.
i'm trying to decide whether to attend or  to offer to present.
the community is supposed to support babies.”
i've still to understand  wardswiki standards, especially people deleting content without reasoning or  consensus (like communityprocess?) and people creating pages without giving  their best (like communityprocess?).
i just wanted to shoot you  a smile in appreciation, since it's so hard to do that over the 'net.
but i think there many factors.
wikipedia is having their own conference, wikimania, in august.
wikiisparadoxical wikicommunitylist wikifractality wikicontextuality wikipatternlanguage
i think doug merritt is not the only one who thinks i create too many pages, i know of at least one other who used to flame me using an unidentified ip at c2.
i have about the "current contributors" are  that most of them are probably very young (work experience wise) and very  bright (
otherwise the majority will see you as an outsider, not a member.
if he agrees to do so there, we can see whether  he will be accepted by members atwardswiki.
but it is worth noting for the contrast.
i'm an independent software  developer and when i sawwardswiki in august 2000, i saw an economic chance.
by the way, your last digest helps to reduce some additional keystrokes for the peers, involved in this small talk discussion, that we should better factor out of helmut 's homepage .
you're right the snippet is a short fragment.
they are verbose  and are waste of time.
now think of a cat(alog) of all wikis, practising openbusiness.
--hanswobbe hello helmut, pondering about your cryptic message "openbusiness
near the end of her life, she left twin oaks for several years in frustration, though she returned before she died.
it's tough to figure out what's the best thing to do over a wiki.
it has not attracted much (edit) attention, so maybe we can continue again in ctwocommentary here.
helmutleitner to sunir/helmut i apologize for getting people here upset for the meatball page i have created over there.
they can say, "it's not exactly like this, but here is a base line of our personal expectations."
what did robertabitbol and ernstgruber do that was bad?
i am also checking email regularly via hwobbe@datafix.com
i think the majority of the contributors at c2 think "application  development and implementation" mean writing compilers, devicing new perl  scripts against newly identified exposures, intricate 3d game programming, etc.
(note that  this is nothing to do with the discussion aboutdigestedsummary, which i agree  with you on.)
+=cat", suggesting that something is added toopenbusiness, i googled for it google:"openbusiness+=cat" no entry google:"+=cat" 425,000,000, i.e. 425 million entries
the idea would be to make wiki branching and merging as  routine as it is in open-source development.
thanks for showing up again on wardswiki --
often they pay by a loss of freedom, by being hierarchical or autocratic.
-- [fridemar] helmut, please notify in the digest, if you erase announced links of your peers, like done onworknet, without leaving an erase notice in the digest.
unwelcome to come here and write nonsense like "da vinci was a robot expert !
i'm sure they'd find it easier to answer them on a wiki they actually watch.
many people are opposed to anything that sounds like "new world order," oftenspecifically on religious grounds, but that would be poor reason to stop making the effort that may take centuries, millenia, or longer to complete.
as for the dummy's guide, http://meatballsociety.org/cgi-bin/wiki-guide is supposed to be this guide, and  i have to write it by october forwikisym.
there are great individuals and there are wonderful  religious and idealistic movements that typically promote the  "giving" aspects of existance.
move to a new server move towards fairsoftware "social construction of meaning" design goals: think beyond the deathoftheweb towards spatial-oriented information  architecture.
that means you mustn't concentrate on what you or  other people want c2 to be, but put considerable energy in adding value - and  work there.
please suggest a wiki and/or  awikipage to redirect the urls for practising openbusiness.
the real difficulty is  fundamentalattributionerror?.
we do not tolerate people extending their internal disputes here.
after taking part for a few months, i started to study and program systematically to make the wiki available for interested people in the german speaking countries (germany, austria and switzerland).
[sighs]" another aspect is the role of dreams.
how  are de-facto decisions like the ra-ban treated (accepted, respected)?
at last in my humble opionion holds: if somebody destroys structure, built  by work of another peer, s/he has the burden of proof (to prove that this  makes sense and is welcome to the community), taking responsibility of  this act.
i once introduced the pagetemporalcontext to ctwo and someone  complained about using "difficult terms" (forgot how he/she worded it  exactly).
the first is straightfoward: i need set up a  wiki to contain the prince and keep him at a respectful distance from the  princess.
--sunirshah helmut, all the best to you and yours for this holiday season.
have you thought about why there are so few women atwardswiki?
near the end of  her life, she left twin oaks for several years in frustration, though she  returned before she died.
--sunirshah sunir: i certainly understand the problems of time & money (being an  ex banker ;-))
perhaps you could write a little about what you mean by dishonestediting?
helmut... it gives me considerable comfort to know that you are "still  lurking".
that should be the week starting july 9th.
i'll let you know as soon as they finish.
and i have been wondering howcomewikisym has no wikipedia  presence.
if i have to choose i prefer a hundred civilized people to 3 difficult ones.
what is ur time now as i just got up, and hopefully refreshed.
-- fridemar fridemar, sorry for the misunderstanding.
you are lost, if you use it as a  reference system.
can you resend it or  give me your route here.
i think i contribted to the confusion between "costin the  person" vs "costin like behavior".
i am not sure how to respond to your question of my views of wiki mission.
wikitechnicalglossary
there are efforts (such as [humanities team])  that work to do the political work to develop the political reality.
i am having a headache in things likesuperordinategoal, and often been wondering what extent of relevance these have to my needs to get informed on "practical aspects" of communications and teambuilding in an organization (not online community per se).
i think, "yeah, it isn't.
after publishing my message on meatballwiki, i just waited from 15:10 until ca.
about this, but i don't think declaringwallacecook
i'll see what i can do.
i am still interested in "tips to successful online collaboration  within a business organization".
and like it or not, ra point of "ward may not want wiki to  grow" is another consideration.
jonas, maybe you are right, maybe not.
but it's not only built into the human, but also into the system of equality.
orderchaos), not creating chaos.
15:50, then i bought the tlds to prevent, that wikicat? is bought by "third parties", not intrinsically involved in wiki, but only speculating on cat(chy) domain-names.
in the constitution, as far as i am  aware, the word "equality" nowhere appears.
warmest regards -- brandoncssanders helmut
15:50, then i bought the tlds to prevent, that wikicat? is bought by  "third parties", not intrinsically involved in wiki, but only  speculating on cat(chy) domain-names.
-- fridemar helmut, you are right, we are a community, where each one is learner and teacher in one person.
(it will take a while) comment summarize discussion so far username (required):meatballwiki | recentchanges | random page | indices | categories
please make a suggestion how we can market this idea for a maximum ofcreatingandsharingwealth in the community.
each wiki peer, who works 8 hours daily in wikis and blogs  should at least have an income of 2000 us$ a month from their wiki work, so  that they are free to dedicate their best ideas, knowledge and skills to the  prospering of the planet, without being hampered by paid work for "third  parties", who are not interested in the wellbeing of the whole planet.
instead of writing fridemar: please notify in the digest, if you erase announced links of  your peers .. / what digest we are recommended both to improve our  writing something like: fridemar asks to notify in the digest when announced and given links by  some author are erased by some other author.
moving between many wiki  systems i typically think "summary" or "page summary" for  what you named "digest".
helmut, thanks for the metaphor!
everyone is invited to participate increatingandsharingwealth, especially the wikizens.
" "kat: because the aim is to make everybody feel equally served by the establishment, and that's impossible.
helmut helmut, you are right, we are a community, where each one is learner and  teacher in one person.
where does a longer description  fit in?
i think that wallace shows a lack  of social intelligence and it is not the goal of mb to teach people the basics  of how to get along with each other.
this is quite aside from whether that c2 page should exist (i agree with  helmut that it's off topic for c2, is all).
we need a way to ''"break  that pattern"';'.
excluding the economic wealth-creating effects of the collaborative work of the wikizens is not holistic enough for more and more wikizens.
solidarity can be extended to another, but unless it is received and reciprocated, it can only be a glimpse of a future possibility.
the server is apparently frustrated that you take too long a  vacation and your mailbox is full :)
at least i found: [a big collection of funny cat photos].
the really nice thing i like about your cdml though is the fact you can  decide to markup text using a new cdml tag, and just let it exist with the text  passed through before you write the code to understand the tag.
i'm so glad that i got to meet you and hang out with you atwikisym.
there are famous examples likeernstgruber, robertabitbol and others,  where i've invested hundreds of hours.
it's still too early to know what will happen but i think it will be worthwhile anyway, either small and family-like or bigger, a signal of breakthrough.
helmut... please see http://www.r-and-a.com/cgi-bin/wiki.pl/hansandhelmut/recentchangeshelmut... please see http://www.r-and-a.com/cgi-bin/wiki.pl/hansandhelmut/recentchanges jonasdaltonrand: i don't want to start a wikidrama ?
i agree partly with sunir: we should "just let people be people."
i don't know whether he can contribute  constructively or not, but i would like someone in this community to try to  give him advise.
i have to thank helmut for the "be careful" reminder there, as i was indeed a bit getting carried away about "possibilities", which would need to be balanced with "practicalities".
--[fridemar] helmut, please notify in the digest, if you erase announced links of your  peers, like done onworknet, without leaving an erase notice in the digest.
well, our meatballmission might indicate why they'd expect help.
"costin the person" has positive traits which i have taken for granted, such as clear thinking, diligence, etc.
i missed this before, and only now found it as i am on  the verge of leaving on a week-ling trip.
afaik this needs javascript and i've always tried to avoid that.
the other one might be called headlinepage?.
the wiki-mind is now getting aware of its own economic strength.
i went to c2 and showed my face but there is little interest in  what help i have to offer, so naturally i do not insist.
i like your new mantra.
in fact, i would have posted this material on the original page, but was concerned a bit about making too much of a mess there since i am not yet quite comfortable enough with theusemod markup to not worry about having to refactor the page later.
further, dreams are fundamental to the fabric of damanhurian reality,  consciously cultivated, and the society reshaped to meet their fulfillment.
about this, but  i don't think declaringwallacecook
--fridemarpachehelmut, it would be a pity, if your cryptic shortdigest message, points to some problems beneath the surface.
you must become important for the community before you can change things of importance.
--helmutleitner wikis are about ordering chaos (cf.
please allow the page to stay longer, and i will respond in my homepage here about future/ further annoyances/inconveniences caused to this community.
hope  to meet you (you all) there.
now in 2003 most of the code has been reworked and 3000 lines have grown to 12000 lines of perl code.
the developments at c2 are notofftopic here - ctwocommentary may be undesirable  because it might polarize the two communities.
since i have zero exposure to "open  source" application development and appear to be "promoting" the  much hated microsoft i am not winning new friends fast enough.
hope you do not get too much unwanted traffic from my action.
to check, that i have really bought the domains, click[4][5][6][7].
instead of writing fridemar: please notify in the digest, if you erase announced links of your peers .. / what digestwe are recommended both to improve our writing something like: fridemar asks to notify in the digest when announced and given links by some author are erased by some other author.
equal time, equal money, equal whatever.
i have about the "current contributors" are that most of them are probably very young (work experience wise) and very bright (one approaching grand master level skill in chess, if not already there).
i think thats wrong, it's all  about "more participation".
and i like some one who have knowledge on both to share some insights.
in discussing this idea, a friend pointed out (gitit @ johnmacfarlane.net/tools.html ) -- a wiki written in haskell which uses git internally.
i don't want to ruin the "everything you need to know about  wiki on one page" quality thewikicooperationarticle has now.
i'm not so sure that reading body language is that easy.
cerenity also only uses cdml for semantic or structural things, rather than simple markup, which i thought you might find interesting.
you may wish to find out for yourself what other people think "who is  the community" at c2, and if you get them to speak out you will have  material for a good page about c2.
i think it scholarly to teach others how exactly they should chose their  wordings.
as to 3), i think costin is again not the only one who think i am inexperienced.
i feel as a communicator and mediator: translating the visions of my customers into software and enabling these visions by knowing and showing my customers the potentials of new technologies.
but even if we had this godlike abililty to give everyone an equal amount of  satisfaction in theory, there would be some who would immediately be  dissatisfied, and they would be dissatisfied because they would look at what  their neighbor had, and they’d say, “well, i don’t have a  clarinet.”
if you do have observations and/or suggestions it is probably better  placed in thectwocommentary i have created here.
he can write again, he contributes occasionally and there have been no problems since.
as far as i can see, envy seems to be built into the human, and i can see evolutionarily why that might be true.
furthermore, i suggest that we may wish to try to categorize it a bit sooner rather than later.
6 hours => 9-12am eastern time-- helmut helmut...
i introduced myself there and for weeks there was no answer.
and they’ll be angry, and they’ll be envious of whatever anybody had.
in the constitution, as far as i am aware, the word "equality" nowhere appears.
22nov05helmut i have more background information at your c2 home page.
-- helmut (p.s. why should i be angry for the honour  that you cite me?)
in 1983, at the beginning of the pc revolution, i turned to commercial software development, working for the "forschungsgesellschaft joanneum" until 1988.
helmut helmut, it would be a pity, if your cryptic shortdigest message,  points to some problems beneath the surface.
the latter is the negative  side such as arrogance.
i tend to think there are "regular readers" that are "not contributors", yet do appreciate more current information about "industry news / events".
i do not doubt there is  and can be solidarity.
and we all know, this is much less fun, than practisingopenbusiness.
the most obvious benefit is that it seems to offer a nicer and more graduated alternative to thefishbowl.
we need a way to ''"break that pattern"';'.
it clearly can't be forced, but more deeply - it can't be projected, either: you could become a monk, and then become one with everyone; but unless i become one with you as you become one with me, this realization is only potential, rather than real.
a lot of technology is  old (recent edits turned off, no page history, no one-click diff+page  available, no summary), the founder virtually non-existent, vision and  direction has been lost, people are frustrated and have lost their faith in  their wiki although they still cling to it.
it saves hijackingrecentchanges.
i noticed that even sunir doesn't strictly follow these guidelines.
david, it's hard for me to comment.
the wiki-mind is  now getting aware of its own economic strength.
then  this "it's terrible, but that's wiki" attitude.
current us health system confrontations  show how easy it is to exploit the lack of solidarity to the disadvantage of  the society as a whole (the great majority of people, especially the poorer).
--fridemarpache helmut, your line of thought -- -- provoked two points for me.
hans, you do me much honor.
i wasn't thinking very clearly at 3am.
pagebrushing? is a bad habit, but there are even some founders who do it regularly.
lastly i like  yourreflectioncommunity title but there is little in that page for me to  comprehend.
as a compromise of all of these considerations: i hope you approve and that you feel free to edit in any way whatsoever.
i had some problems with the installation but with the generous help ofcliffordadams
6 hours => 9-12am eastern time -- helmut helmut...
in  discussing this idea, a friend pointed out (gitit @  johnmacfarlane.net/tools.html ) -- a wiki written in haskell which uses git  internally.
i  would have preferred otherwise (stand him longer, have a community decision).
i'm vienna/munique gmt+1.
lionkimbro i sent an email to you a couple weeks ago to the email above about visiting austria.
after publishing my message on meatballwiki, i just waited from 15:10  until ca.
never assume that a single online community can fit your interests and communication needs (they will change anyway).
incidentally in case you think i am too sensitive to criticism you are welcome to rubbish what i've put on yourwhatisscience page -- andrewcatesincidentally in case you think i am too sensitive to criticism you are welcome to rubbish what i've put on yourwhatisscience page --
-- sunirshah david, i'd like to help you with c2
i'd love a chance to compare notes with you to see if there is any truth to this feeling.
i wish to discuss ideas (e.g. "entry/exit protocol") and happened to  used a real event to do so.
(i observed that much of the  solidarity at harvey mudd college was because we all shared the 2-year long  core curriculum, that we all struggled with together; a labor of love.)
kat kinkade was regularly frustrated because new people would come in full of inspiring ideas and dreams, which the community consensus would quickly shut down in favor of the status quo.
i could only find it briefly mentioned at  http://www.prowiki.com/prowiki/wiki.cgi?advancedwikifeatures --johnabbe john,it was a big pleasure to meet you.
sorry too for any imbalance in our interactions.
ironic as it was only a few days after i asked him whether hiswiki:wikichangepropoal can defend against a hostile costin.
after all, i generally find myself using you as a type of audience "prototype" for the material i post, wondering ... "can i justify this adequately to helmut?"
any chance there is some resemblance to reflection techniques used  in gestalt therapy?
new ideas: gimmefive to do: continue patterntheory (mustertheoriebook)
and i can say: it was really useful!
there seems to be no way to have  them both.
it is a strange culture for me.
wikipractices born 1955 in salzburg, living in graz, married, two children.
i've still to understand wardswiki standards, especially people deleting content without reasoning or consensus (like communityprocess?) and people creating pages without giving their best (like communityprocess?).
i have added some clarifications (e.g. rewiki:crazythingsthatmightsavewiki)
sunirshah hi helmut, great to meet you at wikisym.
i wish you both a merry christmas and a great time with friends and families.
can you point to examples and more information about prowiki's implementation?
:-) i hope, that you or some other friendly, appreciated, collaborative, constructive peer takes the free tlds wikicat?.com, .net, .. for being developed in someopenbusinesswiki like meatballwiki or whereever you suggest, such that we can help each other tocreateandsharewealth.
and  that trait is so ugly and destructive and hateful that i would rather give up  equality than have that trait around.
i sent an email re a skype chat, but got a cryptic error message that  indicated it might not have been transmitted.
onlineworld perladvocacy righttofork shallowpage shallowwiki suggestedwikirolemodel systemtheory tourbus
you are of course right that the  summary/digest should be in sync with the page content and reflect the process.
and if  someone wants to see a given developmentsooner rather than later, they can get very frustrated.
hanswobbe thank you both.
i think the realities more than the models are broken:  solidarity is inner agreement, not external agreement.
-- earlethanks for the revert! --
helmutleitner thanks helmut, i need a dummysguidetomeatball?
hey, we all use the digest, but thanks to a wiki conversation with chris  and lion, i myself learned to appreciate this little marvel:digestedsummary  with extra care.
wikipedia is having their own conference,  wikimania, in august.
this means that everyone has to compromise somewhat and accept that his  view is not absolute, me, you, everyone!
makes life a  lot simpler, meaning you can put the cart before the horse if you like :-)
--sunirshah helmut,helmut, you said this of kmwiki: "...
what do you think about doubleclick? that not implemented?
it is also a fact that the world is turning more and more into a casino-like economy, where reactions of an abstract market are unpredictable and people make their "bets" and hope for their luck.
don't worry about that.
only a small percentage of the members (who were primarily  interested in software) were also interested in talking about wiki details.
categoryhomepage discussion juanmamp --
ra, and  to some extent i get included, represent people that do not have good  understanding of it/computer science (e.g. teaching sector).
i am having a headache in things likesuperordinategoal, and often  been wondering what extent of relevance these have to my needs to get informed  on "practical aspects" of communications and teambuilding in an  organization (not online community per se).
i think there must be a way of adding a factor into a trustmetric that  better quantifies what i am trying to say, but now is not a time when i can  focus on mathematical models.
sorry for the delay of my answer here, but i am collecting some javascript snippets fromusemod descendants that i could apply in a wiki and then, i'll share them.
--hanswobbe hans, yes, of course i'm planning to go to wikisym 2005.
saying "write something about communities" and then he wrote store?.
makes life a lot simpler, meaning you can put the cart before the horse if you like :-)
the citizens are brothers and sisters who help one another through  reciprocal trust, respect, clarity, acceptance, solidarity, and continuous  inner transformation.
even einstein said something like: "tax declarations are more difficult than relativity theory".
-- fridemar helmut, it's ok.
i'll send it again if you need it.
these "lesser people" may be accepted if they  just keep quiet and do the "wiki chores" (e.g. despam, fix up tabs).
earle helmut, i find your method of converting the unwanted or unexpected into  the constructive and collaborative to be inspiring.
this is a political reality.
and they’ll be angry, and they’ll be envious of  whatever anybody had.
i wish to discuss ideas (e.g. "entry/exit protocol") and happened to used a real event to do so.
you may wish to find out for yourself what other people think "who is the community" at c2, and if you get them to speak out you will have material for a good page about c2.
many of us did so, i did so, years ago.
i could only find it briefly mentioned at http://www.prowiki.com/prowiki/wiki.cgi?advancedwikifeatures --johnabbe john,it was a big pleasure to meet you.
btw, just saw wikipediaisnottypical type discussions earlier in your page.
dl wikis are about ordering chaos (cf.
no problem, happens to all of us. :-)
would you kindly introduce me to a peer that appreciates the  search links?
wardswiki isn't a  typical wiki and it isn't as wiki should be.
and we all know, this is much less  fun, than practisingopenbusiness.
but i'm mainly just putting in my two cents: i loved that project.
i can try myself, but i think he got the wrong idea by me saying "write something about communities" and then he wrote store?.
politics replaces it by economic growth  and the promise that everyone will be a winner.
the latter is the negative side such as arrogance.
lastly i like yourreflectioncommunity title
hopefully we will have this chance to meet.
dougmerritt just testing edit.
( http://gizmoproject.com))
as logo and for funny animations to make searching the tables (like a cat searches mice) more enjoyable we can get lots ofcreativecommons pictures of funny cats.
usually this is paid badly but my personal feeling in doing so is good, and i know quite a number of people that share this attitude. --
if you want to transfer it to c2, feel free to do so."
i would like to have a society in which we expect some people to have more than others.
if you have the good will and tolerance to  teach him and take responsibility for him, that's fine with me.
earle helmut, i find your method of converting the unwanted or unexpected into the constructive and collaborative to be inspiring.
http://thething.is/tt.pl
--helmutleitner helmut, i've learned quite a lot about wiki software and communities in  the past few weeks, and i have a feeling i might have invented a few things in  process.
if they actually do not watch meatballwiki and this page, what reason  could they have to expect help?
of course, it's not easy to remember that  such little things are possible when one frequently contributes to other wikis!
-- sunirshah helmut, thanks for the metaphor!
i don't write to disagree, as much to extend & share notes.
i introduced myself  there and for weeks there was no answer.
systemtheory visitorrole
--hanswobbe hans and helmut, what about brainstorming staypoor, in a real relaxed way.
and you can see it from their first actions with a 95+% probability.
with respect to you concepts, i'm still a lurker, failing to understand the gist of it.
it's great that you also have an economic model to make wiki work  profitable and i wish you the best, but i do not understand it and therefore it  doesn't motivate me to participate.
and i have been wondering howcomewikisym has no wikipedia presence.
it clearly can't be  forced, but more deeply - it can't be projected, either: you could become a  monk, and then become one with everyone; but unless i become one with you as  you become one with me, this realization is only potential, rather than real.
it's clearly not for everyone, nor does it strive to be such.
at first, i'm hoping to implement the idea forusemodwiki and gitit.
perhaps we can find one or another compromise, e.g.: on a new intro page, where the initial author has not yet made all  his/her intended references explicit (e.g. on another new page as you did)
since you have expressed interests in  "growing" ctwo, i will create a section in my homepage here with  links to c2 pages related to that aspect, and bigger issues  (opportunities/risks)
note that discussing ra issues is difficult, because he is banned and the  issue has not settled.
it  took about four months until he got that support.
dl i don't understand this question.
sunirshah i don't know
lionkimbro could you mark adding a category as a copyedit, helmut?
subjected to change as  usual."
do you know him in real life or something?
there's a few boundary cases (as you might expect) that cause a few problems, but generally these have worked quite nicely.
sorry too for  any imbalance in our interactions.
-- fridemar chris, thank you for signaling the agreement on the digestedsummary guidelines.
i  want to earn money with my wiki expertise, next year more than this year and  the year before.
where does a longer description fit in?
after all, our mutual interest in collaboration should encompass the participation of others, especially since my first post was onbrainstormmode in response to a question i found there from katherinederbyshire which not only caught my attention, but also yours and that ofmarkdilley.
but you would need to follow some links there to appreciate what i mean by dishonest editing --davidliu
fortunately we know how much our common success depends on  good teamwork, so it should not be a great problem to find a good compromise  between self-expression and self-sacrifice.
davidliu david, i suppose you got little feedback because people basically agree with your observations.
--davidliu david, don't know much about these techniques and i didn't think in  that direction.
only when there is mutual agreement does it have the possibility of becoming real.
i've currently a friendly relationship to him, but i was once under the fiercest attacks imaginable - almost for nothing - and i'm not sure to never come into that situation again.
if bandwidth is sufficient, we  may turn on video.
thanks for your extra patience.
what do you think are the positions of the other active users?
the same behaviour can be seen in the contributions of other appreciated active peers of this wiki.
i have to thank helmut for the  "be careful" reminder there, as i was indeed a bit getting carried  away about "possibilities", which would need to be balanced with  "practicalities".
i avoid javascript, a little too for the being time.
the first wiki was installed (nov 10, 2000) to support a free, noncommercial, multilingual dictionary project[1].
language oriented programming.http://www.onboard.jetbrains.com/articles/04/10/lop/ -- sunirshah moved from topiccompetition.
(examples would be tab bars, indices, transclusions)
it would be also efficient to distribute external incremental page index log (e. g. /interwiki/pagename.log) entries "second[+|-]pagename" to the sis files.
thanks again --davidliu 22apr  morning ummm...sunir, discussing something about meatball on c2 may well be argued  to be inappropriate for some reason, but it seems really bizarre to forbid it, as you seem to have done above.
" you may be interested in commenting on wiki:roleofrecentchanges where i  have made some related remarks on 13apr05 re: " (c2) not my primary wiki to discuss general pattern or wiki  issues.
this helped me to relax in lots of big laughter, because today i am  preparing my tax declaration for tomorrow.
hey, we all use the digest, but thanks to a wiki conversation with chris and lion, i myself learned to appreciate this little marvel:digestedsummary with extra care.
we use skype really a lot and like it. --
i studied chemistry at the technical university in graz and wrote my thesis about something like "the molecular simulation of solid-liquid interfaces" which involved writing a lot of fortran software.
i'll see  what i can do.
and i read this  about people: the more they strive for equality, the more they watch to see  what their neighbors have, to see if they've got something that they don't.
", yes, but he may be able to contribute well.
jonasdaltonrand: i don't want to start a wikidrama ?
the fact that doug merritt is able to be accepted there (he is older, based on his slips about his experience) shows the depth and breadth of his knowledge, in addition to his willingness to be the "bad guy" (aggressive gnome).
meta-discussion were never loved by the c2 community, so that's why mb came into existance.
i'm sorry for the fork, cliff, i'll always be in your debt.
it is then very efficient to read this sis file through a hash to get at sister pages list.
hans and helmut, what about brainstorming staypoor, in a real relaxed way.
i've no  informations about other participants yet and i don't know anyone face 2 face.
do you know any others (ward, obviously) who are planning to attend?
i'm sure we have overlapping fields of  interests for real work.
thanks for the revert!
sometimes, when connection is bad, we go back to kind of chatting using the skype message window.
do you know any  others (ward, obviously) who are planning to attend?
please allow the page to stay longer, and i will respond in my homepage  here about future/ further annoyances/inconveniences caused to this community.
but somehow these community models are  restricted.
it would be a job for a  "online community consultant" to resolve these problems.
my last programming was midi2kb, a program that lets you  use a piano midi kb as a pc keyboard extension.
and nearly all modern computer languages offer the incremental assignment operator ..
to the gist: "nothing is more powerful than an idea that comes at the right time".
so, how can i guide him around?
personally i dislike to talk about c2 in this situation, although i don't think it is inappropriate.
it just seems rather peculiar.
sorry for the delay of my answer here, but i am collecting some javascript  snippets fromusemod descendants that i could apply in a wiki and then, i'll  share them.
this seems to be a standard targetgroup and founder problem.
-- davidliu 20apr update i deleted that page.
this helped me to relax in lots of big laughter, because today i am preparing my tax declaration for tomorrow.
helmutleitner if someone in a village puts up posters saying when they are having a  barn-raising, it makes no sense to write your reply on a poster.
helmutleitner helmut, you know, that i programmed in c++ and other object-oriented c-dialects.
what is your position?
helmut, you made an excellent joke, making aware the current paradoxical  situation in wikis.
it's actually very nice to see  your "footprints" and to know that you still visit (if only every  other month or so)!
i tried to send you an email and it bounced back from chello.at  (jan 3rd, 2006).
sometimes the "more  and more links to information -- where does it ever stop?"
damanhur is  fundamentally rooted insolidarity.
afaik this needs javascript and i've  always tried to avoid that.
-- dl helmut, i think the discussion you had with costin at wiki:wardswikiproblemsdiscussion, where costin held point of "no current wiki community" is a real enough aspect to be considered by all who wants c2 to succeed.
davidliu david, i suppose you got little feedback because people basically agree  with your observations.
juanma, i've just added spanish at wikimatrix, thank you for pointing me to this.
but even if we had this godlike abililty to give everyone an equal amount of satisfaction in theory, there would be some who would immediately be dissatisfied, and they would be dissatisfied because they would look at what their neighbor had, and they’d say, “well, i don’t have a clarinet.”
you almost have to play a statistical game.
but i wouldn't want anybody to be more than double, have twice as much as  somebody else. ...
this promise doesn't work and  the economic growth leads us into the energy crisis, the climatic crisis, the  financial crisis.
the idea would be to make wiki branching and merging as routine as it is in open-source development.
if someone in a village puts up posters saying when they are having a barn-raising, it makes no sense to write your reply on a poster.
fridemarpache thank you so very much, my wikifriend.
so, i did so, years ago.
i find this helps me word those  things i really care about, much more carefully.
i have thought a little about future book production.
(think of this as a type of  virtual collaboration or even thebrainstorming we tried a few years ago.)
i've no informations about other participants yet and i don't know anyone face 2 face.
she has several well reasoned criticisms tempered with love and affection for the ways of life she helped found.
never assume that a single online community  can fit your interests and communication needs (they will change anyway).
i appreciate it in the same sense as zen practicing peers  appreciate the paradoxical effects near satori. :-)
i appreciate you both, no polemics intended, but social awareness-work.
and people will demand the necessary transparency, cooperation and fairprocess. --
techies will open a port in  their firewalls as early as wednesday.
written in high school english.
when i first came to the usemodwiki, i was looking for a free wiki source and found everything i was searching for.
someone may disagree, and overstep theguideposts.
all this isn't needed when communication is working.
i'm sure  they'd find it easier to answer them on a wiki they actually watch.
i'm also no a referee for  c2.
would it be worth while to add our names to a list of (potential) attendees?
subjected to change as usual."
there are great individuals and there are wonderful religious and idealistic movements that typically promote the "giving" aspects of existance.
i think there must be a way of adding a factor into a trustmetric that better quantifies what i am trying to say, but now is not a time when i can focus on mathematical models.
i cannot add to that observation as it would only add confusion.
that means you mustn't concentrate on what you or other people want c2 to be, but put considerable energy in adding value - and work there.
please helmut, don't be angry with me, if i take a quotation of you intostaypoor .
isn't that contrary to your usual philosophy, for one thing?
sometimes, when connection is bad, we go back to  kind of chatting using the skype message window.
dl i'm just trying to understand the c2 situation, one can't from  outside.
lastly on markparrot, i take it this community has not  yet starteddissuadeinteraction, so my suggestion is actually for him to go to  wardswiki and chair the wiki:meatballcommentary discussion which i have created  and welcome him to participate.
she also helped seed two ofshoot communities, if i recall right: east wind and acorn.
i hope you can make it.
kat kinkade was regularly  frustrated because new people would come in full of inspiring ideas and dreams,  which the community consensus would quickly shut down in favor of the status  quo.
it had no community feeling, more like  people working on their projects, takaing notes side by side....
i think, it would make much more sense, to  collaborate directly.
i've also been known to say wikipedia is not an encyclopedia when the conflict of the day happens to be mostly caused by intolerance to messiness due to fear of being a print-quality reference work, but that doesn't seem to be the your point either.
"costin the person" has positive traits which  i have taken for granted, such as clear thinking, diligence, etc.
--davidliu good idea.
finish socialsemanticspace?, objectivespace?, etc. finish oralculture, printculture?, manuscriptculture, lifeintext, etc. -- sunirshah helmut, deletewhenread ?
-- helmutleitner helmut, the common denominator i see, is the "holistic"  approach.
when i founded the germandsewiki i found the same problem.
but, that's okay, and is supposed to be allowed: that's why they're guide posts, and not fences, after all.
by the way, your last digest helps  to reduce some additional keystrokes for the peers, involved in this small talk  discussion, that we should better factor out of helmut 's homepage .
helmutleitner work quickly this time too, btw i am at work and currently blacked out  from c2.
i did on c2 this morning, around gmt 0th hour from home.
the server is apparently frustrated that you take too long a vacation and your mailbox is full :)
the community is supposed to support  babies.”
hope to meet you (you all) there.
for example i once banned eg  (the only user i ever banned) because he simply became unbearable to me.
three sets of goals: wiki goals: meatball goals: "social construction of meaning" design goals: -- sunirshah helmut, deletewhenread ?
thought you might find it interesting.
i have seldom seen the "c2 high flyers" doing these chores (not going to gain popularity with this last statement of mine).
i'm trying to expand on wikiengineswithsistersites.
my personal attitude is  to neglect this casinomainstream?, trying to do things that make holistic sense  instead.
we are seeing now the awakening of the web 2.o, which is not only a semantic web, but a social pragmatic web too.
but i wouldn't want anybody to be more than double, have twice as much as somebody else. ...
helmut it's tough to figure out what's the best thing to do over a wiki.
it's clearly not for everyone, nor does it  strive to be such.
in august 2000 i found wardswiki and was immediately fascinated.
-- fridemar fridemar, it is a sad fact, that the meatballwiki community, however much we appreciate it and try to make it socially open, people from non-western-industrial countries or lower education don't join in.
if they are  looking for support, they may put up messages on several friendly-looking  wikis.
a taste of her criticism is written out here: http://www.thefec.org/node/897 "...
in the  future everything will be our business, depending only on our own capacity and  interest.
helmut... please see  http://www.r-and-a.com/cgi-bin/wiki.pl/hansandhelmut/recentchanges jonasdaltonrand: i don't want to start a wikidrama ?
people like ra (the one no longer there) reflect a segment that the "current contributors" (meaning costin camp) can do without.
--helmutleitner hi helmut, thank you for the very nice wikisym memory photo.
after all, i generally find myself using you as a type of  audience "prototype" for the material i post, wondering ... "can  i justify this adequately to helmut?"
i just wanted to shoot you a smile in appreciation, since it's so hard to do that over the 'net.
i once introduced the pagetemporalcontext to ctwo and someone complained about using "difficult terms" (forgot how he/she worded it exactly).
instead of this you left the original link notice in the digest (".. added some queries for the convenience" ), such that peers, who appreciate the pre-established one-click google-searches, are confused, when they don't find them.
welcomenewcomer whatisscience
i might go, but i'm not exactly wealthy, and i don't have a lot of money to blow between this and wikimania.
chrispurcell sorry for the inconvenience.
ban the user from meatball if they go  against your will on the subject?
juanmamp -- sun aug 30 11:22:15 2009
as logo and for funny animations to make searching the tables  (like a cat searches mice) more enjoyable we can get lots ofcreativecommons  pictures of funny cats.
you can learn how to read it better.
when i visited, i definitely felt the sense of solidarity.
damanhur is not without it's problems: it's a lot of hard work, both inwardly and outwardly, and damanhurians put a high emphasis oncontinuity and finishing what you start -- backing out of projects freely chosen is strongly discouraged.
excluding the economic wealth-creating effects  of the collaborative work of the wikizens is not holistic enough for more and  more wikizens.
helmut, deletewhenread ?
when i founded the germandsewiki i found  the same problem.
usually this is paid badly but my personal feeling in doing so is  good, and i know quite a number of people that share this attitude.
--chrispurcell chris, thank you for signaling the agreement on the digestedsummary  guidelines.
but solidarity is listed as a core principle in the introduction to the constitution, and is listed as a core principle in the very first point of the constitution.
the fact that doug merritt is able to be accepted there (he is older,  based on his slips about his experience) shows the depth and breadth of his  knowledge, in addition to his willingness to be the "bad guy"  (aggressive gnome).
i would like to destroy that.
i have two related projects, and i  thought you might like to assist.
i think  that the religious/spiritual assertions connected with the humanities team  effort prevent it from succeeding in it's present form, though i think their  work is still worthwhile (in the spirit of: "keep your eye on the  prize.")
-- helmutleitner helmut, see first sunir comments in above paragraph.
first, katkinkade?'s observations of twinoaks?.
but it would be probably trivial to add this, maybe even without changing the code, just by adding some javascript to the page template.
and i read this about people: the more they strive for equality, the more they watch to see what their neighbors have, to see if they've got something that they don't.
i have managed to squeezed in a line or  two in c2 wiki'wikisandbox to mention the sand 'box here for new users, in case they find c2 lock out from  edits.
;) -- sunirshah thank you for writing wikicooperationarticle .
but i think you can change the  situation only from within.
hans i found your skype contact info on my home system.
on suggestedwikirolemodel: personally, i found it fascinating and very useful; i've used the terminology in two place now, (the "evolutionary nexus" website, where i was arguing forsoftsecurity, and showing the ways things can be, and oncommunitywiki, on several occasions.)
humour only warning: now, if only i knew someone on the  review committee, so i'd be able to ... :-)
he's not integrated in here enough (obviously) and may not be accustomed to many things here, and this could be his way of showing it.
until now, most of us were conditioned, to have "a good feeling", when we contribute to wikis, although "this is paid badly", or in less euphemistic terms: "having a good feeling with unpaid work".
i don't want to ruin the "everything you need to know about wiki on one page" quality thewikicooperationarticle has now.
i think,  "yeah, it isn't.
as an aside, it won't take long and some hundred million  newcomer kids (onelaptopperchild project of the mit) from developing countries  will look for the lowest cost entry into the high tech content industry.
send me an email when you get back to  work.
i think doug merritt is not the only one who thinks i create too  many pages, i know of at least one other who used to flame me using an  unidentified ip at c2.
i'm trying to expand on  wikiengineswithsistersites.
virtualcommunity visitorrole
part of the reason there's so much solidarity is because  the entire society is based in perpetual struggle consciously undertaken --  comfort is explicitly not an aim of the society.
andrewcatesref wiki's in schools, have you seen http://tech.canterburyschool.org/tech/frontpage ?
it would be also efficient to distribute external incremental page index  log (e. g. /interwiki/pagename.log) entries "second[+|-]pagename" to  the sis files.
i shouldn't have been so curt or quick to respond when my wits weren't fully with me.
i tried to send you an email and it bounced back from chello.at (jan 3rd, 2006).
can you resend it or give me your route here.
with respect  to you concepts, i'm still a lurker, failing to understand the gist of it.
i want others that look for help here to understand that it is important  to be clear about the mission.
as far as i can see, envy seems to be built into the  human, and i can see evolutionarily why that might be true.
--davidliu helmut: are you planning to attend wikisymtwothousandfive?
--dougmerritt you're right.
--costincozianu why don't you raise your objections on dar wiki itself, helmut?
one approaching grand master level skill in chess, if not already  there).
then, all i'll need  to do is learn enough about how to use the skype software that i won't embarass  myself :.)
she has several well reasoned criticisms tempered with love and affection  for the ways of life she helped found.
this is another good example, how we are all doomed by the staypoor meme.
maybe, does it deserve update?.
they can say, "it's not  exactly like this, but here is a base line of our personal expectations."
is your concern the negative pressure on wikidom, and the general disintegration of wikidom?wikipediaisnottypical seems to speak to that.
this kind of context-sensitive conversational filler never gets cleaned up, so i prefer to move it to more context-sticky pages like namepages.
a few months later (end of 2000)
helmut did what "years ago", helmut?
helmutleitner helmut: are you planning to attend wikisymtwothousandfive?
she also helped seed two ofshoot  communities, if i recall right: east wind and acorn.
everyone is committed to always giving others  opportunities to aim higher.
it also gets into questions of enforcement if someone disagreed...editwar that c2 page?
i tend to think there are "regular readers" that are "not  contributors", yet do appreciate more current information about  "industry news / events".
now think of a cat(alog) of all wikis, practising  openbusiness.
i've currently a friendly relationship to him, but i was  once under the fiercest attacks imaginable - almost for nothing - and i'm not  sure to never come into that situation again.
(i observed that much of the solidarity at harvey mudd college was because we all shared the 2-year long core curriculum, that we all struggled with together; a labor of love.)
but there is also a reading between the lines and lying ...
please offer your views generously and frequently, or better still, get moremeatball people to offer their views at wardswiki.
i am also checking email regularly via hwobbe@datafix.com --hanswobbe
i have seldom seen the "c2 high flyers" doing these chores (not going  to gain popularity with this last statement of mine).
i hear method acting classes are helpful.
guestrole communitymember reflectioncommunity sourcesofpower isaacsdialogue wikipatternlanguage
helmut, your line of thought -- the problem at the bottom of our current "crisis pyramid"  is the social problem of sharing the available resources that could be only  solved by some kind of generous solidarity.
do you know him in real life or  something?
don’t you think that baby is expensive?”
it's a language like any other.
but i think that theserough expectations are sufficient  to communicate how the community sees itself.
i  startedwikiservice and rented wikis ever since, continuously earning money with  wiki.
people who are  expecting contributions from "better qualified (academic) people" has  been disappointed with my "quality of contributions".
have you thought  about why there are so few women atwardswiki?
and i'm happy that you find cdml as useful as i do.
written in high school  english.
you know how many entries there are under google:wiki and google:cat.
first two are considered to be marginally acceptable by the current group  which is still strongly unix biased.
only when there  is mutual agreement does it have the possibility of becoming real.
helmut, i've learned quite a lot about wiki software and communities in the past few weeks, and i have a feeling i might have invented a few things in process.
"following are my current and rambling views.
sometimes the "more and more links to information -- where does it ever stop?" seems overwhelming.
" "kat: because the aim is to make everybody feel equally served by the  establishment, and that's impossible.
helmut helmut, what do you think about the twinwikiball project? --
over time i've become a bit realistic.
techies will open a port in their firewalls as early as wednesday.
completely open and free communities are impossible, not because a  community can't be open for difficult people, but because the community is then  closed for people that haven't grown a skin 2 inched thick.
the developments at c2 are notofftopic here - ctwocommentary may be undesirable because it might polarize the two communities.
if you have the good will and tolerance to teach him and take responsibility for him, that's fine with me.
a lot  of people are seeking a new economy and takeopensource as a model and derive  its attractiveness from "it's free".
helmut asks what digest is referred to.
the most obvious benefit is that  it seems to offer a nicer and more graduated alternative to thefishbowl.
what a nice wabi sabi. :-) -- fridemar mdash (—).
sunir, what are the meatball goals for next year?
some people don't grok wiki, perhaps they do not grok the world, they probably  never will
i did it in about a day - thank you very much, cliff!
thanks for doing the digest,  couldn't figure out how to phrase it :)