programming - ruby on rails - security - python programming - php programming view results loading ... - search - categories - android (1) - c/c++ programming (26) - cascading style sheets (css) (5) - cryptography (2) - dbms / databases (4) - design patterns (1) - funny / interesting (2) - general programming (6) - general tips & tricks (8) - javascript programming (1) - linux tips (24) - linux/unix programming (5) - php programming (6) - python programming (9) - reverse engineering / cracking (3) - ruby on rails (5) - ruby programming (1) - security (5) - windows programming (2) - windows talk (1) - popular posts - introduction to reverse engineering and software cracking - how to use the urllib python library to fetch url data and more - how to hack wireless wep connections in 10 minutes or less - 10 ruby on rails 3 tips that will make you a better rails programmer - numeral systems conversion : binary, octal, decimal and hexadecimal - how to filter lists in python - how to recompile your linux kernel easily - 10 books that every computer programmer must own - how to code a tic tac toe game in c++ including artificial intelligence opponent - 5 reasons why you should learn python programming - how to download a whole website using wget - code a twitter auto post script for wordpress blogs in python - write a celcius to fahrenheit converter in c++ (and vice versa) - what is the best first programming language for new programmers ?
(you can select 3) - c and c++
your email will never be used to spam you - vote please !
programming tips for versatile coders home posts tagged “dive into python” oct 20 2009 5 reasons why you should learn python programming posted by spyros in python programming, tags: dive into python, learn python, python coder, python  programming, python programming language
my intention is to give you some simple insight so that you can decide for yourself whether or not it would be a good idea for you to choose python as your main programming language or just use it for certain projects.
read the rest of this entry » 21 comments » - ruby on rails blog fresh tutorials, resources, best practices and ideas on ruby on rails 3 - subscribe to receive codercaste updates via rss !
enter your email address: delivered by feedburner
in this post, i will not enter into the technical details of the language nor use fancy words to describe you some of the language specifics.
my intention is to give you some simple insight so that you can  decide for yourself whether or not it would be a good idea for you to choose  python as your main programming language or just use it for certain projects.
- subscribe to codercaste updates !
if you are new to python programming or in computer programming in general, it would certainly be important for you to get some information on the advantages and disadvantages of the language and understand why would somebody want to use it.
programming tips for versatile coders - home - archives - guest posting - contact posts tagged “dive into python”
if you are new to python programming or in computer programming in general,  it would certainly be important for you to get some information on the  advantages and disadvantages of the language and understand why would somebody  want to use it.
read the rest of this entry »
oct 20 2009 5 reasons why you should learn python programming posted by spyros in python programming, tags: dive into python, learn python, python coder, python programming, python programming language
in this post, i will not enter into the technical details of  the language nor use fancy words to describe you some of the language  specifics.
- n.a.t. (network address translation) and port forwarding explained - 12 tips that will make you a better programmer - 5 reasons why you should learn c/c++ programming - how to create a shell script to listen to radio via mplayer entries (rss) and comments (rss).
what is your favorite topic discussed in this blog ?
programming - cryptography - databases - linux tips /