i’m not an expert here, i find that most early stage companies are limited due to the “being in business for less than 3 years”.
the effort is publishing16 one pagers from thought leaders (there 8 published as of oct 15, 2009) in a dialogue on what canada must do next.
pdc08 was a great trip, however, it ended really poorly for me.
the future of c# presented by anders hejlsberg a lap around "oslo" presented by douglas purdy, vijaye raji windows 7: design principles for windows 7 presented by samuel moreau oomph: a microformat toolkit presented by karsten januszewski office business applications: enhanced deployment presented by saurabh  bhatia, andrew whitechapel developing for microsoft surface presented by brad carpenter, robert levy
“network partners are active members of the local software ecosystem engaged with high-potential, early stage startups.
and with the development of programs likebizspark the continued support of events likestartupcampmontreal and founders & funders, and yesterday’sfunding announcement at xobni, there a number of new opportunities for startups to get access to free software and exposure.
but there areprograms that can help, check out the spla and saas on-ramp programs .
some rights reserved by nick, programmerman gary rivlin at fortune magazine has some recent articles about steve ballmer and microsoft senior management (the problem with microsoft… &why insiders think top management has lost its way).
it’s interesting because  it allows for a level of abstraction around the platform: compute, storage and  management.
it’s time to exercise your minimalist creativity and get back to basics – back to optimizing every little byte like your life depended on it.
and he’s very, very intense.
gary rivlin nailed my feelings and analysis on microsoft in the problem with microsoft….
both of these challenges have the same prize: what: mix09what: mix09 one winner will receive a pass to mix09, hotel accommodations and a visa gift card.
<3 your web pdc is less than a week away, and it appears that the mix team is busy
there are both developer and it professional stories.
best i can figure it’s very similar to an existing server configuration.
i’m thinking it will take  additional time and prototyping to learn how to architect and build my web apps  to run on azure (bigger challenge seems to be teaching me c#).
silverlight 2 is a way for designers and developers to create compelling rich internet applications.
i love the layout of the timeline application.
+ sql services simple storage  service (s3)
if your a startup, you can decide to keep your application, infrastructure and services in the cloud leveraging the ability to instantly scale your applications and manage your costs.
developers can begin to build solutions that fit the needs of their audience.
articles / development / microsoft — 6 comments mark relph has been talking about choice and flexibility (part 2) for customers.
and i hope they can continue to build world class products, markets and inspire future developers.
if you don’t meet the requirements for bizspark, there are other partner programs.
you can start see the applications and tools that microsoft has been shipping in context.
this will be my first deeply microsoft conference.
it’s funny, i’ve asked about startups building on .net in the past.
but it washis interview with guy kawasaki that forever changed my opinion of steve.
productwiki is building a web service for open product reviews.
windows presentation foundation (wpf) is  a powerful environment for desktop software development.
if you don’t meet the requirements for bizspark, there are other  partner programs.
and look atthe fight for mobile developers.
david aiken – windows azure technical evangelist david lemphers – pm on windows azure gus perez – developer on cloud compute tools jim nakashima – pm on cloud compute tools sriram krishnan – pm on windows azure steve marx – technical strategist on windows azure other blogs & resources azurefeeds – aggregation of a bunch of feeds (including most of the  above) david burela – playing with silverlight and wcf in windows azure  services mike amundsen – currently doing some work against windows azure  tables tanzim saqib – wrote a couple nice pieces about windows azure, but  haven’t seen a lot lately on the topic… articles /  microsoft / mobile / software+services — 4 comments 28 oct 08 improving the mobile browser
but it was at mix08 that i changed my mind.
the choice of user  experience.
having spent a couple of  days hanging out withgeoff norton at fsoss in toronto.
at the end of the three years there is a us$100 fee.
it’s great to see sessions by the mono team.
i’ve stayed at the westin bonaventure for pdc08 and chi98.
and it’s great to see a desktop class browsing experience come to windows mobile.
our products and services are built with microsoft sharepoint and custom c#/.net/mssql code combined with a rich and powerful back end toolset consisting of linux/bsd, nagios, mysql, apache, freeradius, postgresql and many other open source elements.
mit’s michael cusumano, who has featured microsoft in several books, including the new work staying power, sees a company hopelessly stuck in neutral, in no small part because microsoft has a weak board and no one expects bill gates, the company’s top shareholder, with about 5% of shares outstanding, to oust the ceo, who was the best man at his wedding.
startups can participate in bizspark for up to 3 years, (assuming they haven’t changed ownership or gone public in years 1 or 2).
as developers you get  a shared set of tools (web standards, javascript, jquery, .net, xaml, c#,  visualstudio 2008) that can be used to build applications and services.
datastore apis - message queue cloud storage  services simple queue services (sqs) - - table adapted from enterprisecloud.info i’m trying to relate it to my experiences building rails apps and  deploying on ec2 and s3 instances.
or if you think you should be a  network partner,sign up using the champ id = davcrow.
the choice of device.
but learning to use ec2, s3 and sqs took some time.
so i’m hoping based on the event participants that these topics will be covered.
i was impressed with both the depth and breadth of his understanding of the microsoft business.
i promise for pdc09 to not hole up in my hotel room and hide because my chest hurts!
in canada today, there were over 20 network partners including: i keep looking for network partners to join the program.
xobni is mail analytics and improved communications integrated in outlook.
yes, nothing  there now, but more will come, so subscribe.
i stayed in thebiltmore as part of the planning committee for chi2000.
there are no initial costs.
i wasn’t always a steve ballmer fan.
the program includesvisual studio team system team suite (vsts) with msdn premium for development, testing and demonstration purposes.
why does a browser on mobile matter?
there is lots to love about microsoft.
articles /microsoft — comments off getting ready to head to la for microsoft professional developers conference (which begs the question as a non-professional developer what am i doing at pdc?).
powered by wordpress.
if you can’t find a network partner, drop me a note.
i am blown away by the work that is going on by the novell team and the silverlight team to build a new cross-browser, cross-platform runtime.
“ballmer has been a good steward of windows, and that’s about it,” cusumano says.
today with the announcement ofwindows azure you can start to see how microsoft is trying to offer the rich user experience choices and the choice of infrastructure, on premises or in the cloud, for developers, it pros and ultimately consumers.
what you get is the opportunity to figure out what is right for you, your developers, your organization, your customers and your applications.
a higher resolution monitor (i’m running at 1280 x 800) would have meant a little less scrolling, but generally a good experience.
these aren’t primarily startup focused, however, since a lot of startups should be using technology to solve a problem and thesubmission form is nothing more than your elevator pitch.
what could you create for the web if you only had 10 kilobytes of code?
he was informed about strategy, about operations, about technology, about sales, about acquisitions.
intro to windows azure services platform steve marx: learn how to build on windows azure manuvir das: introducing windows azure steve marx: windows azure for developers dave campbell: inside sql services john shewchuk and dennis pilarinos: inside .net
i’m turning over a new leaf.
there are a few successes like silverlight, kinect, xna and office.
silverlight 2 is a way for designers and developers to create  compelling rich internet applications.
the platform is roughly a 3 layered approach.
it’s interesting because it allows for a level of abstraction around the platform: compute, storage and management.
the choice of user experience.
but i think there are even more concerns for the future.
internet explorer 8 is a web standards compliant browser.
there are also production licenses for windows server, sql server, biztalk server, and office sharepoint server.
just like i have operating system and server topology in a data center design, i need to do the same in building a cloud application.
it feels less like hosting a vm instance on amazon infrastructure and  using their storage and queuing service to scale my architecture.
thomas lewis has a great post on hotels for pdc09.
but this just reinforces my concerns and disappointment.
i’m not entirely sure  where you fit if you’re offering a saas solution outside of bizspark.
it is about being able to build the right solution for your company, your audience, and your market using the appropriate tools and technologies.
xobni is mail analytics and  improved communications integrated in outlook.
i’m an ex-microsoft employee.
if you have an organization that supports start-ups in edmonton, calgary, sudbury, charlottetown, halifax, dartmouth, st. john’s, quebec city, yellowknife,drop me a note and i’ll do my best to get them to register.
today with the announcement ofwindows azure you can start to see how  microsoft is trying to offer the rich user experience choices and the choice of  infrastructure, on premises or in the cloud, for developers, it pros and  ultimately consumers.
but it  is also a device that has a desktop class web browser.
if you get a chance, watch the full interview with guy kawasaki and steve ballmer.
articles / development / microsoft — 6 comments 27 oct 08 give customers choice mark relph has been talking about choice and flexibility (part 2) for  customers.
there is a great list of the usual suspects and the some new faces including: do you hate the style of the mix site?
next to the coffee or the bourbon, the keynotes are the best  part of a conference.
and it’s great to see a desktop class browsing experience come to  windows mobile.
we are looking to employ two junior developers, one with a microsoft/.net focus, one with a linux/opensource focus.
basically he writes a standard asp.net application, and then  separately configures the runtime environment.
startups need to meet the following requirements: - is in the business of software development, - is privately held, - has been in business for less than 3 years, and - has less than us $1 million in annual revenue
it’s a great chance to win a conference pass, hotel accommodations and a gift card (money) for time in your vegas.
sure, i had become an employee of microsoft canada and ultimately steve is my boss.
plus how can you go wrong with the name biltmore?development / jobs / microsoft / toronto — comments off
internet explorer 8 is a web standards compliant  browser.
skyfire announced their open beta today.
hi – i’m brent ashley, independent democamp sponsor and ajax pub nite host.
look at the rogers market share this past quarter as a result of the iphone.
he’s speaking at the can>win initiative presented by the canadian chamber of commerce.
it boasts an impressive set of features including: and the best part is that skyfire also supports flash video on windows mobile.
thoughtfarmer is enterprise collaboration tool that lives behind the firewall.
me.dium is  building a shared social browsing experience.
think demo or clip of happy users.
the web is the primary distribution channel for content, wether your on a mobile phone, a custom application or dedicated device.
i am a senior developer and one of the founding partners at knowledgeworx.
the web is the primary distribution channel for content, wether your on  a mobile phone, a custom application or dedicated device.
if you have an organization  that supports start-ups in edmonton, calgary, sudbury, charlottetown, halifax,  dartmouth, st. john’s, quebec city, yellowknife,drop me a note and  i’ll do my best to get them to register.
knowledgeworx (http://www.kwx.ca) is a leading provider of wireless infrastructure services, technology asset management and networked device monitoring to the retail sector.
if you are an existing company with a large it investment, you can leverage your existing corporate infrastructure layering in the pieces that allow you to grow or reduce your costs through the economies of scale offered by the cloud services.
turns out  there is a lot of ground to cover in this country.
there are both  developer and it professional stories.
it’s a pretty complete package for startups looking to gain access to the tools for design and development.
these aren’t primarily startup focused, however, since a lot of  startups should be using technology to solve a problem and thesubmission form  is nothing more than your elevator pitch.
it’s about the flexibility of the platform to grow and evolve as you do.
it feels different than the amazon aws  approach.
what you get is the opportunity to figure out what is right for you, your  developers, your organization, your customers and your applications.
theme design by wpshoppe.
first you need to find a network partner.
internet explorer 8 is a tool for accessing software in the cloud.
“where do all the microsofties hang after the event?
later in the evening, after evening events and a/v checks are done, many of our kind will head over to the lobby of thewestin bonaventure where everyone will be hanging out at the bar chatting up the news of the day and talking with attendees.
the event is focused on helping to “define strategies to secure canada’s global advantage”.
it’s  about the flexibility of the platform to grow and evolve as you do.
turns out there is a lot of ground to cover in this country.
if you are an existing company  with a large it investment, you can leverage your existing corporate  infrastructure layering in the pieces that allow you to grow or reduce your  costs through the economies of scale offered by the cloud services.
it changed my opinion.
steve is a passionate guy.
themicrosoft blue sky innovation excellence award offers canada isvs (independent software vendors) a way to gain access to product experts and members of theemerging business team portfolio managers (think christopher griffin, don dodge, cliff reeves and others), exposure onmicrosoftstartupzone and a case study, access to new technologies and architectural guidance, software tools, among other things.
articles  /microsoft — comments off oct 08 pdc kicks off tomorrow getting ready to head to la for microsoft professional developers conference  (which begs the question as a non-professional developer what am i doing at  pdc?).
j cloud compute tools team – the team that built the visual studio  integration for windows azure.
official entry requirements, procedures, rules and restrictions coming in november.
i was just blown away at the insight, honesty and the casualness of the conversation.
but it is also a device that has a desktop class web browser.
i’m not entirely sure where you fit if you’re offering a saas solution outside of bizspark.
the launch factory inc. wesley clover international corporation i keep looking for network partners to join the program.
–network partner program guide basically, these are the folks supporting startups.
there are 2 prizes of $5,000 along with exposure.
it also helped me understand the “developers, developers, developers”.
use your own css and images to restyle the mix homepage.
it’s should be good practice to  practice giving your pitch and creating a 60 second video demonstrating why  your solution is valuable.
it’s only a few blocks from westin, check out mybing collection of the hotels to help find your friends in downtown la, and it’s something new.
and i have been an apple fanboy for a long time (spending my entire signing bonus in 1997 on apple stock).
i’ve been  working on folks in alberta, british columbia and on the east coast.
speakers like: i’m hopeful that there will be some thought pieces on topics that interest me.
feature microsoft amazon google vmware table adapted from enterprisecloud.info i’m trying to relate it to my experiences building rails apps and deploying on ec2 and s3 instances.
here are some of the sessions  out side of the keynotes i’m looking forward to.
i’m waiting to see who is lined up to round out the remaining 8 dialogue pieces.
cloudenterprise hasan interesting comparison of windows azure to amazon aws, google app engine and vmware.
as developers you get a shared set of tools (web standards, javascript, jquery, .net, xaml, c#, visualstudio 2008) that can be used to build applications and services.
here are some of the sessions out side of the keynotes i’m looking forward to.
it is about being able to build the right solution for your company,  your audience, and your market using the appropriate tools and technologies.
i am a little underwhelmed as none of the published pieces are about telecommunications, technology, copyright, education or any of things that interest me.
the articles make great fodder given the rise of apple to be larger than microsoft in both market capitalization and revenues.
articles / culture / microsoft — 3 comments steve ballmer is coming to toronto.
steve marx provides an example hello cloud application in learning to build on windows azure.
it’s should be good practice to practice giving your pitch and creating a 60 second video demonstrating why your solution is valuable.
it turns out that after aheart attack, they take this stuff very seriously, and wanted to do an angiogram.
next to the coffee or the bourbon, the keynotes are the best part of a conference.
“microsoft blue sky competition for the so-many startuppers using ms technology” –heri bizspark is a program aimed at providing startups with access to software, support and visibility.
thoughtfarmer is enterprise  collaboration tool that lives behind the firewall.
if your a startup, you can decide to keep your application,  infrastructure and services in the cloud leveraging the ability to instantly  scale your applications and manage your costs.
announcing plans formix09 in vegas.
but learning  to use ec2, s3 and sqs took some time.
the view there is awesome but the drinks can get expensive.
basically he writes a standard asp.net application, and then separately configures the runtime environment.
this is a great opportunity for local web designers to create a new experience.
points to lots of good resources by  individual team members.
the goal is to provide designers and developers a common set of services that can be mixed an matched.
(php, mysql, hadoop), google (java, python, bigtable),facebook (php, memcache, cassandra, linux), linkedin (solaris, tomcat, oracle),groupon (java, salesforce, ec2, zynga (php, mysql, amf), quora (mysql. memcache, php).
and in a tribute to my turn-of-the-last-century industrialists i’m thinking themillennium biltmore will be my home away from home for a few days in november.
you will be eager to work with our intermediate and senior staff who have years of experience and in-depth knowledge to share.
i’m expecting big things from ozzie, scott guthrie, steven sinofsky, and don box.
themicrosoft blue sky innovation  excellence award offers canada isvs (independent software vendors) a way to  gain access to product experts and members of theemerging business team  portfolio managers (think christopher griffin, don dodge, cliff reeves and  others), exposure onmicrosoftstartupzone and a case study, access to new  technologies and architectural guidance, software tools, among other things.
appcelerator’squarterly developer survey shows percentage of developers “very interested” in developing for different platforms: ios (91%); android (85%); windows phone (29%); sure it’s a head of blackberry (27%).
the other program isempower for isvs.
a higher  resolution monitor (i’m running at 1280 x 800) would have meant a little  less scrolling, but generally a good experience.
windows presentation foundation (wpf) is a powerful environment for desktop software development.
you can start see the applications and tools that microsoft has been  shipping in context.
there is a gaping hole in the browser on windows mobile.
services david treadwell: inside live services windows azure blogs windows azure – windows azure team official blog.
what is strange is that i love both of these companies.
just like i  have operating system and server topology in a data center design, i need to do  the same in building a cloud application.
the goal  is to provide designers and developers a common set of services that can be  mixed an matched.
me.dium is building a shared social browsing experience.
i’ve been working on folks in alberta, british columbia and on the east coast.
there is a great list of the usual suspects and the some new faces  including: lou carbone (check out lou’s previous mix sessions) dan roam, digital roam
microsoft is a juggernaut.
i’m preparing for a week of some in depth microsoft experiences  and announcements.
he was that funny dancing man from microsoft.
developers can begin to build solutions that fit the needs of their  audience.
the richness of the  experience can be improved (seelukew’s summary of mix07 beyond the browser ).
feature microsoft amazon  google vmware availability early private ctp commercial available public  beta announced computing architecture windows 2008 virtual machines  elastic compute cloud (ec2) to upload xen images python and run on shared  application server layer move virtual machines between environments storage cloud storage services (blog, table & queue)
yes, i’ve attended the internal events, but i’m really interested in observing and participating with the folks that build windows applications, applications for the web on the microsoft platform and learning more about their experiences.
for the microsoft focused position, we want someone with knowledge and experience with as many of these elements as possible: our ideal candidates will have a passion for technology, demonstrated participation in the technology community, and a voracious capacity to learn and grow.
articles / conferences / microsoft — comments off pdc is less than a week away, and it appears that the mix team is busy announcing plans formix09 in vegas.
the richness of the experience can be improved (seelukew’s summary of mix07 beyond the browser ).
i’m preparing for a week of some in depth microsoft experiences and announcements.
cloudenterprise hasan interesting comparison of windows azure to  amazon aws, google app engine and vmware.
it’s a great way to  access details about each session and build a personal schedule.
i arrived home from la and spent 5 days in toronto general hospital after complaining all week about chest pain.
conferences / microsoft — 2 comments i’m starting to get ready for another trip to los angeles for microsoft pdc.
having spent a couple of days hanging out withgeoff norton at fsoss in toronto.
best i can  figure it’s very similar to an existing server configuration.
”thomas lewis – devil’s field guide to the pdc
the choice that fits your business and your customers.
articles / development / microsoft — 69 commentsarticles / development / microsoft — 69 comments microsoft released the initial details about the cloud computing platform atpdc in october.
i am blown away by  the work that is going on by the novell team and the silverlight team to build  a new cross-browser, cross-platform runtime.
windows 7is a continued evolution of the  desktop user experience.
bluesky & ignite it there are 2 programs that offer developers and isvs an opportunity to  showcase their products and solutions.
i’m not an expert here, i find that most early stage  companies are limited due to the “being in business for less than 3  years”.
internet explorer 8 is a tool for accessing software in  the cloud.
let’s be clear microsoft is still a large powerful company, they have just lost their way in defining the next generation of technology, business models, and customers.
it feels different than the amazon aws approach.
but  there areprograms that can help, check out the spla and saas on-ramp programs .
inspire the world with just 10k of code.
they are organizations specifically focused on supporting software entrepreneurs and startups, or whose activities include a focus on promoting and supporting software startups, through programs, mentoring, networking, business advices, financial and legal assistance or similar services and activities.”
the latest set of announcements at pdc have focused on improving the end  user and developer user experiences.
my thought is that this could easily be repurposed to help explain to your potential customers the power and benefit of your solution.
sure there are shining examples of companies building on sharepoint and sql server and azure, but do they have the size and scale of those previously mentioned?
it feels less like hosting a vm instance on amazon infrastructure and using their storage and queuing service to scale my architecture.
i’m thinking it will take additional time and prototyping to learn how to architect and build my web apps to run on azure (bigger challenge seems to be teaching me c#).
just look at what the latest generation of big web companies are building on: yahoo!
other great prizes are to be announced.
it was where true lies was filmed.
we are a small shop so there will be lots of opportunity for overlap and cross-learning.
it’s a great way to access details about each session and build a personal schedule.
there are 2 prizes of $5,000 along with  exposure.
but the markets and choices are evolving.
now, if you are looking to find all the hipster-microsofties, then you want to head to the club at the rooftop of the standard.
it boasts an impressive set of  features including: new super bar that combines search and url entry into one bar skyfire can now be set as the default browser new search bar on the homescreen new start page redesign faster start-up and page loading times share a link via sms invite friends to download skyfire via sms save an image download files and the best part is that skyfire also supports flash video on windows  mobile.
my thought is  that this could easily be repurposed to help explain to your potential  customers the power and benefit of your solution.
steve marx provides an example hello cloud application in learning to build  on windows azure.
there are 2 programs that offer developers and isvs an opportunity to showcase their products and solutions.
it was a great place to work.
if you are a fan of edgy chef personalities, you know that you always want to find the dives the chefs go to after their shifts are done.
and while the hotel is not the family estate, it should be fun.
it reminds me of stuart butterfield’s5k competition.
articles / conferences / microsoft — comments off 22 oct 08 mix09
look at the rogers market share this  past quarter as a result of the iphone.
yes, i’ve attended  the internal events, but i’m really interested in observing and  participating with the folks that build windows applications, applications for  the web on the microsoft platform and learning more about their experiences.
the ignite it awards are a microsoft canada awards program aimed at  celebrating the problems that were solved through it solutions.
or if you think you should be a network partner,sign up using the champ id = davcrow.
articles / development / microsoft — 69 comments 11 dec 08 blogging azure microsoft released the initial details about the cloud computing platform  atpdc in october.
the ignite it awards are a microsoft canada awards program aimed at celebrating the problems that were solved through it solutions.
but generally the article highlights deeper structural and cultural issues.
windows 7is a continued evolution of the desktop user experience.
still, ballmer needs to do something to shake microsoft from what, at best, seems to be a textbook case of corporate ennui:
microsoft is a huge company.
the latest set of announcements at pdc have focused on improving the end user and developer user experiences.
but i’m thinking i’m going to change it up for 2009.
they are building some great tools.
we are currently accepting resumes via email to careers@kwx.caarticles /entrepreneurship / microsoft / startups / technology — comments off
i’m expecting big things from ozzie, scott guthrie,  steven sinofsky, and don box.