the game's author has probably seen people with your exact same problem many times over and might put information specific to that game on the website.
there was talk about wabi 3.0 which would've done win32 emulation, but afaik, this project was shelved indefinitely.
linux gaming news linux meta gaming site for german speaking folk.
it runs under x at any color depth, and  supports changeable memory sizes, joysticks, and sound.
trilinear filtering always uses mip  mapping.
when an operating system wants to write to a hard drive, it communicates through a device driver that interfaces directly with the hardware device memory.
smart engines calculate what portions of objects will be obscured by  objects above them and simply not render the portions that you won't see  anyhow.
but here's a brief outline using the canonical example of what strace looks like.
the demise of 3dfx was quite sudden and a slap in the face to the open source community.
first, svgalib  executables need to be run by root or be setuid root, however, the library  releases root status immediately after the executable begins to run.
scott adams adventures (adventure international) scott adams is, arguably, the father of interactive fiction.
graphical adventures graphical adventures are, at heart, text adventures on steroids.
these games can be played usingsarienon>  , an open source interpreter for agi games.
despite the authors being a bit surly, their effort with the faq is very good.
don't short change yourself; read them.
this method works for libraries too.
since the open sound system's (oss) deprecation in favour of alsa, all linux distributions i've seen now ship with alsa support as default, with oss support actually being supplied via alsa's compatability modules.
more violent than quake.
and again like the rush,  it wasn't popular.
many modern 3d accelerated cards have  a z buffer in their video ram, which speeds things up considerably, but z  buffering can also be done by the application's rendering engine.
his games were available for atari, apple 2, commodore, sorcerer, ti, and cpm.
ludvig strigeus was able to  reverse engineer the scumm format and write an interpreter for scumm based  games that compiles under linux and win32 named scummvm .
whether you're trying to diagnose an x problem or requesting help from a mailing list or usenet newsgroup, you'll want to have as much information available as possible.
opengl is a high level graphics programming api originally developed by  sgi, and it became an industry standard for 2d and 3d graphics programming.
now if your goal is to run win95 type os games under linux, win4lin almost  seems better than vmware.
fsaa: full screen anti-aliasing fsaa usually involves drawing a magnified version of the entire screen in a  separate framebuffer, performing aa on the entire image and rescaling it back  to the normal resolution.
it's crucial that you know the difference between the various markers you'll see in probeonly output: (--) probed (**) from config file
game reviewers agree that this game has the  features of quake with a story-line more compelling than half-life.
at its lowest level, it provides  a platform independent (as much as that is possible in c++) way of dealing with  display, sound, input, networking, files, threading and such.
gcc will then `place a memo  inside the executable' that says to look at the files /usr/lib/libsdl.so and  /lib/libm.so.3 whenever an sdl or math function is used.
svgalib is a graphics library that lets you draw graphics on the console.
the first step is to make your system  allow unlimited coresizes: ulimit -c unlimited you will now have to recompile the program and pass the -g option to gcc  (explaining this is beyond the scope of this document).
very useful when a google group search yields a page in german which looks useful and my wife (who reads german well) isn't around.
previously, client applications were prohibited from writing directly to hardware, and there was a good reason for this.
when an operating system wants to write to  a hard drive, it communicates through a device driver that interfaces directly  with the hardware device memory.
permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document  under the terms of the open software license, version 1.1, except for the  provisions i list in the next paragraph.
3dfx removed the multi-texturing unit  from the rush, and it was outperformed by the voodoo i.
check outhttp://updates.lokigames.com .
in ultima ii, you destroy  the evil sorceress minax.
first person shooter (aka fps) what light through yonder window breaks?
for instance, when you magnify a picture, you'll notice lines that were once smooth become jagged (try it with the gimp).
i hate howto's that include the  license; it's a tree killer.
strace tells you what system calls are being  made, with what arguments, and what their return values are.
here's  a summary for the x86 architecture (see the documentation for other  architectures).
the same thing is true for opengl clones, like mesa.
while it's not officially certified (that would take more money than an open source project has), it's an almost fully compliant opengl implementation conforming to the arb specifications.
you can get mesademos with debian ( apt-get  install mesademos) or you can hunt for the rpm on http://www.rpmfind.net.
the show-stopper is the fact that vmware has limited  directx support while win4lin has none.
if the game segfaults every time you run it, or is incredibly slow, a saved game file won't be of much help.
this is a way of  adding to the linkers search path.
to this day, you still have to purchasedoom.wad.
however, it's a great diagnostic tool also.
they have  an extremely high "information to space" ratio.
it's  an absolute show stopper for gaming.
google group search every post made to usenet gets archived at google's database at  http://groups.google.com.
frankly, i've  had many cards and i can't tell the difference between any of them for gaming.
to find out whether you have a conflict, do acat /proc/interrupts .
locked system when a computer "locks", also called "hung", the  keyboard and mouse become completely unresponsive.
from ld_library_path export ld_library_path=./lib:./miles:$ld_library_path ./nwmain
my personal recommendation is any card which has the es1370 or es1371 chip, which uses the es1370 and es1371 sound drivers on linux.
simulations strive to immerse the player behind the controls of something they normally wouldn't have access to.
dumb engines draw far  objects first and close objects last, obscuring objects below them in the z  buffer.
some  examples of games written with sci are leisure suit larry 1 (vga), leisure suit  larry 2-7, space quest 3-6, king's quest 4-6, quest for glory 1-4 and many  others.
it must be the flash of the double  barreled shotgun!
multimedia api's are more  centralized on windows than they are on linux.
if your goal is to run win95/98/me applications on linux, without usb  and on the x86 architecture, win4lin's cost and focus on win95 type os's make  it a better choice than vmware.
computer based board games simulate some kind of board game you'd play on a  table top with friends, like monopoly, mille bourne, chess or checkers.
but if you're going to give it a try, you're more likely to have success with vmware.
it started as a joint project between loki software and creative labs, setting out to be a vendor neutral and cross platform api for audio - the audio equivalent of opengl (section 3.3).
once upon a time, soundcards without onboard midi chips (most  pci sound cards) didn't do midi.
the developers take wine (see section 10.5.1) and add directx / directdraw support.
you light the lantern.
xt-pic aic7xxx 12: 2457456 0 xt-pic ps/2  mouse 14: 556955 0 xt-pic ide0 nmi: 0 0 loc: 24186046 24186026 err: 1353
when you use a voodoo iii, iv or v under xfree86 4.x, you want to use a version of mesa (seesection 3.4) which was compiled to use glide3 as a backend to ensure hardware accelerated opengl on your system.
in addition, there isn't an evaluation copy available, although you get a 30 day money back guarantee.
he recently released a new game (a linux version is not  available) but since the decline of adventuring, he has pretty much kept out of  the gaming industry.
however, the original data files are kept proprietary.
when you use a voodoo iii, iv or v under xfree86 4.x, you want to use a  version of mesa (seesection 3.4) which was compiled to use glide3 as a backend  to ensure hardware accelerated opengl on your system.
because of the nature of the vm, the foreign os can't tell the difference  between operating in a vm or in a "real" machine.
gcc will then `bolt on' code from/usr/lib/sdl.a and /usr/lib/libm.a whenever it sees a math function during the compilation process.
if something is already accessing your card, other applications won't be able to.
a good example would be heavy gear iii or flight gear.
there are some real classics that were written for dos like carmageddon, redneck rampage and tomb raider.
$@ this script sets up some environment variables, then launches the game  binary with whatever command line options we added.
as of  today, the 256mb version comes in at a whopping $350, however, the 128mb  version is more reasonable.
if you can't, ssh in  from a another machine.
by the word "best" i mean best for gaming.
if you have ideas, corrections or questions relating to this howto, please  email me.
distributed subject to the open software license, ver 1.1 if you have ideas, corrections or questions relating to this howto, please email me.
each interpreter has its own set of strengths, and you can  find links to them on the home pages for frotz and jzip.
although some games may work with  wine, you'll probably get the most success with winex: its directx support is  constantly improving.
for this howto, we'll assume that you're more of a gamer than a studio  recording engineer.
wabi does not do dos itself, but it looks like it can use a dos emulator as a backend for running dos programs.
kegs boots all apple ii  variants, and supports all of the apple ]['s graphics modes.
getting information about your x system whether you're trying to diagnose an x problem or requesting help from a  mailing list or usenet newsgroup, you'll want to have as much information  available as possible.
using scottfree and any of the scott adams data files which can be  downloaded from scott's website  you can enjoy  these classics.
one comment about portability: each component of directx has multiple corresponding library on linux.
on the other hand, you can ask for help and the developers are very good about getting around to your answer; their vigilance is quite impressive.
this room appears  to be a kitchen.
beyond the 9200, you need to use ati's binary only proprietary drivers, available in rpm format from ati's website.
for example, if you have a voodoo i, ii or iii card under xfree86 3.x, you'd use mesa+glide2 (written by david bucciarelli) which is the mesa implementation of opengl that uses glide2 as a backend to render for graphical operations.
if the  page is not in a language you can understand, there are many translation sites  which will convert the text into whatever language you like, including http://www.freetranslation.com and http://translation.lycos.com.
then where is the right directory?
pci cards can share interrupts, but certain types of high bandwidth cards simply don't like to share, including network and sound cards.
these are a set of tools you can use to obtain
when it wants to set an irq, give it some bogus instructions that lets it think it set an irq.
the components of directx are: directdraw gives direct access to video memory, like dri, so 2d graphics can be blitted directly to the video card.
if the sound card works when you're root but not any other user, you  probably have a permissions problem.
even when an ati offering is better than the current geforce offering for windows, the card is always trounced by geforce on linux.
a few seconds later, hit alt-sysrq-u. this will attempt to remount all your  mounted filesystems as read-only).
but at high resolutions, the performance hit may be  enormous.
(object) files archived  together, similar to a tar file.
if for some reason you're using x 3.3, follow the instructions given by  mtrr.txt (see section 5.1) to set up your mtrrs.
the first adventure game was adventure (actually “advent”,  written on a pdp-1 in 1972).
ati started to release a tremendous number of versions of each video card,  and keeping up with them and their terminology started to become very  difficult.
you're still supposed to shutdown  in an orderly manner, but the filesystem integrity will be maintained.
this means that when you get opengl from sgi, if you want any kind of hardware acceleration at all, it must be opengl written and compiled specifically for some graphics card.
at the prompt, type "reset".
vm's were used initially in the 1960's to emulate time shared operating systems, but these days we use them to run software which was written for foreign operating systems, or more commonly, an entire operating system.
the data files are the actual game itself, similar to the relationship between first person shooters (section 2.7) and wad files.
i'm not entirely sure of the quality of these open source drivers, however, soldier of fortune i and heavy metal still have opaque texture problems under first generation radeons.
a widget set is a collection of related widgets that are  designed to have a common interface and a consistant "feel".
many problems can be fixed easily if you know your way aroundxf86config (or xf86config-4).
it has support from nvidia (nforce2/3 based motherboards come with openal ms windows libraries for the on-board audio), apple has added openal to their audio framework for osx and it can also be found powering the epic games unreal engine
the console was hosed with a quasi-graphics screen.
his games were available for atari,  apple 2, commodore, sorcerer, ti, and cpm.
since sound is crucial for me, i always compile sound into my kernels.
static libraries usually end with.a followed by a version number, like: /usr/lib/libsdl.a /usr/lib/libm.a the .a files are really an archive of a bunch of .o
in the example above, we can see that nwmain wants libmss.so.6, and the linker cannot find it.
this is why a game can easily take out a windows system but should not take down a linux system.
directaudio directaudio is a combination of 2 audio api's, directsound and directmusic,  which allows direct access to the sound card for sound and music playback.
your 3d system is misconfigured (more likely)
this presents a problem for companies like transgaming ( section 10.5.3) and prompted a fork of wine called rewind (section 10.5.2).
the project uses sdl and is released under the modified bsd license.
ati started becoming more and more reluctant to open source drivers for  their new releases, and suddenly, it wasn't clear who the "good guy"  was anymore.
this document is a stepping stone to get the most common problems resolved and to give people the knowledge to begin thinking intelligently about what is going on with their games.
on paper,  it's simply the more impressive card.
$ export ld_library_path=./lib:./miles:$ld_library_path $ ldd nwmain linux-gate.so.1 => (0xffffe000) libm.so.6
it'll tell you things like screen and window resolution, color depth, window gravity state (which gives a hint to the window manager about where to place new windows), backing store usage and more.
they simply don't apply to us.
the lock can also be a "soft lock", meaning that the kernel is still  functioning in some capacity.
for instance, i can browse loki software's news server with tin -g  news.lokigames.com.
there were a number of voodoo iii's, ranging from a 143mhz core speed to 183mhz.
aa can be done either by the application itself (as with the gimp or the xfree86 font system) or by hardware, if your video card supports it.
any game-supplied copy of a library such as openal or sdl is likely to be compiled for the lowest common denominator, probably i486 or i686.
id software's open sourced the doom codebase and ported quake i to linux (december 1996).
for example,  maybe you have an mp3 player that's paused?
you can play ultima vii under linux with exult (section 11.7).
there are  certainly graphics on the console—we will discuss the two most common  ways to achieve this.
type "ldd nwmain" and you'll see: $ ldd nwmain linux-gate.so.1 => (0xffffe000) libm.so.6
when bad things happen to good people of course we can't cover every bad thing that happens, but i'll outline  some items of common sense.
there are sdl extensions written by various people to do things like handle any graphics format you care to mention, play mpegs, display truetype fonts, sprite handling and just about everything under the sun.
/usr/lib/libstdc++.so.5 (0x40b30000) libgcc_s.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgcc_s.so.1 (0x40be7000) as you can see, this gives us slighly different results.
wine has come a long way, and is capable of emulating many important programs, which is great news for linux users who want this sort of stuff.
fortunately, we have more emulators than you can  shake a stick at.
unreal  engine currently, it's not all cross-platform goodness.
so if you don't see your sound card's driver with lsmod, your card probably isn't configured yet.
in march 1998, 3dfx released their voodoo ii, with its 3.6gb/sec memory bandwith, 12mb of video memory and 90mhz core.
run the  debugger with the core file as the 2nd argument: $ gdb coolgameexecutable core
a compatibility page is maintained at the scummvm website.
the best tool to use here is lsof, which shows which processes are accessing a file.
the google group search has a basic and advanced search page.
trilinear filtering eliminates the banding effect that appears between  adjacent mip map levels.
their website is very good, and chock full of any kind of information about scumm and playing these games under scummvm.
here's an example of some information i gleaned from my output: i'm running at 16 bpp color: (**) tdfx(0): depth 16, (--) framebuffer bpp 16 x has detected what my videocard chipset and videoram are: (--) chipset 3dfx voodoo5 found (--)
have everything under the sun compiled as a module and try to load them all.
the relevant part here is  the environment variable called "ld_library_path".
card reviews claim that it has some serious heat, noise, and dust issues.
for example, i added the users p and wellspring to group audio on my system: audio:x:29:p,wellspring don't forget to use grpconv if you use shadow passwords (which should be the case on most recent distributions) in order to maintain a consistent group configuration.
we were getting our first tastes of real commercial gaming.
smart engines calculate what portions of objects will be obscured by objects above them and simply not render the portions that you won't see anyhow.
there are 3 canonical parts to opengl:
openal  aims to be for sound what opengl is  for graphics.
to find out what libraries a game uses, we can use the "ldd"  command.
later on, the sophisticated graphical adventures had your character roaming around the screen, and you could even use a mouse, but the interface remained purely text.
write(2, "can\'t open data  file \'mind.dat\'."..., )
when it wants to access a hard drive, give it some memory to write to.
all modern 3d accelerated video cards can do bilinear filtering in hardware with no performance hit.
the oven door is now closed.
it's only used for voodoo i,  ii, iii boards (which are becoming outdated), under xfree86 3.x
about libraries on linux a common problem you'll see in gaming is a library file not being found.
since glide2 accesses the video card directly, glide2 applications will  either need to be run by root or be setuid root.
most windows users were switching to nvidia, and despite the fact that the nvidia drivers were proprietary, even linux users began to jump onto the nvidia bandwagon.
libm.so.6 => /lib/libm.so.6 (0x40027000) libpthread.so.0
here is how you can get the call stack at barf-time: sometimes distros set up their os so that core files (which are mainly  useful to programmers) aren't generated.
tdfx(0): videoram: 32768 kbyte  mapping 65536 kbyte 4.1.2.
gtk is  the canonical widget set on linux, but there are many others like fltk (a small  c++ widget set), xaw, qt (the widget set of kde), and motif (the widget set  used by netscape).
voodoo card hardware acceleration only takes place only at 16bpp color and fails silently when starting x in another color depth.
that is, code gets linked into the executable at run time, as opposed to compile time.
in the case of nwn, the wrapper is callednwn.
once upon a time, a company in san jose, california named 3dfx interactive  was king of the gaming video card market.
trilinear texture filtering trilinear filtering is a high quality bilinear filter which uses the four  closest pixels in the second most suitable mip map to produce smoother  transitions between mip map levels.
these days there's usually a data file and an interpreter.
there was talk about wabi 3.0 which  would've done win32 emulation, but afaik, this project was shelved  indefinitely.
the x86 architecture  isn't required, but is recommended since it allows actual x86 binary execution  as well as direct dll usage).
it has support from nvidia (nforce2/3 based motherboards come with openal ms  windows libraries for the on-board audio), apple has added openal to their  audio framework for osx and it can also be found powering the epic games
the  numbers on the left are the assigned irq's and the strings to the right  indicate what device was assigned that irq.
as of  february 2002, i've been following their cvs, and this project is undergoing  constant development.
commercial games  will have a printed manual and maybe some readme files on the cd the game came  on.
fwiw, i've been  able to finish many of the games that are listed as 90% done with no problems.
your sound card is  represented by/dev/dsp.
this was 3dfx in its heyday.
if my sound card is pci, the preferred way of fixing this would be to simply move one of the cards to a different slot and hope the bios sorts things out.
it'll tell you things like screen and  window resolution, color depth, window gravity state (which gives a hint to the  window manager about where to place new windows), backing store usage and more.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libglu.so.1 (0x40103000) libmss.so.6 => not found  libsdl-1.2.so.0 => /usr/lib/libsdl-1.2.so.0 (0x40178000) libc.so.6
error:can't open data file 'mind.dat'.
you also see an oven, refrigerator and a door leading east.
these days sims and strats are nearly indistinguishable, but a long time ago, sims were real time while strats were turn based.
strace ./mind.i86_linux.glibc2.1 2> ./stateofmind_log pulling out vim and searching for all occurrences of mind.dat, i find the following lines: open("/usr/share/mind.dat",o_rdonly) =
it exists only to support dri on voodoo iii, iv and v boards under xfree86 4.x.
as a last note, you can't look up information in source code of commercial games from lokisoft or tribsoft.
however, there have been numerous reports about serious problems with the live!
ultima 7 is actually 2 games: part i (the black gate) and part ii (serpent island) which uses a slightly enhanced version of the black gate's engine.
vm's were used initially in the 1960's to emulate time shared operating  systems, but these days we use them to run software which was written for  foreign operating systems, or more commonly, an entire operating system.
you get what you pay for with speakers, but don't expect a  huge difference.
moreover,vmware has only  limited support for directx, and you might not be able to play recent games.
frotz is gpl, runs all versions of z-machine and will compile on most versions of unix.
second, the action takes place in first person.
so it makes some sense to talk about howgcc andld.so go about finding libraries in the first place.
as far  as i can see, the developers really do listen to the subscriber polls.
when you  compile a program, by default,gcc uses dynamic libraries, but you can  makegcc use static libraries instead by using the -static switch.
and  actually, your "background" or "root" window is considered  a window too.
nvidia  uses a convenient combined driver architecture; their driver will support the  tnt 2 all the way up to the geforce 5900.
some are considerably complex, and  there's often a fine line between sims and strats (section 2.6).
if you have x 4.0 (x 3.
this module (and its device file/dev/3dfx)  allows glide2 graphical hardware acceleration for non-root users of non-setuid  applications.
sdl  is a library by sam lantiga (graduate of  ucd, yeah!).
just like opengl, mesa makes use of hardware acceleration whenever possible.
anti aliasing is the smoothing of jagged edges along a rendered curve or polygon.
these 8 numbers will tell you which modeline your x uses.
kegs kegs is an apple ii emulator written by kent dickey  which was originally written for hp-ux, but  improved and customized for linux.
most games don't need the low-level interface that xlib provides.
if you don't understand the first response you  see (or if it doesn't work), then try one of the other many replies.
as far as i can see, the developers really do listen to the subscriber polls.
in turn, it  motivates me to write more and add to this document.
hardware acceleration works only for the root user 9.2.1.
if you're playing a game under x, don't run a window manager, and certainly don't run a desktop manager like gnome or kde.
this file contains a list of directories that you wantld.so to search for dynamic libraries.
withgcc -print-search-dirs ld.so looks to a binary hash contained in a file named /etc/ld.so.cache for a list of directories that contain available dynamic libraries.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libxext.so.6 (0x409f3000) libx11.so.6 =>
nvidia's party line was they license some of their gl code from  another company, and is thus non-releasable.
if you have a pentium4 or an athlonxp, you could compile you own version specifically for your processor.
as of today, the 256mb version comes in at a whopping $350, however, the 128mb version is more reasonable.
however, occasionally, they'll have things like code warrior or redhat linux on sale.
x 4.0 does this automatically for you.
when a computer "locks", also called "hung", the keyboard and mouse become completely unresponsive.
however, as of 3jan01, mathieu pinard of tribsoft said that he was taking a break and tribsoft would no longer release games for awhile.
mip mapping is a technique where several scaled copies of the same texture are stored in the video card memory to represent the texture at different distances.
if you're looking at a console, the system will print the devices which were remounted.
the -o option sends strace's output to a file; here, ls_log.
while linux is known for stability, these things do happen, especiallly for gaming which entails highly synchronized hardware events which occur very fast, even to a computer.
for example, if my problem was that quake iii crashed  everytime lucy jumps, i would enter "linux quake3 crash lucy jumps"  in the "find messages with all of the words" textbox.
dosemu  is the canonical dos emulator on linux.
unlike glide2, glide3 is not an api used for game programming.
glxinfo gives lots of useful information about opengl like whether direct rendering enabled, the currently installed versions of glx and mesa, vendor/renderer strings, the gl library files being used and more.
don't bother  with the simple search.
it's also much cheaper than vmware.
the original sci games were dos  based, but sierra eventually started releasing win32 sci based games.
there are certainly graphics on the console—we will discuss the two most common ways to achieve this.
the engine refers  to the actual game itself (doom, quake, heretic2) and plays out the maps and  bad guys outlined by the datafile (doom2.wad, pak0.pak, etc).
the voodoo banshee was released in september 1998 as a combined 2d/3d card, like the rush.
for example, if you have a voodoo i, ii or iii card under  xfree86 3.x, you'd use mesa+glide2 (written by david bucciarelli) which is the  mesa implementation of opengl that uses glide2 as a backend to render for  graphical operations.
gamers want high  quality sound for our games with the least amount of tinkering.
your one stop shop for buying any commercial linux game (software vendors like tribsoft and loki have online shops at their websites too).
frankly, there's enough games for me, although it would be really nice to have some of the bleeding edge games and classics like half-life and carmageddon.
first, check your gdm.conf (usually in /etc/x11/gdm or /etc/gdm) file for a  line that says begins "sessiondesktopdir=blah".
wabi wabi is a commercial win16 emulator.
this means that there are different builds of mesa depending on what kind of video card you have.
this fact alone makes both win4lin and  vmware unsuitable for most hardcore gaming purposes.
this archive used to be at http://www.deja.com, but  was bought by google.
ati has a very long history of dropping support for hardware as fast as they can get away with it.
you'll find this option under "kernel hacking | kernel debugging | magic sysrq key" in whatever kernel config menu you like to use.
however, there may be times when you'll want to play around with mode timings, like for weird hardware or if want to tweak your display.
the information is very detailed, and perhaps overkill for gamers.
next there are the `point and click adventures' which basically have no  text interface at all, and often have dynamic graphics, like a cat wandering  around the room while you're deciding what to do next.
i hate howto's that include the license; it's a tree killer.
sci: script interpreter or sierra creative interpreter (sierra) 11.4.
if you're playing an open source game that you compiled, make sure you have  the newest version by checking the game's website.
often, companies release their engines to the open source community so we can hack and improve them.
every object has a stacking order, like a deck of cards.
the king of video cards worked with linux developers.
this is important for people  who use usb joysticks.
many sci based games (games written in sci0) can be played using freesci,  available athttp://freesci.linuxgames.com.
the answer was very difficult last year, but here's my take on it
if certain keys on your keyboard don't work, be creative.
and it has infinite variants like zangband and nethack (which has many variants itself).
3dfx's voodoo iv, its direct competitor, was about a year late which is very bad when you're competing for a bleeding edge market.
however, there may be times when  you'll want to play around with mode timings, like for weird hardware or if  want to tweak your display.
if you compile your own games, your biggest problem with libraries will either be thatgcc can't find a static library or perhaps the library doesn't exist on your system.
there are several common texture filtering techniques including point-sampling, bilinear, trilinear and anisotropic filtering.
mp entertainment released hopkins fbi, my favorite game ever released for linux.
your game is not at  fault.
in addition, the faq keeps a fairly large database of linux games.
many fps games  allow people to write their own non-commercial datafile.
agi: adventure gaming interface (sierra) the older sierra dos graphical adventure games used a scripting language  named agi (adventure gaming interface).
when playing games from binary, your library woes  will be either be thatld.so can't find the library or
accessing the device file.
it's a mistake to say something like "directx is like opengl" or "directx is like sdl", as is commonly said in directx tutorials.
if there are enough questions (or even  protests) i'll add more basic information to this document.
if your game allows for saved games, then sending the author a copy of the saved game is useful because it helps the tech reproduce whatever is going wrong.
the commands deallocvt and openvt will work for most of the other problems you'll have.deallocvt n kills terminal n entirely, so that alt-fn doesn't even work anymore.openvt -c
the only one i can think of is  hopkins fbi (which happens to be my favorite game for linux).
take the time to read and understand what each field means.
it  should contain some.desktop files, each corresponding to an entry you'll see in  gdm's session menu, e.ggnome.desktop, enlightenment.destop.
it supported resolutions up to 1024x768.
there's another benefit of these scripts: they are easily edited to allow  you to provide your own copy of a library.
sarien also has numerous enhancements not found in the original games, like a quake style pull-down console, picture and dictionary viewer, enhanced sound and support for agds, a russian agi clone.
because of this, there are lots of libraries like sdl (section 3.10 ) for 2d graphics, opengl (section 3.3) for 3d graphics and widget sets ( section 3.9) for widgets within windows which hide the details of different aspects of xlib programming.
yet game companies persist using directx  and therefore limit their audience to windows users only.
you might also try a virtual machine like win4lin or vmware instead of an emulator.
vmware vmware is a virtual machine that runs multiple operating systems  simultaneously on a standard pc: supported oses include microsoft ones, linux,  novell netware and freebsd.
if this didn't work after a few seconds, you'll definitely want to reboot the system using the following instructions.
directplay directplay gives support for simplified networking for multiplayer gaming.
it'll give you: the hsync/vsync range specified in your xf86config file the 4 horizontal and 4 vertical numbers which defines your videomode (the 1st horizontal/vertical numbers gives the screen resolution).
the version at my personal web site might be broken if i'm working on the howto.
your sound card is represented by/dev/dsp.
their effort is above and beyond the call of duty: frédéric delanoy, moritz muehlenhoff , mike phillips, ioan rogers  i would also like to thank the following people for sending in comments and corrections.
ebgames  no longer officially sells linux software.
", o_rdonly|o_nonblock|0x18000)
please do send comments and suggestions for this howto.
anisotropic filtering is the best but most cpu intensive of the three common texture filtering methods.
kegs is an apple ii emulator written by kent dickey  which was originally written for hp-ux, but improved and customized for linux.
it is pitch dark and you're likely to be eaten by a  grue.
the radeon will be slightly stronger on windows.
comment out the lines containing the wm or desktop manager  with a pound sign (#) and place your game on a new line with any command line  arguments you want to pass.
card reviews claim that it has some serious  heat, noise, and dust issues.
the code base has forked and merged numerous times.
for example, if my problem was that quake iii crashed everytime lucy jumps, i would enter "linux quake3 crash lucy jumps" in the "find messages with all of the words" textbox.
usually, a missing library is a crash waiting to happen.
for example, you're managing a city and a fire erupts somewhere.
if hardware acceleration is not possible for a specific task, opengl falls back on software rendering.
there are many completely open source widget sets which are more complete and  much nicer looking than motif, including lesstif, a totally free motif clone.
and since 3dfx is now a defunct company, it's a sure bet that no more work will be done on glide2 and no more games will be written using glide2.
the first thing you should try is to hit control-alt-backspace which kills  x. if you gain control of your system, the kernel wasn't really locked in the  first place.
shared interrupt the first thing to do is to figure out if you have an irq conflict.
by the way, loki now has a utility that searches for loki software on your  hard drive and automatically updates them.
the developers have no plans on extending exult to interpret the other ultimas since the engines changed so radically between releases.
as a last note, the only systematic linux video card benchmarking effort  i'm aware of was done, unfortunately, in march 2001, between a radeon 32 ddr  and a geforce 2.
as computer graphics became easier and more powerful, text adventures gave  rise to graphic adventures.
the exult team has also been hard at work creating a map editor, exult  studio, and a script compiler that will let users create their own rpg in the  ultima style.
in return, as wine maturation improved, the winex developers were going to take the new versions of wine and use them for winex.
hosed consoles sometimes a game will exit abnormally and your console will get `hosed'.
* users procede to step 2), look at the output of x -probeonly.
by receiving feedback on this howto (even if i don't have the time to answer), you make me feel like i'm doing something useful.
some rpg's are quite complicated  and great feats of programming.
if the game is not located in your $path, give its  full path name.
saved games if your game allows for saved games, then sending the author a copy of the  saved game is useful because it helps the tech reproduce whatever is going  wrong.
the code base has forked  and merged numerous times.
mip mapping reduces  memory bandwidth requirements since the images are in hardware, but it also  offers better quality in the rendered image.
it started out life as a snapshot of the last version of wine which was completely licensed under the mit/x11 license.
when a computer locks, it can  be a "hard lock", meaning the kernel has completely stopped  functioning.
note that if you use a journalling filesystem like ext3, reiserfs or xfs,  hitting the power switch isn't all that bad.
it's claimed  that these drivers are piss poor; a friend of mine claims his geforce 4400  outperforms his radeon 9700 pro.
this was mostly a problem for things like  xdoom or lxdoom using musserv.
there's no recovery from this kind of lock other than pressing the reset or power button.
not once, not twice, but many times over.
emulation and virtual machines linux gets ragged on a lot because we don't have the wealth of games that  other platforms have.
even if i don't take your suggestions, your input is graciously  received.
now if your goal is to run win95 type os games under linux, win4lin almost seems better than vmware.
what is a widget set?
even  lightweight wms, like twm, rob your cpu of clock cycles (and in twm's case,  even full screen games will have a frame around the window).
please do send comments and suggestions  for this howto.
sarien was written in sdl, so it should run on any platform that can  compile sdl programs.
if you want to  reboot but the `o' key doesn't work, try using halt.
to use it, kill x if it's already running and from a console, type: x -probeonly 2> x.out
you  won't be disappointed with this service.
alternatively, some isa cards can be set to use a specific irq using jumpers on the card itself.
your game is not at fault.
the ati linux drivers have been plagued by extremely poor performance.
configuration is also a bit funky; this emulator would benefit from an svga or  x based configuration tool.
win4lin cannot use an existing windows installation the way wine can.
latest versions and translations the latest version can be found at  http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/lgh/lg-howto or  http://www.dirac.org/linux/writing, but this is my own personal working copy.
one of the best diagnostic tools and sources of information about your x system isprobeonly output.
as  a last note, you can't look up information in source code of commercial games  from lokisoft or tribsoft.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libglu.so.1 (0x40103000) libmss.so.6 => not found libsdl-1.2.so.0 => /usr/lib/libsdl-1.2.so.0 (0x40178000) libc.so.6
trilinear filtering is a high quality bilinear filter which uses the four closest pixels in the second most suitable mip map to produce smoother transitions between mip map levels.
not once,  not twice, but many times over.
although you may not be able to play yourfavorite fps under linux (half-life plays great under winex)
if the game is not located in your $path, give its full path name.
sdl is an example of what all graphics  libraries should strive for.
for example, you can type "ps ax", and you're sure to have an `h', `a', `l' and a `t' somewhere on the screen.
xfree86 home page this is the canonical website for people who want to program games under linux.
in the example above, we can see that nwmain wants libmss.so.6, and the  linker cannot find it.
(==) default setting (++) from command  line (!!) notice (ii) informational (ww) warning (ee) error (??)
the output of x goes to  stderr, so we have to redirect stderr with "2>" to a file named x.out.
if this is the case, as root, look at the group owner of the sound card usingls -l /dev/dsp; it'll probably be audio.
it started out life as a snapshot of the last version of wine  which was completely licensed under the mit/x11 license.
libmss.so.6 (0x40178000) libsdl-1.2.so.0 => ./lib/libsdl-1.2.so.0 (0x401ec000) libc.so.6 => /lib/libc.so.6 (0x4025e000) /lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0x40000000) libglcore.so.1 => /usr/lib/libglcore.so.1 (0x40378000) libnvidia-tls.so.1 => /usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.1 (0x40a50000) libxext.so.6 =>
as you play, the character  becomes more powerful and the game adjusts itself accordingly, so instead of  fighting orcs, at high levels you start fighting black dragons.
it's actually a meta-library, meaning that not only is it a  graphics library which hides the details of xlib programming, it provides an  easy interface for sound, music and event handling.
unlike xlib (section 3.8), sdl is very  suited for game programming.
you can read it for yourself at http://www.linuxhardware.org/features/01/03/19/0357219.shtml, but conclusion is  that the geforce 2 firmly and soundly trounced the radeon 32 ddr.
these 8 numbers  will tell you which modeline your x uses.
but 3dfx reigned supreme, and nobody could touch them.
wabi is fast and does a good job for what it does, although i've heard it said that wabi for solaris is more stable than linux.
there are only two ways to configure your card: support must be compiled directly into the kernel you must have the correct driver loaded into memory you can find out which driver your sound card is using by doing "lsmod" or looking at the output of "dmesg".
the most recent version of win4lin  as of june 2003 is 5.0.
this howto is mainly of interest to musicians who want professional or semi professional sound cards for the recording and making of music on a computer.
my web browser of choice, opera (available athttp://www.opera.com) allows you to use the right mouse button to select a portion of text and left click the selection to translate it into another language.
for gaming you might want to look at winex (section 10.5.3).
it's used for a number of purposes, like making adjacent textures  blend smoothly and making textures viewed from an angle (think of looking at a  billboard from an extreme angle) look realistic.
the most recent version can be found at http://www.dirac.org/linux/writing.
the t&l is the process of translating all the 3d world information (position, distance, and light sources) into the 2d image that is actually displayed on screen.
if hardware acceleration is working, the fps for glxgears should be  nearly independent of window size.
wine wine , which bears the gnuish acronym  "wine is not an emulator" is a non-commercial implementation of the  win32 api.
at the time, ati had their rage series and nvidia had their riva 128, but the voodoo i blew them all away.
wabi doesn't work under 32bpp or 24bpp color.
strace is a very powerful utility.
very quickly, a core file (aka core dump) is a file that holds the "state" of the program at the moment it crashes.
for example, maybe you have an mp3 player that's paused?
although arcade games had their heydey in the 80's, they are nonetheless very popular.
on the other hand, a musician would have a very different concept of what "best sound card" would mean.
in my `kernel module programming guide' (due to be released to ldp soon), i outline everything you may want to know about strace.
you won't be disappointed with this service.
the developers have no plans on extending exult to  interpret the other ultimas since the engines changed so radically between  releases.
wine has never been too good at implementing directx, although a number of games are known to work under wine.
you also see an  oven, refrigerator and a door leading east.
it makes some different design decisions regarding separation of data and methods of accessing the video card like relying on root access rather than creating the kernel infrastructure for secure access.
at the time, ati had  their rage series and nvidia had their riva 128, but the voodoo i blew them all  away.
each build uses a different library as a  backend renderer.
sometimes, certain keys of the keyboard won't respond.
enoent (no such file) write(2, "error:", 6error:)
you  won't normally see an fsck for the partitions that use the journalling  filesystem.
and it was also a shame.
non-subscribers can browse the forums, but only subscribers can post (and therefore, ask for support).
it's not an understatement to say that xlib is long winded, arcane and complicated.
one day i try to run it and something bad happens: % ./mind.i86_linux.glibc2.1
now that linux is beginning to mature, this question isn't as important as it used to be.
it supports the undocumented portion of the 6502 instruction set which some games rely on.apple2 is currently being maintained by michael deutschmann and seems to be developed at a slow but constant pace.
previously, client  applications were prohibited from writing directly to hardware, and there was a  good reason for this.
probeonly one of the best diagnostic tools and sources of information about your x  system isprobeonly output.
glide2 is a low level graphics api and driver that accesses 3d hardware accelerated functions on 3dfx's voodoo i, ii and iii cards, under xfree86 3.x.
dmitry samoyloff  is the maintainer of the russian translation.
in the oven you  see a brown paper bag.
a more accurate statement would  be something like "directx is like dri, opengl and sdl combined".
texture filtering texture filtering is the fundamental feature required to present sweet 3d  graphics.
these instructions are for gdm 2.4 or greater.
your normally nice black screen could look like a quasi-graphics screen.
presumably, ati doesn't want to release drivers to keep their trade secrets, well, a secret.
i have no information about svgalib and the geforce cards.
texture filtering is the fundamental feature required to present sweet 3d graphics.
xdpyinfo gives cool stuff, like x version and loaded extensions (invaluable when trying to see what's missing, like glx, dri, xfree86-vidmode, etc.).
there were many versions of sci since sierra was constantly improving its engine.
it shines  when viewing alphanumeric characters at an angle.
arcade style although arcade games had their heydey in the 80's, they are nonetheless  very popular.
but here's a brief outline using  the canonical example of what strace looks like.
there are some real  classics that were written for dos like carmageddon, redneck rampage and tomb  raider.
the developers are clearly out of their minds (in a good way!).
but the radeon's drivers were open source, so many linux users stuck by them.
the `manual' can take on a few forms.
this could be something real like a fighter jet or something imaginary like a mechanized warrior combat unit.
then in april 2000, 3dfx was attacked on a different front: ati started releasing their first generation radeons.
that is, it'll run windows 16-bit applications from a windows 3.1, windows 3.11 or windows for workgroups 3.11 environment.
as far linux users are  concerned, all three cards are completely identical (although the awe 64 gold  has gold plated connectors, which are better for sound quality than the more  common steel connectors).
neither the  module nor the device file are used under xfree86 4.x.
lucasarts wrote an engine for point and click adventures named scumm (script creation utility for maniac mansion).
you'll see this on isa cards only.
for instance, i can browse loki software's news server with tin -g news.lokigames.com.
jzip  is another very popular z-machine interpreter that will run v1-v5 and v8 z-machine data files.
a "real computer" provides an operating system many things,  including a cpu, i/o channels, memory, a bios to provide low level access to  motherboard
if your goal is to run win95/98/me applications on linux, without usb and on the x86 architecture, win4lin's cost and focus on win95 type os's make it a better choice than vmware.
rewind rewind  was started by eric pouech (a  wine developer) and ove kåven (a winex developer) in response towine's  license change).
you can play adventure yourself (actually, a descendent); it comes with “bsd games” on most linux distros.
(0x40acd000) libstdc++.so.5 =>
all the 8-bit apple ][ emulators require a copy of the original rom, for whichever system you want to emulate, in a file.
for complicated textures this is a huge savings in processor work.
actually, i cooked this example up because i wanted to show you what an irq conflict looks like.
infocom adventures (infocom, activision) the z-machine is a well documented  virtual machine designed by  infocom to run their interactive fiction games.
it makes some different design decisions  regarding separation of data and methods of accessing the video card like  relying on root access rather than creating the kernel infrastructure for  secure access.
wabi is fast and does a good job for what it does, although i've heard it
it might be useful for  playing older win16 games, but there are three problems: you must have a licensed copy of windows 3.1/3.11 or wfw 3.11.
rewind  was started by eric pouech (a wine developer) and ove kåven (a winex developer) in response towine's license change).
the program can simulate your opponent(s).
there were a number of voodoo  iii's, ranging from a 143mhz core speed to 183mhz.
judging from their screenshots, this is quite a powerful library.
a texture is a  2d image (usually a bitmap) covering the polygons of a 3d world.
the later versions even supported limited sound and graphics!
if you're looking at a console, the system should print the devices which were flushed.
the show-stopper is the fact that vmware has limited directx support while win4lin has none.
the second column is there because i have 2 cpu's in this machine; if you  have one cpu (called up, or uniprocessor), you'll have only 1 cpu column.
suppose the library libmp3.so.2 is in /usr/local/include but your new game "kill-metallica" can't find it.
utah-glx is the precursor to dri.
but life was still good for linux.
exult is written in c++ using sdl, so it will compile on any platform that can compile sdl programs.
in addition, an addon disk was released to both part i (the forge of virtue) and part ii (the silver seed).
another nice little trick is for games that use openal for their sound output (e.g. unreal based games: ut, postal, rune, etc.).
that's not so straight forward.
naturally you can add a .desktop file for each game you have installed 5.
however, there have  been numerous reports about serious problems with the live!
id software's open sourced the doom  codebase and ported quake i to linux (december 1996).
this is awkward for modern day use, since a game like warcraft which everyone knows as a strat, would be a sim by definition.
/usr/lib/libstdc++.so.5 (0x40ad1000) libgcc_s.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgcc_s.so.1 (0x40b88000) libasound.so.2 => /usr/lib/./libasound.so.2 (0x40b90000)
if your game came from a distro make sure there's not an update rpm/deb for the game.
you can get mesademos with debian ( apt-get install mesademos) or you can hunt for the rpm on http://www.rpmfind.net.
it is a set of c libraries which comprise the lowest level programming interface for xfree86.
there's a good framebuffer howto available from ldp.
this room appears to be a kitchen.
there are 5 things that can go wrong with your sound system: shared interrupt something's already accessing the sound card you're using the wrong driver
on one hand, they  use the most godawful, horrible, confusing, wasteful, moronic format i've ever  seen and i hope to god i never see a forum with a format as bad as  transgaming's.
sarien also has numerous enhancements not found in the original games, like a  quake style pull-down console, picture and dictionary viewer, enhanced sound  and support for agds, a russian agi clone.
note that if you pass this test, your system is capable of direct  rendering.
with these types of cards, you need to pass the correct irq and memory access, "i/o port", to the driver.
i've had expensive altec lansing speakers perform only slightly better than  el-cheapo speakers.
when the texture is near, a bigger one is used.
in these games, you point at an object (say, a book) and can choose from a pull-down list of functions.
you'll want to get something with a separate sub-woofer; this does make a difference at a cost of extra power and connector wires.
loki ported games to linux, mostly using the sdl library.
if you want a general source of information on game specific questions, the faq is a fantastic place to start with.
however, if you have a creative soundblaster or audigy sound card (with an emu10x chip), and you use alsa sound drivers, you can get openal libraries fromhttp://www.lost.org.uk that provide hardware acceleration and decent surround support.
=> /lib/libc.so.6 (0x401ff000) /lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0x40000000) libglcore.so.1 => /usr/lib/libglcore.so.1 (0x40319000) libnvidia-tls.so.1 => /usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.1 (0x409f1000) libxext.so.6 =>
if you're  looking at a console, the system should print the devices which were flushed.
this shouldn't be a surprise since glide2 and glide3 support different video cards and different versions of xfree86.
the relevant part here is the environment variable called "ld_library_path".
have everything under the sun compiled as a module  and try to load them all.
on uni-processor machines the cpu doesn't have to change context between  xfree86 and its client to render the graphics.
(most people  use xfree86 4.x).
however, if you have a creative  soundblaster or audigy sound card (with an emu10x chip), and you use alsa sound  drivers, you can get openal libraries fromhttp://www.lost.org.uk that provide  hardware acceleration and decent surround support.
ultima 7 (origin, electronic arts) 11.8.
this file contains a list of directories that you wantld.so to  search for dynamic libraries.
aa can be done either by the application itself (as with the gimp or the  xfree86 font system) or by hardware, if your video card supports it.
very useful when a google group search  yields a page in german which looks useful and my wife (who reads german well)  isn't around.
also, i'm not aware of any card that uses anisotropic texture  filtering.
win4lin win4lin  is a commercial product by  netraverse.
as the company that brought ctp and quake3 to linux, loki was the father of linux gaming.
people were still using voodoo's, but they were essentially out of the  game at this point.
if the following lines aren't present in your xf86config-4 file, put them  in: section "dri" mode 0666 endsection
at the gdm login screen, you should now see "doom iii" as an option in "sessions".
since it contains binary data, you cannot modify this file directly.
we have a long and twisted history with fps games which started when id software open sourced code for doom.
directx is a collection of proprietary multimedia api's, first developed by microsoft in 1995, for its various windows os's.
it was another success, but 3dfx began to lose ground to nvidia, which released their tnt 2.
when i talk about 'performance hits', keep in mind that the performance hit depends on what resolution you're running at.
for the paranoid, it's possible  to restrict dri to only a few non-root users.
on a technical note,  this has a number of virtues.
you can still purchase or download a demo of hopkins fbi from their website.
sam had an ulterior motive for writing such a cool library.
russian dmitry samoyloff  is the maintainer of  the russian translation.
even though it was written to  share the card between applications, i've found that esd (the enlightenment  sound daemon) sometimes doesn't work correctly.
other previously closed engines opened up, many engines are playable via emulators, many commercial fps games were released for linux and there are quite a number of fps engines which started life as open source projects.
libm.so.3 when using gcc, you refer to these libraries by shaving off the  stringslib, .so and all version numbers.
nothing will ever replace walking into a dark, crowded and noisy arcade gallery, popping a quarter into your favorite machine and playing an old fashioned game of space invaders.
on ms windows, when the geforce beat out its main competing radeon, the  review claimed that the radeon generally had better visuals.
frankly, there's enough games for me, although it would  be really nice to have some of the bleeding edge games and classics like  half-life and carmageddon.
there is a program called glxgears which comes with the "mesademos" package.
for example,  you're managing a city and a fire erupts somewhere.
note if your keyboard doesn't have asysrq key, use the printscreen key: hit alt-sysrq-s. this will attempt to sync your mounted filesystems so that changes to files get flushed to disk.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libglu.so.1 (0x40103000) libmss.so.6 => ./miles/
install a newsreader.
1108 p 6w chr 14,3 662302 /dev/dsp fuser is similar; but it lets you send a signal to any process accessing the device file.
you're still supposed to shutdown in an orderly manner, but the filesystem integrity will be maintained.
you can use thenm to see what functions  a static library contains: % nm /usr/lib/libm.a ...
the number of sampled pixels and which sampled pixels it uses  depends on the viewing angle of the surface relative to your screen.
type "ldd nwmain" and you'll see: $ ldd nwmain linux-gate.so.1 => (0xffffe000)
direct3d (d3d) direct3d, like opengl, provides a 3d graphics api.
getting information about your 3d system glxinfo gives lots of useful information about opengl like whether  direct rendering enabled, the currently installed versions of glx and mesa,  vendor/renderer strings, the gl library files being used and more.
at the *very* least, the author will be interested in the call stack when  the game crashed.
gl: the opengl core calls glu: the utility calls glut:
although their drivers are closed source, as a company, nvidia has been supportive and good to linux users.
/usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.1 (0x409f1000) libxext.so.6 =>
the system shock hack project  is an attempt to update the game for modern operating systems.
generally, they simulate  some kind of scenario.
side scrollers are similar to fps but you view your character as a 2d figure who runs around various screens shooting at things or performing tasks.
nvidia's latest offering is the geforce 5900, based on the nv35 chipset.
the degree to which they use graphics varies widely.
z-machine went through a number of  revisions during the lifetime of infocom, and two further revisions (v7 and v8  created by graham nelson) after the infocom's demise.
arcade style games attempt to simulate the arcade games themselves.
basically, it turns many smaller separate writes to the video card into a single write (a burst).
you can  compare your system to the list of benchmarks below.
whereas opengl is open source, lower level and compiles under a multitude of operating systems, d3d is proprietary, higher level and only compiles on windows.
for  linux, the newest voodoo's could only accelerate at 16 and 24 bit color.
oh, you'll want to run them as  root since you'll be asking for information from processes that may be owned by  root.
you can read it for yourself at http://www.linuxhardware.org/features/01/03/19/0357219.shtml, but conclusion is that the geforce 2 firmly and soundly trounced the radeon 32 ddr.
finding out what libraries a game depends on most commercial linux games will be dynamically linked against various lgpl  libraries, such as openal or sdl.
you can also specify which news server to use using the $nntp environment variable or with the file /etc/nntpserver.
they worked with linux  developers, open sourced all their drivers and were hailed as the great hope  for linux gaming.
and actually, your "background" or "root" window is considered a window too.
it uses opengl for  3d graphics, sdl for platform specific tasks and is released under the gnu gpl.
if you do this correctly, then in principle, there's no way for the poor application to know whether it's really accessing hardware or tricked by being given resources which simulate hardware.
the output of x goes to stderr, so we have to redirect stderr with "2>" to a file named x.out.
if you can ssh in, reboot or halt the system.
applications that use libggi directly include heroes, ultrapoint, quake,  and berlin.
00000000 t __ieee754_atanh 00000000 r half 00000010 r limit 00000018
if you want to learn more about core files, i have  a great gdb tutorial athttp://www.dirac.org/linux.
vmware is a virtual machine that runs multiple operating systems simultaneously on a standard pc: supported oses include microsoft ones, linux, novell netware and freebsd.
they were one of the first and had, by far, the most titles (i own all of them).
it also features some enhancements over the original versions of the ultima vii engine.
if you want to do things like convert a record lp to digital format, then your choice of a soundcard with a professional grade a/d converter is absolutely crucial.
clearly, mind.dat isn't  in/usr/share.
dri allows x clients to  write 3d rendering information directly to the video card in a safe and  cooperative manner.
my web page is http://www.dirac.org/p and my linux pages are athttp://www.dirac.org/linux.
read the friendly manual.
in mid 2002, parts of wine were re-licensed under the lgpl so that it could only be used for non-commercial puposes.
fortunately, we have more emulators than you can shake a stick at.
as root, change to the "/usr/share/xsessions" directory and take a look at its contents.
there are two types of bad things: random and repeatable.
game reviewers agree that this game has the features of quake with a story-line more compelling than half-life.
frame buffers are consoles implemented by a graphics mode rather than a  bios text mode.
while linux is known for stability, these things  do happen, especiallly for gaming which entails highly synchronized hardware  events which occur very fast, even to a computer.
it provides all the services that a real computer would provide.
this excellently done page has many nice links for interactive fiction fans.
in contrast to dynamic libraries which provide code while the application runs, static libraries contain code which gets linked (inserted) into the program while it's being compiled.
even if i don't take your suggestions, your input is graciously received.
glx is the x extension used by opengl programs, it is the glue between the platform independent opengl and platform dependent x. utah-glx is the precursor to dri.
for open source games there's the readme files that come with the game.
for that, you should look at dosemu (section 10.3.1).
what does this have to do with  files not being found?
most applications that use svgalib can be run on x or any other libggi backend by using a wrapper library which re-implements svgalib (section 3.12) using libggi.
websites and resources 12.2.
despite the astounding fact that the linux gamers' faq doesn't mention the linux gamers' howto as a resource anywhere in their text, i regard the faq as a good companion to this howto.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libx11.so.6 (0x40a60000)
the people atwinehq are writing their own set of libraries called  libwine which implements the win32 api with no microsoft code at all.
use it, and you'll be a much happier person.
they have also more functionality than the publicly available tarball: the latter is an older version which lacks some of the newest features, like support for copy protected programs.
nothing will ever replace walking into a dark, crowded and noisy  arcade gallery, popping a quarter into your favorite machine and playing an old  fashioned game of space invaders.
this is a direct consequence  of a bug in the linux kernel.
in this sense, wine is a windows-to-linux porting utility.
copyright © 2001, 2002 peter jay salzman copyright © 2003, 2004 peter jay salzman, frédéric delanoy 2004-11-13 v.1.0.6 abstract the same questions get asked repeatedly on linux related mailing lists and news groups.
thanks goes out to these people for extensive comments, corrections, and diffs.
you won't normally see an fsck for the partitions that use the journalling filesystem.
text adventure (aka interactive fiction) once upon a time, when apple ][, commodore, and atari ruled the world, text  adventures were the game of choice of `intelligent folk'.
they can be set in fantasy (hexen), science fiction (quake ii), present day `real world' (soldier of fortune) and many other settings.
when you pressenter, a newline doesn't get echo'ed to the screen.
hungarian lászló daczi , the  hungarian ldp coordinator, announced that a hungarian translation was produced  by szilard ivan, and is available at http://tldp.fsf.hu/howto/linux-gamers-howto-hu.
currently, it's not all cross-platform goodness.
sometimes you'll see error messages that indicate a file wasn't found.
copy any of the desktop files to " doom3.desktop" and open the new file in your favourite text editor.
my web page is http://www.dirac.org/p and my linux  pages are athttp://www.dirac.org/linux.
there's no  recovery from this kind of lock other than pressing the reset or power button.
not too shabby for 3 year old technology!
even when ati open sourced its video card driver, they played the "we'll make linux developers write our drivers for us" game.
i don't think this application has  a homepage.
the more time it takes for you mobilize the fire fighters, the more damage the fire does.
they include things like text entry boxes, pulldown menus, slider bars, radio buttons and much more.
until this point, ati had always been  an innovative (they developed their own 3d acceleration chips in 1996, about  the same time as 3dfx), but sleepy graphics chipset manufacturer.
dri gets the x server out of the way so the 3d driver (mesa or opengl) can talk directly to the hardware.
it's not an understatement to say that xlib is long winded, arcane and  complicated.
multimedia api's are more centralized on windows than they are on linux.
there were tv-out versions.
for the paranoid, it's possible to restrict dri to only a few non-root users.
their radeons trounced both nvidia and 3dfx.
look  at the contents of ls_log.
graphics data isn't sent over a socket to the x server.
you should definitely ask before sending a save game  file because they tend to be long, but gaming companies usually have lots of  bandwidth.
hardware acceleration problems xfree86 4.x provides a more centralized and self-contained approach to  video.
getting info about your setup: xwininfo xwininfo tells you all sorts of information about x windows.
wine was originally licenced under the mit/x11 license, so it could be used for both commercial and non-commercial purposes.
what light through yonder window breaks?
mip mapping mip mapping is a technique where several scaled copies of the same texture  are stored in the video card memory to represent the texture at different  distances.
withgcc -print-search-dirs ld.so looks to a binary hash contained in a file named  /etc/ld.so.cache for a list of directories that contain available dynamic  libraries.
vmware is considerably more expensive.
in mid 2002, parts of wine  were re-licensed under the lgpl so that it could only be used for  non-commercial puposes.
that is, code gets linked  into the executable at run time, as opposed to compile time.
however, for 5 us dollars per month, you can become a subscriber of transgaming.
this is a way of adding to the linkers search path.
if you're in the  market to buy a sound card, get something that will take you a second to  configure.
while the insanely popular ultima series, written by richard garriot (aka  lord british) for origin, was not the first rpg, it popularized and propelled  the rpg genre into mainstream.
if you can't, ssh in from a another machine.
secondly,  svgalib is video card dependent–if your video card isn't supported by  svgalib, you're out of luck.
gamers want high quality sound for our games with the least amount of tinkering.
if  you already have a card and it works well, that's good enough.
since glide2 accesses the video card directly, glide2 applications will either need to be run by root or be setuid root.
a way around this was to create the kernel 3dfx module.
libdl.so.2 => /lib/libdl.so.2 (0x40b2c000) libstdc++.so.5 =>
system shock is a classic first person shooter/adventure from 1994, which puts it as a contemporary of doom.
because of the nature of the vm, the foreign os can't tell the difference between operating in a vm or in a "real" machine.
this is why a game can easily take out a windows system but should not  take down a linux system.
not all linux distributions are supported: newest redhat's, mandrake's and suse's are, but you're out of luck if you have an other version and/or distribution (like debian).
running a game  without a wm or de depends on how you access x. if you usually log in to a  virtual console and start x with "startx" try the following: modify ~/.xinitrc, which tells x what to run upon starting.
if you're  looking at a console, the system will print the devices which were remounted.
give the command: strace -o ./ls_log /bin/ls
however, with bigger and better games on the horizon, it was only a matter of time before the voodoos would no longer be a viable graphics card for modern gaming.
agi: adventure gaming interface (sierra) 11.3.
the rewards  increase correspondingly.
the file will be full of alternative languages, so cut out everything you don't want and make the file look like this: [desktop entry] encoding=utf-8 name=doom iii comment=id's doom iii #if game is not in path, remember to put the full path here exec=/usr/games/doom3/doom3 # no icon yet, only the top three are currently used icon= type=application save the file and log out of your window manager.
pixels are rectangular objects, so drawing an angled line or curve  with them results in a 'stair step' effect, also called the 'jaggies'.
anisotropic texture filtering anisotropic filtering is the best but most cpu intensive of the three  common texture filtering methods.
despite the  faster 100mhz core, the banshee was outperformed by the voodoo ii because its  multi-texturing unit was removed, like with the rush.
also, i'm not aware of any card that uses anisotropic texture filtering.
it's very difficult to diagnose or fix random problems that you don't have any control over when they happen or not.
some isa cards are plug-n-play, like the creative awe-64, and the linux kernel has come a long way in auto configuring them.
when the texture is far away a smaller version of the texture (mip map) is used.
strategy (aka strats)
simulation (aka sims) simulations strive to immerse the player behind the controls of something  they normally wouldn't have access to.
mp3blaster after issuing this command, mp3blaster was killed with sigkill.
from ld_library_path export  ld_library_path=./lib:./miles:$ld_library_path ./nwmain
some are considerably complex, and there's often a fine line between sims and strats (section 2.6).
don't get the geforce 5800.
(most people use xfree86 4.x).
of course we can't cover every bad thing that happens, but i'll outline some items of common sense.
there are monthly polls where subscribed users can take votes on what they want winex developers to work on.
games written in  svgalib will only work on linux.
he was the lead  programmer for loki software (he now codes for blizzard software), which used  sdl in all of its games except for quake3.
real time strats are based on the concept of you-snooze-you-lose.
wine , which bears the gnuish acronym "wine is not an emulator" is a non-commercial implementation of the win32 api.
z-machine went through a number of revisions during the lifetime of infocom, and two further revisions (v7 and v8 created by graham nelson) after the infocom's demise.
when you think of dos, don't think of things like procom plus
the reason why it's not an emulator is subtle and not of much interest to most non computer scientists, so we'll call it an emulator here (it really does run-time translation of calls to the win32 api to posix/x11 calls).
it's almost certain that whatever problem you have with linux, gaming related or not, has already been asked about and answered on usenet.
the x86 architecture isn't required, but is recommended since it allows actual x86 binary execution as well as direct dll usage).
and it has infinite variants like zangband  and nethack (which has many variants itself).
milking performance from your system for all it's worth
openal  aims to be for sound what opengl is for graphics.
between losing the benchmark wars to the geforce and radeon, their lateness with new cards and high prices, 3dfx lost its market share and didn't have the funds to stay into business.
any graphics programming in x ultimately makes use of  the xlib library.
linux gamers would either keep their  open source voodoos, get an open source radeon or a closed source geforce.
a team of people developed exult   which is an open source interpreter that will run both parts of ultima 7 and  their addon disks.
if the magic sysrq key sequence doesn't shut your system down  gracefully, your kernel has crashed hard and you'll need to use the reset or  power button to recover.
in return, as  wine maturation improved, the winex developers were going to take the new  versions of wine and use them for winex.
if for some reason you're using x 3.3, follow the instructions given by mtrr.txt (see section 5.1) to set up your mtrrs.
these days we have midi emulators like timidity  and libraries like sdl which don't require hardware midi support.
note that vmware supports up to 2 usb devices.
the canonical example would be the so-called `hi-res adventures' like the wizard and the princess.
while nvidia was putting real r&d into their cards, 3dfx was simply adding more and faster ram.
then log out and log back in as the non-root  user.
while the insanely popular ultima series, written by richard garriot (aka lord british) for origin, was not the first rpg, it popularized and propelled the rpg genre into mainstream.
these cards are extremely cheap and trivial to get working under linux.
inside  the bag is a some garlic and a cheese sandwich.
for dynamic situations, like games, doing aa in hardware can be crucial.
it's claimed that these drivers are piss poor; a friend of mine claims his geforce 4400 outperforms his radeon 9700 pro.
starting with pentium class processors and including athlon, k6-2 and other cpus, there are memory type range registers (mtrr) which control how the processor accesses ranges of memory locations.
if you have your heart set to buy the best card for linux, you'll want to go with the geforce 5900.
you can read the osl at http://opensource.org/licenses/osl-1.1.txt.
more important than fps is having a constant fps for small and large windows.
i used to be a fan of the creative soundblaster awe 32, awe 64 and awe 64 gold soundcards.
loki is no longer in business, but creative and the open source community have kept the project alive.
it uses the virtual machine approach  to running windows applications, so you'll get a big window from which you can  boot windows and run all kinds of windows applications.
needless to say, this only applies if your game crashes reproducably at a certain point.
ati started becoming more and more reluctant to open source drivers for their new releases, and suddenly, it wasn't clear who the "good guy" was anymore.
these isa pnp cards are well supported by both oss and alsa.
more nudity than hustler.
third, svgalib is linux only.
/lib/libm.so.6 (0x40027000) libpthread.so.0
if the page is not in a language you can understand, there are many translation sites which will convert the text into whatever language you like, including http://www.freetranslation.com and http://translation.lycos.com.
if you can, an orderly shutdown is  preferable; use "halt" or "shutdown".
for open  source games, you can help the author by giving a corefile or stack trace.
suppose the library libmp3.so.2 is in  /usr/local/include but your new game "kill-metallica" can't find it.
personally, i prefer the free oss drivers, but  many people swear by alsa.
in addition, by using the higher level  libraries, a game writer can develop his game on multiple platforms, even ones  that don't use xfree86.
also, voodoo cards need the 3dfx.o kernel module and a /dev/3dfx device file (major 107, minor 0) for non-root hardware acceleration.
the first step is to make your system allow unlimited coresizes: ulimit -c unlimited you will now have to recompile the program and pass the -g option to gcc (explaining this is beyond the scope of this document).
gcc looks for libraries in the ``standard system directories'' plus any directories you specify with the-l option.
similar to fps, but you view your character in third person and in 3d. on modern third person shooters you can usually do some really kick-butt maneuvers like jackie chan style back flips and side rolls.
the first thing you should try is to hit control-alt-backspace which kills x. if you gain control of your system, the kernel wasn't really locked in the first place.
see section 4.2  for details.
developers have reported that svgalib works on the radeon 7500, radeon qd (64mb ddr model) but has problems on the radeon ve.
$ export ld_library_path=./lib:./miles:$ld_library_path $ ldd nwmain  linux-gate.so.1 => (0xffffe000) libm.so.6
use control-alt-delete to reboot the system.
any game-supplied copy of a library  such as openal or sdl is likely to be compiled for the lowest common  denominator, probably i486 or i686.
it's not very cheap (about 300$ for the workstation version), but you can get a 30 day evaluation copy.
on a technical note, this has a number of virtues.
moreover,vmware has only limited support for directx, and you might not be able to play recent games.
card, logic and board games computer based card games simulate a card game like poker or solitaire.
the "x window user howto", and especially "man xf86config"  arerequired reading.
however, all ati cards beyond the radeon 9200 also require a proprietary driver that will "taint" your kernel as well.
running quake iii and quitting normally fixed the  problem.
we used the open() system call to open "." with various  arguments, and the return value of the call is4.
scott adams adventures (adventure international) 11.6.
this speeds things up.
these cards are extremely  cheap and trivial to get working under linux.
trilinear filtering is capable of producing fine visuals, but it only samples from a square area which in some cases is not the ideal method.
there aren't many graphical adventures written natively for linux.
opengl is not only an api, it's also an implementation, written by sgi.
tnt drivers claim they do, but i've read that these drivers still  use trilinear filtering when actually rendering an image to the screen.
being a  subscriber of transgaming gives three major benefits: subscribers can download convenient packaged versions of winex in deb, rpm  or tar.gz format whenever they want, including updates.
on uni-processor machines the cpu doesn't have to change context between xfree86 and its client to render the graphics.
in addition, there isn't an evaluation copy available, although  you get a 30 day money back guarantee.
dosemu can run these.
in  addition, an addon disk was released to both part i (the forge of virtue) and  part ii (the silver seed).
the tnt/tnt2 driver is based on reverse-engineering of the  obfuscated source code release of the x 3.3 drivers by nvidia.
however, its engine is much more feature  rich than the original doom: for example, system shock had 3d sprites, free  look and a facility to have objects on top of each other, giving the illusion  of a full 3d map, like quake.
ultima underworld: the stygian abyss (origin, blue sky productions) 11.7.
commercial game companies like loki release patches for their games.
however, since it's commercial you do  get tech support.
to use the magic sysrq key, your kernel needs to have been compiled with magic sysrq support.
it is a set of c libraries which comprise the lowest level programming  interface for xfree86.
this is generally not something you'll do for commercial games.
if you're a game writer, please consider using cross platform libraries and stay away from directx. a company named realtechvr started an open source project, directx port,  which, like wine, provides a direct3d emulation layer that implements direct3d calls.
a few notes: first, the soundblaster awe howto is very out of date.
logging out and back in don't always work, but there are a few things that  might: if you don't see any character on the screen as you type in, your terminal  settings may be wrong.
a copy is kept athttp://www.xfree86.org/4.0/dri.html.
because of this, there are lots of libraries like sdl (section 3.10 ) for 2d graphics, opengl (section 3.3) for 3d graphics and widget sets ( section 3.9) for widgets within windows which hide the details of different  aspects of xlib programming.
it exists  only to support dri on voodoo iii, iv and v boards under xfree86 4.x.
the  file will be full of alternative languages, so cut out everything you don't  want and make the file look like this: [desktop entry] encoding=utf-8 name=doom iii comment=id's doom iii #if  game is not in path, remember to put the full path here  exec=/usr/games/doom3/doom3 # no icon yet, only the top three are currently  used icon= type=application save the file and log out of your window manager.
nvidia has proven that they care enough about linux to write and maintain current and very high quality drivers for linux.
3dfx's voodoo iv, its  direct competitor, was about a year late which is very bad when you're  competing for a bleeding edge market.
we have a long and twisted history with fps games which  started when id software open sourced code for doom.
mip mapping reduces memory bandwidth requirements since the images are in hardware, but it also offers better quality in the rendered image.
let's take a look at that now: $ less nwn #!/bin/sh #
about the games themselves.
depending on the version of directx you're talking about, directx support in winex (section 10.5.3) ranges from well supported to "kind of" supported.
side scrollers side scrollers are similar to fps but you view your character as a 2d  figure who runs around various screens shooting at things or performing tasks.
it supported resolutions up to  1024x768.
if you log directly into x using gdm, then things are a little different.
jzip  is another very popular z-machine  interpreter that will run v1-v5 and v8 z-machine data files.
there were many versions of sci since  sierra was constantly improving its engine.
a team of people developed exult  which is an open source interpreter that will run both parts of ultima 7 and their addon disks.
if something is already accessing  your card, other applications won't be able to.
many fps games allow people to write their own non-commercial datafile.
the  program can simulate your opponent(s).
winex winex is released by a company called transgaming .
they were slated to release hopkins fbi ii and a few other titles, but it's been a few years since the announcements with no sign that the games are coming.
his company, adventure international, released a number of much loved games between 1978 and 1984 before folding.
it should contain some.desktop files, each corresponding to an entry you'll see in gdm's session menu, e.ggnome.desktop, enlightenment.destop.
if direct rendering is  disabled, then your x configuration is definitely faulty.
many sci based games (games written in sci0) can be played using freesci, available athttp://freesci.linuxgames.com.
when a particular graphics task isn't able to be hardware accelerated by the video card, it's software rendered; the task is done by your computer's cpu instead.
linux publishing doesn't sell directly to the public, but provides professional game publishing to authors of publishing.
each interpreter has its own set of strengths, and you can find links to them on the home pages for frotz and jzip.
the tnt 2 outperformed the voodoo ii, and accelerated 3d graphics at full 32 bit color, while the voodoo's were stuck at 16 bit color.
you get what you pay for with speakers, but don't expect a huge difference.
although playing an emulated game is sometimes not quite as  fun as playing it on the native machine, and getting some of the emulators to  work well can be a difficult task, they're here, and there's alot of them!
there are reports that the rampage's technology (which was sold to  nvidia) went into the geforce 5900.
the xterm from which you run  glxgears will display "x frames in y seconds =
my personal recommendation is any card which has the es1370 or es1371 chip,  which uses the es1370 and es1371 sound drivers on linux.
i've never owned one, so i cannot comment here.
when diagnosing why things aren't being found, it's your best ally, and is even faster than looking at source code.
(==) default setting (++) from command line (!!) notice (ii) informational (ww) warning (ee) error (??)
more camp thanliberace .
you'll find this option under "kernel hacking |  kernel debugging | magic sysrq key" in whatever kernel config menu you  like to use.
at some point, your character becomes powerful enough  that you can `go for it' and try to complete the quest.
xt-pic keyboard 2: 0 0 xt-pic cascade 5: 2478476 0 xt-pic soundblaster 5:  325924 0 xt-pic eth0 11: 131326 0
you can get the latest  cvs from their sourceforge page at .
directx is a collection of proprietary multimedia api's, first developed by  microsoft in 1995, for its various windows os's.
permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the open software license, version 1.1, except for the provisions i list in the next paragraph.
note that since this  file was written, xfree86 has been patched to automatically detect your video  ram base address and size and set up the mtrrs.
making nwn use your system copy is easy.
they released the voodoo rush in april 1996.
you can play ultima vii under linux with  exult (section 11.7).
if you have a pentium4 or an athlonxp, you  could compile you own version specifically for your processor.
then log out and log back in as the non-root user.
the radeons were their first 3d accelerated card that gamers took any real serious interest in.
and amd  motherboards that use the 686b southbridge.
ultima underworld: the stygian abyss (origin, blue sky productions) the underworld adventures project  is  an effort to port the 1992 classic, ultima underworld: the stygian abyss, to  modern operating systems like linux, macos x, and windows.
first, you pretty  much blow up everything you see.
this increases  efficiency in writing to the video card and can speed up your graphics by 250%  or more.
linux definitely has no deficiency here!
as  of october 2004, the most recent version of directx is 9c.
e_atan2.o: 00000000 t __ieee754_atan2 e_atanh.o:
because of the ati linux driver woes, linux users cannot use ms windows based benchmarks or card stats.
you need to figure out why dri is disabled.
when playing a game under x, you should consider starting x without a window manager (wm).
then things got even more complicated.
see /usr/src/linux/documentation/mtrr.txt for details.
if you have  success using dosemu, i would like to hear from you.
unless you plan on compiling your games from source code, you'll mainly be interested in dynamic libraries.
in october 1996 they released the voodoo i, which was a phenomenal success.
you can use wine `with windows', which means that wine uses libraries that actually come with microsoft windows itself.
=> /lib/libpthread.so.0  (0x40049000) libgl.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgl.so.1 (0x4009b000) libglu.so.1  =>
i don't think this application has a homepage.
like vmware, you're required to have a licensed copy of win95 or win98.
they are still copyrighted by apple, and you can only use them legally if you actually own one of these computers.
ati's has worked with linux developers for their radeons up to and  including the radeon 9200, which have 2d and 3d support in xfree86.
at high levels, you might get a magic sword or a  kick-butt assault rifle.
note that if you pass this test, your system is capable of direct rendering.
they can be set in fantasy (hexen), science fiction (quake ii), present day  `real world' (soldier of fortune) and many other settings.
their products have  been neck to neck ever since, with geforce taking the lead a bit more times  than the radeon.
the copies ofopenal.so distributed with games often do not support alsa, so making the game use a copy compiled yourself will allow you to use alsa natively.
if you want to learn more about core files, i have a great gdb tutorial athttp://www.dirac.org/linux.
directshow directshow provides support for movie files like avi and mpg.
the later versions even  supported limited sound and graphics!
even  when an ati offering is better than the current geforce offering for windows,  the card is always trounced by geforce on linux.
most windows users were switching to nvidia, and despite the fact that the  nvidia drivers were proprietary, even linux users began to jump onto the nvidia  bandwagon.
point sampling texture filtering point sampling is rare these days, but if you run a game with 'software  rendering' (which you'd need to do if you run a 3d accelerated game without a  3d accelerated board) you're likely to see it used.
(object) files archived together, similar to a tar file.
isa  cards can't share interrupts.
va linux, the largest linux server vendor, put nvidia into their machines.
try copying the line to your shell and  seeing what happens when you re-run ldd.
heavyweight wms, like enlightenment, or full-blown desktop environments like gnome or kde, may produce a noticeable slow down.
the death of commercial interactive fiction more or less coincided with the bankruptcy of infocom.
email the author and tell him: the game's name any error message that appears on the screen when the game crashes.
you're using the wrong driver (or no driver)
alan cox wrote scottfree, a scott adams adventure game file interpreter for  unix.
note if your keyboard doesn't have asysrq key, use the printscreen key: hit alt-sysrq-s. this will attempt to sync your mounted filesystems so that  changes to files get flushed to disk.
try copying the line to your shell and seeing what happens when you re-run ldd.
for commercial games, this option is more fruitful than sending a core file or call stack since commercial games can't be recompiled to include debugging information.
the most striking part of sdl is that it's a cross platform library.
if you already have a card and it works well, that's good enough.
memory type range registers starting with pentium class processors and including athlon, k6-2 and other  cpus, there are memory type range registers (mtrr) which control how the  processor accesses ranges of memory locations.
the radeons  were their first 3d accelerated card that gamers took any real serious interest  in.
something is already accessing your sound card
but 3d information (see glide2,section 3.1) would be passed to the voodoo i and rendered, using the voodoo's fast hardware to perform the necessary graphics calculations.
it shines when viewing alphanumeric characters at an angle.
on one hand, they use the most godawful, horrible, confusing, wasteful, moronic format i've ever seen and i hope to god i never see a forum with a format as bad as transgaming's.
as you play, the character becomes more powerful and the game adjusts itself accordingly, so instead of fighting orcs, at high levels you start fighting black dragons.
that is, through the eyes of the character who's doing all the shooting.
# fuser -vk /dev/dsp user pid access command /dev/dsp root 1225
we had a card that was almost neck-to-neck with nvidia,  our drivers were open source, and in december 1999, id software gave us a huge  gift: they open sourced the quake i codebase.
turn based  strats are more like chess---the computer takes a turn and then the player  takes a turn.
/usr/lib/libstdc++.so.5 (0x40ad1000)  libgcc_s.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgcc_s.so.1 (0x40b88000) libasound.so.2 =>
your normally nice black screen could look like a  quasi-graphics screen.
it's very complete and is one of my favorite sites.
don't discount them; they're very cheap (like 10 or 20 bucks), support bleeding edge sound cards and take a lot of guesswork out of the configuring process.
wine has  never been too good at implementing directx, although a number of games are  known to work under wine.
i'd also appreciate either a copy of whatever it is you're doing or a spinach, garlic, mushroom, feta cheese and artichoke heart pizza.
a google search should turn up alot  of information on this problem.
however, if the problem is repeatable "it  happens when i press the left arrow key twice", then you're in business.
i happen to be a fan of this  library and of graphical console games in general; they are extremely fast,  fullscreen and compelling.
a program can only use the special hardware accelerated features of these  cards by using the glide2 library in one of two ways: directly written using glide2 (myth ii, descent iii) indirectly using mesa built with a glide2 backend to simulate opengl (rune,  unreal tournament) 3dfx opened up the specifications and source code to the open source
a common problem you'll see in gaming is a library file not being found.
if you're a musician, you might want to check out the linux audio quality howto.
since aa  is cpu intensive, it's more desirable to perform it in hardware, but if we're  talking about semi-static applications, like the gimp, this really isn't an  issue.
on the other  hand, a musician would have a very different concept of what "best sound  card" would mean.
and since 3dfx is now a defunct company, it's a sure bet that  no more work will be done on glide2 and no more games will be written using  glide2.
it'll give you: the hsync/vsync range specified in your xf86config file the 4 horizontal and 4 vertical numbers which defines your videomode (the  1st horizontal/vertical numbers gives the screen resolution).
the aim is to keep rewind mit/x11 based so that companies like transgaming can offer wine based products.
/usr/lib/./libasound.so.2 (0x40b90000) ldd shows all the libraries a dynamic executable relies on, and shows you  where they are.
gcc will then `place a memo inside the executable' that says to look at the files /usr/lib/libsdl.so and /lib/libm.so.3 whenever an sdl or math function is used.
it is an excellently written document that gives you step by step information on how to get dri set up correctly on your machine.
you can also download and compile the source yourself from the mesa homepage.
why isn't my sound working?
however, if the problem is repeatable "it happens when i press the left arrow key twice", then you're in business.
none of  the games which use glide2 will work with glide3.
this shouldn't be a surprise  since glide2 and glide3 support different video cards and different versions of  xfree86.
glide2 is a low level graphics api and driver that accesses 3d hardware
the tnt 2 outperformed the voodoo ii, and accelerated 3d graphics at  full 32 bit color, while the voodoo's were stuck at 16 bit color.
if you can't ssh into the system, you'll need to use the "magic sysrq key" which is documented in/usr/src/linux/documentation/sysrq.txt.
opengl is a high level graphics programming api originally developed by sgi, and it became an industry standard for 2d and 3d graphics programming.
a permissions problem the first thing to do is to figure out if you have an irq conflict.
i think this means disk copying, packaging and selling to retailers.
however, they're  really incomplete, and effectively, unusable.
not a big deal when you're trying to run wordperfect or an old database application.
the system shock hack project  is an attempt to update  the game for modern operating systems.
but your process table will be a ghost town, and all that extra cpu will go straight to your game.
suppose i want to watch the stateofmind demo because i can't ever seem to get enough of it.
try running the game again and normally.
the most recent version of win4lin as of june 2003 is 5.0.
if you have a linux only system, the geforce 5900 is your best bet.
in nethack you  need to retrieve the amulet of yendor for your god.
if you're going to game under x, it's crucial that you know a bit about x.
isa cards can't share interrupts.
naturally you can add a .desktop file for each game you have installed
/ http://www.dirac.org/p.
so to use these two libraries, you  would passgcc the -lsdl -lm options.
when diagnosing why things aren't being  found, it's your best ally, and is even faster than looking at source code.
i have no idea how  this translates to linux.
this improves a game's  visuals, but can also dramatically degrade performance.
rather than trusting programmers to  write totally bug free, cooperative programs that access hardware, linux simply  disallowed it.
opengl provides a powerful, complete and generic feature set for 2d and 3d  graphics operations.
so many linux users  stuck by them.
if you haven't compiled the kernel yourself, there is an overwhelmingly good chance that your system is set up to load sound drivers as modules.
the death of commercial interactive fiction more or  less coincided with the bankruptcy of infocom.
although their drivers are closed  source, as a company, nvidia has been supportive and good to linux users.
there is a program called glxgears which comes with the  "mesademos" package.
text  adventures became popularized by scott adams (section 11.5) and reached their  height of popularity in the late 80's with infocom (section 11.4) which are  also playable under linux.
it was the 2nd worst day for linux  gaming (the 1st being the demise of loki).
the commands deallocvt and openvt will work for most of the other problems  you'll have.deallocvt n kills terminal n entirely, so that alt-fn  doesn't even work anymore.openvt -c
as of june 2002, svgalib support radeon cards is shaky.
ggi has a sister project, kgi, which is developing a kernel-level alternative to systems like the linux framebuffer and the dri.
as far linux users are concerned, all three cards are completely identical (although the awe 64 gold has gold plated connectors, which are better for sound quality than the more common steel connectors).
i'm not  entirely sure of the quality of these open source drivers, however, soldier of  fortune i and heavy metal still have opaque texture problems under first  generation radeons.
like the voodoo i, the voodoo ii was a  3d only card, and piggy backed with a 2d video card.
dynamic libraries dynamic libraries, also called a “shared library”, provide  object code for an application while it's running.
the people atwinehq are writing their own set of libraries called libwine which implements the win32 api with no microsoft code at all.
websites and resources 12.1.
and again like the rush, it wasn't popular.
i have no idea how this translates to linux.
one of the directories listed as options should be "/usr/share/xsessions", and is the directory which will be used in this example.
this is important for people who use usb joysticks.
your  change doesn't actually make it into/etc/ld.so.cache until you run ldconfig ; once it's run, ld.so will begin to look for libraries in your  private directory.
see  the kernel howto for details.
on april 18 2001, they sold most  of their assets and technology to nvidia, and in october 2002, they finally  declared bankruptcy.
these cards include  the older ensoniq es1370 and newer creative pci-128.
some examples of games written in agi  would be leisure suit larry i (ega), space quest i and ii, king's quest ii,  mixed-up mother goose and others.
at some point, your character becomes powerful enough that you can `go for it' and try to complete the quest.
so when xwininfo asks you to click on the window you want the information on, click on your background.
the interface is a bit funky, but usable.
except  for a few details, a program written in sdl will compile under linux, ms  windows, beos, macos, macos x, solaris, irix, freebsd, qnx and osf.
it's a comic book on your monitor.
they don't necessarily have to be violent, likexscavenger, a clone of the old 8-bit game lode runner.
it's painful the first time you do it, but once you do it  correctly, it becomes very easy down the right, especially if you keep all your  old .config files and make use of things like "make oldconfig".
+set r_gldriver libgr.so.1 #exec ut #lsdldoom -server 2 #exec  tribes2 exec /usr/bin/enlightenment you'll usually see a window or desktop manager being executed from this  file (gnome or kde).
netscape has a nice  graphical "point and click" newsreader too.
if this is the case, as root, look at the  group owner of the sound card usingls -l /dev/dsp; it'll probably be  audio.
libggi applications run on svgalib, fb, and x servers among others.
it's poorly supported by wine (section 10.5.1), barely supported by vmware (section 10.5.5) and unsupported by win4lin (section 10.5.4).
accelerated functions on 3dfx's voodoo i, ii and iii cards, under xfree86 3.x.
you can among others use it to run a ms windows os and launch your favourite game there.
to use it, kill x if it's already running and  from a console, type: x -probeonly 2> x.out
once upon a time, a company in san jose, california named 3dfx interactive was king of the gaming video card market.
they both  share irq 5.
it's said that wine has the best success when run with windows.
=> /lib/libm.so.6 (0x40027000)  libpthread.so.0 => /lib/libpthread.so.0 (0x40049000) libgl.so.1 =>
enoent (no such  file) write(2, "error:", 6error:)
when you think of dos, don't think of things like procom plus or other progra~1 which have short names and are in all caps.
pci cards are much easier to deal with than isa since you don't need  to tell their drivers about which system resources (irq, dma, i/o addresses) to  use.
dosemu dosemu  is the canonical dos emulator on  linux.
wabi does not do dos itself, but it looks like it can use a dos emulator as  a backend for running dos programs.
also, even if you just add extra libraries to your system, you must update ld.so.cache to reflect the presence of the new libraries.
you can get the latest cvs from their sourceforge page at .
it holds valuable clues for the  programmer to the nature of the crash -- what caused it and what the program  was doing when it happened.
it uses opengl for 3d graphics, sdl for platform specific tasks and is released under the gnu gpl.
at its lowest level, it provides a platform independent (as much as that is possible in c++) way of dealing with display, sound, input, networking, files, threading and such.
you should definitely have a good configuration in order to run  it; they claim the minimum is a 500mhz x86 cpu with 128mb ram, but a faster  processor and at least 256mb ram seem to be the bare minimum if you want  reasonable performance.
this fact alone makes both win4lin and vmware unsuitable for most hardcore gaming purposes.
direct3d, like opengl, provides a 3d graphics api.
note that if you use a journalling filesystem like ext3, reiserfs or xfs, hitting the power switch isn't all that bad.
the implementation tries to use hardware acceleration for various graphics operations whenever available, which depends on what videocard you have in you computer.
r ln2_2 ... when using gcc, you refer to these libraries by shaving off the strings “lib”, “.a” and all version numbers.
if it's not, then you're not getting  hardware acceleration.
once upon a time, when apple ][, commodore, and atari ruled the world, text adventures were the game of choice of `intelligent folk'.
because of the ati linux  driver woes, linux users cannot use ms windows based benchmarks or card stats.
that's the way distros do things.
if you don't understand the first response you see (or if it doesn't work), then try one of the other many replies.
lucasarts wrote an engine for point and click adventures named scumm  (script creation utility for maniac mansion).
this allows us to run graphical things in console, like allowing us to choose any font we want the console to display (which is normally set by bios).
to use the magic sysrq key, your kernel needs to have been compiled with  magic sysrq support.
you are given a scenario and can interact with the world you're placed in: you are in a room.
=> /lib/libm.so.6 (0x40027000) libpthread.so.0 => /lib/libpthread.so.0 (0x40049000) libgl.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgl.so.1 (0x4009b000) libglu.so.1 =>
font rendering is another big application for aa.
unfortunately, glide2 is also a dead issue.
it should've been a more powerful card, with a 50mhz gpu and 8mb  of ram.
however, that changed under x 4.x with dri (direct rendering infrastructure .
it provides support for a few cards which are not well supported by dri like the ati rage pro family, s3 virge (although anyone using this for gaming is, well, nuts), and an open source tnt/tnt2 driver (which is very incomplete).
if you haven't compiled the kernel yourself, there is an overwhelmingly  good chance that your system is set up to load sound drivers as modules.
a more advanced way of fixing this would be to go into bios and assign irq's to specific slots.
you'll have something like 10 processes  running.
there are actually many other z-machine interpreters like nitfol and rezrov (written in perl!).
the program responsible for linking code “on the fly” is called/etc/ld.so, and the dynamic libraries themselves usually end with.so with a version number, like: /usr/lib/libsdl.so /lib/libm.so.3 when using gcc, you refer to these libraries by shaving off the stringslib, .so and all version numbers.
underworld adventures also provides a bunch of tools for you to display the level maps, tools for examining uw1 conversation scripts and more.
in other words, your graphics card isn't 3d accelerating graphics.
for linux, the newest voodoo's could only accelerate at 16 and 24 bit color.
it also "pulls in" the dependencies of the  dependencies.
even better, it was their first combined 2d/3d card, meaning that it freed up a valuable pci slot (most pc's only had a couple of pci slots back then) but the rush wasn't as popular.
your change doesn't actually make it into/etc/ld.so.cache until you run ldconfig ; once it's run, ld.so will begin to look for libraries in your private directory.
the canonical example would be the so-called `hi-res adventures' like the  wizard and the princess.
xwininfo tells you all sorts of information about x windows.
however, for 5 us  dollars per month, you can become a subscriber of transgaming.
they offer reel deal slots, which is very nicely done!
it was the 2nd worst day for linux gaming (the 1st being the demise of loki).
tnt drivers claim they do, but i've read that these drivers still use trilinear filtering when actually rendering an image to the screen.
it was  another success, but 3dfx began to lose ground to nvidia, which released their  tnt 2.
in the worst case scenario, hit the reset or power switch.
which video card should i buy?
you'll need to purchase a copy  of ultima 7 to play.
see the man pages for lsof and fuser; they're very useful.
you can use the mouse to cut and paste the word "halt".
the underworld adventures project  is an effort to port the 1992 classic, ultima underworld: the stygian abyss, to modern operating systems like linux, macos x, and windows.
however, this sort of thing clearly should be done in hardware wherever possible.
first person shooters are characterized by two things.
there are many completely open source widget sets which are more complete and much nicer looking than motif, including lesstif, a totally free motif clone.
however, its engine is much more feature rich than the original doom: for example, system shock had 3d sprites, free look and a facility to have objects on top of each other, giving the illusion of a full 3d map, like quake.
directinput directinput gives support for gaming input devices such as joysticks.
the more time it takes for  you mobilize the fire fighters, the more damage the fire does.
wabi is a commercial win16 emulator.
they  are still copyrighted by apple, and you can only use them legally if you  actually own one of these computers.
the game's author has probably seen people  with your exact same problem many times over and might put information specific  to that game on the website.
afaik,  there are 3 options to getting a sound card configured under linux: the free  oss sound drivers that come with the linux kernel, the alsa drivers and the  commercial oss sound drivers.
frame buffers are consoles implemented by a graphics mode rather than a bios text mode.
anti aliasing anti aliasing is the smoothing of jagged edges along a rendered curve or  polygon.
your libraries can still be wrong.
it approximates the gaps between textures by sampling the color of the four closest (above, below, left and right) texels.
unlike vmware, win4lin only does windows 95/98/me, but this turns out to be better for gamers.
this basically means that versions of wine that are released past the date of the re-licensing can no longer be used by winex.
it approximates the gaps between textures by sampling the color of  the four closest (above, below, left and right) texels.
the  interpreter reads data files and provides the gaming interface.
if the game segfaults every time you run it, or is incredibly  slow, a saved game file won't be of much help.
on ms windows, when the geforce beat out its main competing radeon, the review claimed that the radeon generally had better visuals.
if you're in the market to buy a sound card, get something that will take you a second to configure.
by receiving feedback on this howto (even if i don't have the time to  answer), you make me feel like i'm doing something useful.
gcc will then `bolt on' code from/usr/lib/sdl.a and /usr/lib/libm.a whenever it  sees a math function during the compilation process.
/lib/libc.so.6 (0x401ff000) /lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0x40000000) libglcore.so.1  => /usr/lib/libglcore.so.1 (0x40319000) libnvidia-tls.so.1 =>
current status (1 march 2004) nvidia's latest offering is the geforce 5900, based on the nv35 chipset.
it is pitch dark and you're likely to be eaten by a grue.
however, it's possible to give a program all the hardware resources it  needs.
although some games may work with wine, you'll probably get the most success with winex: its directx support is constantly improving.
some examples of games written in agi would be leisure suit larry i (ega), space quest i and ii, king's quest ii, mixed-up mother goose and others.
d3d first appeared in  directx 2, released in 1996.
mike phillips (formerly of loki software) mentioned that sending in saved games to loki is definitely a good thing.
the best tool to use here is  lsof, which shows which processes are accessing a file.
in either case, sims strive for realism.
since the open sound  system's (oss) deprecation in favour of alsa, all linux distributions i've seen  now ship with alsa support as default, with oss support actually being supplied  via alsa's compatability modules.
the commercial oss drivers are good when you're  having trouble getting your sound card to work by free methods.
ati started to release a tremendous number of versions of each video card, and keeping up with them and their terminology started to become very difficult.
one of the most popular z-machine interpreters is frotz .
it's only used for voodoo i, ii, iii boards (which are becoming outdated), under xfree86 3.x
/usr/x11r6/lib/libglu.so.1  (0x40103000) libmss.so.6 => ./miles/
many of them arise because people don't know as much as they should about how things "work" on linux, at least, as far as games go.
but again, the driver issue makes this information unusable for us.
write(2, "can\'t open data file \'mind.dat\'."..., )
the second column is there because i have 2 cpu's in this machine; if you have one cpu (called up, or uniprocessor), you'll have only 1 cpu column.
although winex is commercial, they have an interesting business model.
in addition, by using the higher level libraries, a game writer can develop his game on multiple platforms, even ones that don't use xfree86.
ultima 7 (origin, electronic arts) ultima 7 is actually 2 games: part i (the black gate) and part ii (serpent  island) which uses a slightly enhanced version of the black gate's engine.
it's said that  wine has the best success when run with windows.
not counting the rogue variants, there's also a deficiency of  open source rpgs too.
getting dosemu to work well is not easy, but unfortunately, for dos games it's the best avenue.
often, companies release their engines to the open source  community so we can hack and improve them.
a virtual machine is the environment which tricks applications into believing they're running on a real computer.
this script runs neverwinter nights from the current directory export sdl_mouse_relative=0 export sdl_video_x11_dgamouse=0 # if you do not wish to use the sdl library included in the package, remove # ./lib
the svgalib based apple2 and x based xapple2 can emulate any apple ][ variant except for the //gs.
the console is the dark non-graphical screen you look at when your computer first boots up (and you don't havexdm or gdm running).
sdl (section 3.10) and clanlib (section 3.15) applications  can display on libggi but often the native drivers for these libraries are  faster, however it's a good way to get sdl, clanlib, and svgalib applications  to run where they would not before.
you can even run another linux under  linux; useful is you want to test another distro for instance.
at the gdm login screen,  you should now see "doom iii" as an option in "sessions".
when you compile a program, by default,gcc uses dynamic libraries, but you can makegcc use static libraries instead by using the -static switch.
these are a set of tools you can use to obtain that information.
presumably, ati doesn't want to  release drivers to keep their trade secrets, well, a secret.
it's very  difficult to diagnose or fix random problems that you don't have any control  over when they happen or not.
it also "pulls in" the dependencies of the dependencies.
their website is very good, and chock full  of any kind of information about scumm and playing these games under scummvm.
there is almost no support  for enhancements like eax or any hardware acceleration on linux, though it does  it exist in the windows implementation.
the "dot clock" your videocard is running at.
if you have a linux/windows dual boot, consider either the radeon 9800 or  the geforce 5900.
for example, i added the users p and wellspring to group audio on my system: audio:x:29:p,wellspring don't forget to use grpconv if you use shadow passwords (which  should be the case on most recent distributions) in order to maintain a  consistent group configuration.
we'll cover video card and 3d graphics terminology.
the open group finally opened up motif's license for open source operating systems, but it was too little too late.
creative never released a linux driver for these cards (and they never released programming information to linux developers), so linux users cannot use the extra 32 channels on the awe 64 and awe 64 gold.
see the xfree86 video timings howto  for more information.
personally, i prefer the free oss drivers, but many people swear by alsa.
many problems can be  fixed easily if you know your way aroundxf86config (or xf86config-4).
the last argument to strace is the program we're inspecting, here, "ls".
they're analagous  to the.dll's used by windows.
netscape has a nice graphical "point and click" newsreader too.
even though it was written to share the card between applications, i've found that esd (the enlightenment sound daemon) sometimes doesn't work correctly.
it's reported that a voodoo iii  using glide2 will outperform a voodoo iii using glide3.
there seems to be a deficiency of commercial  rpgs for linux.
or other  progra~1 which have short names and are in all caps.
every once in awhile you'll see some sicko (said with respect) write a game  in xlib.
light lantern with match.
the z-machine is a well documented  virtual machine designed by infocom to run their interactive fiction games.
if you don't have a  driver loaded, you need to figure out what's been compiled into your kernel.
it's a demanding topic, but this fact is shadowed by the primary goal of gaming: to have fun and blow off some steam.
the canonical rpg on linux is rogue (the ncurses library started life as a screen handling routine for rogue!)
/usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.1 (0x40a50000) libxext.so.6 =>
xfree86 4.x provides a more centralized and self-contained approach to video.
it's lgpl'd and provides  joystick and opengl support as well.
remember to ask first,  because core files can get very, very big.
in turn, it motivates me to write more and add to this document.
not a big  deal when you're trying to run wordperfect or an old database application.
the voodoo iv and  v rendered in full 32bpp color, had great aa support (section 7.4.3), featured  a 2nd gpu, more memory, and was arguably the king of of video cards.
they *may* work with kde, but i cannot say for certain.
rpg's generally have a quest with a well defined ending.
because  win4lin concentrates on these operating systems, reports say that it's faster  and does a better job at running games under these operating system than  vmware.
this project is  much less far along than libggi itself, but promises to combine dri-level  speeds and the stability and security unix users expect.
don't bother with the simple search.
dri allows x clients to write 3d rendering information directly to the video card in a safe and cooperative manner.
what does this have to do with files not being found?
this means that there are different builds of mesa depending on  what kind of video card you have.
on the other hand, you can ask for help and the developers are  very good about getting around to your answer; their vigilance is quite  impressive.
sarien is under development and the  developers have been very good about documenting the sarien internals if anyone  wants to get involved in hacking it.
there are hundreds, even thousands of non-commercial doom datafiles that you can download for free off the net.
the advanced search is at http://groups.google.com/advanced_group_search.
for commercial games, this option is more fruitful than sending a core  file or call stack since commercial games can't be recompiled to include  debugging information.
this is legal only if you own a copy of windows which isn't currently being used on a computer.
the copies ofopenal.so distributed with games  often do not support alsa, so making the game use a copy compiled yourself will  allow you to use alsa natively.
why simulate text mode in a graphical environment?
unlike vmware, win4lin  only does windows 95/98/me, but this turns out to be better for gamers.
however, all ati cards beyond the radeon 9200 also require a  proprietary driver that will "taint" your kernel as well.
if you're playing an open source game that you compiled, make sure you have the newest version by checking the game's website.
now for the bad sides.
they have an extremely high "information to space" ratio.
strats can be further divided into two classes: real time and turn based.
although playing an emulated game is sometimes not quite as fun as playing it on the native machine, and getting some of the emulators to work well can be a difficult task, they're here, and there's alot of them!
it should've been a more powerful card, with a 50mhz gpu and 8mb of ram.
their current proprietary drivers are below par.
pci cards can share interrupts, but certain types  of high bandwidth cards simply don't like to share, including network and sound  cards.
anyone who has played games like dungeons & dragons or call of cthulhu knows exactly what an rpg is.
btw,  let me say that compiling your own kernel is the first step towards proficiency  with linux.
they don't  necessarily have to be violent, likexscavenger, a clone of the old 8-bit game  lode runner.
here is what my  .xinitrc looks like: #quake3
strategy games have their roots in old avalon type board games like panzer  leader and old war strategy games published by ssi.
it's an absolute show stopper for gaming.
sdl is an example of what all graphics libraries should strive for.
yet game companies persist using directx and therefore limit their audience to windows users only.
it's a mistake to say  something like "directx is like opengl" or "directx is like  sdl", as is commonly said in directx tutorials.
the "x window user howto", and especially "man xf86config" arerequired reading.
the engine refers to the actual game itself (doom, quake, heretic2) and plays out the maps and bad guys outlined by the datafile (doom2.wad, pak0.pak, etc).
in ultima ii, you destroy the evil sorceress minax.
you can also run wine without windows.
the number of sampled pixels and which sampled pixels it uses depends on the viewing angle of the surface relative to your screen.
being a subscriber of transgaming gives three major benefits: subscribers can download convenient packaged versions of winex in deb, rpm or tar.gz format whenever they want, including updates.
often  a game will have many patches (myth2) and some games are unplayable without  them (heretic2).
underworld adventures provides an impressive graphics system which uses the original game files, so you'll need the original game disk to play.
they  include things like text entry boxes, pulldown menus, slider bars, radio  buttons and much more.
third person shooters similar to fps, but you view your character in third person and in 3d. on  modern third person shooters you can usually do some really kick-butt maneuvers  like jackie chan style back flips and side rolls.
these cards include the older ensoniq es1370 and newer creative pci-128.
mesa  is a free implementation of the opengl  api, designed and written by brian paul.
they're kind of mysterious and have funny names, so we'll go over libraries on linux for a bit.
and  it felt good, because 3dfx open sourced their drivers.
this is where strace shines.
when objects are rendered into a 2d frame buffer, the rendering engine removes hidden surfaces by using the z buffer.
clearly, mind.dat isn't in/usr/share.
once upon a time, soundcards without onboard midi chips (most pci sound cards) didn't do midi.
other previously closed engines opened up, many  engines are playable via emulators, many commercial fps games were released for  linux and there are quite a number of fps engines which started life as open  source projects.
at low levels you might get some gold pieces as a  reward for winning a battle.
they simply put you in a cockpit to  give you the thrill of piloting a plane.
when the texture is far away a smaller version of the texture (mip  map) is used.
a more advanced way of fixing this would be to go into bios and assign  irq's to specific slots.
don't forget the game's website.
for these examples, bioware's neverwinter  nights  will be used.
this material isn't crucial to actually getting a game working, but may help in deciding what hardware and software options are best for you.
the faq and howto are complementary in this regard, and i've tried to not reproduce their content.
but if i did have this conflict, neither my network nor my sound would work well (or at all!).
the only video card that can use both glide2 (under xfree86 3.x) and glide3 (under xfree86 4.x) is the voodoo iii.
in  either case, sims strive for realism.
in addition, there are versions for dos, strong-arm based pda's, qns (holy cow!
since aa is cpu intensive, it's more desirable to perform it in hardware, but if we're talking about semi-static applications, like the gimp, this really isn't an issue.
opengl provides a powerful, complete and generic feature set for 2d and 3d graphics operations.
mike phillips (formerly of loki software) mentioned that sending in  saved games to loki is definitely a good thing.
right now, i'm listening to an mp3 (not a metallica  mp3, of course...) with mp3blaster.
on april 18 2001, they sold most of their assets and technology to nvidia, and in october 2002, they finally declared bankruptcy.
the lock can also be a "soft lock", meaning that the kernel is still functioning in some capacity.
if you want to create a derivative work or publish this howto for  commercial purposes, i would appreciate it if you contact me first.
you can use the  mouse to cut and paste the word "halt".
this allowed daryll strauss to port glide2 to linux which enabled xfree86 3.x users to use voodoo i, ii and iii cards under linux.
underworld adventures also provides a bunch of tools for you to display the  level maps, tools for examining uw1 conversation scripts and more.
basically, it turns many smaller  separate writes to the video card into a single write (a burst).
creative  never released a linux driver for these cards (and they never released  programming information to linux developers), so linux users cannot use the  extra 32 channels on the awe 64 and awe 64 gold.
motif used to be the king of widget sets in the unix world, but it was very expensive to license.
the developers of winex were going to release their installshield, directx and directdraw enhancements to wine "every so often".
if he says yes, then send it.
this should clear up many problems,  including consoles hosed by an svgalib or ncurses based game.
if you have your heart set to buy the best card  for linux, you'll want to go with the geforce 5900.
z buffering a z buffer is a portion of ram which represents the distance between the  viewer (you) and each pixel of an object.
moreover, a game writer who uses libraries like opengl, ggi or sdl will write a game which will trivially compile on windows, linux and a multitude of other os's.
however, it's possible to give a program all the hardware resources it needs.
the  idea was that 2d rendering was handled by a high quality 2d video card (matrox  was immensely popular at the time)
i prefer console  tools more, so i use tin, but slrn is also popular.
i happen to be a fan of this library and of graphical console games in general; they are extremely fast, fullscreen and compelling.
there's a good  framebuffer howto available from ldp.
a "real computer" provides an operating system many things, including a cpu, i/o channels, memory, a bios to provide low level access to motherboard and i/o resources, etc.
i can't find a  working homepage for this application.
the project was focused on the  beos platform, but is now focused on macos and linux.
there is almost no support for enhancements like eax or any hardware acceleration on linux, though it does it exist in the windows implementation.
if the magic sysrq key sequence doesn't shut your system down gracefully, your kernel has crashed hard and you'll need to use the reset or power button to recover.
winex is released by a company called transgaming .
the system shock engine was optimized for sophistication, while doom's engine was optimized for throwing lots of monsters at you; a completely different appoach.
as root, change to the  "/usr/share/xsessions" directory and take a look at its contents.
the console was hosed with a  quasi-graphics screen.
no code gets inserted at run time; the code  is completely self-contained.
sometimes a game will exit abnormally and your console will get `hosed'.
you'll see something like: #0 printf (format=0x80484a4 "z is %d.\n") at printf.c:30 #1 0x8048431 in display (z=5) at try1.c:11 #2 0x8048406 in main () at try1.c:6 it may be quite long, but use your mouse to cut and paste this information into a file.
there are a few definitions of a hosed console.
the numbers on the left are the assigned irq's and the strings to the right indicate what device was assigned that irq.
it suffers nevertheless from some limitations: it does not support directx or directdraw, while vmware has "limited" support for directx.
it uses the virtual machine approach to running windows applications, so you'll get a big window from which you can boot windows and run all kinds of windows applications.
you will never see non hardware accelerated fsaa.
because their linux guy quit the company, reel deal slots is their first, and so far, last release for linux.
computer based board games simulate some kind of board game you'd play on a table top with friends, like monopoly, mille bourne, chess or checkers.
loading & massaging...
it suffers nevertheless from some limitations: it does not support directx or directdraw, while vmware has  "limited" support for directx.
this could be something real like a  fighter jet or something imaginary like a mechanized warrior combat unit.
fwiw, i've been able to finish many of the games that are listed as 90% done with no problems.
the voodoo iv and v rendered in full 32bpp color, had great aa support (section 7.4.3), featured a 2nd gpu, more memory, and was arguably the king of of video cards.
motif used to be the king of widget sets in the unix world,  but it was very expensive to license.
we'll run through the different gaming libraries you'll see under linux.
in these games, you  point at an object (say, a book) and can choose from a pull-down list of  functions.
you'll see something  like: #0 printf (format=0x80484a4 "z is %d.\n") at printf.c:30 #1  0x8048431 in display (z=5) at try1.c:11 #2 0x8048406 in main () at try1.c:6 it may be quite long, but use your mouse to cut and paste this information  into a file.
kill all non-essential processes (you'll have to do this as root) by using the startup scripts on your system.
miscellaneous problems 9.1.
you can use strace to determine where kill-metallica was looking for the library and make a symlink from/usr/local/include/libmp3.so.2 to wherever kill-metallica was looking for the library file.
the compiler  will try to optimise the resulting binary, giving some increase in performance.
whereas opengl is open  source, lower level and compiles under a multitude of operating systems, d3d is  proprietary, higher level and only compiles on windows.
cd to/usr/games/nwn, or wherever you installed it and take a look at the files.
the most recent stable version can be found at http://www.tldp.org.
they both share irq 5.
underworld adventures provides an impressive graphics system which uses the  original game files, so you'll need the original game disk to play.
the compiler will try to optimise the resulting binary, giving some increase in performance.
however, 3dfx's late release of the voodoo iv and v coupled with the fact that the geforce could be had for half the price meant that 3dfx was sinking fast.
i think wabi will run under linux on all architectures (can someone verify this?)
a prime example of this is loki software's online  faqs located athttp://faqs.lokigames.com.
life was simple: you purchased a voodoo.
what should i choose?
when you  picked up an item, the background would be redrawn without the item appearing.
see the dri user guide.
support as of june 2002, svgalib support radeon cards is shaky.
most modern 3d accelerated video cards can do trilinear filtering in hardware with no performance hit.
however, they're really incomplete, and effectively, unusable.
if my sound card is pci, the preferred way of fixing this would be to  simply move one of the cards to a different slot and hope the bios sorts things  out.
actually, i cooked this example up because i wanted to show you  what an irq conflict looks like.
trilinear filtering always uses mip mapping.
the canonical example would  be tomb raider.
this basically means that versions of wine that  are released past the date of the re-licensing can no longer be used by winex.
the xterm from which you run glxgears will display "x frames in y seconds =
role playing game (aka rpg) anyone who has played games like dungeons & dragons or call of cthulhu  knows exactly what an rpg is.
i've had expensive altec lansing speakers perform only slightly better than el-cheapo speakers.
not counting the rogue variants, there's also a deficiency of open source rpgs too.
it must be the flash of the double barreled shotgun!
definitions: types of games not everyone knows the different types of games that are out there, so in  an effort to form a common language that we can all use, i'll run through each  game type and provide a very brief history.
non-subscribers can browse the forums, but only subscribers can  post (and therefore, ask for support).
as you can imagine, this is extremely cpu intensive.
it's almost certain that whatever problem you have with linux, gaming  related or not, has already been asked about and answered on usenet.
it's reported that a voodoo iii using glide2 will outperform a voodoo iii using glide3.
the most regrettable option is a reboot.
although you may not be able to play yourfavorite fps  under linux (half-life plays great under winex)
scumm engine (lucasarts)
you can find what these standard  system directories are
the transgaming website has a few user support forums.
text adventures became popularized by scott adams (section 11.5) and reached their height of popularity in the late 80's with infocom (section 11.4) which are also playable under linux.
their effort is above and beyond the call of duty: frédéric delanoy, moritz muehlenhoff , mike phillips, ioan rogers  i would also like to thank the following people for sending in comments and  corrections.
your decision should be based on what will be the easiest to configure.
btw, let me say that compiling your own kernel is the first step towards proficiency with linux.
with various arguments, and the return value of the call is4.
wouldn't it be helpful to know where these programs looked for the missing files?
/usr/lib/libstdc++.so.5 (0x40b30000)  libgcc_s.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgcc_s.so.1 (0x40be7000)
i'd also appreciate  either a copy of whatever it is you're doing or a spinach, garlic, mushroom,  feta cheese and artichoke heart pizza.
it's defined and maintained by the architectural revision board (arb), an  organization which include representatives from sgi, ibm, dec, and microsoft.
however, since the birth of  transgaming, parts of wine have been re-licensed under the more restrictive gnu  lgpl license (section 10.5.1).
while some games are written in xlib, like the doom editor yadex, xlib itself is not a serious game writing library.
you should definitely ask before sending a save game file because they tend to be long, but gaming companies usually have lots of bandwidth.
is an extremely popular pci sound card these days.
the  program can simulate your opponent.
let's use strace to find out where the program was looking for the data  file.
the commercial oss drivers are good when you're having trouble getting your sound card to work by free methods.
sci: script interpreter or sierra creative interpreter (sierra) the newer sierra graphical adventure games (we're talking about the late  80's here) used an interpreter named sci.
it's possible to recover from this gracefully.
these are some resources for linux gamers no matter what kind of game you enjoy to play.
if the sound card works when you're root but not any other user, you probably have a permissions problem.
trilinear filtering samples eight pixels  and interpolates them before rendering.
when it wants to set an irq, give it some bogus instructions that lets it think  it set an irq.
comment out the lines containing the wm or desktop manager with a pound sign (#) and place your game on a new line with any command line arguments you want to pass.
he recently released a new game (a linux version is not available) but since the decline of adventuring, he has pretty much kept out of the gaming industry.
the canonical example would be tomb raider.
they *may* work with kde, but i  cannot say for certain.
for instance, at a low resolution you may get only a very slight hit by using trilinear filtering instead of bilinear filtering.
it's well supported by linux with high quality but proprietary drivers.
jzip is very  portable; it compiles on all unices, os/2, atari st and dos.
as of june 2003, expect to pay $89.99 without printed docs and $99.99 with  printed docs.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libx11.so.6 (0x40a01000) libdl.so.2 => /lib/libdl.so.2 (0x40acd000) libstdc++.so.5 =>
these games can be played usingsarienon> , an open source interpreter for agi games.
neither the module nor the device file are used under xfree86 4.x.
you may even see your hands or weapon at the bottom of the screen.
so if you don't see your sound card's driver with  lsmod, your card probably isn't configured yet.
the aim is to keep  rewind mit/x11 based so that companies like transgaming can offer wine based  products.
strategy games have their roots in old avalon type board games like panzer leader and old war strategy games published by ssi.
not only did we have the best video cards, but  the drivers were all open source.
see http://www.vmware.com for more information.
the nwn library  directories have been prepended to the search path, so now the linker can find libmss.so.6 in the "./miles" directory, and also finds the local copy  of libsdl first, no longer using the system copy.
this api provides a way to install directx from within an application to simplify game installation.
computer based card games simulate a card game like poker or solitaire.
another nice little trick is for games that use openal for their sound  output (e.g. unreal based games: ut, postal, rune, etc.).
in the oven you see a brown paper bag.
see the homepage for gcc for more information this at the gcc site.
loki is no longer in business, but  creative and the open source community have kept the project alive.
wine was originally licenced under the mit/x11 license, so it could be used  for both commercial and non-commercial purposes.
it was the first hardware accelerated card, but only rendered 3d; it had to be piggybacked with a 2d video card.
see section 4.2 for details.
don't discount  them; they're very cheap (like 10 or 20 bucks), support bleeding edge sound  cards and take a lot of guesswork out of the configuring process.
except for a few details, a program written in sdl will compile under linux, ms windows, beos, macos, macos x, solaris, irix, freebsd, qnx and osf.
one method i've come up with is typing a command at the prompt and using characters on the screen with mouse cut/paste.
the answer was very difficult last year, but here's my take on it these days: all geforce cards require a proprietary driver which will "taint" your kernel.
if you don't have a driver loaded, you need to figure out what's been compiled into your kernel.
people were still using voodoo's, but they were essentially out of the game at this point.
the data files  are the actual game itself, similar to the relationship between first person  shooters (section 2.7) and wad files.
gcc looks for libraries in the ``standard system directories'' plus  any directories you specify with the-l option.
even when ati open sourced its  video card driver, they played the "we'll make linux developers write our  drivers for us" game.
ldd shows all the libraries a dynamic executable relies on, and shows you where they are.
and it felt good, because 3dfx open sourced their drivers.
however, that changed under x 4.x with dri (direct rendering  infrastructure .
sdl (section 3.10) and clanlib (section 3.15) applications can display on libggi but often the native drivers for these libraries are faster, however it's a good way to get sdl, clanlib, and svgalib applications to run where they would not before.
right now, i'm listening to an mp3 (not a metallica mp3, of course...) with mp3blaster.
however, this  sort of thing clearly should be done in hardware wherever possible.
graphics rendering has 3 players: the client application (like quake 3),  the x server and the hardware (the graphics card).
at the *very* least, the author will be interested in the call stack when the game crashed.
the types of games usually take a long  time to complete and require a lot of brainpower.
you should definitely have a good configuration in order to run it; they claim the minimum is a 500mhz x86 cpu with 128mb ram, but a faster processor and at least 256mb ram seem to be the bare minimum if you want reasonable performance.
if hardware acceleration is not possible for a specific task, opengl  falls back on software rendering.
beyond the 9200, you need to use ati's binary only  proprietary drivers, available in rpm format from ati's website.
wine does not provide the dos api, so you can't use it to run dos applications.
none of the games which use glide2 will work with glide3.
here's a summary for the x86 architecture (see the documentation for other architectures).
there are several common  texture filtering techniques including point-sampling, bilinear, trilinear and  anisotropic filtering.
i used to be a fan of the creative soundblaster awe 32, awe 64 and awe 64  gold soundcards.
see the xfree86 video timings howto for more information.
it's poorly supported by wine (section 10.5.1), barely supported by  vmware (section 10.5.5) and unsupported by win4lin (section 10.5.4).
the developers have done a fantastic job of documenting and faqing their application.
this was a good time for linux.
oh, you'll want to run them as root since you'll be asking for information from processes that may be owned by root.
you play a character, sometimes more than one,  characterized by traits (eg strength, dexterity), skills (eg explosives, basket  weaving, mechanics) and properties (levels, cash).
graphical console games written using the frame buffer suffer from the same deficiencies of the svga library: not all hardware is supported and the code will only run on linux.
for instance, at a low resolution  you may get only a very slight hit by using trilinear filtering instead of  bilinear filtering.
the t&l is the process of translating all the 3d world information  (position, distance, and light sources) into the 2d image that is actually  displayed on screen.
running quake iii and quitting normally fixed the problem.
there are 5 things that can go wrong with your sound system: shared interrupt misconfigured driver something's already accessing the sound card you're using the wrong driver
opengl is the open source equivalent to direct3d, a component of directx ( section 3.14).
alternatively, some isa cards can be set to use a specific irq  using jumpers on the card itself.
for gaming you might want to look at winex (section  10.5.3).
the developers take wine (see section 10.5.1)  and add directx / directdraw support.
bilinear filtering is a computationally cheap but low quality texture filtering.
this was mostly a problem for things like xdoom or lxdoom using musserv.
and amd motherboards that use the 686b southbridge.
a texture is a 2d image (usually a bitmap) covering the polygons of a 3d world.
if you have a linux/windows dual boot, consider either the radeon 9800 or the geforce 5900.
the rewards increase correspondingly.
they have also more  functionality than the publicly available tarball: the latter is an older  version which lacks some of the newest features, like support for copy  protected programs.
if you're going to game under x, it's crucial that you know a bit about
graphics rendering has 3 players: the client application (like quake 3), the x server and the hardware (the graphics card).
this excellently done page  has many nice links for interactive fiction fans.
the original sci games were dos based, but sierra eventually started releasing win32 sci based games.
while you need the original game files to play  sshp, it should work with the system shock demo, which is freely available.
d3d first appeared in directx 2, released in 1996.
you can compare your system to the list of benchmarks below.
but again, the driver issue makes this  information unusable for us.
so procede to step 2.
when playing games from binary, your library woes will be either be thatld.so can't find the library or the library doesn't exist on your system.
you can use thenm to see what functions a static library contains: % nm /usr/lib/libm.a ...
pretty impressive, eh?
this allowed them to write game data files in a cross platform manner, since only the engine itself, the z-machine, would be platform dependent.
static libraries usually end with.a followed by a  version number, like: /usr/lib/libsdl.a /usr/lib/libm.a the .a files are really an archive of a bunch of .o
i prefer console tools more, so i use tin, but slrn is also popular.
it might be useful for playing older win16 games, but there are three problems: you must have a licensed copy of windows 3.1/3.11 or wfw 3.11.
however,  3dfx's late release of the voodoo iv and v coupled with the fact that the  geforce could be had for half the price meant that 3dfx was sinking fast.
remove "./lib:" from theld_library_path line, and you're good to go.
you are given a  scenario and can interact with the world you're placed in: you are in a room.
it was a separate api from directx, but was integrated with directx 8.
it's a common  misconception that x means graphics and console means no graphics.
but at high resolutions, the performance hit may be enormous.
then in april 2000, 3dfx was attacked on a different front: ati started  releasing their first generation radeons.
if direct rendering is disabled, then your x configuration is definitely faulty.
if you don't know what netnews (usenet) is, then this is definitely worth 30 minutes of your time to learn about.
they all use the same e-mu 8000 synthesis chip which enables them to play 32 voices simultaneously (they have 32 "channels").
configuration is also a bit funky; this emulator would benefit from an svga or x based configuration tool.
the text characters could look  like gibberish.
until this point, ati had always been an innovative (they developed their own 3d acceleration chips in 1996, about the same time as 3dfx), but sleepy graphics chipset manufacturer.
infocom adventures (infocom, activision) 11.5.
log into another system and ssh into the hung system.
note that explicit modelines are no longer necessary,  since xfree 4.0.1 and up computes modetimings automatically based on your  monitor's and video card's capabilities.
you can use strace to determine where kill-metallica was looking for the  library and make a symlink from/usr/local/include/libmp3.so.2 to wherever  kill-metallica was looking for the library file.
this will  give me a chance to give you the most recent version.
you'll have something like 10 processes running.
you can play adventure yourself (actually, a  descendent); it comes with “bsd games” on most linux distros.
quite impressive for such an old game!
the newer sierra graphical adventure games (we're talking about the late 80's here) used an interpreter named sci.
the exult team has also been hard at work creating a map editor, exult studio, and a script compiler that will let users create their own rpg in the ultima style.
they all use the same e-mu 8000 synthesis chip which enables them to play 32  voices simultaneously (they have 32 "channels").
strace tells you what system calls are being made, with what arguments, and what their return values are.
that's  the way distros do things.
it's a common misconception that x means graphics and console means no graphics.
nvidia uses a convenient combined driver architecture; their driver will support the tnt 2 all the way up to the geforce 5900.
there aren't many  graphical adventures written natively for linux.
first, check your gdm.conf (usually in /etc/x11/gdm or /etc/gdm) file for a line that says begins "sessiondesktopdir=blah".
the important difference being that since opengl is open (and directx is closed), games written in opengl are much easier to port to and co-develop on linux than games written using directx. mesa  is a free implementation of the opengl api, designed and written by brian paul.
even lightweight wms, like twm, rob your cpu of clock cycles (and in twm's case, even full screen games will have a frame around the window).
the older sierra dos graphical adventure games used a scripting language named agi (adventure gaming interface).
+set r_gldriver libgr.so.1 #exec ut #lsdldoom -server 2 #exec tribes2 exec /usr/bin/enlightenment you'll usually see a window or desktop manager being executed from this file (gnome or kde).
i still remember my friend gabe rosa emailing me with just  "look at /." and seeing the news.
xt-pic timer 1: 224714 0 xt-pic keyboard 2: 0 0 xt-pic cascade 5: 2478476 0 xt-pic soundblaster 5: 325924 0 xt-pic eth0 11: 131326 0
once i had to kill quake iii in a  hurry, so i performed actl-alt-backspace.
this allowed them to write game  data files in a cross platform manner, since only the engine itself, the  z-machine, would be platform dependent.
because win4lin concentrates on these operating systems, reports say that it's faster and does a better job at running games under these operating system than vmware.
use it, and you'll be a much happier  person.
, mips based systems and sh3/4 based  pocket pc's.
often a game will have many patches (myth2) and some games are unplayable without them (heretic2).
# fuser -vk /dev/dsp user pid access command /dev/dsp root 1225 f....  mp3blaster root 1282 f....
cd to/usr/games/nwn, or wherever you installed it and take a look at  the files.
the version at sourceforge is bleeding edge but guaranteed to be not broken, however it may have glitches, like unfinished paragraphs.
# lsof /dev/dsp command pid user fd type device size node name mp3blaste
the library  doesn't exist on your system.
what is a virtual machine?
trilinear filtering is capable of producing  fine visuals, but it only samples from a square area which in some cases is not  the ideal method.
there are many graphical applications and games that use svgalib likezgv (a console graphical image viewer),prboom and hhexen.
pci cards are much easier to deal with than isa since you don't need to tell their drivers about which system resources (irq, dma, i/o addresses) to use.
a database of all known computer games.
if you do this correctly, then in principle, there's no way for  the poor application to know whether it's really accessing hardware or tricked  by being given resources which simulate hardware.
it only runs on x86 architectures.
when objects are  rendered into a 2d frame buffer, the rendering engine removes hidden surfaces  by using the z buffer.
you can hit alt-sysrq-h for a very terse help screen.
despite the faster 100mhz core, the banshee was outperformed by the voodoo ii because its multi-texturing unit was removed, like with the rush.
the open group finally opened up motif's  license for open source operating systems, but it was too little too late.
there are actually many other z-machine interpreters like nitfol and rezrov  (written in perl!).
using scottfree and any of the scott adams data files which can be downloaded from scott's website  you can enjoy these classics.
second, the awe 64 and awe 64 gold can play 64 voices simultaneously, but this is done in software.
to find out what libraries a game uses, we can use the "ldd" command.
=> /lib/libpthread.so.0 (0x40049000) libgl.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgl.so.1 (0x4009b000) libglu.so.1 =>
logging out and back in don't always work, but there are a few things that might: if you don't see any character on the screen as you type in, your terminal settings may be wrong.
not all linux distributions are supported: newest  redhat's, mandrake's and suse's are, but you're out of luck if you have an  other version and/or distribution (like debian).
it is licensed lgpl and the specs can be obtained for free from the openal website.
cpu type video card x version average fps compiling mesa and dri modules yourself can increase your fps by 15 fps;  quite a performance boost!
it's used for a number of purposes, like making adjacent textures blend smoothly and making textures viewed from an angle (think of looking at a billboard from an extreme angle) look realistic.
unless  you plan on compiling your games from source code, you'll mainly be interested  in dynamic libraries.
applications that use libggi directly include heroes, ultrapoint, quake, and berlin.
most games don't need the  low-level interface that xlib provides.
the geforce will be stronger on linux.
that sometimes works when your console is very badly hosed.
other sources of information xdpyinfo gives cool stuff, like x version and loaded extensions  (invaluable when trying to see what's missing, like glx, dri, xfree86-vidmode,  etc.).
generally, they simulate some kind of scenario.
what to do when a file or library isn't being found (better living  through strace)
now for  the bad sides.
it's informally called the "dust  buster" because of noise its fan makes.
every aspect of your computer plays a role in gaming.
as of february 2002, i've been following their cvs, and this project is undergoing constant development.
unfortunately, it can take alot of effort to get dosemu to work, and of jan 2002, the sound code is somewhat broken.
now, run the game and  do whatever you did to crash the program and dump a core again.
if you're a game  writer, please consider using cross platform libraries and stay away from  directx. a company named realtechvr started an open source project, directx port,   which, like wine, provides a direct3d  emulation layer that implements direct3d calls.
on paper, it's simply the more impressive card.
then, as root, add your non-root user to the audio group in /etc/group.
thanks to james barton for reminding me to add this to the howto.
gtk is the canonical widget set on linux, but there are many others like fltk (a small c++ widget set), xaw, qt (the widget set of kde), and motif (the widget set used by netscape).
it supports the undocumented portion of the 6502  instruction set which some games rely on.apple2 is currently being maintained  by michael deutschmann and seems  to be developed at a slow but constant pace.
perhaps an application is already accessing your soundcard.
if you're getting like 1 fps, then your system isn't using hardware 3d acceleration.
second, the action takes place in first  person.
one method i've come up  with is typing a command at the prompt and using characters on the screen with  mouse cut/paste.
it's crucial that you know the difference between the various markers  you'll see in probeonly output: (--) probed (**) from config file
yes, that's a single dash; so much for standards.
but 3d information (see glide2,section 3.1)  would be passed to the voodoo i and rendered, using the voodoo's fast hardware  to perform the necessary graphics calculations.
the 3d rendering information doesn't even have to be hardware accelerated.
thanks to james barton for reminding me to  add this to the howto.
on debian, the startup scripts for run-level 2 are located in /etc/rc2.d/. you can kill a service in an orderly manner by sending its startup script the `stop' command: # cd /etc/rc2.d # ./ntpd stop another (radical) option is to simply put yourself in single-user mode with # telinit 1 this will even get rid of getty; your system will only be running whatever is absolutely crucial to its operation.
said that wabi for solaris is more stable than linux.
the idea was that 2d rendering was handled by a high quality 2d video card (matrox was immensely popular at the time)
i assume a working knowledge of linux, so i use some topics like runlevels and modules without defining them.
developers have  reported that svgalib works on the radeon 7500, radeon qd (64mb ddr model) but  has problems on the radeon ve.
look for updates and patches
clanlib clanlib is a medium level development kit.
this example will show you how to log in to doom3.
pixels are rectangular objects, so drawing an angled line or curve with them results in a 'stair step' effect, also called the 'jaggies'.
if the following lines aren't present in your xf86config-4 file, put them in: section "dri" mode 0666 endsection
these  days: all geforce cards require a proprietary driver which will "taint"  your kernel.
arcade style games attempt to simulate the  arcade games themselves.
dri gets the x server out of the way so the 3d driver (mesa or opengl) can  talk directly to the hardware.
every once in awhile you'll see some sicko (said with respect) write a game in xlib.
while nvidia was putting real r&d  into their cards, 3dfx was simply adding more and faster ram.
you can use wine `with windows', which means that wine uses libraries that  actually come with microsoft windows itself.
if there are enough questions (or even protests) i'll add more basic information to this document.
my web browser  of choice, opera (available athttp://www.opera.com) allows you to use the right  mouse button to select a portion of text and left click the selection to  translate it into another language.
kudos to the scummvm team.
frotz has  spawned many forks, like a version for palmos and linux based pda's.
it was the first hardware accelerated  card, but only rendered 3d; it had to be piggybacked with a 2d video card.
if it's not, then you're not getting hardware acceleration.
the program can simulate your opponent.
this improves a game's visuals, but can also dramatically degrade performance.
commercial linux game resources 12.3.
although he himself was inspired by the first piece of interactive fiction, adventure, scott brought adventuring to the masses.
there's one of two things that can be going on.
this is legal only if you own a  copy of windows which isn't currently being used on a computer.
for open source games, you can help the author by giving a corefile or stack trace.
this section has url's that should be mentioned but didn't have a separate section within the howto, so i list them here as a kind of appendix.
your best bet is to compile your kernel.
now we can try to locate mind.dat and move it into /usr/share, or  better, create a symbolic link.
while some games are written in xlib, like the doom editor yadex, xlib  itself is not a serious game writing library.
ggi  is a project which aims to implement a graphics abstraction layer in lower level code, put graphics hardware support into a common codebase, and bring higher stability and portability to graphics applications.
then nvidia released the geforce 256 in october 1999.
more important than fps is having a constant fps for small and large  windows.
they're analagous to the.dll's used by windows.
a few notes: first,  the soundblaster awe howto is very out of date.
second, the awe 64 and awe 64  gold can play 64 voices simultaneously, but this is done in software.
a google search should turn up alot of information on this problem.
there is such a vast number of these things that it's  nearly impossible to enumerate them all, but they include clones of asteroids,  space invaders, pac-man, missile command and galaxian.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libxext.so.6 (0x40a52000) libx11.so.6 =>
the scenario can be peaceful, like running a successful  city (simcity), or not, like illegal drug selling operation (drugwars) or an  all-out war strategy game like myth ii.
in april 1999, the voodoo iii was released.
strace ./mind.i86_linux.glibc2.1 2> ./stateofmind_log pulling out vim and searching for all occurrences of mind.dat, i find the  following lines: open("/usr/share/mind.dat",o_rdonly) =
1108 p 6w chr 14,3 662302 /dev/dsp fuser is similar; but it lets you send a signal to any process
however, if you must have usb support or run  linux on a platform other than x86, vmware is your only option.
the system  shock engine was optimized for sophistication, while doom's engine was  optimized for throwing lots of monsters at you; a completely different appoach.
aa is used in a number of situations.
without their help, there would be more typos and mistakes than  you could shake a stick at: michael mcdonnell 1.3.
remember to ask first, because core files can get very, very big.
directsetup this api provides a way to install directx from within an application to  simplify game installation.
loki's death in january 2002 was the biggest setback linux has ever had in its attempt to capture the general desktop market.
and that's pretty much where we are right now.
many modern 3d accelerated cards have a z buffer in their video ram, which speeds things up considerably, but z buffering can also be done by the application's rendering engine.
scummvm is rock solid, and allows you to purchase scumm based lucas arts games, copy the data files to your hard drive and play them under linux.
the components of  directx are: directdraw directdraw gives direct access to video memory, like dri, so 2d graphics  can be blitted directly to the video card.
if you want to do things like convert a record lp to digital format, then your  choice of a soundcard with a professional grade a/d converter is absolutely  crucial.
it's informally called the "dust buster" because of noise its fan makes.
however, the file is generated from a text file/etc/ld.so.conf which you can edit.
each build uses a different library as a backend renderer.
but life was  still good for linux.
ati, together with nvidia, played king of hill.
i'm not much for card/gambling games, but this game is impressive!
vertex data doesn't have to be encoded/decoded via glx.
ludvig strigeus was able to reverse engineer the scumm format and write an interpreter for scumm based games that compiles under linux and win32 named scummvm .
running a game without a wm or de depends on how you access x. if you usually log in to a virtual console and start x with "startx" try the following: modify ~/.xinitrc, which tells x what to run upon starting.
the voodoo banshee was  released in september 1998 as a combined 2d/3d card, like the rush.
what is sdl (simple directmedia layer)?
this material isn't  crucial to actually getting a game working, but may help in deciding what  hardware and software options are best for you.
logic games usually simulate some well known logic puzzle like master mind  or the game where you have put sliding numbered tiles in order inside a box.
the file could be a library: % ./exult ./exult: error while loading shared library: libsdl-1.2.so.0: cannot load shared object file: no such file or directory or it could be some kind of data file, like a wad or map file: % qf-client-sdl ip address 192.168.0.2:27001 udp initialize error: w_loadwadfile: couldn't load gfx.wad suppose gfx.wad is already on my system, but couldn't be found because it isn't in the right directory.
it is  licensed lgpl and the specs can be obtained for free from the openal website.
the 3d rendering  information doesn't even have to be hardware accelerated.
check the game's website for patches whether you have a  problem running the game or not; there may be an update for a security problem  that you may not even be aware of.
the  file could be a library: % ./exult ./exult: error while loading shared library: libsdl-1.2.so.0:  cannot load shared object file: no such file or directory or it could be some kind of data file, like a wad or map file: % qf-client-sdl ip address 192.168.0.2:27001 udp initialize error:  w_loadwadfile: couldn't load gfx.wad suppose gfx.wad is already on my system, but couldn't be found because it  isn't in the right directory.
a virtual machine is the  environment which tricks applications into believing they're running on a real  computer.
= 33 it was looking for mind.dat in only one directory.
i think wabi will run under linux on all architectures (can  someone verify this?)
directaudio is a combination of 2 audio api's, directsound and directmusic, which allows direct access to the sound card for sound and music playback.
one comment about portability: each component of directx has multiple  corresponding library on linux.
linuxgames.com has a nice loki timeline athttp://www.linuxgames.com/articles/lokitimeline tribsoft released jagged alliance 2, an excellent rpg/strat which claimed 2+ weeks of my life.
let's use strace to find out where the program was looking for the data file.
clanlib builds a  generic game development framework, giving you easy handling of resources,  network object replication, graphical user interfaces (gui) with theme support,  game scripting and more.
but if you're going to  give it a try, you're more likely to have success with vmware.
aa uses cpu intensive filtering to smooth out these jagged edges.
if you search hard enough, you  can find file copies of the roms for the apple ][, ][+, ][e, ][c and //gs.
a more accurate statement would be something like "directx is like dri, opengl and sdl combined".
commercial games will have a printed manual and maybe some readme files on the cd the game came on.
directinput gives support for gaming input devices such as joysticks.
hardware acceleration isn't working at all
they're kind of mysterious and have funny names, so we'll go over libraries on  linux for a bit.
as you can see, this gives us slighly different results.
as of version 3.1, the directx 8 support is nearly  complete, but this may not be the case with older directx versions (are  consequently older games).
however, so many people use usenet, it almost doesn't  matter.
every post made to usenet gets archived at google's database at http://groups.google.com.
what causes the crash and whether it's a repeatable crash or not.
va linux, the largest linux server vendor, put nvidia into their  machines.
if hardware acceleration is working, the fps for glxgears should be nearly independent of window size.
if anyone has more information on this company or the author of hopkins fbi, please contact me.
libggi applications run on svgalib, fb, and x servers among  others.
how are library files found
in my `kernel  module programming guide' (due to be released to ldp soon), i outline  everything you may want to know about strace.
there are three downsides to svgalib.
for instance, they can vote for things like "improve support for copy protected programs", "better installshield support" or "improve directx 8.0 support".
anisotropic (meaning 'from any direction') samples from more  than 8 pixels.
definitions: video card and 3d terminology we'll cover video card and 3d graphics terminology.
ati's has worked with linux developers for their radeons up to and including the radeon 9200, which have 2d and 3d support in xfree86.
there is such a vast number of these things that it's nearly impossible to enumerate them all, but they include clones of asteroids, space invaders, pac-man, missile command and galaxian.
worse  still, the voodoo v's 2nd gpu was unused by the linux driver (and to this day,  the voodoo v is functionally equivalent to the single gpu voodoo iv on linux).
one of the  directories listed as options should be "/usr/share/xsessions", and  is the directory which will be used in this example.
a way around this was to  create the kernel 3dfx module.
exult is written in c++ using sdl, so it will compile on any  platform that can compile sdl programs.
they wrote many graphical adventures using scumm, like their famous monkey island series (all three).
you might also try a virtual machine like win4lin or vmware instead of an  emulator.
directshow provides support for movie files like avi and mpg.
as of june 2003, expect to pay $89.99 without printed docs and $99.99 with printed docs.
ggi  is a project which aims to implement  a graphics abstraction layer in lower level code, put graphics hardware support  into a common codebase, and bring higher stability and portability to graphics  applications.
os independent window event (mouse, keyboard, etc.) handler.
otherwise, all you'll get is software rendering.
if you have success using dosemu, i would like to hear from you.
at first, things were still simple.
inside the bag is a some garlic and a cheese sandwich.
if you want to start putting dynamic libraries in /home/joecool/privatelibs, you'd add this directory to /etc/ld.so.conf.
once i had to kill quake iii in a hurry, so i performed actl-alt-backspace.
mip mapping can  be used regardless of filtering method (section 7.4.6).
compared with agi games, sci adventures have better music support, a  more complex engine and loads of bells and whistles.
in contrast to dynamic libraries which provide code while the application  runs, static libraries contain code which gets linked (inserted) into the  program while it's being compiled.
secondly, svgalib is video card dependent–if your video card isn't supported by svgalib, you're out of luck.
however, if you must have usb support or run linux on a platform other than x86, vmware is your only option.
the degree  to which they use graphics varies widely.
this is a sound card specific issue, and beyond the scope of this howto.
note that since this file was written, xfree86 has been patched to automatically detect your video ram base address and size and set up the mtrrs.
this should let input characters echo again.
, mips based systems and sh3/4 based pocket pc's.
a z buffer is a portion of ram which represents the distance between the viewer (you) and each pixel of an object.
acknowledgements thanks goes out to these people for extensive comments, corrections, and  diffs.
a rendered scene is basically made up of polygons and lines.
let's take a look at that now: $ less nwn #!/bin/sh # this script runs neverwinter nights from the  current directory export sdl_mouse_relative=0 export sdl_video_x11_dgamouse=0 #
/lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0x40000000) libglcore.so.1 =>
meta gaming websites these are some resources for linux gamers no matter what kind of game you  enjoy to play.
wine does not provide the dos api, so you can't use it to run dos  applications.
i still remember my friend gabe rosa emailing me with just "look at /." and seeing the news.
here is what my .xinitrc looks like: #quake3
the important difference being that since opengl is open (and  directx is closed), games written in opengl are much easier to port to and  co-develop on linux than games written using directx. 3.4.
he'll still support ja2 but don't expect patches or updates.
but your  process table will be a ghost town, and all that extra cpu will go straight to  your game.
graphical adventures are, at heart, text adventures on steroids.
nvidia's party line was they license some of their gl code from another company, and is thus non-releasable.
worse still, the voodoo v's 2nd gpu was unused by the linux driver (and to this day, the voodoo v is functionally equivalent to the single gpu voodoo iv on linux).
unlike xlib (section 3.8), sdl is very suited for game programming.
the king of video cards  worked with linux developers.
3dfx was  getting ready to release a new voodoo v featuring 4 gpu's which would've  trounced the ati and nvidia offerings, as well as a new card code named  "rampage" which reportedly would've put them firmly back as the king  of the hill.
this module (and its device file/dev/3dfx) allows glide2 graphical hardware acceleration for non-root users of non-setuid applications.
3dfx was getting ready to release a new voodoo v featuring 4 gpu's which would've trounced the ati and nvidia offerings, as well as a new card code named "rampage" which reportedly would've put them firmly back as the king of the hill.
logic games usually simulate some well known logic puzzle like master mind or the game where you have put sliding numbered tiles in order inside a box.
they stopped selling linux games and distributions at around the same time loki software declared bankruptcy, which is a shame because they had the lowest prices on linux games i've ever seen.
it's defined and maintained by the architectural revision board (arb), an organization which include representatives from sgi, ibm, dec, and microsoft.
e_atan2.o: 00000000 t __ieee754_atan2  e_atanh.o: 00000000 t __ieee754_atanh 00000000 r half 00000010 r limit 00000018  r ln2_2 ... when using gcc, you refer to these libraries by shaving off the  strings “lib”, “.a” and all version numbers.
when i talk about 'performance hits', keep in mind that the performance hit  depends on what resolution you're running at.
this means that when you get opengl from sgi,  if you want any kind of hardware acceleration at all, it must be opengl written  and compiled specifically for some graphics card.
back in the 80's, they were little  more than text adventures which showed a screen of static graphics.
there are hundreds,  even thousands of non-commercial doom datafiles that you can download for free  off the net.
linux definitely has no  deficiency here!
the last  argument to strace is the program we're inspecting, here, "ls".
if you want to reboot but the `o' key doesn't work, try using halt.
while it's not officially certified  (that would take more money than an open source project has), it's an almost  fully compliant opengl implementation conforming to the arb specifications.
examples would be abuse for linux and the original duke nukem.
this example will  show you how to log in to doom3.
depending on the version of directx you're talking about, directx support  in winex (section 10.5.3) ranges from well supported to "kind of"  supported.
it provides support for a few cards which are not well supported  by dri like the ati rage pro family, s3 virge (although anyone using this for  gaming is, well, nuts), and an open source tnt/tnt2 driver (which is very  incomplete).
just like opengl, mesa makes use of hardware acceleration whenever  possible.
there's a table with a book in the center.
there are many graphical applications and games that use svgalib likezgv (a  console graphical image viewer),prboom and hhexen.
there are monthly polls where subscribed users can take votes on what they  want winex developers to work on.
for instance, they can vote for things like  "improve support for copy protected programs", "better  installshield support" or "improve directx 8.0 support".
some isa cards are plug-n-play, like the creative awe-64, and the linux  kernel has come a long way in auto configuring them.
dynamic libraries, also called a “shared library”, provide object code for an application while it's running.
it's reported that mesa is even faster than sgi's own opengl implementation.
nvidia came back with fists swinging, and this was all too much for 3dfx.
this file will have almost everything there is to know about your x  system.
/usr/lib/libgl.so.1 (0x4009b000) libglu.so.1 =>
as of october 2004, the most recent version of directx is 9c.
ultima i was released in 1987 and was the game that launched 9 (depending on how you want to count them) very popular sequels, finishing with ultima ix: ascension.
directdraw is like the graphical  component of sdl, but the direct video card access is done by dri rather than  sdl.
this is when pixels make, what should be a smooth curve or line, jagged.
you'll see this on isa  cards only.
sarien is under development and the developers have been very good about documenting the sarien internals if anyone wants to get involved in hacking it.
if you want to create a derivative work or publish this howto for commercial purposes, i would appreciate it if you contact me first.
debugging: call traces and core files
linux gamers would either keep their open source voodoos, get an open source radeon or a closed source geforce.
frankly, i've had many cards and i can't tell the difference between any of them for gaming.
wabi was originally created by sco unix a long time ago and then was purchased by caldera sometime in mid year 2001.
however, the original data files are  kept proprietary.
although winex is commercial, they have  an interesting business model.
error:can't open  data file 'mind.dat'.
you'll want to get something with a separate sub-woofer; this  does make a difference at a cost of extra power and connector wires.
trilinear filtering samples eight pixels and interpolates them before rendering.
direct rendering disabled where xxxxxxx depends on which video card you have.
a widget set is a collection of related widgets that are designed to have a common interface and a consistant "feel".
the scenario can be peaceful, like running a successful city (simcity), or not, like illegal drug selling operation (drugwars) or an all-out war strategy game like myth ii.
however, so many people use usenet, it almost doesn't matter.
you'll know this worked if you hear the computer beep after a few seconds (this is bios saying "i'm ok" during a power on cycle).
ati has a very long history of dropping support for hardware as fast as  they can get away with it.
afaik, there are 3 options to getting a sound card configured under linux: the free oss sound drivers that come with the linux kernel, the alsa drivers and the commercial oss sound drivers.
but if i did have this conflict, neither my  network nor my sound would work well (or at all!).
apple 8-bit all the 8-bit apple ][ emulators require a copy of the original rom, for  whichever system you want to emulate, in a file.
if you do not wish to use the sdl library included in the package, remove #  ./lib
if you can ssh in,  reboot or halt the system.
a few seconds later, hit alt-sysrq-u. this will attempt to remount all your mounted filesystems as read-only).
here is how you can get the call stack at barf-time: sometimes distros set up their os so that core files (which are mainly useful to programmers) aren't generated.
playing games in x without a window manager when playing a game under x, you should consider starting x without a  window manager (wm).
if you can, an orderly shutdown is preferable; use "halt" or "shutdown".
you can see i have an irq conflict between the soundcard (soundblaster) and the network card (eth0).
these days sims and strats are nearly  indistinguishable, but a long time ago, sims were real time while strats were  turn based.
so to use  these two libraries, you would passgcc the -lsdl -lm options.
needless to say, this only applies if your game crashes reproducably at a  certain point.
the faq takes the opposite approach; they mainly focus on the games themselves, including game specific problems and where to get linux games in the first place.
3dfx removed the multi-texturing unit from the rush, and it was outperformed by the voodoo i.
this allows all non-root users to use dri.
$@ this script sets up some environment variables, then launches the game binary with whatever command line options we added.
without their help, there would be more typos and mistakes than you could shake a stick at: michael mcdonnell
x 4.0 does this automatically  for you.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libx11.so.6 (0x40a01000)
in nethack you need to retrieve the amulet of yendor for your god.
no code gets inserted at run time; the code is completely self-contained.
very  quickly, a core file (aka core dump) is a file that holds the "state"  of the program at the moment it crashes.
when you picked up an item, the background would be redrawn without the item appearing.
ggi has a sister project, kgi, which is developing a kernel-level  alternative to systems like the linux framebuffer and the dri.
look at the contents of ls_log.
this will give me a chance to give you the most recent version.
this allows  us to run graphical things in console, like allowing us to choose any font we
for these examples, bioware's neverwinter nights  will be used.
it's not very cheap (about  300$ for the workstation version), but you can get a 30 day evaluation copy.
kegs boots all apple ii variants, and supports all of the apple ]['s graphics modes.
first of all, you should try an emulator.
libdl.so.2 => /lib/libdl.so.2  (0x40b2c000) libstdc++.so.5 =>
this increases efficiency in writing to the video card and can speed up your graphics by 250% or more.
it says so in the wrapper script!
the canonical rpg on linux is rogue (the ncurses library started life as a  screen handling routine for rogue!)
it was a  separate api from directx, but was integrated with directx 8.
this is awkward for modern day use, since a game like warcraft  which everyone knows as a strat, would be a sim by definition.
kill all non-essential processes (you'll have to do this as root) by using  the startup scripts on your system.
wabi was originally created by sco unix a long time ago and then  was purchased by caldera sometime in mid year 2001.
modern bios'es can do this.
there were slated to release europai universalis, majesty and unfinished business.
in october 1996 they released the  voodoo i, which was a phenomenal success.
want the console to display (which is normally set by bios).
you'll need to purchase a copy of ultima 7 to play.
clanlib is a medium level development kit.
suppose i want to watch the stateofmind demo because i can't ever seem to  get enough of it.
the project uses sdl and is released  under the modified bsd license.
i can't find a working homepage for this application.
t&l: transform and lighting
tdfx(0): videoram: 32768 kbyte mapping 65536 kbyte xvidtune is your friend when your x screen is shifted a little bit too far to the right, or if the vertical length is too small to fit on your monitor.
you'll know this worked if you  hear the computer beep after a few seconds (this is bios saying "i'm  ok" during a power on cycle).
in addition to run-time translation of the win32 api to posix/x11 (it runs windows applications on linux), wine also does compile-time tranlation of the win32 api to posix/x11 (it compiles windows application source code on linux).
wouldn't it be  helpful to know where these programs looked for the missing files?
a prime example of this is loki software's online faqs located athttp://faqs.lokigames.com.
if you search hard enough, you can find file copies of the roms for the apple ][, ][+, ][e, ][c and //gs.
if you can't ssh into the system, you'll need to use the "magic sysrq  key" which is documented in/usr/src/linux/documentation/sysrq.txt.
next there are the `point and click adventures' which basically have no text interface at all, and often have dynamic graphics, like a cat wandering around the room while you're deciding what to do next.
when you pressenter, a newline doesn't get  echo'ed to the screen.
first of all, it's probably not the game, it's probably your setup.
we used the open() system call to open "."
the  implementation tries to use hardware acceleration for various graphics  operations whenever available, which depends on what videocard you have in you  computer.
is an extremely popular pci sound card  these days.
for instance, while nwn does not itself depend onlibnvidia-tls.so , the nvidia supplied libgl on my system does.
getting dosemu to work well is not easy,  but unfortunately, for dos games it's the best avenue.
xt-pic timer 1: 224714 0
directdraw is like the graphical component of sdl, but the direct video card access is done by dri rather than sdl.
so when xwininfo asks you to click on the window you want the  information on, click on your background.
you can even run another linux under linux; useful is you want to test another distro for instance.
if you're getting like 1 fps, then your system isn't using hardware 3d  acceleration.
there are only two ways to configure your card: support must be compiled directly into the kernel you must have the correct driver loaded into memory you can find out which driver your sound card is using by doing  "lsmod" or looking at the output of "dmesg".
widgets are objects that make up a gui application's interface.
see the kernel howto for details.
the version at sourceforge is bleeding edge but guaranteed to be not  broken, however it may have glitches, like unfinished paragraphs.
there seems to be a deficiency of commercial rpgs for linux.
most modern 3d accelerated video cards can do  trilinear filtering in hardware with no performance hit.
on debian, the startup scripts for  run-level 2 are located in /etc/rc2.d/. you can kill a service in an orderly  manner by sending its startup script the `stop' command: # cd /etc/rc2.d # ./ntpd stop another (radical) option is to simply put yourself in single-user mode with # telinit 1 this will even get rid of getty; your system will only be running whatever  is absolutely crucial to its operation.
/usr/lib/libglcore.so.1 (0x40378000) libnvidia-tls.so.1 =>
it runs under x at any color depth, and supports changeable memory sizes, joysticks, and sound.
by the way, loki now has a utility that searches for loki software on your hard drive and automatically updates them.
the latest version can be found at http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/lgh/lg-howto or http://www.dirac.org/linux/writing, but this is my own personal working copy.
you can among others use it to run a ms windows os  and launch your favourite game there.
it's actually a meta-library, meaning that not only is it a graphics library which hides the details of xlib programming, it provides an easy interface for sound, music and event handling.
as a last note, the only systematic linux video card benchmarking effort i'm aware of was done, unfortunately, in march 2001, between a radeon 32 ddr and a geforce 2.
at low levels you might get some gold pieces as a reward for winning a battle.
you may hear disk activity.
most commercial linux games will be dynamically linked against various lgpl libraries, such as openal or sdl.
a few seconds later, use alt-sysrq-b to reboot the system.
output on my system is: $ cat /proc/interrupts cpu0 cpu1 0: 24185341 0
however, since the birth of transgaming, parts of wine have been re-licensed under the more restrictive gnu lgpl license (section 10.5.1).
unfortunately, it can take alot of effort to get  dosemu to work, and of jan 2002, the sound code is somewhat broken.
the developers of winex were going to release their installshield, directx  and directdraw enhancements to wine "every so often".
see the man  pages for lsof and fuser; they're very useful.
some examples of games written with sci are leisure suit larry 1 (vga), leisure suit larry 2-7, space quest 3-6, king's quest 4-6, quest for glory 1-4 and many others.
much of the funkyness like kernel modules for non-root access of video  boards is, thankfully, gone.
run the debugger with the core file as the 2nd argument: $ gdb coolgameexecutable core
for example, you can type "ps ax", and you're sure  to have an `h', `a', `l' and a `t' somewhere on the screen.
even better, it was their first combined 2d/3d card, meaning that it  freed up a valuable pci slot (most pc's only had a couple of pci slots back  then) but the rush wasn't as popular.
think of it as a coat of paint for the polygons.
think of it as  a coat of paint for the polygons.
any graphics programming in x ultimately makes use of the xlib library.
first, svgalib executables need to be run by root or be setuid root, however, the library releases root status immediately after the executable begins to run.
if you have good bandwidth, ask the author if he would like the core file that his program dumped.
the current radeon 9800 barely beats out the geforce 5900 in benchmarks and card specs, but linux users won't benefit from this because of driver issues..
xt-pic aic7xxx 12: 2457456 0 xt-pic ps/2 mouse 14: 556955 0 xt-pic ide0 nmi: 0 0 loc: 24186046 24186026 err: 1353
now that linux is beginning to mature, this question isn't as important as  it used to be.
i assume a working knowledge of linux, so i use some topics like runlevels  and modules without defining them.
the most important tool for  you to use at this point is the `dri users guide'.
for this howto, we'll assume that you're more of a gamer than a studio recording engineer.
it's lgpl'd and provides joystick and opengl support as well.
alan cox wrote scottfree, a scott adams adventure game file interpreter for unix.
for instance, when you magnify a  picture, you'll notice lines that were once smooth become jagged (try it with  the gimp).
clanlib builds a generic game development framework, giving you easy handling of resources, network object replication, graphical user interfaces (gui) with theme support, game scripting and more.
there are fields for which newsgroup you want to narrow your search to.
now, run the game and do whatever you did to crash the program and dump a core again.
game x is misconfigured (less likely)
like sarien, freesci has many graphics targets including sdl, xlib and ggi, so this program can compile and run under an incredible number of platforms.
scummvm is rock solid, and allows you to purchase scumm based lucas arts games,  copy the data files to your hard drive and play them under linux.
back then, text adventures were self contained executables on a disk or  casette.
this file will have almost everything there is to know about your x system.
the first adventure game was adventure (actually “advent”, written on a pdp-1 in 1972).
sarien was written in sdl, so it should run on any platform that can compile sdl programs.
anisotropic (meaning 'from any direction') samples from more than 8 pixels.
and at the (gdb) prompt, type "backtrace".
the only one i can think of is hopkins fbi (which happens to be my favorite game for linux).
note that explicit modelines are no longer necessary, since xfree 4.0.1 and up computes modetimings automatically based on your monitor's and video card's capabilities.
the demise of 3dfx was quite sudden and a slap in the face to the open  source community.
the linux game tome: http://www.happypenguin.org about the games themselves.
also, even if you just add extra libraries to your system, you must update  ld.so.cache to reflect the presence of the new libraries.
the tnt/tnt2 driver is based on reverse-engineering of the obfuscated source code release of the x 3.3 drivers by nvidia.
the text characters could look like gibberish.
if your game came from a  distro make sure there's not an update rpm/deb for the game.
if you absolutely only want open source drivers on your system, the radeon  9200 is the best card you can buy.
if you absolutely only want open source drivers on your system, the radeon 9200 is the best card you can buy.
this is  when pixels make, what should be a smooth curve or line, jagged.
his company, adventure  international, released a number of much loved games between 1978 and 1984  before folding.
this should clear up many problems, including consoles hosed by an svgalib or ncurses based game.
on paper, and in the windows benchmarks, the radeon 9800 trounces the  ill-conceived geforce 5800 and slightly edges out the geforce 5900.
later on, the sophisticated graphical adventures had  your character roaming around the screen, and you could even use a mouse, but  the interface remained purely text.
we had a card that was almost neck-to-neck with nvidia, our drivers were open source, and in december 1999, id software gave us a huge gift: they open sourced the quake i codebase.
in march 1998, 3dfx released their voodoo ii, with its 3.6gb/sec memory  bandwith, 12mb of video memory and 90mhz core.
on the linux platform, we have heretic 2 and heavy metal fakk2.
some sims have little or no strategy.
although he  himself was inspired by the first piece of interactive fiction, adventure,  scott brought adventuring to the masses.
the most important tool for you to use at this point is the `dri users guide'.
the geforce  will be stronger on linux.
this document is copyright (c) 2001-2002 peter jay salzman, ; 2003-2004 peter jay salzman and frédéric delanoy.
wabi is awfully expensive for what it does.
therefore, winex will now be based on rewind (section 10.5.2).
the console is the dark non-graphical screen you look at when your computer  first boots up (and you don't havexdm or gdm running).
you can also specify which news server to use using the  $nntp environment variable or with the file /etc/nntpserver.
we were getting our first  tastes of real commercial gaming.
frotz is gpl, runs all  versions of z-machine and will compile on most versions of unix.
do note that they don't archive private newsgroups, like loki software's news server.
heavyweight wms, like enlightenment, or full-blown desktop  environments like gnome or kde, may produce a noticeable slow down.
nvidia has proven that they care enough about linux to write and maintain  current and very high quality drivers for linux.
you'll see: (ii) xxxxxx:
system shock (electronic arts, origin) 12.
it holds valuable clues for the programmer to the nature of the crash -- what caused it and what the program was doing when it happened.
don't forget to browse the cd your game came on for helpful tips and advice.
the creative soundblaster live!
these are companies that used to release games for linux but for whatever reasons aren't actively involved in linux games anymore.
rather than trusting programmers to write totally bug free, cooperative programs that access hardware, linux simply disallowed it.
you should see a file callednwmain; this is the actual game binary.
frotz has spawned many forks, like a version for palmos and linux based pda's.
if you have good bandwidth, ask the author if he would like the core file  that his program dumped.
kind of like object oriented adventuring.
while you need the original game files to play sshp, it should work with the system shock demo, which is freely available.
if this didn't work after a few seconds, you'll definitely want to  reboot the system using the following instructions.
it's painful the first time you do it, but once you do it correctly, it becomes very easy down the right, especially if you keep all your old .config files and make use of things like "make oldconfig".
at high levels, you might get a magic sword or a kick-butt assault rifle.
you can find what these standard system directories are
turn based strats are more like chess---the computer takes a turn and then the player takes a turn.
this often indicates misbehaving or faulty hardware.
much of the funkyness like kernel modules for non-root access of video boards is, thankfully, gone.
their products have been neck to neck ever since, with geforce taking the lead a bit more times than the radeon.
this allowed daryll strauss to port glide2 to linux which enabled  xfree86 3.x users to use voodoo i, ii and iii cards under linux.
newsgroups if you don't know what netnews (usenet) is, then this is definitely worth  30 minutes of your time to learn about.
there is one other thing to consider though: the majority of games are actually  launched by a "wrapper", a shell script that performs some magic  prior to launching the game.
nvidia came back with fists swinging, and this was all too  much for 3dfx.
just as with anything else on linux, you need to know a little more about what's going on behind the scenes with your system to be able to keep your games healthy or to diagnose and fix them when they're not.
like sarien, freesci has many  graphics targets including sdl, xlib and ggi, so this program can compile and  run under an incredible number of platforms.
that sometimes works when your console is very badly  hosed.
scott adams is, arguably, the father of interactive fiction.
also, voodoo cards need the 3dfx.o kernel module and a /dev/3dfx device  file (major 107, minor 0) for non-root hardware acceleration.
so if your number is, say, about 20 fps slower than a comparable machine, chances are that glxgears is falling back on software rendering.
there are  sdl extensions written by various people to do things like handle any graphics  format you care to mention, play mpegs, display truetype fonts, sprite handling  and just about everything under the sun.
however, with bigger and better games on the horizon, it was only a matter of  time before the voodoos would no longer be a viable graphics card for modern  gaming.
the first step is to figure out which one is happening.
the end user (you) can download the source code for free.
authorship and copyright this document is copyright (c) 2001-2002 peter jay salzman, ; 2003-2004 peter jay salzman and frédéric  delanoy.
you can also run wine without  windows.
these days we have midi emulators like timidity and libraries like sdl which don't require hardware midi support.
they released the voodoo rush  in april 1996.
a program can only use the special hardware accelerated features of these cards by using the glide2 library in one of two ways: directly written using glide2 (myth ii, descent iii) indirectly using mesa built with a glide2 backend to simulate opengl (rune, unreal tournament) 3dfx opened up the specifications and source code to the open source community.
a program that is allowed to directly write to hardware can crash the system in any number of ways.
like the voodoo i, the voodoo ii was a 3d only card, and piggy backed with a 2d video card.
the only video card that can use both glide2 (under xfree86 3.x) and  glide3 (under xfree86 4.x) is the voodoo iii.
the svgalib based apple2 and x based xapple2 can emulate any apple ][  variant except for the //gs.
not everyone knows the different types of games that are out there, so in an effort to form a common language that we can all use, i'll run through each game type and provide a very brief history.
a good example  would be heavy gear iii or flight gear.
on paper, and in the windows benchmarks, the radeon 9800 trounces the ill-conceived geforce 5800 and slightly edges out the geforce 5900.
games written in svgalib will only work on linux.
this project is much less far along than libggi itself, but promises to combine dri-level speeds and the stability and security unix users expect.
your sound card should work.
there is one other thing to consider though: the majority of games are actually launched by a "wrapper", a shell script that performs some magic prior to launching the game.
back then, text adventures were self contained executables on a disk or casette.
directplay gives support for simplified networking for multiplayer gaming.
they've ignored all my attempts at finding out more information, so i have to conclude that mp entertainment is in the same status as tribsoft.
f.... mp3blaster root 1282 f....
there's another benefit of these scripts: they are easily edited to allow you to provide your own copy of a library.
but the radeon's drivers were open source,
this is opposed to the x environment which has all sorts of gui things like xterms.
as computer graphics became easier and more powerful, text adventures gave rise to graphic adventures.
they worked with linux developers, open sourced all their drivers and were hailed as the great hope for linux gaming.
i've tried to keep game specific information in this howto at a minimum.
wine has come a long way, and is capable of emulating many important programs,  which is great news for linux users who want this sort of stuff.
like vmware (section 10.5.5)
linux gets ragged on a lot because we don't have the wealth of games that other platforms have.
the project was focused on the beos platform, but is now focused on macos and linux.
voodoo cards voodoo card hardware acceleration only takes place only at 16bpp color and  fails silently when starting x in another color depth.
libmss.so.6 (0x40178000) libsdl-1.2.so.0  => ./lib/libsdl-1.2.so.0 (0x401ec000) libc.so.6 => /lib/libc.so.6  (0x4025e000)
the developers have done a  fantastic job of documenting and faqing their application.
direct rendering enabled or (ii) xxxxxx:
there were pci and agp versions (it was the first agp video card).
it is an excellently written  document that gives you step by step information on how to get dri set up  correctly on your machine.
libdl.so.2 => /lib/libdl.so.2
system shock (electronic arts, origin) system shock is a classic first person shooter/adventure from 1994, which  puts it as a contemporary of doom.
sometimes, a card is hardwired to use a certain irq.
running glxgears will show some gears turning.
since sound is  crucial for me, i always compile sound into my kernels.
many people still know the archive as "deja".
they simply put you in a cockpit to give you the thrill of piloting a plane.
mip mapping can be used regardless of filtering method (section 7.4.6).
so if your number is, say, about 20 fps slower than  a comparable machine, chances are that glxgears is falling back on
you play a character, sometimes more than one, characterized by traits (eg strength, dexterity), skills (eg explosives, basket weaving, mechanics) and properties (levels, cash).
glx is the x extension used by opengl programs, it is the glue between the  platform independent opengl and platform dependent x. 3.7.
it's hard to imagine a better website on the subject.
not only did we have the best video cards, but the drivers were all open source.
lászló daczi , the hungarian ldp coordinator, announced that a hungarian translation was produced by szilard ivan, and is available at http://tldp.fsf.hu/howto/linux-gamers-howto-hu.
however, the file is generated from a text file/etc/ld.so.conf which you can  edit.
a permissions problem 8.2.1.
between losing the benchmark wars to the geforce and radeon,  their lateness with new cards and high prices, 3dfx lost its market share and  didn't have the funds to stay into business.
the interpreter reads data files and provides the gaming interface.
with these types of cards, you need to pass  the correct irq and memory access, "i/o port", to the driver.
trilinear filtering eliminates the banding effect that appears between adjacent mip map levels.
as of version 3.1, the directx 8 support is nearly complete, but this may not be the case with older directx versions (are consequently older games).
the nwn library directories have been prepended to the search path, so now the linker can find libmss.so.6 in the "./miles" directory, and also finds the local copy of libsdl first, no longer using the system copy.
here is a typical line: open(".
bilinear texture filtering bilinear filtering is a computationally cheap but low quality texture  filtering.
you can see i have an irq conflict  between the soundcard (soundblaster) and the network card (eth0).
cpu type video card x version average fps compiling mesa and dri modules yourself can increase your fps by 15 fps; quite a performance boost!
compared with agi games, sci adventures have better music support, a more complex engine and loads of bells and whistles.
jzip is very portable; it compiles on all unices, os/2, atari st and dos.
all modern 3d  accelerated video cards can do bilinear filtering in hardware with no  performance hit.
if you compile your own games, your biggest problem with libraries will  either be thatgcc can't find a static library or perhaps the library  doesn't exist on your system.
do note that they don't archive private newsgroups, like loki  software's news server.
like text adventures, fps fit the engine/datafile format.
it's a clearing house of information that contains well written articles on all aspects of game programming (not necessarily linux specific), links to important game programming resources, interviews, reviews, polls and lots of other stuff.
it started as a joint project between loki software and creative  labs, setting out to be a vendor neutral and cross platform api for audio - the  audio equivalent of opengl (section 3.3).
for open  source games there's the readme files that come with the game.
that is, through the eyes of the character who's doing all the  shooting.
but you can still use strace with them!
fsaa usually involves drawing a magnified version of the entire screen in a separate framebuffer, performing aa on the entire image and rescaling it back to the normal resolution.
he was the lead programmer for loki software (he now codes for blizzard software), which used sdl in all of its games except for quake3.
this should let input  characters echo again.
sdl  is a library by sam lantiga (graduate of ucd, yeah!).
this archive used to be at http://www.deja.com, but was bought by google.
dumb engines draw far objects first and close objects last, obscuring objects below them in the z buffer.
there are two approaches to this.
the reason why it's not an emulator is subtle and not of much  interest to most non computer scientists, so we'll call it an emulator here (it  really does run-time translation of calls to the win32 api to posix/x11 calls).
back in the 80's, they were little more than text adventures which showed a screen of static graphics.
check the game's website for patches whether you have a problem running the game or not; there may be an update for a security problem that you may not even be aware of.
getting info about your setup: xvidtune xvidtune is your friend when your x screen is shifted a little bit too far  to the right, or if the vertical length is too small to fit on your monitor.
ultima i was released in 1987 and was the game  that launched 9 (depending on how you want to count them) very popular sequels,  finishing with ultima ix: ascension.
now we can try to locate mind.dat and move it into /usr/share, or better, create a symbolic link.
so to use these two libraries, you would passgcc the -lsdl -lm options.
they wrote many graphical  adventures using scumm, like their famous monkey island series (all three).
that is, it'll run windows 16-bit  applications from a windows 3.1, windows 3.11 or windows for workgroups 3.11  environment.
in addition to run-time translation of the win32 api to posix/x11 (it runs  windows applications on linux), wine also does compile-time tranlation of the  win32 api to posix/x11 (it compiles windows application source code on linux).
this is opposed to the x  environment which has all sorts of gui things like xterms.
a more relevent issue is speakers, but even here the difference isn't huge.
when a particular graphics task isn't able to be hardware accelerated  by the video card, it's software rendered; the task is done by your computer's  cpu instead.
moreover, a game writer who uses libraries like  opengl, ggi or sdl will write a game which will trivially compile on windows,  linux and a multitude of other os's.
there are two types of libraries, static and dynamic.
however, since it's commercial you do get tech support.
you should hear disk activity.
graphical console games written using the  frame buffer suffer from the same deficiencies of the svga library: not all  hardware is supported and the code will only run on linux.
misconfigured driver sometimes, a card is hardwired to use a certain irq.
the program responsible for linking code  “on the fly” is called/etc/ld.so, and the dynamic libraries  themselves usually end with.so with a version number, like: /usr/lib/libsdl.so /lib/
the downside is that you'll have to play the game as root.
win4lin  is a commercial product by netraverse.
which sound card is best?
it only supports serial and parallel devices.
the version at my personal web site might be broken if i'm working on the  howto.
otherwise, all you'll get is  software rendering.
a program that is allowed to directly write to hardware  can crash the system in any number of ways.
some rpg's are quite complicated and great feats of programming.
the current radeon 9800 barely beats out the geforce 5900 in benchmarks and  card specs, but linux users won't benefit from this because of driver issues..
aa uses cpu  intensive filtering to smooth out these jagged edges.
first, you pretty much blow up everything you see.
when a computer locks, it can be a "hard lock", meaning the kernel has completely stopped functioning.
most applications that use svgalib can be run on x or any other  libggi backend by using a wrapper library which re-implements svgalib (section  3.12) using libggi.
gaming can be a tough pursuit; it requires knowledge from an incredibly vast range of topics from compilers to libraries to system administration to networking to xfree86 administration ...
point sampling is rare these days, but if you run a game with 'software rendering' (which you'd need to do if you run a 3d accelerated game without a 3d accelerated board) you're likely to see it used.
the types of games usually take a long time to complete and require a lot of brainpower.
this is a direct consequence of a bug in the linux kernel.
libraries we'll run through the different gaming libraries you'll see under linux.
there are reports that the rampage's technology (which was sold to nvidia) went into the geforce 5900.
it also features some enhancements over  the original versions of the ultima vii engine.
in addition, there are versions for dos, strong-arm based  pda's, qns (holy cow!