kudos to all the gnome  community.
i'm trying to get asynchronous slide loading in opt to don't waste so much memory while loading pdf presentations.
the personal side work keeps me busy enough to being unable to accomplish the promise i made  myself to release a gtk+ msi installer before guadec.
working on sun is being great so far, at last i have the opportunity to learnsome things that i've been delaying for too long.
posted at 07:35 pm | permalink | comments (3) | reblog (0) spec files extras, is a project maintained by some guys at sun to provide an easy way to create solaris/opensolaris packages from rpm-like spec files.
ps: wondering why am i fixing the git package?
i cannot  tell you yet ;-) posted at 02:38 pm | permalink | comments (2) | reblog (0)
hope is not lost yet, but  i still need to focus on other things yet.
latest commentsfrom linus about the gplv3 sounds promising, but even more promising is the response fromjonathan.
as i said on my previous post, i would like to see the lines that divides  opensolaris and linux, as blurred as possible (or deleted).
any patch or comments are welcome.
all this thing of a more affordable opensolaris excites me, and what do i do when i excited about something?
posted at 01:27 pm | permalink | comments (15) | reblog (0)
: youtube / ogg so far, what the patch does is create one slide per pdf page on the document and animate each actor on the slide.
alexander larsson is working on gvfs, a new api for accessing files and perform io operations, that whips gnome-vfs' ass in terms of simplicity and portability.
since this is a  community effort, i won't wait to anyone in sun marketing to make a logo (sorry  guys :p), so i've done my own: indiana was the name's of indiana jones' dog, and if i remember correctly,  it was a husky.
it tries to adress some issues and it has a name, an identity and a direction.
the easier people is able to adapt opensolaris for their needs, the most problems it solves, and the most adoption it gets.
kudos to alex for this work.
and sure, choice have a pay, but  from the mid 90's we all know what the lack of choice have done to this  industry.
and the  green letters, are a quite obvious easter egg.
i would like to add pdf transition support and maybe slide caching at some point.
i'm leaving now to attend the monthly irish python user group meeting.
and .c to get used to the api).
an attempt to improve the gnome developer  experience planet gnome:
i hope they can include it for the development suite for 2.22,  this is a must have.
working on sun is being great so far, at last i have the opportunity to  learnsome things that i've been delaying for too long.
i do think that indiana is a good idea.
but a nice text help when you use "top" trying to help users to gather the same information they expect (something like what ubuntu does now when you type a missing command) would help a lot of people.
i would also like to point out that, inidiana is a binary distribution project inside the opensolaris.org community, and right now is anything but a discussion mailing list and a bunch of good ideas and intentions, so nothing to do with gnome patches for solaris and solaris express.
p.s. ian, you should be proud, this is the second official project with your name in it, let's hope this one is at least as successful as the first one ;)
this is the first time that i do any kind of computer animation, and given the fact that my c skills are not any extraordinary, and that i did this hack in 1 hour (most of the time looking at others .h
gnome is getting simpler, easier to develop and more usable every day, and we are not even braking backwards compatibility!
the stripes is about american indian make up stripes.
posted at 01:52 pm | permalink | comments (3) | reblog (0) one of the first things that i missed when i realized that my laptop was lost was (beside tons of photos and college documentation) a couple of old hacks, most of them on pygtk, more than a year ago i started lurking on the #art-gnome channel trying to add atom feeds toart.gnome.org, benzea did a great job adding support to art.gnome.org back then.
almost native performance and concurrent execution of various games like quake3 or unreal.
p.s. ian, you should be proud, this is the second official  project with your name in it, let's hope this one is at least as successful as  the first one ;) posted at 01:15 am | permalink | comments (4) | reblog (0) gnome development network:
lots of old-school solaris users are afraid of a gnu/opensolaris thing, and neither indiana is a gnu/opensolaris effort nor all gnu tools are bad as evil.
this is a core asset of the gnome  platform since it encourage our so beloved freedom of choice.
at last, my post guadec post.
i decided to go a step further and i have hacked a formal patch to add pdf support for clutter's opt.
this excites me because i would like to see the days when hostility between  opensolaris and the linux community is over (at the same time i also think that  the gplv3 would be a huge step), but at the same time, making people from the  most adopted unix-like operating system out there comfortable on opensolaris  would be a huge step (for both projects and the whole free software community).
on the other hand i realized today via footnotes, that anjuta 2.2, the  first stable release of the 2.x series has been released, congratulations to  the developers.
by the way, inkscape powered!
and the most important thing, make easy fo  r them to work on building their own tools from yours one.
i cannot describe what i feel.
it tries to adress some issues and it has a name, an  identity and a direction.
darren has alreadyanswered to the avahi issue, sometimes, is not as easy as sun does not get it, but, some projects just don't get it that api stability decisions does matters to avoid crappiness, bugginess and bronkeness in the long term.
some of them funny,  others  just mandatory, but i'm enjoying my time here as i've never did in  the past, i couldn't have thought in any better first full-time job in my life.
i think that we can say, from a empirical and scientific point of view that theclutter api is extremely easy to use, in a nutshell, it rocks!
posted at 06:45 pm | permalink | comments (1) | reblog (0) 06/12/2007 indiana thoughts and ideas i do think that indiana is a good idea.
fortunately, there was a copy of the hack on my gmail history, and jilorio backgrounds has come alive again.
we have the wider and best maintained set of bindings for a graphical toolkit, just take a look at the development activity inpygtk, ruby-gnome, java-gnome, gtkmm.. (the list goes on).
developing gnome is going to rock even more very soon!
hope is not lost yet, but i still need to focus on other things yet.
however, i had a great fun, and it was great to stay there again.
i would also like to point out that, inidiana is a binary distribution  project inside the opensolaris.org community, and right now is anything but a  discussion mailing list and a bunch of good ideas and intentions, so nothing to  do with gnome patches for solaris and solaris express.
poeple out there have really different ways of thinking, and really  different problems, let them choose.
once the support was added, i hacked a small pygtk app to use the feed to select backgrounds from the site and apply them without browser interaction.
as i said on my previous post, i would like to see the lines that divides opensolaris and linux, as blurred as possible (or deleted).
check out thegit repository or the 0.1 tarball .
the easier people is able to adapt opensolaris for their needs, the  most problems it solves, and the most adoption it gets.
and the same time, it tries to let others people to make their own flavors  of opensolaris with a low entry barrier.
most times i'm faithful about the human kind, today is not one of those days.
kudos to all the gnome community.
we have the wider and best maintained set of bindings for a graphical  toolkit, just take a look at the development activity inpygtk, ruby-gnome,  java-gnome, gtkmm.. (the list goes on).
check it out at openedhand'sbugzilla.
what a crazy week, the first day i lose my backpack with my laptop and my home's keys, so it wasn't a good start.
posted at 06:45 pm | permalink | comments (1) | reblog (0)
the boundaries of the platform where you run your applications are just going to be blurred, and users, developers and customers, are going to be able to have real choice.
some of them funny, others just mandatory, but i'm enjoying my time here as i've never did in the past, i couldn't have thought in any better first full-time job in my life.
poeple out there have really different ways of thinking, and really different problems, let them choose.
further work to achieve the same features with direct3d is planned.
so here we are, i now can see the day where linux and solaris can  reach a common point.
this excites me because i would like to see the days when hostility between opensolaris and the linux community is over (at the same time i also think that the gplv3 would be a huge step), but at the same time, making people from the most adopted unix-like operating system out there comfortable on opensolaris would be a huge step (for both projects and the whole free software community).
this is another huge point in my  opinion.
so here we are, i now can see the day where linux and solaris can reach a common point.
lots of old-school solaris users are afraid of a gnu/opensolaris thing, and  neither indiana is a gnu/opensolaris effort nor all gnu tools are bad as evil.
if you are looking for an easy hack, metacity and gtk themes variants of the app would be really cool.
posted at 10:10 am | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) due to the lack of success of the transformer's version of my first indiana logo proposal.
gnome is getting simpler, easier to develop and more usable every day, and  we are not even braking backwards compatibility!
posted at 01:27 pm | permalink | comments (15) | reblog (0) 06/13/2007 opensolaris and linux, closer?
one of the things that i most enjoyed was the clutter+opt+poppler+gtollina mushup that fer and me hacked at guadec.
but a nice text help when you use "top" trying to help users to  gather the same information they expect (something like what ubuntu does now  when you type a missing command) would help a lot of people.
(seeo-hand's #410 to get the latest patch).
(it also means, that our friends from openedhand rocks too).
when i started to getting involved with gnome, i missed some features and  got frustrated on how many details i needed to know to solve simple problems.
posted at 10:51 am | permalink | comments (5) | reblog (0)
this is the scary landscape: sadly, those are not clouds.
meanwhile, it seems that we can do better with our patch policy.
posted at 11:24 pm | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) i have no words on what's happening at home.
c haters, you have no excuse to become a gnome developer :-)
on the other hand i realized today via footnotes, that anjuta 2.2, the first stable release of the 2.x series has been released, congratulations to the developers.
there is also another forest fire on tenerife, the authorities suspect that it's also intentional.
when i started to getting involved with gnome, i missed some features and got frustrated on how many details i needed to know to solve simple problems.
it's been tested with xen and vmware as far as i have read.
work keeps me busy enough to being unable to accomplish the promise i made myself to release a gtk+ msi installer before guadec.
posted at 05:30 pm | permalink | comments (7) | reblog (0) yesterday a coworker passed me a link about an opengl virtualization project fromgsoc '06, vmgl.
however, the magic of opensource makes every problem a matter of time.
laszlo peters (laca), from the jds common build environment fame, has granted me today commit access to the sfe repository: sending changelog sending sfegit.spec transmitting file data ..
posted at 01:15 am | permalink | comments (4) | reblog (0)« | »
c haters, you  have no excuse to become a gnome developer :-)
the result is not any impressive, but i'm proud of it despite that, and that's what matters the most
this is a core asset of the gnome platform since it encourage our so beloved freedom of choice.
i just draw about it.
and the most important thing, make easy fo r them to work on building their own tools from yours one.
i would like to congratulate paul and thomas and the rest of the organization for such a great job, and i'm looking forward to go to istambul next year.
it seems that gtk 2.12 is going to include the gtkbuilder api that johan has been developing for a while, this is going to allow to abtract a lot of details, it not only replace libglade and uimanager, but also, it will be possible to define treeview columns and even populate data on it from a ui designer, such designer doesn't exist yet, this ui is yet to be created, but again, time will fix this.
i think it needs more work, but depending on the feedback and the acceptance, i would work more on it and i will propose it as an official logo.
being away from home is making it even more strange.
i cannot tell you yet ;-) posted at 02:38 pm | permalink | comments (2) | reblog (0)
there are also people complaining about having too many distributions would be harmful for opensolaris because people wouldn't know which one to choose.
there are also people  complaining about having too many distributions would be harmful for  opensolaris because people wouldn't know which one to choose.
you can check the software available on the repositoryhere.
the reason because i think this is because i'm a strongly community guy, and i do think that a good healthy and friendly community is the most important assent to any free software project.
darren has  alreadyanswered to the avahi issue, sometimes, is not as easy as sun does not  get it, but, some projects just don't get it that api stability decisions does  matters to avoid crappiness, bugginess and bronkeness in the long term.
and i do think that indiana is probably the best effort to achieve that inside  the opensolaris community.
it seems that gtk 2.12 is going to include the gtkbuilder api that johan  has been developing for a while, this is going to allow to abtract a lot of  details, it not only replace libglade and uimanager, but also, it will be  possible to define treeview columns and even populate data on it from a ui  designer, such designer doesn't exist yet, this ui is yet to be created, but  again, time will fix this.
and the same time, it tries to let others people to make their own flavors of opensolaris with a low entry barrier.
one of the most beautiful landscapes of my island, lost.
i'm starting to seriously believe that this kind of progress on the virtualization space is going to change we think about applications, operating systems and even debugging.
next step is disallow the slide change until the pdf page is loaded.
alexander larsson is working on gvfs, a new api for accessing files and  perform io operations, that whips gnome-vfs' ass in terms of simplicity and  portability.
meanwhile, guys on vmware, are making amazing things likethis.
by the way, the clutter api is just beautiful, kudos to the o-hand hackers.
and i do think that indiana is probably the best effort to achieve that inside the opensolaris community.
the reason because i think this is  because i'm a strongly community guy, and i do think that a good healthy and  friendly community is the most important assent to any free software project.
and sure, choice have a pay, but from the mid 90's we all know what the lack of choice have done to this industry.
this is another huge point in my opinion.
and the green letters, are a quite obvious easter egg.
all this thing of a more affordable opensolaris excites me, and what do i  do when i excited about something?
committed revision 329.
opensource is all about free of choice.
latest commentsfrom  linus about the gplv3 sounds promising, but even more promising is the response  fromjonathan.
changes in planet membership policy trebuchet diff the times they are a-changin' bid for floss
the saddest thing is that it was intentional, someone did it, someone wanted this to happen.
the results of the benchmarks are just impressive.
i think it needs more work, but  depending on the feedback and the acceptance, i would work more on it and i  will propose it as an official logo.
i hope they can include it for the development suite for 2.22, this is a must have.
basically it allows you to show opengl accelerated graphics of applications running in a virtualized guest os like linux.
i've came up with a another idea for it: this one looks like a husky for sure (is a vectorized photo of a husky actually), brought to you byinkscape.
a forest guard set up the gran canaria south western forest on fire to protest against his job situation, smart move huh?.
since this is a community effort, i won't wait to anyone in sun marketing to make a logo (sorry guys :p), so i've done my own: indiana was the name's of indiana jones' dog, and if i remember correctly, it was a husky.