updated mouse rate checker [6:13 pm est] oliver tscherwitschke sent along an updated version 1.1a of his program to check the sampling rate of a ps/2 mouse (7 kb), which adds a function to tell your average sample rate.
heavy gear demo preview movie [4:39 am est] phoebus, who is celebrating his first anniversary at activision,  sends word of a heavy gear ii movie showing off gameplay from the playable  demo, originally promised for release earlier in the week, and now slated for  release later today: here is something to whet your appetite: a new movie showing gameplay from  the demo itself.
half-life sneak peek [8:28 pm est] gamecenter's sneak peek at half-life is up offering new screenshots  and some exclusive info about the weapons in valve's upcoming shooter as well  as some details on multiplayer play.
the sound  quality described as the equivalent of a cb radio, and the program takes up so  little bandwidth they say you can even use it with a 28.8 modem.
monolith ceojason hall's .plan also has word on the optimizations recently added to blood2, and the updated demo, and also addresses the potential for anger at a second large download.
.there are still a few finishing touches we'd like to improve before it releases, and so we'll be holding onto it a little while longer.
john  has also been profiled in time magazine, and was recently named one of the 101  most influential people in entertainment by entertainment weekly.
:) starsiege movie [4:55 am est] gamespot's starsiege download page has a new 3½ minute trailer for dynamix's upcoming starsiege (the related, yet different starsiege tribes is one of the titles on display down here at the frag2).
while there were no details on this heretofore unannounced product, we're fairly certain from the name that it's going to be a multiplayer only title like quake iii.
competitions [6:38 am est] word  out ofgamers.
trespasser interview, patch plans [10:26 pm est] there's an interview with brady bell of dreamworks interactive ongame-interviews.com talking about trespasser focusing mostly on topics like negative reviews and steep system requirements.
n64 quake ii shots [6:50 am est] n64.ign.com has updated their n64 quake ii preview with the first screenshots of quake ii running on an n64.
please refer to the contest page for the final, updated dates once the  demo is posted.
the layout here at the frag2 is amazing, i'm eager to hear some estimates on the number of attendees and computers...
thanksbetanews. pingtool [7:37 am est] version 2.3 ofpingtool is now available.
according to the interview, the game is on track for a thanksgiving (november 26) release.
[12:30 pm est] an announcement on next-generation online offers details on epic's upcoming project, a game called unreal tournament, which sounds like it's focused on multiplayer.
this should be automatically detected in the final version.
werewolf update [10:26 pm est]
i haven't  tried it myself, but have a report from my bro redant that it worked on his 56k  modem connection just fine.
i would have to say it's easily ass much as a boatload...
the final 1.1 patch will bring you some "client-side-goodness" for sure.
i guess i just did, huh?
seed [11:42 am est] the seed home page offers some new info on their upcoming third-person 3d shooter that uses a first-person perspective, but tries to maintain the control feel of console games by making your full body visible (no word on placement of the health meter).
[6:38 am est] 3dgn the pimping hour profiles billy (or willy as they call him) from voodoo extreme.
it's got 2 levels, 6 weapons, some good baddies, and even a few cheat codes--but i'm not telling what they are... :)
now that blood 2 is gold, we are planning on re-releasing the more  optimized demo.
out of the blue [11:42 am est] image of the day is me getting my just deserts from hiro polishmoto ( "i see your schwartz is as big as mine.").
quake iii arena first look [5:10 am est] a few of us got to stop by id to check out the progress on quake iii  arena this weekend, and i managed to summarize my impressions in thisblue's  news first look at quake iii arena.
mark "natas" fletcher [ion] 2.
in level 5, you play sara wilson, a british-born pathogen/toxin expert, trained by the u.s. army to contain and identify possible threats to soldiers.
parens and itals aside, yesterday's quote was indeed from looney tunes ("open septagenarian...open  saddlesoap...open sesame!").also, huge thanks to  'jinxter' who has been helping with some startlingly detailed proof reading to  catch typos on this page lately.
***blood 2 final*** no, we haven't gone gold yet, but we are very close.
page (nt  drivers were posted the other day and then pulled).
quake iii arena first look [5:10 am est] a few of us got to stop by id to check out the progress on quake iii arena this weekend, and i managed to summarize my impressions in thisblue's news first look at quake iii arena.
previews [5:02 pm est] gamecenter's fall harvest offers previews of what they call the ten most highly  anticipated titles of fall, oddly picking daikatana (not due until early 1999)
the new bios is said to improve  the performance of the memory on the v4400.
thanks billy at voodoo extreme.
it will probably perform somewhat like qc.
battlefield communicator [11:42 am est] the non-beta release of battlefield communicator, the game-independent real-time voice communication add-on is scheduled for tonight at 11:59 pm eastern time.
also, gt has green lighted the release of blood 2's source and tools as well, so when both games have all their stuff out there you are seriously going to be in "content city".
fix [4:39 am est] theritual entertainment page offers a solution for sound problems with sin using a soundblaster live!.
it's hard to believe this is the same dallas i visited a couple of months ago, it's less than 100 degrees, and you can actually walk without stepping on crickets.
i had been working under the assumption that java was the right way to go, but recently i reached a better conclusion.
genesis 3d front-end [1:03 pm est] genetic 1 entertainment page has specifications on the "atlantis" engine, a vb 6.0 interface for the genesis3d engine that supports all g3d functions.
a shareware version of the program will be available that works for 15 minute periods.
the programming language for quakearena mods is interpreted ansi c. (well,  i am dropping the double data type, but otherwise it should be pretty  conformant) ...
that's all i'll say  for now.
[wednesday] plus: more "pixel obscura"
(100 kb), up in a local copy as per jeremy's suggestion.
half-life will absolutely be the number one  selling title this holiday season, i'd bet my…er….i mean sharky's
john carmack's talk on shooters [4:39 am est] tonight on shooters, the weekly foray into the present and future of action gaming, we will air part one of the talk john carmack gave at the frag2 on quake iii arena.
to recap, thisreplacement system file for nt (31 kb) by  espen blikstad should allow the changes made with the winnt ps/2 mouse rate  adjuster to take effect, which can be verified using the mouse rate checker  utility.
[5:10 am est] part two of action xtreme's interview with epic designer cliff bleszinski, talks about level design, unreal, and cat scanning, with part three promised tomorrow.
("these are the days of video violence...") scary future
more on carmack & steed's frag2 talks [6:38 am  est] on the same subjects, linuxgames has a post up  talking about the platform independence for mods in quake iii arena based on  some of john carmack's comments at the frag2 (like the .plan update above).
org that describes an exchange between john carmack and bob young at  red hat publishing that reveals id software was interested in having
slave zero preview [9:17 pm est] pc.ign.com previews slave-zero, accolades upcoming game of giant robot  combat.
since the event will be covered via live webcast, you can see carmack respond to your email even if you're sitting at your pc 3,000 miles away!
it is hard for me to  actually communicate how much mod/tc power you are going to have in your hands.
with multiple ported versions, it wouldn't be possible to do  any binary verification.
[6:38 am est] a new  version 2.51 ofqizmo is available, fixing some bugs in this shareware  quakeworld proxy program, and adding support for dynamic ip's and versions of  the qwcl hacked with the polyblend hack.
issues can  be fixed with the following: download the new sblive!
this non-beta release of this server browser  program offers updated sin support to cover changes in the sin protocols since  the demo, automatic server source updating, updated unreal support, an  "all games" option, and more.
all that is really left for the new demo is for it to be tested (i'm installing it now - whoo hoo!).
three team ctf [9:17 pm est] the 3tctf homepage has version 1.0 of their three team ctf.
[4:48 pm est] the velocity 4400 drivers has added another new bios to  the four that were posted yesterday, adding a version 1.1 bios for the agp  version of the velocity 4400 with no tv out.
zor and peace [5:10 am est] there's aninterview with berenger "zor" fish up on ritualistic talking to the level designer about his new job at ritual, as well as his old one at rogue.
the article asks "what happens when we replace blue's preffered [sic] drink, bawls, with pepsi one?"
this non-beta release of this server browser program offers updated sin support to cover changes in the sin protocols since the demo, automatic server source updating, updated unreal support, an "all games" option, and more.
versions are available for nt, linux and solaris.
one  along the way: on a side note, this was our first chance to try out the direct3d version  of half-life, and we're happy to report that it looked almost identical to the  opengl version.
mouse resource page [11:03 am est] i received a tip on how to get the windows nt mouse sampling fix to work for intellimouse users who were having a problem, so i put together a quickie mouse resources page to consolidate the files and info from the sampling issue, and to provide links to other mouse resources.
tribes interview today [5:10 am est] schnoz's starsiege universe sends word of an online interview with  dave moore, a programmer on dynamix's upcoming starsiege tribes today: in a continuing series entitled "meet the dev team", dave moore,  a programmer for tribes, will subject himself to a series of questions fired at  him by us, the players (or rather, soon to be).
the first, and certainly biggest, is unreal tournament, a title that,  according to the release, is scheduled for an early 1999 release.
expert quake 3.0 [4:55 am est] expert quake version 3.0 is now available.
mx300 review, d3d half-life [9:17 pm est] sharky extreme's diamond mx300 review takes a look at thisvortex2  based sound card, and mentions a bit about the d3d version of half-life day
banshee overclocker [6:38 am est] 3dfx voodoo banshee control is a banshee overclocker/control panel dealie to satisfy your need for more speed.
half-life sneak peek [8:28 pm est] gamecenter's sneak peek at half-life is up offering new screenshots and some exclusive info about the weapons in valve's upcoming shooter as well as some details on multiplayer play.
also included in 3.3 are new player skins and enhanced graphics.
john jack interview [9:17 pm est] monolith's john jack is interviewed on gamer's alliance in an in-depth conversation talking mostly about shogo: mobile armor division, and being a game publisher.
gabe newell interview [4:39 am est] the q&a part of pc gamer online's interactive interview with gabe  newell is up, with valve's managing director answering questions about  half-life submitted by readers.
it starts at 5pm pst/8pm est.
yes, we are still going to give the world the game tools and  source so not to worry.
this is a nifty little trick, and actually goes  to show how cool some of the future unreal things will be.
[9:17 pm est] aeon's unreal page, a german unreal server page, has the first release of auus,  a windows 95 unreal deathmatch log parser that can generate an html stats page.
roger wilco [4:01 pm est] roger
[4:39 am est] dmblade , the first bladematch level for heretic ii is now available.
a follow-up on the post from yesterday about a fix that allows  you to set a ps/2 mouse under windows nt to a higher sampling rate, i've  received a couple of letters confirming that this does work, though g1zm0 sends  a warning to have nt4 sp4 installed, or you risk a b.s.o.d. (blue screen o'  death) at startup.
rob "psychology"  heironimus [rbr] 3.
oh well, these things happen.
com showing off gameplay from interplay's upcoming flying shooter.
thanks billy atvoodoo extreme.
also on the zdnet showroom for the new model year isaudio winbench 99, offering a benchmarks to "measure cpu usage, hardware voices, 3d positioning, and more.
since the event will be  covered via live webcast, you can see carmack respond to your email even if  you're sitting at your pc 3,000 miles away!
so far no websites have posted news stories of the romero's death based on the photo.
3d realms diary [6:38 am est] a weekend to remember is an article by3d portal's chris day recapping his frag2 experience, recounting a visit to 3drealms to check on the progress of duke nukem forever.
frag2 coverage [11:42 am est] here'savault's live frag2 coverage, here's frag dot com frag2 coverage.
ras is also busy on it's first original game,conflict.
net looking at the current  crop of 3d accelerators.
[6:38 am est] a new version 2.51 ofqizmo is available, fixing some bugs in this shareware quakeworld proxy program, and adding support for dynamic ip's and versions of the qwcl hacked with the polyblend hack.
wrath [3:22 am est] sharky extreme's wrath glimpse has some screenshots of a game sharky calls a cross between quake and tomb raider (the hero looks like elvis to me).
the first, and certainly biggest, is unreal tournament, a title that, according to the release, is scheduled for an early 1999 release.
first, i'll be improving the  scheme for managing temporary objects like projectiles, which should reduce  their bandwidth usage by aroune 30%.
(try and maintain your composure while that's going on).
redwood's impressions of q3a are up as well (not surprisingly we cover many, but not all, of the same bases).
you can also view the movie as areal file, in both high andlow bandwidth formats.
friday, november 6, 1998friday, november 6, 1998 b2 gold, new demo soon, shogo pr-nine days [5:02 pm est] monolith ceo jason hall updated his .plan with the latest word from them, leading off with the news that blood2 is officially gold (off to manufacture, and therefore, due in stores soon), and they plan on releasing a newer, better optimized blood2 demo.
currently, this version is restricted to 192.168.0.0/16, so you can only use this program on your intranet.
newer blood2 demo & shogo patch soon [6:38 am  est] a multiplayer blood2 demo, a newer version of the  single player blood2 demo to offer some speed and feel improvements over the  original, as well as a newer alpha shogo patch are all in the works over at  monolith high command (thanks apache atblood2.com).
sin review [1:53 pm est] sharky  extreme's sin review is online already.
hopefully it'll be mirrored to blues and planetshogo and whatnot soon.
last week we reported that epic would be making an announcement in 4-6 weeks of a project it had been developing since unreal's release in may.
updated mouse rate checker [6:13 pm est] oliver tscherwitschke sent along an updated version 1.1a of his  program to check the sampling rate of a ps/2 mouse (7 kb), which adds a  function to tell your average sample rate.
realplayer, or reasonable facsimile  thereof, required.
to recap, thisreplacement system file for nt (31 kb) by espen blikstad should allow the changes made with the winnt ps/2 mouse rate adjuster to take effect, which can be verified using the mouse rate checker utility.
carmack at pgl [12:30 pm est] john carmack will be answering questions about quake iii arena at the amd pgl championships in san francisco on november 14 at 2:45 pacific time.
easily the largest such event i've ever seen.
you may want to make backups of your unreal texture files, as i believe  some of them are overwritten.
here's the explanation: i have built a new version of i8042prt.sys for windows nt which uses the samplerate value in the registry.
also,the north-european clan league is underway and genocide4 is now accepting sign-ups.
with the release of this stuff you are going to be able to mod the hell out of shogo.
drivers from creative's site.
make sure environmental sound is set to off in the live!
it is looking fantastic and we are really excited about it.
i have reached the conclusion that the benefits of a standard language outweigh the benefits of a custom language for our purposes.
no roaches in the house, for those that can't stand "roaching"...heh
play khg maps in unreal [1:18 pm est] a way to play maps from microprose's unreal-engine klingon honor guard in unreal with the khg weapons comes in this tip sent along by moonglum: i figured out a way to play klingon honor guard maps in unreal, complete with unreal blaster & khg weaponry/tiles...
i was avoiding mentioning the dentist trip i made this week because i thought i could overcome its effects unnoticed, but clearly the painkillers have slowed me down a bit, so i wanted to mention what was up if you were wondering.
finally, best wishes and a get well soon to frequent contributor ant, who is recovering from surgery.
the only real solution to these problems is to use an interpreted language like quake 1 did.
trespasser review [3:22 am est] the adrenaline vault reviews trespasser giving the lost world dinosaur adventure but two stars (out of five).
despite our best forecasts earlier in the  week, the demo will not be out today.
[6:38 am est] 3dgn  the pimping hour profiles billy (or willy as they call him) from voodoo extreme.
tuesday, november 3, 1998 quake iii arena impressions [11:58 pm est] redwood has posted his impressions of seeing quake iii arena up  at id this weekend.
interactive, in a cool finish the  sentence format.
on crack's demise [4:39 am est] last weeks'loonygames' guest editorial is by jonathan clark, one of the owners  of crack dot com, talking about the reasons for the company's demise.
and they are now "doing what they do" with it!
"flushmap" was used to explicitly free maps after they are already loaded for development purposes.
also turn off 3d sound in the sin control panel.
valve interview [11:42 am est] there'san interview with valve's harry teasley on pc arena talking about half-life.
i haven't tried it myself, but have a report from my bro redant that it worked on his 56k modem connection just fine.
mx300 review, d3d half-life [9:17 pm est] sharky extreme's diamond mx300 review takes a look at thisvortex2 based sound card, and mentions a bit about the d3d version of half-life day
a.s. is developing a commercial add-on for half-life as well as working on encomium, described as a next-generation 3d engine, that will be used in several upcoming games.
just wanted to fess up to my slowness as the fog lifts.
"flushmap" was used to explicitly free maps after they are  already loaded for development purposes.
there are also some feature tweaks and bug fixes.
out of the blue [3:22 am est] apparently doom featured somehow in last night's chips '99 special (a ponch versus john deathmatch perhaps?).
net looking at the current crop of 3d accelerators.
one along the way: on a side note, this was our first chance to try out the direct3d version of half-life, and we're happy to report that it looked almost identical to the opengl version.
john carmack's frag2 talk [3:22 am est] if you're wondering where coverage of john carmack's frag2 talk is, the ace pseudo crew filmed the event, so rather than risking me messing up anything in the translation, in a couple of days there will be a realplayer version up to view for yourself.
jonathan's .plan also mentions the life after crack page offering info about what's going on with the ex-crackheads after the shutdown, with some email they've received posted as well.
in case you haven't noticed yet, the squeaky toy does a special kind of emotional damage in multiplayer games.
this is apparently the fix that activision customer support is giving people who call in, so it should work great.
here are the final standings: frag 2 winners: 1.
billy zelsnack interview
pimpage [12:30 pm est] pc accelerator is running a poll on the main page asking what sites you frequent (other than theirs), and since this site is listed as one of the options
you may want to make backups of your unreal texture files, as i believe some of them are overwritten.
newer blood2 demo & shogo patch soon
since i'm almost through writing and editing my own  impressions of the same, i'm not going to read red's piece until i'm done to  avoid being influenced.
rix frag2 champ [1:16 pm est] doh.
frag2 reports [5:10 am est] stepto.
heavy gear ii demo delay [10:25 pm est] activision's heavy gear ii page has word of the delay on the release demo previously promised for this evening.
make sure you either do this on the command line prior to startup or do a vid_restart right afterwards.
q2-start [4:39 am est] an updated version 1.0 of q2-start is up on theq-start & q2start page offering a new layout for this quake ii front-end, as well as a few new features and a solitary bug-fix.
this newer  demo will also be a better gauge to determine how fast the final version of b2  will run on your system!
thanks redant and andrew smith for word on this.
i can't wait to see what the community does with this stuff!
we'll have an executable patch out in about two weeks.
i've added this to thequickie mouse  resources page i put up today, along with a couple of other things that came in  since it went up: some new links, and a guide to the care and feeding of a  precise mousing surface.
i would not go back and extend qc, because tthat stretches the effort from simply system and interpreter design to include language design, and there is already plenty to do.
ofrancor is now available with changes to the in-eyes view and the hud.
cliffy b interview [4:39 am est] part three of action xtreme's interview with cliff bleszinski is now  online, the final installment in the conversation.
the .avi has clips of both multiplayer missions: outer space,  and swamp terrain.
yes, this does mean more load on servers, but i am making some improvements in other parts that i hope will balance things to about the way q2 was on previous generation hardware.
tr3 preview [5:30 pm est] ogr  previews tomb raider 3.
with this update it is possible to use the  ps2rate utility to adjust the samplerate.
here's the lowdown from ten's garth chouteau: john carmack, co-founder, owner, and lead programmer of id software, will appear in person on nov. 14th, for the third and final day of the amd pgl championships being held at club-i in san francisco.
rainbow six randomizer [5:30 pm est] a new version 1.7 of warchest for rainbow 6, the mission randomizer  program, is available.
in this game, players are divided into two teams: soldiers and scientists.
here's the announcement fromactivision's heavy gear ii page: the multiplayer bug that has been delaying release has been a pesky one,  which has taken longer than expected to fix.
john romero interview [11:58 am est] action xtreme interviews john romero in part two of a short conversation about his career in gaming.
lithtech faq [1:03 pm est]
simply send your question(s) or  suggestion(s) to : "carmackqa@pgl.net" by monday, nov. 9th -- the  best ones will be answered by jc at the pgl event.
we've tightened  up the jumping, sped the player-character up a bit, fixed some cheats, make the  keypads easier to use.. stuff like that.
please read the gamespy documentation how you should add a new master browser.
[4:48 pm est] the velocity 4400 drivers has added another new bios to the four that were posted yesterday, adding a version 1.1 bios for the agp version of the velocity 4400 with no tv out.
this speeds up "quick" loads i.e. when you already have the map  loaded.
there's also word in onethumb's .plan about a sin tourney where the winner  can walk away with $500.
permedia 2 drivers [1:18 pm est] 3dlabs' permedia driver download page has new version 2105-0359
khg review [11:58 am est] 3dgaming.
also, do i have to come right out and  ask for votes inthe worldcharts foundation poll?
i  hope that those levels make it in!
[12:30 pm est] an  announcement on next-generation online offers details on epic's upcoming  project, a game called unreal tournament, which sounds like it's focused on  multiplayer.
so far no websites have posted news stories of  the romero's death based on the photo.
the tip on winnt sampling with the intellimouse is there, and other mouse wisdom is welcome, as are corrections.
the server is keeping up a steady 15 fps.
it's all good either way, all the choices offered are worth a vote.
[6:38 am est] tonight is the monthly chat with the developers of ion storm's upcoming quake ii-engine rpg, anachronox.
while it seems likely that this project is unreal tournament, epic vp mark rein refused to comment for the story.
new 3dblaster banshee drivers - pure3d ii delays [8:28 pm est] the creative tech lab drivers page has new windows 95/98 drivers for the 3d blaster banshee.
you can join in and play with 218; it's  fully compatible.
vigilance review [6:38 am est] the adrenaline vault reviews vigilance, looking at segasoft's new shooter.
the presentation will be uncut, with part two of the talk to air the following  week.
there is another fix on voodoo extreme from billy who says the above fix doesn't work for him, but the one he posted (a bit of a kludge, unfortunately), does.
here's the answer to the question of whether a patch is in the works:
gabe newell interview [4:39 am est] the q&a part of pc gamer online's interactive interview with gabe newell is up, with valve's managing director answering questions about half-life submitted by readers.
[monday] loonyboi's frag 2 diary: jason "loonyboi"  bergman spent the weekend in dallas attending the frag 2...read the whole  story.
it definitely made a big difference when i tried it, just don't let the lack of a status screen throw you off (for a second i thought my machine crashed).
mike and i are hoping to add some cool new connection features too.
this is apparently the fix that activision customer support is giving  people who call in, so it should work great.
dragon 3000 [3:22 am est] sharky extreme's gainward dragon 3000 review takes a look at a bargain-priced 12 mb voodoo2 card from a large taiwanese manufacturer that is not very well known in western markets.
half-life level five page [3:22 am est] radioactive software has opened up their half-life level 5 page giving a brief outline of the add-on's plot for solo play, and word on their plans for a teamplay mod called frag the scientist: frag the scientist-
on unreal tournament [4:39 am est] there's a statement up on planetunreal from epic's mark rein to try  and shed some light, or actually cast some doubt, on the speculation about the  nature of their upcoming project based on the title,unreal tournament,  that slipped out in a recent gt interactive press release: unfortunately i can't engage the gossip caused by the gt financial press  release.
you will probably also see some warnings printed out since developer provides verbose information about what's going on in the game.
:) nt ps/2 mouse rate revisited [6:38 am est]
stb velocity 4400 drivers, bios
previews [5:02 pm est] gamecenter's fall harvest offers previews of what they call the ten most highly anticipated titles of fall, oddly picking daikatana (not due until early 1999) as one of the ten, while omitting sin, which just went gold.
thanks again billy atvoodoo extreme unreal arena?
poking through the news  archive i noticed today is the second anniversary of the announcement that todd  hollenshead was taking over as ceo of id software, and the first anniversary of  fargo taking over as the whatever he is at planetquake (raise your bawls today  in honor of them).just when i revealed a formatting trick to  notice the quotes i shift gears and remove the format.
perhaps someone could write a program where you wouldn't have to copy these file (i.e.: it would pull them from the correct folder when you run the map, sort of like a front end for the unreal engine...)
[1:53 pm est] don "onethumb" macaskill's .plan has more info on the sblive! problem with sin with variations on the solution if you're still having a problem.
the drawback is performance.
thanksschnoz's starsiege universe weapons factory [1:53 pm est] version 3.3a ofthe weapons factory for quake ii is now available, offering new features like zbot detection, a new knife weapon for the spy, a remote camera, and laser guided napalm rockets.
requiem trailer [9:17 pm est] a new trailer showing off in-game action from cyclone studios' upcoming shooter requiem: avenging angel is up on hell on earth in larger (avi) and smaller (mpg) formats.
i have more optimizations planned, though.
the first release  of this quake ii teamplay mod includes a linux version, as well as a green flag.
competitions [3:22 am est] quake invitational league (qil2 the second coming) is getting underway, they have an area where you can vote on what clans you feel should be invited to this four-on-four invite-only quakeworld competition.
quake ii max plug-in [5:10 am est] the first version of qtip, the quake ii transport plugin for 3d studio max, is now available, promising an easier way to make models for quake ii.
heavy gear ii demo delay [10:25 pm est] activision's heavy gear ii page has word of the delay on the release  demo previously promised for this evening.
com visits the frag2 offers stepto's pictures and accounts of the event.
this will save you about 20 or so  seconds of loading time on just about any map.
whether release occurs tomorrow or later depends on what qa finds in its sweep.
here's  the conclusion where he talks about what's in the works: ***new, improved, blood 2
by setting developer to 1, it will not draw the status bar, so you won't  get to see in between level information.
nt vortex drivers [5:10 am est] aureal a3d interactive drivers has new version 1.16 vortex windows nt 4.0 drivers.
if we were willing to wed ourselves completely to the windows platform, we might have pushed ahead with some attempt at binary verification of dlls, but i ruled that option out.
[5:02 pm  est] monolith ceo jason hall updated his .plan with the  latest word from them, leading off with the news that blood2 is officially gold  (off to manufacture, and therefore, due in stores soon), and they plan on  releasing a newer, better optimized blood2 demo.
we remain committed to bringing the demo out as soon as possible, but not  before.
more on carmack & steed's frag2 talks [6:38 am est] on the same subjects, linuxgames has a post up talking about the platform independence for mods in quake iii arena based on some of john carmack's comments at the frag2 (like the .plan update above).
here's the scoop: it's now available for download here.
but here's the best part: you don't have to attend the pgl season 3  championships to ask carmack a question!
if you have a voodoo2 card, try setting gl_ext_palettedtexture to 0
the only real solution to these problems is to use an interpreted language  like quake 1 did.
3d round-up [9:17 pm est] 3d's  explosive new screamers is an article up on games.
last week we reported that epic would be making an announcement in 4-6  weeks of a project it had been developing since unreal's release in may.
high resolution sin [6:38 am est] sean segal requested info on how to get sin to display in 1024x768 resolution, pointing out that using that setting actually gave him a 960x720 resolution.
john carmack on q3a architecture [6:38 am est] john carmack's .plan has an update on what he describes  as the most significant portion of his talk at the frag2.
stephen patterson interview [6:38 am est] part one of action xtreme's interview with stephen patterson from  psygnosis talks about their upcomingdrakan: order of the flame.
here's the poop  from their page: roger wilco is a stand-alone application that allows you and your friends  to talk to each other while playing multiplayer online games.
but we want to make them as useful as possible before we  let them out.
we should be able to improve this significantly  further in 200, with two protocol improvements.
id demo analyzer [6:38 am est] the demo analysis homepage has a new version 0.99 of the id demo analyzer (idda), which outputs stats from demos recorded in quake, quake ii and quakeworld.
on unreal tournament [4:39 am est] there's a statement up on planetunreal from epic's mark rein to try and shed some light, or actually cast some doubt, on the speculation about the nature of their upcoming project based on the title,unreal tournament, that slipped out in a recent gt interactive press release: unfortunately i can't engage the gossip caused by the gt financial press release.
the status bar has been optimized as to not take  up as much time, and flushmap will explicitly be set to 0.
a  couple of readers have asked about the sparse out of the blue's the last couple  of days.
you should start the game from the menu instead, and game performance (load  times in particular) should drastically improve.
rancor [4:39 am est]
word fromthe console is that all the reference materials contained therein on the workings of console commands are now covered under thefree software foundation's gnu general public license version 2 ...
blood 2 demo [4:55 am est] as promised, the playable blood 2 demo is out.
quakeworld polyblend patch [3:22 am est] suami's site has a patch up for quakeworld 2.30 created by kenzeh called the software quakeworld polyblend remover.
drivers creative lab's ftp site has new windows 95/98 drivers for the 3d blaster pci.
banshee overclocker [6:38 am est] 3dfx voodoo banshee control is a banshee overclocker/control panel  dealie to satisfy your need for more speed.
there seems to have been quite a few options added to the shogoserver stuff.
new requiem powers [5:02 pm est] hell on earth has posted some news on some new angelic powers that are being added to cyclone studios' upcomingrequiem: avenging angel, including apocalypse, and exorcist (which from the sound of it, has nothing to do with linda blair/pea soup-type exorcisms at all).
john romero in rolling stone [4:39 am est] john romero adds to his impressive history of great press as he is featured in rolling stone #800 (november 26, 1998).
here's the poop from their page: roger wilco is a stand-alone application that allows you and your friends to talk to each other while playing multiplayer online games.
developer 1 set flushmap 0
interestly enough, i've noticed a couple of things that are really cool with  the upcoming patch... 1.)
also,loonyboi's frag 2 diary (part 2) is up (here's part one).
on my 28.8k connection, gameplay has remained pretty smooth until i get  into a firefight with 5-6 people, at which point the movement of other players  starts to become unsmooth.
the full version of blood2 is oh-so-close to being done and it is looking really good...the in-game cinematics are awesome!
monolith's brian goble's  .plan has an update on these subjects, mentioning the blood2 update may be available as a patch, rather than a full download, and will be out "a  few days after the full version officially goes gold.
the program is in beta, so you must supply your email to register, and they say  a version that supports ten players at once is in the works.
our apologies for the delay to those who have waited, and thanks to  everyone for being patient - we think you'll ultimately be glad we held onto  it, because the end result will be that much better.
the update is described as adding several new features,  as well as some bug fixes.
finally, blood2 project leader jay "shade" wilson updatedhis .plan with more on all of this.
no wonder the game took so long to finish, the direct3d port  over is flawless, and fast as well.
here's the poop: there was a bug in the shogo alpha patch involving the softsnd.dll sound module.
pgl interview [5:30 pm est] stepto.
shogo cat attack [9:17 pm est] monolith's craig hubbard updatedhis .plan with word on a deathmatch easter egg in shogo involving the dreaded squeaky toy: okay, time to let the cat out of the bag, so to speak.
bladematch is a  melee only form of deathmatch that offers blade and heal shrines on the map,  but no weapons.
[9:17 pm est] there are new whql certified windows 95/98 drivers for the  tnt-based stb velocity 4400 on thevelocity 4400 drivers page.
unreal 219 [7:19 pm est] tim sweeney'sunreal technology page has been updated with news of unreal 219.
onethumb has been typing his lone digit off, as he's updatedhis .plan again  with word of a bug in the sin auto-loader that plays the game entirely from cd.
problem,  and this fixed it for me.
cheer them up with a  nice toasty tow missile.
here's the lowdown: ***sin loading times***
they are now accepting suggestions for questions to pose.
sverre "sverre" kvernmo [ion] sin load times [2:57 pm est] ritual's scott alden updatedhis .plan with a tip that can help shorten those  interminable map load times after the first time a map is loaded with a couple  of console commands.
the dates of the contest drawings (see link) will be moved according  to the demo's actual release, so that the contest lasts a full week from the  release.
people who played the  original blood 2 demo and had speed/mouse/bug issues should be much happier  with the new one.
(to finish an amazingly self-indulgent ootb), happy birthday mama blue.
half-life will absolutely be the number one selling title this holiday season, i'd bet my er .i mean sharky's life on it.
dying in the game isn't as painful now :-)
also included in 3.3 are new player skins and  enhanced graphics.
server performance has definitely improved since i last benchmarked it.
this performs the same function as the gl_polyblend switch in gl quake, which allows you to turn off the murky wavy water.
here's the  scoop: it's now available for download here.
after checking and realizing he was right (at least it works the same way on my system), i found i could get 1024x768 by picking the next highest setting, 1152x864.
unreal 219 [7:19 pm est] tim  sweeney'sunreal technology page has been updated with news of unreal 219.
sin at the frag2 [1:16 pm est] there'san article recounting the sin talk at the frag 2 up on ritualistic.
nt drivers [10:51 pm est] there are new windows nt drivers on the sound blaster live!
performance [8:28 pm est] raven's rick johnson updated his .plan with a performance tip for  voodoo2 users with the heretic ii demo: performance tip for heretic2!
the new section, as suggested by the name, deals with the latest in the growing field of sound hardware, concentrating mostly on speaker and pci sound card choices.
[6:38 am est] a multiplayer blood2 demo, a newer version of the single player blood2 demo to offer some speed and feel improvements over the original, as well as a newer alpha shogo patch are all in the works over at monolith high command (thanks apache atblood2.com).
it seems surprisingly early, but it's  possible the game is out in some areas already.
no sympathy please, it's not that biggie (besides, ido have the pain killers).
the new release no longer is restricted on the intranet ip addresses used.
this will save you about 20 or so seconds of loading time on just about any map.
out of the blue [6:38 am est] image of the day part oneis a retouched photo of john romero being skewered by  hiro polishmoto at the frag2.
ra2 tourney [11:42 am est] the war zone league is a new competition that currently supports rocket arena 2, capture the flag, and quake 2 deathmatch, with plans to add more mods in the future.
gt has it and they are now "doing what they do" with it!
here's the announcement fromactivision's heavy gear ii page: the multiplayer bug that has been delaying release has been a pesky one, which has taken longer than expected to fix.
on video violence [6:38 am est] does shoot-'em-up software lead to aggressive behavior?
expect it in the stores very soon.
[6:38 am est] the zoidcam.
conversions forums [3:22 am est] the forum centre on conversions.
the dates of the contest drawings (see link) will be moved according to the demo's actual release, so that the contest lasts a full week from the release.
zor and peace [5:10 am est] there's aninterview with berenger "zor" fish up on ritualistic  talking to the level designer about his new job at ritual, as well as his old  one at rogue.
today's finalists in the quake ii tourney are rix and makaveli.
parens and itals aside, yesterday's quote was indeed from looney tunes ("open septagenarian...open saddlesoap...open sesame!").also, huge thanks to 'jinxter' who has been helping with some startlingly detailed proof reading to catch typos on this page lately.
there's also word on the shogo  point release (multiplayer patch), which he says will be released in nine days.
we won't release it until we get the updated net code that shogo is testing out and integrate it into b2's code, which will be the blood 2 point release, which should arrive in late november, early december at the latest.
i forgot to mention the outcome of thefrag2 quake ii tourney, which crowned dan "rix" hammans the winner after he beat makaveli 8-5 in the finals.
i actually made it past the first round in that all-star doom tourney, but managed to take my two losses in the double-elim dealie in a royal manbeating from duvalmagic from rbr and john romero, ironic since i threatened to practice to regain lost skill and crush him this year (as i said before, my mouth wrote a check that my mouse couldn't cash).
we should be able to improve this significantly further in 200, with two protocol improvements.
disruptor interview [5:02 pm est] there's a short interview with id software's christian  "disruptor" antkow up onpels
a follow-up on the post from yesterday about a fix that allows you to set a ps/2 mouse under windows nt to a higher sampling rate, i've received a couple of letters confirming that this does work, though g1zm0 sends a warning to have nt4 sp4 installed, or you risk a b.s.o.d. (blue screen o' death) at startup.
the festivities begin at 8:00  pm central time.
this newer demo will also be a better gauge to determine how fast the final version of b2 will run on your system!
it's all good either way,  all the choices offered are worth a vote.
[monday, wednesday, friday] guest editorial: tricia "sxegrrl" gray of eidos  interactive talks about the reaction to lara croft's recent breast reduction.
the server is keeping up a steady 15  fps.
here's the lowdown from ten's  garth chouteau: john carmack, co-founder, owner, and lead programmer of id software, will  appear in person on nov. 14th, for the third and final day of the amd pgl  championships being held at club-i in san francisco.
they are  now accepting suggestions for questions to pose.
includes the first (at least as far as we can tell) publication  of a john romero comic!
half-life gold by tomorrow?
* from the system directory of khg to unreal's system folder.
the scientists are fodder, and the soldiers will eat them alive...unless the scientists get the hev suits on.
john carmack on q3a architecture [6:38 am est] john carmack's .plan has an update on what he describes as the most significant portion of his talk at the frag2.
my dual-processor pentium  ii-300 is serving a 20-player game, copying 600 megs across the network, and  running a 3dfx unreal client at 800x600.
this quake ii competition modification offers some unique features like real-time weapon hit percentages and original chasecams.
the avi format movie is available in 8.0 mb, 12.2 mb, and 24.6 mb sizes.
john seems a bit dubious about my return challenge to him in rocket arena 2.
the epic deathmatch servers will be shut down for the night, to provide more bandwidth for downloads.
sincerely, the heavy gear ii team p.s.
i have reached the conclusion that the benefits of a standard  language outweigh the benefits of a custom language for our purposes.
there is current "uncomfirmed and secret" plan to release some awesome custom made deathmatch only levels with the patch!
server performance has  definitely improved since i last benchmarked it.
if you want to increase your times for loading quick saves type these commands at the console before you start a game:
according to gt, a release will come out shortly (within the next couple of  weeks) for the project.
the tip on winnt  sampling with the intellimouse is there, and other mouse wisdom is welcome, as  are corrections.
simply send your question(s) or suggestion(s) to : "carmackqa@pgl.net" by monday, nov. 9th -- the best ones will be answered by jc at the pgl event.
com talks to garth chouteau interviewing the press manager for the pgl touching on subjects like cheating, t.e.n., and the cpl.
here's the scoop: this just in: creative labs soundblaster live!
:)," which he says could be "any hour now!"
this will be serialized in three parts throughout the week.
i want quakearena running on every platform that has hardware accelerated opengl and an internet connection.
part two, which includes the q&a session, will  air next week.
perhaps someone  could write a program where you wouldn't have to copy these file (i.e.: it  would pull them from the correct folder when you run the map, sort of like a  front end for the unreal engine...)
we could just  release them *as is*
on crack's demise [4:39 am est] last weeks'loonygames' guest editorial is by jonathan clark, one of the owners of crack dot com, talking about the reasons for the company's demise.
barrage review [5:10 am est] the adrenaline vault reviews barrage looking at mango grits' flying shooter,  comparing it more to games like terminal velocity than to incoming.
*  from the system directory of khg to unreal's system folder.
three team ctf [9:17 pm est] the 3tctf homepage has version 1.0 of their three team ctf.
according to the interview, the game is on  track for a thanksgiving (november 26) release.
however, level five will feature new levels and possibly new enemies as well.
on the occasion of the full moon, thewerewolf the apocalypse page has a new monthly update, offeringdeveloper biographies, concept art, and desktop art.
[4:55 am est] a blurb on next-generation online titled half-life's golden promise quotes a sierra spokesman as saying half-life will go gold by tomorrow, and will be in stores by thanksgiving weekend, (november 28-29), as well as word on a pre-order t-shirt dealie.
here's the conclusion where he talks about what's in the works: ***new, improved, blood 2 demo***
there is also arancor discussion board available to discuss the mod.
permedia 2 win95/win98 drivers.
these fixes will be incorporated into the first patch and these commands should help in the meantime.
certain cheats are easy to do  if you can hack the code, so the server will need to verify which code the  client is running.
there aren't a lot of details available yet, but there's a brief outline in this press release i found onve: bloomington, indiana- radioactive software is proud to announce this halloween, that we have begun work on a half-life expansion, tentatively titled "half life: level 5".
thanksmagixx. fvf mailing list [4:39 am est] there is now afuture versus fantasy mailing list to talk about all the present  and future variations on freeform interactive's quake mod, and it's future as  their upcoming "multiverse development engine" rpg, openfvf. funny papers [4:39 am est]
disruptor interview [5:02 pm est] there's a short interview with id software's christian "disruptor" antkow up onpels
heavy gear demo preview movie [4:39 am est] phoebus, who is celebrating his first anniversary at activision, sends word of a heavy gear ii movie showing off gameplay from the playable demo, originally promised for release earlier in the week, and now slated for release later today: here is something to whet your appetite: a new movie showing gameplay from the demo itself.
also, do i have to come right out and ask for votes inthe worldcharts foundation poll?
mod list - weapons factory interview [11:58 am est] sluggo's mod central has a monday morning interview up with gregg reno of weapons factory software talking about their mod.
from 2:45 to 3:30 (pacific time), he'll also be fielding questions and suggestions regarding the development of the much-anticipated quake iii arena.
anyone interested in compilers should pick up a copy of "a retargetable c compiler: design and implementation" by fraser and hanson.
there's also word on the shogo point release (multiplayer patch), which he says will be released in nine days.
heretic ii demo date dealie [3:22 am est] raven's rick johnson updated his .plan with a reminder that the first version of the heretic ii demo had an expiration feature, so if you are now receiving unauthorized access problems when running the demo you need to download and installthe patch that will fix this.
yes, we will be releasing a new and improved blood 2 demo, mainly so people can see the speed improvements.
my dual-processor pentium ii-300 is serving a 20-player game, copying 600 megs across the network, and running a 3dfx unreal client at 800x600.
spec ops rtb patches [8:28 pm est]
also new on m.c. isthe index, the first pass at a comprehensive database of modification projects.
also,the online gaming league has added a high-ping division to its female quake ii one-on-one ladder.
" more heretic ii console commands [4:55 am est] overlord's been working overtime on his listing of heretic ii console commands, presented here in all its increasing comprehensive glory.
half life: level five is being developed by radioactive software, a software developer based in bloomington, indiana.
as one of the ten, while omitting sin, which just went gold.
intro to lithtech [5:30 pm est] an introduction to the lithtech engine is the first in a series of mod tutorials/discussions for shogo on planetshogo.
the show will air this thursday at 7:00 pm eastern time, and in the  archive thereafter.
thanksbetanews. pingtool [7:37 am est] version  2.3 ofpingtool is now available.
quake iii arena impressions [11:58 pm est] redwood has posted his impressions of seeing quake iii arena up at id this weekend.
com (the site formerly known as gamers extreme) is that thresh  will be at the 3dfx booth at comdex in las vegas november 18 from 1:00 to 5:00  pm, playing attendees on a first-come, first-served basis with several diamond  mega-monster sli set-ups to be awarded as prizes.
thanks everyone for your patience, and please check back later this week!
sin cd tip [2:12 pm est]
while there  were no details on this heretofore unannounced product, we're fairly certain  from the name that it's going to be a multiplayer only title like quake iii.
doom2 tourney results [5:02 pm est] randy "duvalmagic" pitchford updated his .plan with some  thoughts on the doom2 all-star tourney.
after that, we'll look at doing a data  patch to address tightening up combat in some areas, updated audio collisions,  plant floating objects, etc.
[tuesday], paul  steed's thinking outside the box
(e.g. "setmaster 192.168.1.1:27000") you can use gamespy to get a list of all registered servers.
here are the final results (all four of  these players were in amazing form, natas in particular, is death incarnate): 1.
the chosen page, and here'sa local copy of the blood2 demo (36 mb) on gamesnet ftp.
219 should be available soon, unless new bugs are discovered.
until then i'm sure we'll have to endure a lot of  inaccurate speculation as to what the product is based solely on what people  think they can figure out from two simple words in a press release.
yes, this does mean more load on servers, but i am  making some improvements in other parts that i hope will balance things to  about the way q2 was on previous generation hardware.
the program does not work for windows nt, and checks in at over 70 mb(!).
this demo of monolith's upcoming horror-oriented lithtech shooter is single player only, offering two large maps.
sverre "sverre" kvernmo [ion] sin load times [2:57 pm est] ritual's scott alden updatedhis .plan with a tip that can help shorten those interminable map load times after the first time a map is loaded with a couple of console commands.
thanks overclocked billy wilson at voodoo extreme.
the programming language for quakearena mods is interpreted ansi c. (well, i am dropping the double data type, but otherwise it should be pretty conformant) ...
the details are undecided at this point, but we will probably release it shortly after the game goes gold.
be sure the subject of your email reads "carmack question/suggestion" and include your full real name and preferred screen name, so we can credit you 'on the air' !
euro skin pack [11:58 am est] thestrange creeping souls clan has released a new quake ii skin pack of european clan skins (around 10 mb worth)
you may see a performance  increase of 50%
here are the final results (all four of these players were in amazing form, natas in particular, is death incarnate): 1.
quake ii rambot [6:13 pm est] version 0.48 of the rambot for quake ii is available onrambot's pit.
thanks billy at  voodoo extreme.
the .avi has clips of both multiplayer missions: outer space, and swamp terrain.
.there are still a few finishing touches we'd like to  improve before it releases, and so we'll be holding onto it a little while  longer.
i'll post my impressions in a bit.
[tuesday] a community profile of richard  "bagpuss" smith [friday], more code on the cob [wednesday], and of  course, much, much, more!
the testing is going well
when we're  ready to announce what unreal tournament is then we'll announce it.
testing 219 i have an unreal 219 server up and running at unreal://208.212.53.3/ in case a few people want to help test.
on rendering [11:42 am est] software vs hardware rendering and the future of both is a new article up on anandtech that discusses, well, software vs hardware rendering and the future of both.
mail's in [6:38 am est] this  week's better late than never edition ofthe mailbag is up, offering reader  responses on such topics as unreal bashing, camping in france, a cry for coop,  system requirements, and by far the most entertaining chapter in the endless  fps thread.
shade's update is huge, giving word on where to send bug reports ( b2demobugs@lith.com), and addressing some of the concerns he's received, touching on speed, mouselook, mouse sensitivity, crash bugs, limb loss (lack thereof), blood (not enough), and the levels are "too techie."
stevie  "killcreek" case sits down with john romero for this laid back look  at his career.
org that describes an exchange between john carmack and bob young at red hat publishing that reveals id software was interested in having red hat publish the linux versions of the quake family.
no promises about practicing for next year, john (but don't rule it out either).
although there's a registry setting in windows nt for mouse sampling rate, experimentation with themouse rate checker seems to indicate that adjusting it manually, or with theps2 mouse rate nt utility, does not actually change the rate at which your ps/2 mouse samples (thewin95/98 version works fine).
the soldiers goal is to waste the scientists in the level, while the scientists goal is to make a break for the exits, and get out of the area.
copy the 4 files named klingon.
mail's in [6:38 am est] this week's better late than never edition ofthe mailbag is up, offering reader responses on such topics as unreal bashing, camping in france, a cry for coop, system requirements, and by far the most entertaining chapter in the endless fps thread.
parseit is a log parser that produces deathmatch statistics for a variety of games, including quake, quake ii, and the sin demo.
net has some new messageboards up to promote the exchange of information on conversions, technical help, as well as help wanted and offered ads.
also, gt has green lighted the release of blood  2's source and tools as well, so when both games have all their stuff out there  you are seriously going to be in "content city".
john carmack's talk on shooters [6:38 am est] on this week's shooters we will air a video presentation of the talk john carmack gave at the frag2 about quake iii arena and related topics.
here are the sketchy details from ngo: in a statement regarding earnings gt revealed two choice news tidbits that had not yet been announced.
we are all very excited about this demo, and we sincerely believe the end result will be worth the wait!
randy "duvalmagic" pitchford
red hat  publish the linux versions of the quake family.
gore screenshots [3:22 am est] the4d rulers page has two new screenshots of their upcoming shooter, gore .
copy all the texture files  from khg's texture folder to unreal's.
the demo has been getting some of the best scores from beta testers we've seen here at activision - we think the end result deserves to be as good as we can make it!
this is a nifty little trick, and actually goes to show how cool some of the future unreal things will be.
is an article on cnn  that suggests offering your children myst and riven as computer game  alternatives (i'd sooner have 'em watch barney).
[8:28 pm est] an  updated version 1.2 ofparseit is available, adding the ability to process  massive log files to this quake ii log analyzer, as well as a speed boost.
the demo has been getting  some of the best scores from beta testers we've seen here at activision - we  think the end result deserves to be as good as we can make it!
when we're ready to announce what unreal tournament is then we'll announce it.
there are also four new version 1.1 bios flashers, with separate files for agp ntsc, pci ntsc, agp pal, and pci ntsc.
trespasser demo [10:25 pm est] the adrenaline vault pc release list has the playable demo of dreamworks interactive's trespasser as a 30 mb download.
net's klingon honor guard review is online, taking a look at microprose's unreal-engine game set in thestar
the update is described as adding several new features, as well as some bug fixes.
rob "psychology" heironimus [rbr] 3.
[6:38 am est] congrats to scary, who has announced he will be joining the gaming startup  being founded by charlie brown, gary mctaggart, jack "morbid"  mathews, and mike "giggler" wardwell shortly to be their project  manager.
thanks jon blow...yesterday's quote game: spaceballs, a chip shot, but topical and fun, which are the key factors.
make  sure you either do this on the command line prior to startup or do a  vid_restart right afterwards.
whether release occurs tomorrow or later  depends on what qa finds in its sweep.
i want quakearena running on every platform that has  hardware accelerated opengl and an internet connection.
ie5 beta [4:39 am est] internet explorer 5
you can also view the movie as areal file, in both high  andlow bandwidth formats.
if we were willing to wed ourselves completely to the windows platform, we  might have pushed ahead with some attempt at binary verification of dlls, but i  ruled that option out.
there is also the amusing avenue of writing hand tuned virtual assembly assembly language for critical functions... i think this is the right thing.
also, word on purified 3d is that the glide 3.0/directx 6.0 drivers  for the pure3d ii/pure3d ii lx will be delayed a few more weeks.
3d mark results [8:28 pm est] 3dmark.com has posted user submissions of results using 3d mark 99, listing the  top 20 3dmark scores for 640 x 480, 16 bit color and top 20
here are the sketchy details from ngo: in a statement regarding earnings gt revealed two choice news tidbits that  had not yet been announced.
tribes interview today [5:10 am est] schnoz's starsiege universe sends word of an online interview with dave moore, a programmer on dynamix's upcoming starsiege tribes today: in a continuing series entitled "meet the dev team", dave moore, a programmer for tribes, will subject himself to a series of questions fired at him by us, the players (or rather, soon to be).
monday, november 2, 1998 trespasser demo [10:25 pm est] the adrenaline vault pc release list has the playable demo of dreamworks  interactive's trespasser as a 30 mb download.
part two, which includes the q&a session, will air next week.
previous week news archive current news next week articles in the archive contain broken links because outdated files are removed.
the festivities begin at 8:00 pm central time.
after the two part carmack talk, on november 19 our guest will be id software's paul steed, and we will also post the realplayer video of the talk he gave at the frag2 on the models in quake iii arena (see next story for more on that).
play khg maps in unreal [1:18 pm est] a way to play maps from microprose's unreal-engine klingon honor guard  in unreal with the khg weapons comes in this tip sent along by moonglum: i figured out a way to play klingon honor guard maps in unreal, complete  with unreal blaster & khg weaponry/tiles...
realplayer, or reasonable facsimile thereof, required.
indeed, it works with 28.8k modems,  because thats what a lot of people have!
id demo analyzer [6:38 am est] the demo analysis homepage has a new version 0.99 of the id demo analyzer  (idda), which outputs stats from demos recorded in quake, quake ii and  quakeworld.
whole experience interview [12:30 pm est] sharky extreme interviews the whole experience team about their upcoming 3d first-person shooter.
first, i'll be improving the scheme for managing temporary objects like projectiles, which should reduce their bandwidth usage by aroune 30%.
turn the sound in sin to low quality, max compatibility, and 3d off.
we could just release them *as is*
schnoz's starsiege universe site .
thanksmagixx. fvf mailing list [4:39 am est] there is now afuture versus fantasy mailing list to talk about all the present and future variations on freeform interactive's quake mod, and it's future as their upcoming "multiverse development engine" rpg, openfvf. funny papers [4:39 am est] no, not the kind of funny papers cheech and chong made an album about, but thefirst of the comics featuring quake ii is up on the buckles page, as the website runs two weeks behind the newspaper strip.
problem, and this fixed it for me.
indeed, it works with 28.8k modems, because thats what a lot of people have!
on to shogo stuff: the shogo multiplayer point release (smpr) is right on track for the nov. 15th deadline!
look for dave today (wednesday) on the #tribes channel on undernet on irc.
new features supported in the new version are vwep, observers w/chasecam, ammo regeneration option, new pogo, carrier kill bonus (proportional to time carrier has survived), new alternate restore system, new powerups with new effects, enhanced obituary system, gibstats support including capture the flag scoring, floodprot, zbot detection, entity map loading for playing on single player and dm levels, level scripting enhancements, individual weapon removal, and a game pause feature for admins.
we remain committed to bringing the demo out as soon as possible, but not before.
the show starts at 7:00 pm eastern time, and will, of course, be available thereafter in the archives.
a full list of mirrors for the demo is up on theblood 2
no sympathy please, it's not that biggie (besides, ido have  the pain killers).
now that blood 2 is gold, we are planning on re-releasing the more optimized demo.
until then i'm sure we'll have to endure a lot of inaccurate speculation as to what the product is based solely on what people think they can figure out from two simple words in a press release.
here's the news: demo status update: the heavy gear ii team are currently putting the final  polish on the demo. .
they are about 2 weeks old.
heretic ii dm map [1:03 pm est] hereticii.com has posted dmskelter, the first user-created dm map for the heretic ii demo.
we won't release it until we get the updated net code that  shogo is testing out and integrate it into b2's code, which will be the blood 2  point release, which should arrive in late november, early december at the  latest.
bladematch is a melee only form of deathmatch that offers blade and heal shrines on the map, but no weapons.
this week in loonygames [5:02 pm est] here's the schedule for postings on this week's issue 11 of loonygames: fall(?)
copy the sfx files from khg's sound folder to unreal's.
3d winbench 99 [4:55 am est] 3d winbench home page has the release of 3d winbench 99, described as a program that "measures the performance of a pc's 3d subsystem, which includes the direct3d software, the monitor, the graphics adapter, the graphics driver, and the bus used to carry information from the graphics adapter to and from the processor subsystem."
with the release of this stuff you are going to be able  to mod the hell out of shogo.
[10:26 pm est] i've received several emails from readers in the us saying they've found sin available in their local software stores.
the new bios is said to improve the performance of the memory on the v4400.
new requiem powers [5:02 pm est] hell on earth has posted some news on some new angelic powers that are  being added to cyclone studios' upcomingrequiem: avenging angel,  including apocalypse, and exorcist (which from the sound of it, has nothing to  do with linda blair/pea soup-type exorcisms at all).
we've frozen all content and are trying to work out the last of the bugs.
out of the blue [6:38 am est] intermittent problems hitting this site over the last week should clear up now, a techie problem where the old server would interfere with the new one has been corrected.
nowespen blikstad sends along a replacement system file for nt (31 kb) that he says will allow rate changing on ps/2 mice under nt (caution - this is untested by me).
[6:38 am est] a billy zelsnack interview on jquake talks to rebel boat rocker's lead  programmer about game design, and how he has used java in the upcoming rbr1  engine (prax war).
performance [8:28 pm est] raven's rick johnson updated his .plan with a performance tip for voodoo2 users with the heretic ii demo: performance tip for heretic2!
i forgot to mention the oddball max smart reference someone actually caught the other day (wow!).
shogo sound fix [4:55 am est] monolith's jeremy blackman updatedhis .plan with word of a sound bug in the shogo alpha patch, that may requirethis replacement sound .dll
sin bug faq [4:48 pm est] there's a short compilation of bugs and fixes for sin in theritualistic sin bug faq.
worldcraft fgd wizard [8:28 pm est] cray.3dpalette.com has a program called fgd++ which is a wizard that allows mod authors to easily create fgds for use with worldcraft without requiring knowledge of the fgd format.
there is another fix on voodoo extreme from billy who says the above fix  doesn't work for him, but the one he posted (a bit of a kludge, unfortunately),  does.
thursday, november 5, 1998 john  carmack's frag2 talk on shooters tomb raider iii demo [9:22 pm est] pc.ign.com has the playable tomb raider iii demo here as what i was  told was an exclusive download dealie (though there doesn't seem to be any  mention of the exclusivity there).
3d mark results [8:28 pm est] 3dmark.com has posted user submissions of results using 3d mark 99, listing the top 20 3dmark scores for 640 x 480, 16 bit color and top 20
as dave georgeson (producer of hgii) has said, the production team is  not willing to let any demo go out until the playability, connectability, and  reliability of the game are solid enough that it's fun to play.
[5:30 pm est] version 1.0.1 ofq2config is out adding some features and fixing some bugs in this quake ii front-end.
look for dave today (wednesday)
the chat can be accessed throughthe ion storm site by hitting the "live chat" button, or by pointing your irc client at www.ionstorm.com and entering the channel #ion.
maxigamer drivers [11:42 am est] the maxi drivers and demos page has new windows 95/98 drivers for the banshee-based maxi gamer phoenix (both agp and pci ).
com is a new offshoot of their group therapy section where they excerpt and summarize some of the rumblings from usenet's hardware newsgroups to give a sense of the topics creating the most buzz.
most of the heavy lifting is still done in the builtin functions for path tracing and world sampling, but you could still hurt yourself by looping over tons of objects every frame.
the update from production is that  it has now been fixed, and our qa department is currently performing a final  compatibility sweep of the demo.
after that, we'll look at doing a data patch to address tightening up combat in some areas, updated audio collisions, plant floating objects, etc.
the "gear pilot recruitment week" prize giveaway dates have likewise been shifted back a few days, to give everyone more time to enter.
here's an excerpt from the lengthy post (the full post also discusses user  shogo art, and asks "what in your opinion can monolith do to help shogo  continue to sell well and gain more and more strong product interest that is  capable of going well outside of the core-gaming market?"): blood 2 is now much better optimized n' stuff and is now gold.
quake ii max plug-in [5:10 am est] the first version of qtip, the quake ii transport plugin for 3d studio  max, is now available, promising an easier way to make models for quake ii.
no roaches  in the house, for those that can't stand "roaching"...heh the shogo tools are being worked on / documented as we speak.
[8:28 pm est] an updated version 1.2 ofparseit is available, adding the ability to process massive log files to this quake ii log analyzer, as well as a speed boost.
3d realms diary [6:38 am est] a  weekend to remember is an article by3d portal's chris day recapping his frag2  experience, recounting a visit to 3drealms to check on the progress of duke  nukem forever.
qw lan master server [11:58 am est] an updated version of the quakeworld master browser, which acts as a master server in an intranet or lan is now available.
be sure the subject of your email reads "carmack  question/suggestion" and include your full real name and preferred screen  name, so we can credit you 'on the air' !
that certainly wasn't for lack of support: i actually broke down laughing in the middle of the match a couple of times as the small crowd started chanting blue!
jonathan's  .plan also mentions the life after crack page offering info about what's going  on with the ex-crackheads after the shutdown, with some email they've received  posted as well.
the show starts at 7:00 pm eastern time, and will, of course, be  available thereafter in the archives.
though the author says "i guess there is not really much to explain," let's indulge in a little explaining anyway: this program is a quakeworld master browser for intranet use only.
tribes pics [1:53 pm est] starsiege tribes players page has been updated with all the october daily  screenshots, some of which offer first looks at the flying scouts and personnel  carriers, as well as various other gadgets.
the "gear pilot recruitment week" prize giveaway dates have  likewise been shifted back a few days, to give everyone more time to enter.
lcc is a wonderful  project -- a cross platform, cross compiling ansi c compiler done in under 20k  lines of code.
the first release of this quake ii teamplay mod includes a linux version, as well as a green flag.
you will probably also see some  warnings printed out since developer provides verbose information about what's  going on in the game.
[10:26 pm est] i've received several emails from readers in the us saying they've found sin  available in their local software stores.
[6:38 am est] a billy zelsnack interview on jquake talks to rebel boat rocker's lead programmer about game design, and how he has used java in the upcoming rbr1 engine (prax war).
sin bug faq [4:48 pm est] there's a short compilation of bugs and fixes for sin in theritualistic sin
this speeds up "quick" loads i.e. when you already have the map loaded.
with this update it is possible to use the ps2rate utility to adjust the samplerate.
out of the blue [4:55 am est] yesterday's double quote: raising arizona and, in honor of the season, sctv's count floyd (thanks randy perry for the photo, we'll call that the image of the day).
also, word on purified 3d is that the glide 3.0/directx 6.0 drivers for the pure3d ii/pure3d ii lx will be delayed a few more weeks.
the update from production is that it has now been fixed, and our qa department is currently performing a final compatibility sweep of the demo.
out of the blue [6:38 am est] image of the day part oneis a retouched photo of john romero being skewered by hiro polishmoto at the frag2.
("these  are the days of video violence...") scary future
as dave georgeson (producer of hgii) has said, the production team is not willing to let any demo go out until the playability, connectability, and reliability of the game are solid enough that it's fun to play.
the shots show off a graveyard level (a halloween theme) in software rendering mode.
i hope that those levels make it in!
copy all the texture files from khg's texture folder to unreal's.
amen shots [9:17 pm est] there are three new full size screenshots (the thumbnails were previously released) from amen:
level five begins at nearly the same time that half-life does, presenting a different take on the various events that occur.
but we want to make them as useful as possible before we let them out.
here's the answer  to the question of whether a patch is in the works:
worldcraft fgd wizard [8:28 pm est] cray.3dpalette.com has a program called fgd++ which is a wizard that  allows mod authors to easily create fgds for use with worldcraft without  requiring knowledge of the fgd format.
the details are undecided at this point, but we  will probably release it shortly after the game goes gold.
amen shots [9:17 pm est] there  are three new full size screenshots (the thumbnails were previously released)
despite our best forecasts earlier in the week, the demo will not be out today.
the presentation will be uncut, with part two of the talk to air the following week.
the update is huge, here's an excerpt on how the issues he's discussing impact code portability and potential for cheating: related both issues is client side cheating.
john carmack's talk on shooters [4:39 am est] tonight on shooters, the weekly foray into the present and future  of action gaming, we will air part one of the talk john carmack gave at the  frag2 on quake iii arena.
here's an excerpt from the lengthy post (the full post also discusses user shogo art, and asks "what in your opinion can monolith do to help shogo continue to sell well and gain more and more strong product interest that is capable of going well outside of the core-gaming market?"): blood 2 is now much better optimized n' stuff and is now gold.
leprechaun serverconfigmod [1:16 pm est] a new version ofserverconfigmod for quake ii is now available.
this quake ii competition modification offers some unique features like  real-time weapon hit percentages and original chasecams.
then it's assbeating time.
the sound quality described as the equivalent of a cb radio, and the program takes up so little bandwidth they say you can even use it with a 28.8 modem.
out of the blue [5:10 am est] sneaked a lou reed quote in here yesterday (kudos to david parke for getting  it).
that's all i'll say for now.
wednesday, november 4, 1998 requiem trailer [9:17 pm est] a  new trailer showing off in-game action from cyclone studios' upcoming shooter requiem: avenging angel is up on hell on earth in larger (avi) and  smaller (mpg) formats.
although there's a registry setting in windows nt for mouse  sampling rate, experimentation with themouse rate checker seems to indicate  that adjusting it manually, or with theps2 mouse rate nt utility, does not  actually change the rate at which your ps/2 mouse samples (thewin95/98 version  works fine).
rancor [4:39 am est] version  0.93b2
john has also been profiled in time magazine, and was recently named one of the 101 most influential people in entertainment by entertainment weekly.
lcc is a wonderful project -- a cross platform, cross compiling ansi c compiler done in under 20k lines of code.
i was avoiding mentioning the dentist trip i made this week because i  thought i could overcome its effects unnoticed, but clearly the painkillers  have slowed me down a bit, so i wanted to mention what was up if you were  wondering.
[9:17 pm est] there are new whql certified windows 95/98 drivers for the tnt-based stb velocity 4400 on thevelocity 4400 drivers page.
rail only pak [11:42 am est] the railbalooza project has a pak of multiplayer maps designed for railgun only fights.
in case you haven't  noticed yet, the squeaky toy does a special kind of emotional damage in  multiplayer games.
all that is really left for the new demo is for it to be tested  (i'm installing it now - whoo hoo!).
qw master server browser [11:42 am est] the quakeworld master browser is available, for intranet use.
the chat can be accessed throughthe ion storm site  by hitting the "live chat" button, or by pointing your irc client at  www.ionstorm.com and entering the channel #ion.
also,the north-european clan  league is underway and genocide4 is now accepting sign-ups.
giants interview [4:55 am est] gamecenter's sneak peek at giants offers a conversation with nick bruty, president ofplanet moon studios about this upcoming action game that believes size matters.
red hat declines linux quake [1:53 pm est] red hat not interested in publishing id games is an article on slashdot.
thanks brandon suzuki.
heavy gear ii demo delayed again [5:32 pm est] the heavy gear ii demo originally slated for release  earlier in the week, and then rescheduled for today has been delayed again.
mouse resource page [11:03 am est] i received a tip on how to get the windows nt mouse sampling fix to  work for intellimouse users who were having a problem, so i put together a quickie mouse resources page to consolidate the files and info from the  sampling issue, and to provide links to other mouse resources.
shogo cat attack [9:17 pm est] monolith's craig hubbard updatedhis .plan with word on a deathmatch easter egg  in shogo involving the dreaded squeaky toy: okay, time to let the cat out of the bag, so to speak.
they are about 2  weeks old.
monolith's brian goble's .plan has an update on these subjects, mentioning the blood2 update may be available as a patch, rather than a full download, and will be out "a few days after the full version officially goes gold.
a gt spokerperson told us that the title is in development at epic and that "people will be pretty excited about it."
tribes pics [1:53 pm est] starsiege tribes players page has been updated with all the october daily screenshots, some of which offer first looks at the flying scouts and personnel carriers, as well as various other gadgets.
being able to play any one of the chosen characters is really cool too.
we've frozen all  content and are trying to work out the last of the bugs.
roger wilco [4:01 pm est] roger wilco is a new program to allow four-way real-time voice communication in computer games if you have a supported full-duplex sound card.
out of the blue [5:10 am est] sneaked a lou reed quote in here yesterday (kudos to david parke for getting it).
you may see a performance increase of 50%
sin gold contest [1:03 pm est] ritualistic, rituual, and activision are holding a giveaway on the occasion of sin going gold (story), offering a couple of jumbo sin display boxes autographed by the entire development team at ritual.
no wonder the game took so long to finish, the direct3d port over is flawless, and fast as well.
the awakening, the upcoming shoot-em-up from cavedog up oncavenews.
trek: the next generation universe.
anyone interested in compilers should pick up a copy of "a  retargetable c compiler: design and implementation" by fraser and hanson.
they obviously made a big mistake in using the name of an unannounced product in their press release but i can't reverse that now.
according to gt, a release will come out shortly (within the next couple of weeks) for the project.
i would  not go back and extend qc, because tthat stretches the effort from simply  system and interpreter design to include language design, and there is already  plenty to do.
sound off [11:58 am est] sound off at hardgame.
as soon as it passes all testing, we will  make it available for the people who are interested!
peg somebody enough times and you'll hurt their feelings and make them cry.
our apologies for the delay to those who have waited, and thanks to everyone for being patient - we think you'll ultimately be glad we held onto it, because the end result will be that much better.
redwood's impressions of q3a are up as well  (not surprisingly we cover many, but not all, of the same bases).
here'sa local copy (2.1 mb) on gamesnet ftp.
please refer to the contest page for the new dates of the giveaways, and for details on how to enter via e-registration.
billy at voodoo extreme sends word of new patches on zombie's spec ops ranger team bravo ftp directory.
word fromthe console is that all the reference  materials contained therein on the workings of console commands are now covered  under thefree software foundation's gnu general public license version 2 ...
ie5 beta [4:39 am est] internet  explorer 5
the program is in beta, so you must supply your email to register, and they say a version that supports ten players at once is in the works.
by setting developer to 1, it will not draw the status bar, so you won't get to see in between level information.
with multiple ported versions, it wouldn't be possible to do any binary verification.
here's the news: demo status update: the heavy gear ii team are currently putting the final polish on the demo. .
fix [4:39 am est] theritual entertainment page offers a solution for sound problems with  sin using a soundblaster live!.
we've tightened up the jumping, sped the player-character up a bit, fixed some cheats, make the keypads easier to use.. stuff like that.
it works with most existing games such as quake ii, diablo, and starcraft, and does not require subscriptions or dedicated servers.
cliffy b interview [4:39 am est] part three of action xtreme's interview with cliff bleszinski is now online, the final installment in the conversation.
please refer to the contest page for the final, updated dates once the demo is posted.
from 2:45 to 3:30 (pacific time), he'll also be fielding questions and  suggestions regarding the development of the much-anticipated quake iii arena.
it is hard for me to actually communicate how much mod/tc power you are going to have in your hands.
that will  probably be in 4-6 weeks.
the update is huge,  here's an excerpt on how the issues he's discussing impact code portability and  potential for cheating: related both issues is client side cheating.
editing quake levels for sin [4:55 am est] an update to the node offers what's described as a "crude but effective" technique for loading quake and quake ii maps into sined.
competitions [6:38 am est] word out ofgamers.
*but here's the best part: you don't have to attend the pgl season 3 championships to ask carmack a question!
whole experience interview [12:30 pm est] sharky extreme interviews the whole experience team about their  upcoming 3d first-person shooter.
there's also word in onethumb's .plan about a sin tourney where the winner can walk away with $500.
i.o.d. part two is a cool duke nukem render fromthis page that also offers a couple of other beauties (thanks videotron).
3d round-up [9:17 pm est] 3d's explosive new screamers is an article up on games.
i'm sure it will be fixed soon, but as of this writing, the link to the forums on their menu is broken, butthe forums can be reached here.
the tools necessary for building mods will all be freely available: a  modified version of lcc and a new program called q3asm.
in addition  to bug-fixes, the new edition includes rocket arena overtime, sudden death  overtime, level start countdown, zbot detection, full support for  quake2´s built-in vwep, server-side rate limiting, reduced hyperblaster  lag, and match admin elections.
we are all very excited about this  demo, and we sincerely believe the end result will be worth the wait!
3dmark scores for  800 x 600, 16 bit color.
new 3dblaster banshee drivers - pure3d ii delays [8:28 pm est] the creative tech lab drivers page has new  windows 95/98 drivers for the 3d blaster banshee.
[5:30 pm est] version  1.0.1 ofq2config is out adding some features and fixing some bugs in this quake  ii front-end.
i've added this to thequickie mouse resources page i put up today, along with a couple of other things that came in since it went up: some new links, and a guide to the care and feeding of a precise mousing surface.
thanks aunt beru...a new version ofvoodoo lights is out (though not a lot has changed), thanks billy...i'm quite flattered to be the subject of an article inthe mushroom, a truly inspired game news parody site (adult content), based onthe onion.
there is also arancor  discussion board available to discuss the mod.
influences on red hat's  decision to decline the offer are described as an interest in publishing more  "serious" products than games, and their policy of distributing open  source code rather than compiled binaries.
new l-fire ctf [9:17 pm est] version 1.0 of the cooll-fire ctf for quake ii has been released.
:)," which he says  could be "any hour now!"
as soon as it passes all testing, we will make it available for the people who are interested!
ps/2 mouse sampling on nt fix?
billy at voodoo extreme sends word of new patches on zombie's spec ops  ranger team bravo ftp directory.
it seems to be part of the game, and  lets you talk to friends and enemies instead of typing messages.
thanksvoodoo extreme.
the updated drivers enable multiple monitor support under windows 98.
com (the site formerly known as gamers extreme) is that thresh will be at the 3dfx booth at comdex in las vegas november 18 from 1:00 to 5:00 pm, playing attendees on a first-come, first-served basis with several diamond mega-monster sli set-ups to be awarded as prizes.
seems like a good idea to try and shake out the vote to make sure i don't get  crushed too badly in there (thanks marvin daniels).
this probably isn't the fix that you're looking for, but it does work  and at least lets you hear stuff (which is a huge plus after not having sound).
the latest  release of this artificial deathmatch opponent offers speed improvements,  improved wandering, better weapon selection, and more.
i'll be heading back to the bluetower sometime this evening, it's possible that the next update will be after midnight.
he's not just there to  witness the deciding matches in both the 1-on-1 (quake ii) and teamplay (4-on-4  quake clans) categories featuring id games.
the latest release of this artificial deathmatch opponent offers speed improvements, improved wandering, better weapon selection, and more.
cliff b interview [6:38 am est] part one ofaction xtreme's interview with cliff bleszinski is up talking to the epic designer on a wide variety of topics.
finally, best wishes and a get  well soon to frequent contributor ant, who is recovering from surgery.
meanwhile, the team is working feverishly to polish off the  demo.
peg somebody enough times and you'll hurt their feelings and  make them cry.
more on sin & sblive!
this week in loonygames [5:02 pm est] here's the schedule for postings on this week's issue 11 of loonygames: hangin' out with john romero!
half-life add-on [11:42 am est] radioactive software has quietly announced they are working on a half-life add-on.
if you want to increase your times for loading quick saves type these  commands at the console before you start a game: developer 1 set flushmap 0
here goes: on the live you want to turn off environmental sound or turn the direct sound acceleration down -- to turn the acceleration down go to your multimedia properties, under playback - advanced properties, kick that acceleration mofo down one notch and try it, if it doesn't work, one more notch until you hit basic.
there is also the amusing avenue of writing hand tuned virtual assembly  assembly language for critical functions... i think this is the right thing.
last year: 50-22 on map07, this year 50-24 on map01.
[thursday] graphic content: chris "shaithis" buecheler  returns with a new tutorial on texture design.
it seems like a good idea to try and shake out the vote to make sure i don't get crushed too badly in there (thanks marvin daniels).
is an article on cnn that suggests offering your children myst and riven as computer game alternatives (i'd sooner have 'em watch barney).
demo*** yes, we will be releasing a new and improved blood 2 demo, mainly so people  can see the speed improvements.
high resolution sin [6:38 am est] sean segal requested info on how to get sin to display in 1024x768  resolution, pointing out that using that setting actually gave him a 960x720  resolution.
the show will air this thursday at 7:00 pm eastern time, and in the archive thereafter.
com showing off  gameplay from interplay's upcoming flying shooter.
i had been working under the assumption that java was the right way to go,  but recently i reached a better conclusion.
finally, blood2  project leader jay "shade" wilson updatedhis .plan with more on all  of this.
thanks cidco atstormtroopers.
anyway, right after we release the smpr, we will be finalizing the stsr (shogo tools and source release), and should be able to get it to you very soon thereafter.
if you want to use other intranet numbers, just let me know, and i will add them.
the status bar has been optimized as to not take up as much time, and flushmap will explicitly be set to 0.
it seems to be part of the game, and lets you talk to friends and enemies instead of typing messages.
please bear with us a little longer.
issues can be fixed with the following: download the new sblive!
3dmark scores for 800 x 600, 16 bit color.
thanks for your support (pq is breathing down my neck for crying out loud!).
in addition to bug-fixes, the new edition includes rocket arena overtime, sudden death overtime, level start countdown, zbot detection, full support for quake2´s built-in vwep, server-side rate limiting, reduced hyperblaster lag, and match admin elections.
the new release offers zbot detection, notification, logging and automatic booting along other new features like server throttling, dynamic name banning, player connect/disconnect logging, cloaking options, and more.
heavy gear ii demo delayed again [5:32 pm est] the heavy gear ii demo originally slated for release earlier in the week, and then rescheduled for today has been delayed again.
you should start the game from the menu instead, and game performance (load times in particular) should drastically improve.
when somebody's crying, they're vulnerable.
aerotic software [4:55 am est] aerotic software's homepage is now online.
i forgot to mention the outcome of thefrag2 quake ii tourney, which  crowned dan "rix" hammans the winner after he beat makaveli 8-5 in  the finals.
org has posted scans of the box art from half-life.
half-life box art [10:25 pm est] halflife.
certain cheats are easy to do if you can hack the code, so the server will need to verify which code the client is running.
wilco is a new program to allow four-way real-time voice communication in  computer games if you have a supported full-duplex sound card.
here'sa local demo of the final match (1.1 mb) snagged from the  cyberathlete professional league page.
barrage review [5:10 am est] the adrenaline vault reviews barrage looking at mango grits' flying shooter, comparing it more to games like terminal velocity than to incoming.
it seems surprisingly early, but it's possible the game is out in some areas already.
delta force review [9:17 pm est] ogr reviews delta force calling this first-person shooter commando  game one of the best action games of the year, even though, as they put it, it  "isn't 3d accelerated, takes place almost entirely outdoors and doesn't  offer a single power-up."
after checking and realizing he was right (at least it works the  same way on my system), i found i could get 1024x768 by picking the next  highest setting, 1152x864.
i.o.d. part two is a cool duke nukem  render fromthis page that also offers a couple of other beauties (thanks  videotron).
there seems to have been quite a few options added to the shogoserver  stuff.
while  it seems likely that this project is unreal tournament, epic vp mark rein  refused to comment for the story.
there's also athere is a print friendly version.
one option in particular comes to mind... ramming damage ...
expect it in the  stores very soon.
anyway, right after we release the smpr, we will be finalizing the stsr  (shogo tools and source release), and should be able to get it to you very soon  thereafter.
he's not just there to witness the deciding matches in both the 1-on-1 (quake ii) and teamplay (4-on-4 quake clans) categories featuring id games.
poking through the news archive i noticed today is the second anniversary of the announcement that todd hollenshead was taking over as ceo of id software, and the first anniversary of fargo taking over as the whatever he is at planetquake (raise your bawls today in honor of them).just when i revealed a formatting trick to notice the quotes i shift gears and remove the format.
nope, no bluecam in the works, sorry, no scratch that, i'm not sorry (and you shouldn't be either) ...
they obviously made a big mistake in using the name of an unannounced  product in their press release but i can't reverse that now.
after the two part carmack talk, on november 19 our guest  will be id software's paul steed, and we will also post the realplayer video of  the talk he gave at the frag2 on the models in quake iii arena (see next story  for more on that).
rainbow six randomizer [5:30 pm est] a new version 1.7 of warchest for rainbow 6, the mission randomizer program, is available.
here goes: on the live you want to turn off environmental sound or turn the direct  sound acceleration down -- to turn the acceleration down go to your multimedia  properties, under playback - advanced properties, kick that acceleration mofo  down one notch and try it, if it doesn't work, one more notch until you hit  basic.
on the #tribes channel on undernet on irc.
***multiplayer demo***
[9:17 pm est] aeon's unreal page, a german unreal server page, has the first release of auus, a windows 95 unreal deathmatch log parser that can generate an html stats page.
people who played the original blood 2 demo and had speed/mouse/bug issues should be much happier with the new one.
here are the final standings: frag 2 winners:
thanks manpreet jagpal.
on my 28.8k connection, gameplay has remained pretty smooth until i get into a firefight with 5-6 people, at which point the movement of other players starts to become unsmooth.
n64 quake ii shots [6:50 am est] n64.ign.com has updated their n64 quake ii preview with the first  screenshots of quake ii running on an n64.
trespasser interview, patch plans [10:26 pm est] there's an interview with brady bell of dreamworks  interactive ongame-interviews.com talking about trespasser focusing mostly on  topics like negative reviews and steep system requirements.
there are also four new version 1.1 bios flashers, with  separate files for agp ntsc, pci ntsc, agp pal, and pci ntsc.
the tools necessary for building mods will all be freely available: a modified version of lcc and a new program called q3asm.
you can join in and play with 218; it's fully compatible.
[1:53 pm est] a couple of readers have asked about the sparse out of the blue's the last couple of days.
that will probably be in 4-6 weeks.
out of the blue [6:38 am est] intermittent problems hitting this site over the last  week should clear up now, a techie problem where the old server would interfere  with the new one has been corrected.
a linux version is promised soon.
oh sure, playing against opponents that shoot back is great, but what about fragging scientists?!
word in a couple of emails i've received says some of the cheat codes for blood2 are tghe same as those for shogo.
[1:53 pm est] don "onethumb" macaskill's .plan has more info on the  sblive! problem with sin with variations on the solution if you're still having  a problem.
carmack at pgl [12:30 pm est] john carmack will be answering questions about quake iii arena at the amd pgl  championships in san francisco on november 14 at 2:45 pacific time.
nope, no bluecam in the works, sorry, no scratch that, i'm not sorry (and you  shouldn't be either) ...
intro to lithtech [5:30 pm est] an introduction to the lithtech engine is the first in a series of mod  tutorials/discussions for shogo on planetshogo.
it works with  most existing games such as quake ii, diablo, and starcraft, and does not  require subscriptions or dedicated servers.
once again, thank you all for your helpful input!
interactive, in a cool finish the sentence format.
even a rooting section didn't help.
previous week news archive current news next week friday, november 6, 1998 b2 gold, new demo soon, shogo pr-nine days
john carmack's talk on shooters [6:38 am est] on this week's shooters we will air a video presentation of the  talk john carmack gave at the frag2 about quake iii arena and related topics.
onethumb has been typing his lone digit off, as he's updatedhis .plan again with word of a bug in the sin auto-loader that plays the game entirely from cd.
the results they describe are a pretty accurate description of the likely outcome of such an occurrence.
com talks to garth chouteau interviewing  the press manager for the  pgl touching on subjects like cheating, t.e.n., and the cpl.
meanwhile, the team is working feverishly to polish off the demo.
this probably isn't the fix that you're looking for, but it does work and at least lets you hear stuff (which is a huge plus after not having sound).
john jack interview [9:17 pm est] monolith's john jack is interviewed on gamer's alliance in an in-depth  conversation talking mostly about shogo: mobile armor division, and being a  game publisher.
the epic deathmatch servers will be  shut down for the night, to provide more bandwidth for downloads.
oh well,  these things happen.
cliff b interview [6:38 am est] part one ofaction xtreme's interview with cliff bleszinski is up talking to the  epic designer on a wide variety of topics.
interestly enough, i've noticed a couple of things that are really cool with the upcoming patch... 1.)
page (nt drivers were posted the other day and then pulled).
shade's update is huge, giving word on where to send bug reports ( b2demobugs@lith.com), and addressing some of the concerns he's received,  touching on speed, mouselook, mouse sensitivity, crash bugs, limb loss (lack  thereof), blood (not enough), and the levels are "too techie."
and when monolith says very soon, it is a real very soon!
the lithtech faq on voodoo extreme has been updated with some more info on the occasion of the blood2 demo release.
descent 3 movie [1:53 pm est] there's adescent 3 trailer in .avi format up on 3dfiles.
second, steve polge and i working out a  new variable priority predictor/corrector scheme for transmitting the movement  of other players.
tr3 preview [5:30 pm est] ogr previews tomb raider 3.
ok, ok, you can stop now, that's enough testers.
articles in the archive contain broken links because outdated files  are removed.
[11:58 am est] the first version ofparseit is now available.
influences on red hat's decision to decline the offer are described as an interest in publishing more "serious" products than games, and their policy of distributing open source code rather than compiled binaries.
delta force review [9:17 pm est] ogr reviews delta force calling this first-person shooter commando game one of the best action games of the year, even though, as they put it, it "isn't 3d accelerated, takes place almost entirely outdoors and doesn't offer a single power-up."
brian goble updatedhis .plan prior to the release with a blood2/shogo update: the demo is another hefty one...weighing in at a gory 36 meg.
monolith ceojason hall's .plan also has word  on the optimizations recently added to blood2, and the updated demo, and also  addresses the potential for anger at a second large download.
q2-start [4:39 am est] an  updated version 1.0 of q2-start is up on theq-start & q2start page offering  a new layout for this quake ii front-end, as well as a few new features and a  solitary bug-fix.
yes, we are still going to give the world the game tools and source so not to worry.
red hat declines linux quake [1:53 pm est] red hat not interested in publishing id games is an article on  slashdot.
copy the sfx  files from khg's sound folder to unreal's.
there is current "uncomfirmed and secret" plan to release  some awesome custom made deathmatch only levels with the patch!
tribes preview [6:38 am est] the adrenaline vault previews starsiege tribes taking a look ahead at this  massive outdoor multiplayer shooter that focuses on teamplay.
nowespen blikstad sends along a replacement system file for nt (31  kb) that he says will allow rate changing on ps/2 mice under nt (caution - this  is untested by me).
no,  not the kind of funny papers cheech and chong made an album about, but thefirst  of the comics featuring quake ii is up on the buckles page, as the website runs  two weeks behind the newspaper strip.
please refer to the contest page for the new dates of the giveaways, and for  details on how to enter via e-registration.
after blood2 ships, i'll take a quick break and then add all of the new shogo multiplayer options into the wizards.
the shogo tools are being worked on / documented as we speak.
second, steve polge and i working out a new variable priority predictor/corrector scheme for transmitting the movement of other players.
it definitely made a big difference when i tried it, just  don't let the lack of a status screen throw you off (for a second i thought my  machine crashed).
here'sa local demo of the final match (1.1 mb) snagged from the cyberathlete professional league page.
a gt spokerperson told us that the title is in  development at epic and that "people will be pretty excited about it."
[6:38 am est] congrats to scary, who has announced he will be joining the gaming startup being founded by charlie brown, gary mctaggart, jack "morbid" mathews, and mike "giggler" wardwell shortly to be their project manager.
if you have been unable to initialize sound, snag the replacement from: ftp://ftp.maison-otaku.net/pub/shogo/patch/softsnd.dll be warned; that's my personal machine and a) i've put limits on the ftp load, and b) if it gets pounded into the ground under downloads, i'll be highly annoyed.
since i'm almost through writing and editing my own impressions of the same, i'm not going to read red's piece until i'm done to avoid being influenced.
tribes preview [6:38 am est] the adrenaline vault previews starsiege tribes taking a look ahead at this massive outdoor multiplayer shooter that focuses on teamplay.
this is an *unedited* excerpt from the loony-journal, so be warned...it  can be a bit nutty.
out of the blue is the term beta web-browser redundant?
thanksschnoz's starsiege universe weapons factory [1:53 pm est] version 3.3a ofthe weapons factory for quake ii is now available, offering new  features like zbot detection, a new knife weapon for the spy, a remote camera,  and laser guided napalm rockets.
[5:10 am est] part two of action xtreme's interview with epic designer cliff  bleszinski, talks about level design, unreal, and cat scanning, with part three  promised tomorrow.
for those who only play multiplayer, yes, we will be releasing a multiplayer demo.
thanks sven viking at atomic half-life.
i guess there is not really much to explain, just configure your qw server to register and send a heartbeat to the master browser.
for those who only play multiplayer, yes, we will be releasing a  multiplayer demo.
thanks sven viking at atomic  half-life.
pimpage [12:30 pm est] pc  accelerator is running a poll on the main page asking what sites you frequent  (other than theirs), and since this site is listed as one of the options it
[6:38 am est] tonight is the monthly chat with the developers of ion storm's upcoming quake  ii-engine rpg, anachronox.
most of the heavy lifting is still done in the builtin functions for path  tracing and world sampling, but you could still hurt yourself by looping over  tons of objects every frame.
doom2 tourney results [5:02 pm est] randy "duvalmagic" pitchford updated his .plan with some thoughts on the doom2 all-star tourney.
nt vortex drivers [5:10 am est] aureal a3d interactive drivers has new version 1.16 vortex windows nt 4.0  drivers.
also,the q2pmp has a report from the frag2 about the models in quake iii arena  from paul steed's talk, going over the portions where he discusses how the  models are actually built as well as a lot of general player model info.
permedia 2 drivers [1:18 pm est] 3dlabs' permedia driver download page has new version 2105-0359 permedia 2 win95/win98 drivers.
on the occasion of the full moon, thewerewolf the apocalypse page has a new  monthly update, offeringdeveloper biographies, concept art, and desktop art.
john romero in rolling stone [4:39 am est] john romero adds to his impressive history of great press as he  is featured in rolling stone #800 (november 26, 1998).
cheer them up with a nice toasty tow missile.
stephen patterson interview [6:38 am est] part one of action xtreme's interview with stephen patterson from psygnosis talks about their upcomingdrakan: order of the flame.
here's the explanation: i have built a new version of i8042prt.sys for windows nt which uses the  samplerate value in the registry.
these fixes will be incorporated into the first patch and these commands  should help in the meantime.
tomb raider iii demo [9:22 pm est] pc.ign.com has the playable tomb raider iii demo here as what i was told was an exclusive download dealie (though there doesn't seem to be any mention of the exclusivity there).
slave zero preview [9:17 pm est] pc.ign.com previews slave-zero, accolades upcoming game of giant robot combat.
also,the q2pmp has a report from the frag2 about the models in quake iii arena from paul steed's talk, going over the portions where he discusses how the models are actually built as well as a lot of general player model info.
on to shogo stuff: the shogo multiplayer point release (smpr) is right on track for the nov.  15th deadline!
testing 219 i have an unreal 219 server up and running at unreal://208.212.53.3/ in  case a few people want to help test.
sin review [1:53 pm est] sharky extreme's sin review is online already.
the  final 1.1 patch will bring you some "client-side-goodness" for sure.