- - re:are they trying to shoot themselves in the foot (score:5, informative) by macthorpe (960048) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @06:00am ( #20194191)
- - re: (score:2) by couchslug (175151) writes: "this is just plain amazingly cruel to everyone who gave them the benefit of the doubt and took the risk of being an early adopter.
pro 256mb gddr3 just too bad to be of any use?
the spec revision basically makes a number of things that are optional  in dx10 compulsory under the new standard - such as 32-bit floating point  filtering, as opposed to the 16-bit current.
intel brings out a new processor every x months with ~1-3% improvements, by your logic they should just stop bothering making new processors.
(score:4, funny) by ricegf (1059658) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @09:27am (#20195165)
this is a minor version change, 10.0 to 10.1.
parent share twitter facebook - for the extra features, i'm guessing (score:4, insightful) by moraelin(679338)
not a funny one, either.)
- so dx10.0 hardware doesnt support 10.1?
well, you entirely missed the point... directx is primarily a games-oriented technology, and the graphics cards this issue affects will be mostly expensive, leading-edge ones.
just because microsoft officially announced it at a conference doesn't *exactly* make it new news, since they made it very clear on roadmaps and everything else exactly what was going to happen, and why it wasn't the best idea ever to adopt directx 10.0 hardware, rather than hardware capable of 10.1 (or 10.2) and whatever the new superset of opengl happened to be (3.0 as it turns out).
pc gaming is an enjoyable experience, although an expensive one.
and lastly.. people who mock the, apparent, modest real world improvments dx10 is offering..
so why valve did that at that time i'll never understand, but microsoft understood the market in this case, all too well.
pierre - i've been a fan pc games for ages conan.
in essence, all current  dx10 hardware is now obsolete.
if os/2 people can just emulate your program, well, there's no reason for you to put any effort and money into porting it.
and... oddly enough...
don't get me wrong, there _is_ stuff out there that does work better than ms's stuff, but that one too wasn't written in a day or two.)
or is the current imac's limitation of 2.8ghz intel core 2 extreme and ati radeon hd 2600 pro 256mb gddr3 just too bad to be of any use?
and xp was still the default choice.
homepage that directx 10.1 is incompatible with 10.0 (along with new wddm interface) has been known for at least a year now.
even putting the same speakers on a mac and 'trying' get the fidelity up, the sound quality was not even close to what vista was doing with an old sound card.
all extensions have a prefix, indicating who supports them.
but... (score:5, insightful) by sycraft-fu (314770) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:54am (#20194171)
that statement doesn't mean that current hardware won't.
there is alot of money needed to develop for all three api's, if your company can afford it, then good for you.
this made my previous investment from a month ago already worthless.
the world will soon be out of date ._.
this is correct and a misunderstanding by microsoft of the pc gaming crowd.
journal @llgaz: "no, nothing can be obsolete on open industry standards like opengl.
no new comments can be posted.
(score:5, funny) by josefassad (1138611) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @04:44am (#20193891)
writes: > 'gamers shouldn't fret too much - 10.1 adds virtually nothing that they will care about and, > more to the point, adds almost nothing that developers are likely to care about.
yes, well i remember setting up my first linux install on an old and ludicrously underpowered machine, and immediately launching (naturally) tuxracer.
parent share twitter facebook - does vista sp1 support direct x 10.0 ?
and i dip to 45, i'm much happier.
i actually have a game coded in opengl 1.1 ages running on my quad g5 having opengl 2 specs.
opengl is just for graphics so comparing it with directx isn't really fair.
one thing we all thought was a gimmick was the voodoo 5 6000's effort of motion blur and depth of field.
close close search 373 comments log
never forget that with any version of windows, millions of adopters will take the risk ahead of you, so it is reasonable to wait and let someone else step in shit first.
(better hardware to improve fps while trying to keep aa/af or hdr at a maximum.)
compatible graphics cards...
writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @10:28am (#20195517)
they listen to the api fixes and new features that game developers ask them for, and they work with graphics card manufacturers to expose new capabilities as soon as they are available, and release new directx sdks every few months.
on all platforms that it supports, sdl is a layer built on top of that platform's sound and graphics and input device services.
the article makes it seem as if microsoft rushed dx10 out before it was truly ready; when you consider that this is what they often seem to do with their os's, this should probably come as no surprise.
at last resort, your opengl layer would "software render" the opengl 3 content instead of telling gpu to draw it."
[opengl.org] back in the late 90's when all this stuff was taking off, major games like half-life, quake 2, and unreal had several graphics renderers encapsulated in dlls.
i would love to see more pc games developers target opengl, but for that to happen the little things that make directx at - - re: (score:2) by vertinox (846076) writes: except that true hard core gamers build their own machines the majority of the time because its still cheaper than say alien ware.
hardware is now obsolete 373 posted by zonk on saturday august 11 2007, @04:41am from the shouldn't-have-blinked dept.
i have not yet seen a single gamer liking vista unless he/she got a true monster machine which you can't tell difference whatever you do.
like pretty much everyone else who isn't a microsoft employee, i do wish microsoft would have adopted opengl as the sole hardware graphics standard instead of running off and creating their own thing and creating yet another obstacle to porting games over to different platforms (and to be clear, there are many more issues to porting games to different platforms than i/o apis, for some reason
if i wrote a blog article "rules for wiping ones arse" that would be a standard.
i also wonder if there is a license change; charge hardware vendors more or make it unusable with floss or something.
you also face the issue that, traditionally, most graphics cards have been optimized for directx, since that's what the lion's share of the market uses.
(score:2, interesting) by erareno (1103509) writes: have they ever heard of http://netpromoter.com/ [netpromoter.com] net promoter scores?
from the sdl website: simple directmedia layer is a cross-platform multimedia library designed to provide low level access to audio, keyboard, mouse, joystick, 3d hardware via opengl, and 2d video framebuffer.
now add to that directx only running under vista, because someone at microsoft marketing t - known roadmap (score:4, interesting) by anonymous coward writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @07:29am (#20194551)
because the arguments i made still apply.
- re: (score:2) by mikkelm (1000451) writes: the title of the article is "directx 10
here's johns 2007 keynote from quakecon(?)
- - re: (score:2) by abrasion (589899)
if they are truly worth it, they will be adopted as standard by the general public very quickly.
microsoft has completely eliminated the capability bits, or "capbits", concept in order to ensure to developers that if they program a specific version of the standard that all of the functionality mandatory by that standard will be supported by the graphics hardware.
all they're doing right now is getting everyone who uses directx to hate them with a passion right now.
if they have enough money to support all 3 types then good for them, but if not, they have to choose.
other features can be added using the extension mechanism[1].
delete - get more comments - 100 of 373 loaded
hardware is now obsolete archived discussion load
seriously, get real.
did ms care to explain what kind of undocumented,hidden quantum computing (!) routines in vista needed for dx 10 running?
windows compatibility is how os/2 committed seppuku, after all.
one thing that 10.1 dx addresses is the sound apis that developers felt lost without, ms's sound technology that is used on the xbox 360 is being added into 10.1 dx, and this is more of what dx 10.1 is about than anything else.
if they were going from 10.0 to 11.0, that would be one thing.
all serious gamers are happily running windows xp with latest service pack.
that's odd, seeing as i just finished a fairly long game of city of heroes on vista home premium.
i guess this being vista and all, people can ignore pesky facts like those and continue their circle jerking unabated.
- - re:mandatory 4xaa is this a joke?
all this new hardware also required a bigger power supply, which wound up adding to my expenses.
i like faster, i like more features, but there just seems no real reason to upgrade beyond my geforce 6800 for the price point (which i got 18 months ago).
developers are going to say "ok, everyone better upgrade because this is all we support!"
the game itself required the best video card i could afford.
is ms going to make dx 10.2 or 11 radical to where devolpers have no options as well?
well, yes, i would cry foul is my sse3 cpu suddenly didn't work with ...
if a game targets directx10.1 then 4xaa is guaranteed to be there, period.
you hear about it for a few reasons: 1) some people (like many on slashdot) hate ms and want them to fail, thus look for anything that makes them look bad and make sure it gets page time.
maybe i'll reserve judgement until i hear another explanation from some other source.
in the unlikely event it became widely accepted it would be ade facto standard.
they use directx for the directinput and directsound apis, i believe.
that's more usually just a mixture of hubris and an excuse to write one's own code instead of learning how to use a library.
* writes: seriously..
sb (disclaimer: i am a game developer who exclusively uses opengl for hardware 3d
an article in issue #2 of the opengl newsletter mentioned how the old object model caused unnecessary driver overhead, for instance: http://www.opengl.org/pipeline/article/vol002_3/
i see no reason why games companies can't support more than one at a time.
and if, as you put it, dx 10.1 doesn't bring anything new into table dx 10.0 compatible cards may already support it.
slashdot stories slash boxes comments join log in submit story jobs newsletter library nickname: password: public terminal forgot your password?
then we support that scenario.
parent share twitter facebook - m$ fractures the dx10 community!
- interesting - funny the fine print: the following comments are owned by whoever posted them.
for example a wav,mp3,wma played on the same hardware and same speakers will sound incredibly more rich and defined on vista than when you are playing it in xp.
i guess my dx9 card has beenobsolete for a few years now, it still ticks on nicely though.
macs may be nice machines in many respects, but let's be honest-
(score:4, funny) by mpe (36238) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:44am (#20194115)
microsoft announced 10.1 as a side-by-side update - directx 10 is not obsolete, they are both fully supported.
it's not whether it's "good enough" for joe average to play new games.
someone (i think it was nvidia), couldn't get it done in time.
fourth image (10 seconds later): "game over."
since when is directx a standard?
you must support the new!!!
in/create an account comments filter: - all - insightful - informative
- once again, early adopters take it in the shorts..
my take is we have to look back at history.
some game companies have guts to say "we do not support vista at least until sp1 ships".
bycharcharodon (611187) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @11:31am ( #20195949)
(plus, if you actually plan to port it to linux, there ati's drivers traditionally are an inside joke.
if games are easier to write (skipping over the effectiveness/perceived effectiveness of any 'platform'), then there are more people writing games and becoming developers, which would make the game market more competitive, and thusly we would have better games!
actually some games which are announced by apple after mactel move are actually windows games using commercial wine-like frameworks.
now its something totally differant.
but don't get too upset just yet: 'gamers shouldn't fret too much - 10.1 adds virtually nothing that they will care about and, more to the point, adds almost nothing that developers are likely to care about.
but they don't have time at this point (or a business reason).
as a game developer you now have 3 choices.
(score:5, informative) by aladrin (926209) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @07:00am (#20194407)
the current generation of hardware won't support those." are anyone really surprised?
parent share twitter facebook - re:for the extra features, i'm guessing (score:5, informative) by seaturnip(1068078) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @01:18pm (#20196813)
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:2) by yahweh doesn't exist (906833) writes: >the range and quality of mac games is poor in comparison i don't understand why this argument still comes up.
another note to self, buying "bleeding edge" hardware is the surest way to guarantee that things will change and your hardware will be soon outpaced by commodity "mainstream" hardware at half to a third of the price.
- re: (score:2) by ardor (673957) writes: but not 32bit floating point texture filtering.
i read a post a while back where someone who was in the know explained it (it was on one of the microsoft blogs, i think).
9.0b->9.0c saw the addition of stream frequencies among others, which is essential for instancing (d3d10 redesigned the entire instancing thing again).
none of this is worth getting worked up about.
you're reading it wrong.
now surely, surely, ms didn - re:wait... (score:4, informative) by blahplusplus (757119) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @11:24am (#20195905) mr. carmack has said the later versions of dx (specifically 9) are just as good if not better then opengl, opengl no longer has anything serious on direct x. direct x is no longer the crap it once was.
you're probably thinking more along the lines of xna, but core direct3d is a pretty basic interface to the graphics hardware (you're dealing with vertex buffers, texture objects, vertex/pixel shaders and their associated inputs, and a number of state parameters).
and new games won't be going for dx 10.1 only any time soon now.
oh, and you people who are posting "slashdot had cha - is the developers tipping point reached?
but i criticized the ps3 mainly because linux has not access to the whole hardware, the lack of ram expansion options, the braindead hd partition scheme.
again no idea why anyone would think that given graphics cards are the things that evolve the fastest and thus obsolete the fastest.
so the choice to go opengl instead of direct3d also means that a bunch of gamers will post "omg, your game has crap frame rates" or "omg, your game doesn't work on my computer."
(score:4, interesting) by tech10171968 (955149) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @04:53am ( #20193931)
we are not responsible for them in any way.
in my opinion, high resolution > antialiasing.
second image (10 seconds later):
- re: (score:2) by weicco (645927) writes: i can still play my old games with using my old gf 7900 gtx graphics card even if ms releases directx 15.7.
it's not like the second 10.1 comes out
i see same attitude on os x only users, instead of pushing apple to fix their issues they go and actually purchase windows xp to run via boot camp.
© 2012 all rights reserved.
which one has the largest market?
the real quote: direct3d 10.1 is an incremental, side-by-side update to direct3d 10.0 that provides a series of new rendering features that will be available in an upcoming generation of graphics hardware.
- re: (score:2) by jeevesbond (1066726) writes: this seems like a window of opportunity for a new opengl standard.
the thing ms changed to in vista for the sound was what xbox is using... thus making it easier to port back and forth.
they could try, and they'd just go out of business and other, smarter, developers would support the hardware that more people have.
games will continue to be made to support whatever hardware is common on the market.
so get used to it otherwise you'll be shitting yourself for every single directx release going forward.
no, it is not a joke.
there are no new killer features.
thus game makers have to take that in to account.
d3d was the only hardware-agnostic solution back then aside from opengl (ati wasn't implementing glide), and the api mapped to the general hardware case well enough that it was relatively easy for most vendors to write good drivers for.
that's the general trend of slashdot nowadays.
any good benchmarks would be appreciated.
this is especially true on displays like lcds, which have a fixed pixel size.
i wound up replacing my entire pc in order to save money.
slashdot archived discussion moderate moderator help
no freedom for devlopers.
i can't see any reason why game development should not be point and click, if they made something like opengl easier to write for, i think it would be a positive for the game market, - re: (score:3, interesting) by ilgaz (86384)
(score:5, insightful) by dracos (107777) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:07am (#20193977)
nice computers, but no-one ever bought a mac as a games machine.
re: (score:2) by _kita_ (241027) writes: how can this be surprising?
microsoft have explained in numerous interveiws (and documentation of course)
(score:2) by billgateslovechild (1046184)
graphics and computing power is fabulous compared to what it was just a few years ago, and the fact that ms has set an actual standard is kick ass
(score:4, insightful) by marcello_dl (667940) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @07:01am (#20194409)
(score:5, funny) by anonymous coward writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @07:08am (#20194445)
this is why dx 10 could only run on vista.
in both cases (d3d9->d3d10, d3d9->opengl 2.x or even the coming 3.x) the codebase has to be largely rewritten, so when studios must upgrade, they will probably prefer opengl this time...
(score:4, informative) by mikkelm (1000451) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:34am (#20194073)
re: (score:2) by rainst0rm (877553) writes:
anyway - the whole business here seems to be to force hardware upgrades by one hand and software upgrades with the other just to be sure that the flow of money is ensured.
the type that will be mainly purchased by "hardcore" gamers.
it, however, required a lot more ram and faster cpu in order to run smoothly.
conan - thank you pierre, i'm sure two or three people across america know exactly what you're feeling like.
while many games support 2.0 and 3.0 (dx 9.0 and 9.0c respectively) you'll find that a good number don't require 2.0, and very few require 3.0.
share twitter facebook - -
these are fairly safe to use; - re:where is opengl when we need it?
how's about a car analogy?
also, 9.0c was largely compatible with 9.0b.
but at least the new unified shaders seemed to be useful for developers, so at least they had advantages to it.
i was more than happy to keep using windows 2000 pro on my gaming machine and didn't need any of the features of windows xp.
is that.. is that progress?
surely the range of mac games is all games, whereas pcs can run almost, but not quite, all games (no linux or mac-only games).
more ammo to windows/directx monopoly which effects everything.
4xaa is a compulsory standard to  support in 10.1, whereas graphics vendors can pick and choose their  anti-aliasing support currently.
heck, all my hardware is probablyobsolete.
being able to emulate or dual-boot windows...
direct3d is the only part of directx that matters.
writes: your post and the child posts all deserve mod +funny.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:2) by freeweed (309734) writes: everyone started bashing the ps3, which contains a very impressive processor, allows installation of linux, has built-in media streaming, uses standard usb and bluetooth hardware, runs folding@home, upscales dvds and old games, etc.
game companies love all the flashy new toys, but they are in bussiness to make money and you do that by selling games that run on the actual systems that are out there.
if it apparently wasn't that attention-worthy a year ago, is it now?
those are the people who have no idea what directx 10 is and why the model has shifted so much from opengl and earlier versions of directx. directx 10 and up is not just an accelerated video api but it is also a standard.
bottom line america?
with the new audio subsystem in vista, if you are running 5.1 or higher you can turn on your mic
first, you don't just get a graphics api, you get directsound directplay
and be quite justified in doing so, btw.
since we were discussing directx 10 cards (i.e. ex - re: (score:2) by supermog2002 (702837) writes: just fyi, while it is physically possible to connect any pci-express graphics card to the mac pro (which is the only mac that supports upgradable video), the graphics card will only work in windows unless it supports efi.
better texture detail, animation, draw distance all much cooler.
i don't know, it's been years since i've followed "hardcore" games and specs.
there's no reason windows 2000 pro wasn't sufficient to run today's modern games if they had just released the latest directx libraries for it, but then they wouldn't have sold windows xp and dragged gamers into the wonderful world of drm and activation.
it's funny watching everyone who is shocked.
geeknet, inc. - faq - story archive - hall of fame - advertising - terms - privacy - about - feedback if you have problems or questions with slashdot, email us at feedback at this domain.
that makes things much, much easier.
nobody would dare claim "upgrade your os so you can run opengl 3 on your compliant hardware".
this isn't a tech site anymore, it's a political site.
either way, much ado about nothing.
microsoft saw how big gaming was becoming, and the best way to tie your users to one platform was to tie the developers to one platform.
developers don't give a shit about directinput, directsound and directplay.
i am sure lots of game developers who coded direct3d only stuff questioned their choice and started to look to recent opengl advancements.
microsoft must be too busy counting their cash to be considering consumer satisfaction right now.
parent share twitter
witness all the anti-riaa/mpaa stories, global warming stories, election stories...
homepage i take it you're not a game developer and/but a linux user yes?
ela_gervaise writes"siggraph 2007 was the stage where microsoft dropped  the bomb, informing gamers that the currently available directx 10 hardwarewill  not support the upcoming directx 10.1 in vista sp1.
if you buy into all the bs marketing and buying the latest and the greatest you are going to be in a constant state of dissappointment since nothing can live up to the hype and nothing is ever ready to go at launch.
it all seems an exercise in futility to me, as far as the "directx 10" hardware goes.
if a game does not require 4xaa then it doesn't have to target directx10.1.
directx 10 hardware is now obsolete  more login directx 10
they did this because driver performance and compatibility was such a big issue back then, by writing to more than one api they could cover all the bases (card x doesn't run gl well but does run d3d
seems to me that you're being exceptionally pedantic, if they do the same thing then they are comparable, how they do it is irrelevant.
(score:4, informative) by returnofjdub(1064298) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @01:44pm (#20196989)
i've always wondered about this.
the former is simply more fun than the latter.
opengl is completely supported under vista and is in no way routed through dx: http://www.opengl.org/pipeline/article/vol003_9/
in fact, up to and including directx 8.0a windows 95 was still dragged along.
the problem is that most gamers have no desire to spend $300 just to play a game with no difference in performance when they had to justify $500 on a video card which at least has the justification that the game will run better.
yes, they are comparable
(score:2) by alain williams (2972) writes: does this mean that moving to sp1 makes old hardware unusable ?
- - re: (score:2) by ardor (673957) writes: this is not a justifiable move forward.
+ so if i turn on aa and it averages 60 fps but dips in the 30's or i leave it off
lost planet - supports both directx 9 and 10.
carmack has said in the past he tries to keep everything crossplatform not because it's necessarily the profitable move, but because 'it's a good thing'.
the same applies to the mac and linux market currently, to some extent.
hell, carmack had his famous open letter to microsoft to ensure support for opengl.
but... (score:5, insightful) by taagehornet (984739) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:13am (#20194003) "now" is probably an exaggeration, considering that we're talking about vista sp1.
no longer will a developer target directx9 or opengl2 and have to ask the hardware whether or not it supports a plethora of options and then have to completely branch their development umpteen ways to support different varieties.
parent share twitter facebook - re:oh no!
so will people be able to upgrade to sp1 and still keep their current hardware and games ?
- re: (score:2) by mdarksbane (587589) writes: buying a mac instead of a pc just for games is a silly idea.
if so i think its time to move back to opengl.
use of the feature by the game is not.
not only does it require brand new hardware, immediately creating a minuscule sub-set of dx10 owners, but it also requires vista sp1, and also requires developer implementation.'" 100 of 373 comments loaded twitter facebook games graphics hardware ← related links → space hotel to open in 2012 submission: microsoft drops the bomb: directx 10 hardware won' valve says choice to make dx10 vista-only hurt pc gaming oracle contributes linux code, expands hardware support this discussion has been archived.
- - re: (score:3, interesting) by seaturnip (1068078) writes:
all anyone here says, though, is "omg sony i bet there's a rootkit on it lol".
- re: (score:2) by spikeles (972972) writes: no they arn't wrong.
now without that feature, there is no technical reason dx 10 can't be run on xp without a few small innocuous changes.
(score:5, insightful) by jeevesbond(1066726) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @07:59am (#20194673)
so we would never know.
= ogl (score:3, insightful) by midnight thunder (17205) writes: from talking with games developers dx and ogl aren't quite the same beast, in terms of functionality.
as result they are bound to directx policies by msft.
yes, they are comparable.
it uses dirctx for graphics by default, but with the -opengl switch, it uses opengl for graphics, which works better for nvidia and wine users and is a carryover from mac os x support.
so it ended up optional in the spec (or moved out completely, i don't remember).
homepage journal i don't buy a ps3 exactly because of the rootkit.
you could sum up tfa in a single line: "microsoft discusses future extensions to the directx api.
ie: did it ever occur to you that you might not be grasping the cause-and-effect relationship here?
comments owned by the poster.
not to a 7800-series or comparable, and certainly not to an 8x00 or upcoming 9x00 geforce, unless driver stability improves dramatically, and they can add more real-world-useful features, particularly without the need for windows vista.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, insightful) by ilgaz (86384)
at the end of the day, the major graphics vendors ended up putting out really excellent d3d drivers and that helped the api out significantly.
- re: (score:2) by theraven64 (641858) writes: i assume this was meant tongue in cheek, but in case it wasn't:
because mobile phones are starting to support opengl es, and it's a lot easier to port a game from opengl to opengl es than from directx.
conan - so what are you upset about today?
for some reason, some people had the perception that because dx10 was launched with vista, that made it special and thus it wouldn't be changed for a long time.
(score:5, interesting) by solra bizna (716281)
at last resort, your opengl layer would "software render" the opengl 3 content instead of telling gpu to draw it.
how long will it take until video drivers are vista only - just to force an upgrade to vista?
but now, directx 10.1 only seems to make certain features compulsory, thus removing choice for the developers and also does not add new features to make it c - re: (score:3, insightful) by ardor (673957) writes: yes, game developers are getting conservative nowadays, and always have been regarding support of new apis.
if i had a problem with a missing dll in directx, i would talk to wine people :)
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, funny) by somersault (912633) writes:
the extra price of opengl comes not from "the fact they are intended for real developers" (whatever that means), but rather from the fact that it's not
surely the range of mac games is all games, if you mean that macs can run windows games via bootcamp, it misses the point i was replying to.
if you want to talk about the features making it obsolete, you'll be wanting "directx 10.1 ships with no new noteworthy features".
even now, most of the pc manufacturers/builders i've seen are making vista available as an option.
nah.. so will people be able to upgrade to sp1 and still keep their current hardware and games ?
a: it takes a team of lawyers and bottom-of-their-class no-startup-would-touch-us microsoft programmers - minor version change (score:3, insightful) by z00l00k (682162) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @04:52am (#20193925)
the realization hit me when everyone started bashing the ps3, which contains a very impressive processor, allows installation of linux, has built-in media streaming, uses standard usb and bluetooth hardware, runs folding@home, upscales dvds and old games, etc. etc.
new technology requiring new hardware?!
homepage journal support of the feature by the video card is mandatory.
if you'll run "dxdiag", you'll see that it has more tabs and more dlls listed than just direct3d and directdraw.
" some of us find it amazingly funny that anyone gives any software company the benefit of the doubt, at least with their own money.
[opengl.org] parent share twitter facebook - mod parent up, gp op down (score:2) by sid0 (1062444) writes: next we'll hear vista eats children.
this means that, in a decade, once you've stopped raking in the money from the initial release, the expansion packs, and the budget release, you can start all over again selling it for mobile phones which are now more powerful than the desktop computers at the time of the original release.
parent share twitter facebook - disin' the dx10.
unplug out brain from the marketing driven fanboy/hater game and just enjoy ride.
share twitter facebook - catchy title
no, they are not comparable.
all  comments full  abbreviated  hidden
if hl1 was opengl only when it exploded, maybe companies like ati would have got in gear and developed better (i.e. not shit) opengl drivers.
new directx versions *always* require brand new hardware, whereas most minor opengl revisions have almost always included new features that also work on old hardware (opengl 1.5's vertex buffer objects humming along happily on a geforce 256, for instance), and while full compliance is the best, all you really need to care about is if something implements certain clearly defined extensions, rather than wondering if nvidia or ati have 'misinterpreted' specifications over directx. both have been panned in the past for 'creative' adoption of pixel shader standards and bizarre interpretations of directx 9.
share twitter facebook - this is one deluded discussion...
(score:3, insightful)
opengl, direct3d 9, direct3d 10 or direct3d 10.1.
i am running os x here and all my games are os x native
i'm back using winxp "for a while" again, but i generally won't buy hardware anymore unless it's a notable and drastic improvement in windows, linux, and freebsd.
but you don't need dx 10 enabled vista to browse game forums :)
re:oh no! (score:5, insightful) by dreldarion (114072) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @06:26am (#20194291)
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:2) by abrasion (589899) * writes: what current hardware that is directx 9 or direct x 10 compatible, is incapable of 4xaa?
if you have to hate, hate gently.
functionality wise it offers essentially what opengl does, except wrapped up in a platform-specific com interface.
is it easier to program for?
share twitter facebook -
the absolute need for vista to run dx 10 killed it from the beginning.
so that when you go out and buy a card and game that says dx10 on the side you can actually count on it being exactly what it says it is.
parent share twitter facebook - pierre bernard says (score:3, funny) by jadin (65295) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:14am (#20194015)
the components of directx that are not direct3d are pretty much irrelevant today.
again, this misses the point.
do you choose opengl?
another great thing about sound in vista is that even with an old ac'97 sound card and just stereo speakers on a desktop or laptop, the sound fidelity is significantly better than xp or os x by several factors.
homepage you mean developers are actually using directx 10?
pierre - comfortable and furious conan.
dx 10 contained virtualized graphics memory (that may not be the right term).
:-) q: how many directx 10 programmers does it take to change a light bulb.
which one do you choose?
now with dx10 they roll all the features up and any dx 10.x card will support the featuers, even if you write a dx 10.0 and dx 10.1 path, its only two options you have to support.
maybe i misread their slides, but all i saw was they said that "upcoming hardware" will support it.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, informative) by harlows_monkeys (106428) writes: no, it is not a joke.
but don't get too upset just yet: 'gamers  shouldn't fret too much - 10.1 adds virtually nothing that they will care about  and, more to the point, adds almost nothing that developers are likely to care  about.
i imagine game studios will be busier, rather than them being 'scared'.
developers and manufacturers have the option of coding for 10.1 or sticking with 10.
traditionally, nvidia tends to do well in opengl too, ati less so.
if new tech is crippled because of corporate strategies don't expect techies (either on slashdot or elsewhere) to like it.
parent share twitter facebook - wait... (score:4, funny) by draconix (653959) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @04:44am (#20193895)
score: 5 4 3 2 1 0 -1 more login nickname: password: public terminal forgot your password?
directx 10 other than a few limp patches and demos does not exist, hardware accelerated physics nope not yet, sli or dual and quad gpu's hardly give a return on the investment unless you are running multiple monitors, etc etc etc.
now microsoft has announced directx 10.1 which makes all hardware for directx 10 obsolete.
they both specify the worry.
we like our hardware powerful.
but in most cases, a rasterizer is better.
i think a developer coding for multiple platforms using open standards must be far more complex/trained/advanced than a guy firing up visual studio and run some "wizard - re:where is opengl when we need it?
there are great technical pieces on why vista redid the audio system and also some good examples of why developers of audio products like sonar continue to choose ms and vista as their platform of choice for high quality production.
as far as id is concerned, carmack is using the direct3d-only xbox 360 as his benchmark development platform at the moment (you can go back to his quakecon 2005 speech for a reference on that).
journal this seems like a window of opportunity for a new opengl standard.
* writes: yep exactly.
this is how it works now.
4xaa is a compulsory that would seem to me to be the biggest change, that it requires batteries now.
running at a lower resolution than native will add scaling artefacts, and aa can make these even worse.
well, obviously that is the reason.
it's great that you hate aa and all, but there are plenty of others that insist on it.
u bb=get_topic;f=3;t=015351;p=0/ [opengl.org].
enough people still used it.
an electric car and a petrol car are comparable, they are both cars even though theway they work is completely differen - such a disappointment (score:5, funny) by zdude255 (1013257) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @04:45am (#20193905)
they said "seriously.. the new imac is fun to use an you can put behind microsoft's psychotic mood swings on its standards forever.".
you should ask yourself why many cgi studios don't use (pure) raytracers anymore.
well, takes even more out of the motivation there.
that doesn't mean he's turned into a d3d fanboy, the windows version of rage is still going to be opengl.
directx isn't "easier" than opengl/openal (in fact, openal is higher level than directsound or xaudio, if you've ever used any of those apis).
a fixed feature set is what allows developers to squeze out every drop of performance from ps2 hardware to make amazing looking graphics, even though your mobile phone might have more processing power available to it.
that's a card like a geforce 4
trademarks property of their respective owners.
ms can do everything "click and run" but opengl arb can't do it since it may also end up in some military planes screen.
i'm not saying valve was the lynchpin in how things ended up.
of course, the spec only make support for aa mandatory; it doesn't force you to use it.
directinput and directdraw(the depreciated version), rolled into one.
it's not any of being "busier", it's an issue of money.
microsoft needs to realize that features need to be worthwhile and should always be optional.
this doesn't mean your dx10 card doesn't work anymore, you don't install sp1 and your pc wont boot with dx10 hardware.
slashdot even covered it before [slashdot.org].
game developers are finding shader 3.0 (directx 9.0c) gives them more than enough to do.
there's also stuff like directsound, directinput, directplay, and a bunch of other stuff.
and then to imagine that hardcore gamers are going to replace their massively-powered pcs and $600 graphics cards with an off-the-shelf imac and be happy with its performance...?
how can this be surprising?
* writes: i still wonder what would happen if half of the people monkeying with wine and breaking 100s of evil ms license terms or dual booting went and bought linux native games instead.
according to the opengl homepage... the opengl 3 specification is on track to be finalized at the next face-to-face meeting of the opengl arb, at the end of august parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:2) by elfarto the 2nd (709099) writes: unfortunally it will only be release at the end of september due to some 30-day period khronos requires.
where is the actual progress?
things such as no surround support, only stereo, sound not working properly, etc. openal titles work fine though.
meanwhile opengl's committee decisions are always a step behind.
it was mostly a bugfix release with added samples and a couple of new features (which were optional).
facebook - - - re:more juice!
so there is basically no point.
- re: (score:2) by spikeles (972972) writes: what it means now is lost planet should support 9, 10 and 10.1.
opengl does not provide what is needed to create spheres and other 'complex' objects, so you are left doing this on your own.
if the international community became concerned about global arse-wiping inconsistency it could ultimately become an iso standard.
we suspect that the spec is likely to be  ill-received.
tux careening wildly out of control down the hill.
homepage did ms care to explain what kind of undocumented,hidden quantum computing (!) routines in vista needed for dx 10 running?
opengl 3 is announced recently:http://www.opengl.org/cgi-bin/ubb/ultimatebb.cgi?
homepage seriously.. the new imac is fun to use an you can put behind microsoft's psychotic mood swings on its standards forever.
i don't think they have.
- re: (score:2) by click2005 (921437) writes: anyone who buys a new branded computer will be getting vista, unless they specifically jump through hoops to get xp instead i bought a laptop a few months
:) - - re:where is opengl when we need it?
(score:5, insightful) by arse maker (1058608) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @08:49am (#20194947)
my pc could handle it although there wasn't much benefit over using windows xp.
the last thing a hardcore gamer is going to do is get an os that eats up processor ticks in the background when we want the game to be the sole user - re:wait... (score:5, insightful) by mbcook (132727) writes:  on saturday august 11 2007, @08:59am (#20195013)
yes, raytracing is elegant, but a rasterizer will outperform it when rendering opaque surfaces.
not to self, do not buy expensive hardware for a single title.
homepage conan - are you comfortable and angry pierre?
why this sudden change dx 10 has not even caught on in the hardcore gamers let alone even the above mainstream.
yeah, this move surely fractured the dx10 developer community.
i'd be surprised if any hardware was incapable of it, so what's the point of this change?
card y runs d3d poorly but does gl well?
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, insightful) by devistater (593822) * writes: i hope you realize that directsound hardware support was thrown over the side for vista.
there is a higher level library called d3dx that adds some helper functions for loading textures and meshes and doing vector and matrix math, but even that's quite a ways from the "pointing and clicking in visual studio" you mentioned.
in essence, all current dx10 hardware is now obsolete.
writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @07:18am (#20194493)
basically that means shader model 1.1 hardware.
the people who did do it (ati, i think) got an unfair shake.
by requiring the hardware to support to be '10.1 compatible' they are merely pandering to the majority of gamers out there.
i hate to gripe, but there are a few glaring misconceptions that need to be addressed in your post.
this was a serious investment, the video card alone put me back about the price of a new "non-gaming" pc.
to play the latest and greatest games requires me to continually upgrade my computer.
- - - re:i'm not really sure this matters all that much (score:5, informative) by anonymous coward writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:58am
a hybrid seems the way to go: rasterizing by default, but the ability to shoot rays in the pixel shader, which would be extremely cool for reflections and refractions.
i've posted it before, but never really got a response.
share twitter facebook - re:more juice!
parent share twitter facebook - re:wait... (score:5, insightful) by sark666 (756464) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @10:23am (#20195481)
- re: (score:2) by ilgaz (86384)
a: two from microsoft, but after they install it your house is covered with mysterious web cams.
i'll never understand that point is lost on a lot of people), but painting game developers who use directx as corporate microsoft shills isn't the most honest or productive characterization of why things are the way they are.
- re: (score:2, insightful) by machtyn (759119) writes: the absolute need for vista to run dx 10 killed it from the beginning.
like system memory, each program would get it's own addresses and you could page in and out graphics data.
share twitter facebook - re:catchy title
directx 10 hardware is now obsolete more login directx 10
or is the current imac's limitation of 2.8ghz intel core 2 extreme and ati radeon hd 2600
never mind that ms has released a version of directx that has added a significant feature (as in something that needs more hardware) every 1-2 years in the past.
what is productive is looking at the technical flaws present in opengl and rectifying them, which is something the khronos arb working group has done an excellent job of.
yet another note to self, you have failed to understa - re: (score:2) by jadin (65295) writes: pierre bernard was a work of fiction.
so this being some standard microsoft tactic, having been used to try to sell xp, is just plain false.
if it can't, that's where the fear comes in.
a: two and we'll let you know when we get them.
you missed the root cause of directx's success, which is that microsoft has been a lot more quickly responsive and to the concerns of developers and hardware designers.
(score:4, informative) by baadger (764884) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @04:55am (#20193937)
it's a bitlate [elitebastards.com] for people to be in shock about it.
re: (score:3, informative) by ardor (673957) writes: the point is that d3d10.1 mainly just enforces stuff that was optional in 10.0.
also, directx 10 lacks the backwards compatibilty of the older versions.
(we all like to pretend that we can write better code in one afternoon than ms in 10 years, but that's actually hardly ever the case.
heck it is a pretty recent phenomena that developers have stopped supporting windows me for games, and some still do.
graphics card features change all the time, you have to write miles of caps checking code and render paths to support the zoo of cards and features.
however, as long as buying a mac if you *also* like to game isn't a silly idea, i'll be content :) - re: (score:2) by ilgaz (86384)
i have dissociative identity disorder, you insensitive clod!
of course, we're seeing this news on the inquirer, often considered to be a slightly less-than-reliable source of tech news.
* writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @06:21am (#20194275)
share twitter facebook - dx 10.1 is more about sound than graphics...
you didn't see "ati makes last card obsolete by introducing new product", even though those changes could be far, far more difficult to develop for by having a bunch of changed caps and maybe even a few new proprietary ones.
it would be dead slow but still work.
if anything ships saying "intel only" , you will get a clue since there are very powerful ppc (e.g. g5 dual core) macs out there so cpu "speed" can't be an excuse.
parent share twitter facebook - dx !
i've never owned a card which i was comfortable enabling aa in, i always seem to notice the performance hit, maybe i'm just picky but i want my minimum frames to be 60
the -games- aren't required to support 4xaa, the -hardware- is.
now imagine game x builds upon d3d10.1.
since microsoft decided to drop efi support from vista, pretty much the only graphics cards that support efi are the ones that ship with macs anyway.
presumably windows also supports opengl so why not make games that are easily ported like id does?
wow, what a load of fud.
bythenetavenger (624455) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @11:51am ( #20196085)
please stop posting such nonsense, or would you cry foul if your sse3 cpu doesnt support sse4 when its available?
that aside, am i the only person who remembers reading this "bomb" months back?
i think they overlooked to gaming community, they weren't that stupid.
but if big players like them stuck to opengl, more companies might be willing to port as their games would be opengl based anyway.
that translates directly into higher development costs, plus god knows if your own stuff will work as well, and what bugs will it have.
this is a big feature.
share twitter facebook - nice headline (score:2) by 3vi1 (544505) writes: directx 10 hardware is now obsolete?!!?
(score:5, interesting) by imbaczek (690596) writes:  on saturday august 11 2007, @04:44am (#20193897)
another note to self, until hardware is "mainstream" no developers are going to invest huge amounts of time or resources on it... thus the slight difference between dx9 and dx10.
i didn't think i'd live to see the day where new technology would be unwelcome to the slashdot crowd.
same goes for backwards compatibility.
sdl is comparable to directx as it offers control over sound, graphics, mouse/keyboard/joystick.
the spec revision basically makes a number of things that are optional in dx10 compulsory under the new standard - such as 32-bit floating point filtering, as opposed to the 16-bit current.
the fact of the matter is that it's nothing new that new standards supersede older ones, and that's what the summary and the people posting comments are complaining about.
* writes: no, nothing can be obsolete on open industry standards like opengl.
even if it's on an x86 mac.
half-life had software, opengl, and direct3d. quake 2 had software, opengl, and i think powervr or something.
doom 3 had to use eax for sound output, i'm sure - i'm just not familiar with it.
but for the same reason many studios still wont switch to opengl.
a: two, and a brand new house with incompatible light sockets a: sixty, and that's just to write 500 pages of directx initialization code.
everyone go out and buy vista and dx10.1
being able to immediately switch from rendering one small bit, to starting to render something else, which would theorhetically make all of the compiz/aero type stuff be able to run much more smoothly in conjunction with real 3d rendering (ie, games, cad).
that stuff doesn't cause major programming difficulties and in any case third-party libraries (such as miles in the case of sound) do it better and are more portable than microsoft's stuff.
what happened to ibm then should happen to microsoft now, too.
in combing through this thread i'm surprised i haven't seen mentioned that one big reason direct3d took off over opengl on windows is because opengl is notoriously difficult to write stable, performant drivers for.
there's no need to move to directx 10.0 for quite some time.
actually it's even better.
i've done some opengl work in linux with sdl, and - re: (score:3, informative) by jiushao (898575) writes: not only does windows 2000 have directx 9.0c (the latest and greatest before directx 10), but even windows 98 does.
but is that the fault of "slashdot", or sony?
(score:5, funny) by someone1234 (830754) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @06:40am (#20194339)
unreal had a heck of a lot of different renderers, i know software, d3d, glide, and opengl were among them.
heck, right now you'll discover that a great number of games require nothing more than a directx 8 accelerator.
(score:4, insightful) by val314(219766) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:31am (#20194067)
as long as 99% of the pc gamers are running windows, it makes no sense to annoy those to appease the fragmented rest of the market.
thats when the next version of windows (possible names include aurora, dead duck).
if you get upset every time people make revisions and improvements to software and hardware, i suggest you packup your computer and return it to avoid further heart ache.
hardware is now obsolete".
share twitter facebook - - re:wait... (score:4, insightful) by ilgaz (86384)
it is not a major requirement change, because, contrary to the statement of the inquirer, the previously optional and now mandatoryfeatures are provided by nvidia (source [nvidia.com]) and ati dx10-cards (source [amd.com]).
4xaa is a compulsory standard to support in 10.1, whereas graphics vendors can pick and choose their anti-aliasing support currently.
a few specs are now mandatory, and that is enough to render expensive hardware obsolete.
at least, that's how i understand it.
(score:2, interesting) by bomanbot(980297) writes: developers already have difficulties justifiying directx 10 support because vista marketshare is still so low and most gamers are perfectly fine with xp and directx 9.
journal the summary and the inquirer article are, well, wrong.
i can't see any reason why game development should not be point and click, if they made something like opengl easier to write for, i think it would be a positive for the game market, and might bring a viable alternative to microsoft open standards has some side effects.
re: (score:2) by yokaze (70883) writes: > and major requirement change
homepage sdl is not comparable to directx in any way
- re: (score:2) by jugalator (259273) writes: does this mean that moving to sp1 makes old hardware unusable ?
even some high end phones run a stripped version of opengl.
to add salt to my wounds most of the features of 10.1 were optional and did nothing to improve the product.
or to put it otherwise, major talking out the arse follows.
parent share twitter facebook - re:where is opengl when we need it?
nvidia, for example, have two prefixes; one for experimental features and one for features they want to get into the standard.
- re: (score:3, insightful) by jeevesbond (1066726) writes:
parent share twitter facebook - re:more juice!
d3d10.1 would be fine if it had new actual features.
once multiple vendors have agreed on an extension, it is promoted to the ext_
homepage 4xaa is a compulsory that would seem to me to be the biggest change, that it requires batteries now.
by the time any n there may be more comments in this discussion.
why aren't there more game developers like id software who actually care?
9.0c was released about a year after directx 9.0b, and directx 9.0b hardware was also incompatible with directx 9.0c spec.
dx 10 being only on vista was based on a very valid techical reason... that they gave up on and removed.
thank god i stayed with my non-obsolete dx9 hardware.
sadly though, sound is one area vista gets no credit, yet is one of the best selling points of vista.
of course thats stupid, you wait till the improvment is enough for you to find it compelling.
mainly this claim that directx/direct3d is "pointing and clicking in visual studio."
directx 10.0 doesn't add anything you will care about either.
both are have 32-bit fp unified shaders and 4xaa.
it seems that the single biggest problem with porting windows games to mac or linux is lack of directx support, so why do developers even use this broken technology to begin with instead of opengl?
the range and quality of mac games is poor in comparison with that available for windows pcs.
which is why a lot of older titles have issues in the software emulation version of directsound in vista.
(score:5, informative) by mrcoke (445461) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @04:54am (#20193933)
yep - why (score:3, interesting) by unixfreak31 (634088) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:07am (#20193989)
without javascript enabled, you might want toturn on classic discussion system in your preferences instead.
and i want to be able to set my own aa levels.
directx 10 hardware is now obsolete 373 posted by zonk on saturday  august 11 2007, @04:41am from the shouldn't-have-blinked dept.
they don't have the same loyalty, and in all honesty unless they're already mac fans, i don't see why they should.
- re: (score:2) by dogtanian (588974) writes: i don't understand why this argument still comes up.
anybody knows when it's due?
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, insightful) by the_greywolf (311406) writes: some clarification: doom 3/quake 4 is an opengl title.
everyone is obsolete!1
the reason is that there are still a lot of people using older cards.
on windows, sdl uses directdraw for graphics, directsound for sound.
ogl provides the raw basics of graphics, be it 2d or 3d, while direct-x can be thought of as ogl bundled with apis that help reduce doing some of the common stuff.
directx is a standard and de facto standards are a subset of standards: the minority that are actually used.
also, the reason to bother [elitebastards.com] with directx 10.1 isn't so much that it offers "brand new super features" to games, but the wddm 2.1 bits, which would allow for far finer-grained context switching and task management.
what it does mean is, these days he's probably more concerned with things like efficient multicore utilization, robust and productive content developer toolsets, and having a nice stable platform with excellent developer support as a testbed (something mic read the rest of this comment...
but way back when, i always wondered why a company like valve took an opengl engine and ported it to directx (for hl1) when no one would argue that directx was better then.
that beats the "good ol" days before directx where you had to wait for your graphic card manufacturer or the game publisher to come out with a patch so that your graphics card would be supported and when they didn't you were just shit out of luck.
they control low- level functions, including two- dimensional (2-d) graphics acceleration; support for input devices such as joysticks, keyboards, and mice; and control of sound mixing and sound output.
not only does it require brand new hardware, immediately creating  a minuscule sub-set of dx10 owners, but it also requires vista sp1, and also  requires developer implementation.'" 100 of 373 comments loaded twitter  facebook games graphics hardware space hotel to open in 2012 submission: microsoft drops the bomb: directx 10 hardware won' valve says choice to make dx10 vista-only hurt pc gaming oracle  contributes linux code, expands hardware support this  discussion has been archived.
hardware is now obsolete archived discussion load all comments full abbreviated hidden /sea
it sits on top of opengl.
unles - you can tell microsoft is ignoring customers....
or--even better--a window of opportunity for a new sdl [libsdl.org] version.
well, you still need to run windows to play windows games.
do you choose direct3d 9 and not be able to take full advantage of the hardware?
not every one upgrades every year.
do you choose direct3d 10 and hope people have vista?
some will argue that the reason they choose directx today is, supposedly, some things are easier vs opengl.
you think that "linux user" wouldn't have clue but you forget wine factor.
with opengl you can use sdl, or a hybrid directinput, opengl type thing, maybe openglut or something, it's somewhat ickey...
once again, those seven little letters get left out of a "standards" article: d-e f-a-c-t-o. share twitter facebook - re:since when is directx a standard?
nah there are excellent portable third-party libraries for this stuff now, such as miles (sound), bink (video), demonware (networking).
- i don't know why everyone is getting worked up.
journal mind you, it's been almost a decade since last i had anything to do with game development, so take this with a grain of salt.
perhaps; but you typed this in response to my post which discussed hardcore games players currently using windows being encouraged to switch to the imac.
how dx 10 will work, they even suggested 10.1 would be out before vista shipped.
i'm sure the two developers using dx10 are gonna be pissed.
that said, afaik directx offers more features than just rendering.
directx 10.1 is going to be released about a year after directx 10.
if you are an early adopter of the latest hardware and don't read any reviews (which all from memory said it will be some time before dx10 is going to matter) then thats your fault.
share twitter facebook - ibm then, microsoft now (score:2) by erc (38443) writes: in a way, microsoft is trying to emulate ibm when it tried to jam mca down the throat of the pc world back in the mid-80's.
its hard to imagine the slashdot crowd finding this to be news.
perhaps because of this many people bought in to the dx10 cards expecting them to be "futureproof".
you have 10.0 hardware and want it to support 10.1?
do you choose all 3 and spend hundreds of thousands of dollars doing somethin - re: (score:2) by macthorpe (960048) writes: lets see.
re:such a disappointment (score:5, funny) by harry666t (1062422) writes:  on saturday august 11 2007, @05:14am (#20194007)
every little thing that can be done to improve fps but keep a balance of beauty is going to be done.
ela_gervaise writes"siggraph 2007 was the stage where microsoft dropped the bomb, informing gamers that the currently available directx 10 hardwarewill not support the upcoming directx 10.1 in vista sp1.
so a game requiring 10.1 will make your shine new 8800 obsolete with absolutely no gain.
http://www.3ddownloads.com/action/rage/movies/joh n _carmack-quakecon-keynote-2007.mp3 [3ddownloads.com] parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, informative) by greggbz (777373) writes: the performance and features may be about equal, but if you're writing just windows games, i'm sorry, directx is a better choice, for lots of other reasons.
* writes: i think what you say makes a lot of sense, except the last phrase.
bios-only graphics cards won't display anything until windows starts booting.
i am hoping they finally started to figure risks of using a ms only technology rather than platform independent, documented frameworks such as opengl, openal.
video games fall under the 2 year rule.
and it will auto tune the speakers and environment sounds for an outstanding experience.
and dx10.1 adds back in directx level apis for game developers.
i'm not saying vista is dead, or even close to it but the entire computer industry is - where is opengl when we need it?
third image (10 seconds later): tux's terror-striken face as he flails through the air toward a stand of trees.
i wonder if they've realized what they've done?
i guess it isn't surprising, though, it being a microsoft product, and slashdot degenerating into a zealot sandbox.
either that or miss on out the huge hit that was/is counterstrike.
- re: (score:2) by theraven64 (641858) writes: opengl is the only choice that makes sense for completely new games.
on linux, it uses x11 for graphics and oss for sound.
they are comparable in that--as the descriptions of both show--they do almost exactly the same thing, but sdl is cross-platform.
from http://www.gamesforwindows.com/en-us/aboutgfw/pag e s/directx10.aspx [gamesforwindows.com] : directx® apis gives multimedia applications access to the advanced features of high-performance hardware such as three-dimensional (3-d) graphics acceleration chips and sound cards.
do you choose direct3d 10.1 and hope everyone upgrades to new video cards?
that didn't create a whole lot of mainstream uproar, as people are generally positive towards new technology.
(score:5, informative) by zephiris (788562)
that means so long as most peopel don't have cards capable of using a new standard, they won't require it (though they may support it to give mroe eye candy to the eairly adopters).
they haven't forced you to do anything, and they haven't forced developers either.
share twitter facebook - re:where is opengl when we need it?
a standard is just a set of rules.
so many studios will continue using d3d9.
i digress, but the point is, the news has already been covered before.
the plan was that instead of checking for individual features (and coding around their lack case-by-case, like we will still get to do with opengl) the developer would check for a directx version, leaving fewer opportunities for wonky bugs from weird support combinations.
i am just hoping i wouldn't type "xxxx company, the last os x native game development co - re: (score:2) by dogtanian (588974) writes: i see same attitude on os x only users, instead of pushing apple to fix their issues they go and actually purchase windows xp to run via boot camp.
hardware should last a minimum of 6 months cutting edge, and about a year for not-the-best but playable.
what comes out tomorrow will not show up in games for at least two years.
or did they simply state "we can't sell vista otherwise, those fps racing teens will buy it for dx10".
lets say ms is not happy about exploding mac/intel share on market, they could do couple of tricks even on license text so you would say bye to your next need for - - re: (score:3, informative) by macthorpe (960048) writes: since m$ said opengl would not be supported under vista.
each version of the opengl specification defines a set of core functionality.
so i don't ever get burned, end of story.
recently i upgraded to windows vista by microsoft in order to play their newest game "shadowrun".
we support that, too).
i'd just hope that eventually, there's more actual competition again, and both companies (and new companies) actually respect and care about standards compliance and that both they and the standards bodies start to care about what customers actually doing with their hardware.
wow is a directx title with an opengl engine (like war3):
first off.. technology is made obsolete???
re:buy a mac (score:4, informative) by dogtanian (588974) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @05:58am (#20194183)
- slashdot japan close slashdot working...
journal on many games, i can run at a much higher resolution without aa than with.
exactly the cleanest api at the moment (but that will change in a few months when opengl 3.0 finally hits).
(score:5, informative) by theraven64 (641858) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @08:08am (#20194705)
presumably microsoft will be calling one of the new features "everready boost" :)
writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @06:10am (#20194223)
homepage and major requirement change - so why not call it directx 11 instead?
ms can say "lets drop this, it makes coding complex, nobody would use it in game" but opengl can't since it could be in use.
the new imac is fun to use an you can put behind microsoft's psychotic mood swings on its standards forever.
it also required kernel and gdi changes.
also i'm not so sure they said it wouldn't support it.
homepage i didn't think i'd live to see the day where new technology would be unwelcome to the slashdot crowd.
parent share twitter facebook - re:wait... (score:5, insightful) by professor_unix (867045) writes: on saturday august 11 2007, @08:36am (#20194863)
so if you want to make your game portable by not using any directx stuff, well, you'll have to write your own equivalent for that other stuff.
tux happily sitting on sled at top of hill.
and i fully intend never to write a single line of directx code.
i can explain that one.
- directx 10 like vista is skippable (score:2, informative) by billgateslovechild(1046184)
if anyone really wants to understand the audio in vista, do a search on vista audio subsystem, or sonar vista.
and since i was only upgrading for one game only it was difficult to upgrade for that alone, but i did so knowing my investment would last a year or two.
we suspect that the spec is likely to be ill-received.
(score:3, informative)
it'll just take a few years to become the standard.
5 years later in movies of crysis gameplay it lo - - raytracing is overrated (score:2) by ardor (673957) writes: raytracing is really cool for global stuff like refractions, shadows, reflections, caustics.
the dx 10 and vista respectively.
ms spent billions to directx and converting some naive/beginner dev - re: (score:2, insightful) by qunalop (861366) writes: i think what you say makes a lot of sense, except the last phrase.
close binspam dupe notthebest offtopic slownewsday stale stupid fresh funny insightful interesting maybe offtopic flamebait troll redundant overrated insightful interesting informative funny underrated descriptive typo dupe error slashdot - ask slashdot - book reviews - games - idle - yro - cloud - hardware - linux - management - mobile - science - security - storage 250733 story directx 10