working on sun is being great so far, at last i have the opportunity to learnsome things that i've been delaying for too long.
posted at 07:35 pm | permalink | comments (3) | reblog (0) spec files extras, is a project maintained by some guys at sun to provide an easy way to create solaris/opensolaris packages from rpm-like spec files.
ps: wondering why am i fixing the git package?
a forest guard set up the gran  canaria south western forest on fire to protest against his job situation,  smart move huh?.
there  is also another forest fire on tenerife, the authorities suspect that it's also  intentional.
the boundaries of the platform where you run your  applications are just going to be blurred, and users, developers and customers,  are going to be able to have real choice.
any patch or comments are welcome.
posted at 01:27 pm | permalink | comments (15) | reblog (0)
alexander larsson is working on gvfs, a new api for accessing files and perform io operations, that whips gnome-vfs' ass in terms of simplicity and portability.
basically it allows you to show opengl accelerated  graphics of applications running in a virtualized guest os like linux.
i would like to add pdf transition support and maybe slide caching at some  point.
post guadec post guadec
kudos to alex for this work.
i would like to add pdf transition support and maybe slide caching at some point.
fortunately, there was a copy of the hack on my gmail history, and jilorio  backgrounds has come alive again.
check it out  at openedhand'sbugzilla.
gnome backgrounds and themes two-dot-zero one of the first things that i missed when i realized that my laptop was  lost was (beside tons of photos and college documentation) a couple of old  hacks, most of them on pygtk, more than a year ago i started lurking on the  #art-gnome channel trying to add atom feeds toart.gnome.org, benzea did a great  job adding support to art.gnome.org back then.
posted at 05:30 pm | permalink | comments (7) | reblog (0) 07/06/2007 thoughts on the virtualization area.
the saddest thing is that  it was intentional, someone did it, someone wanted this to happen.
clutter rock my ass one of the things that i most enjoyed was the clutter+opt+poppler+gtollina  mushup that fer and me hacked at guadec.
gnome is getting simpler, easier to develop and more usable every day, and we are not even braking backwards compatibility!
posted at 01:52 pm | permalink | comments (3) | reblog (0) one of the first things that i missed when i realized that my laptop was lost was (beside tons of photos and college documentation) a couple of old hacks, most of them on pygtk, more than a year ago i started lurking on the #art-gnome channel trying to add atom feeds toart.gnome.org, benzea did a great job adding support to art.gnome.org back then.
« june 2007 | main | august 2007 » 07/31/2007 no words i have no words on what's happening at home.
almost native performance and concurrent execution of various games like quake3 or unreal.
i've came up with a another idea for it: this one looks like a husky for sure (is a vectorized photo of a husky  actually), brought to you byinkscape.
almost native  performance and concurrent execution of various games like quake3 or unreal.
most times  i'm faithful about the human kind, today is not one of those days.
at last, my post guadec post.
i decided to go a step further and i have hacked a formal patch to add pdf support for clutter's opt.
once the support was added, i  hacked a small pygtk app to use the feed to select backgrounds from the site  and apply them without browser interaction.
posted at 10:10 am | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) 07/12/2007 indiana logo, second try due to the lack of success of the transformer's version of my first indiana  logo proposal.
i cannot describe what i feel.
yesterday a coworker passed me a link about an opengl virtualization  project fromgsoc '06, vmgl.
i decided to go a step further and i  have hacked a formal patch to add pdf support for clutter's opt.
fortunately, there was a copy of the hack on my gmail history, and jilorio backgrounds has come alive again.
we have the wider and best maintained set of bindings for a graphical toolkit, just take a look at the development activity inpygtk, ruby-gnome, java-gnome, gtkmm.. (the list goes on).
hope is not lost yet, but i still need to focus on other things yet.
however, i had a great fun, and it was great to stay there again.
once the support was added, i hacked a small pygtk app to use the feed to select backgrounds from the site and apply them without browser interaction.
check out thegit repository or the 0.1 tarball .
most times i'm faithful about the human kind, today is not one of those days.
kudos to all the gnome community.
check it out at openedhand'sbugzilla.
what a crazy week, the first day i lose my backpack with my laptop and my home's keys, so it wasn't a good start.
the boundaries of the platform where you run your applications are just going to be blurred, and users, developers and customers, are going to be able to have real choice.
some of them funny, others just mandatory, but i'm enjoying my time here as i've never did in the past, i couldn't have thought in any better first full-time job in my life.
further work to achieve the same features with direct3d is planned.
if you are looking for an easy hack, metacity and gtk themes variants of the app would be really cool.
posted at 10:10 am | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) due to the lack of success of the transformer's version of my first indiana logo proposal.
one of the things that i most enjoyed was the clutter+opt+poppler+gtollina mushup that fer and me hacked at guadec.
posted at 01:52 pm | permalink | comments (3) | reblog (0) 07/27/2007 jilorio:
posted at 10:51 am | permalink | comments (5) | reblog (0)
this is the scary landscape: sadly, those are not clouds.
c haters, you have no excuse to become a gnome developer :-)
on the other hand i realized today via footnotes, that anjuta 2.2, the first stable release of the 2.x series has been released, congratulations to the developers.
there is also another forest fire on tenerife, the authorities suspect that it's also intentional.
further work to  achieve the same features with direct3d is planned.
when i started to getting involved with gnome, i missed some features and got frustrated on how many details i needed to know to solve simple problems.
it's been tested with xen and vmware as far as i have read.
work keeps me busy enough to being unable to accomplish the promise i made myself to release a gtk+ msi installer before guadec.
however, the magic of opensource makes every problem a matter of time.
a forest guard set up the gran canaria south western forest on fire to protest against his job situation, smart move huh?.
laszlo peters (laca), from the jds common build environment fame, has granted me today commit access to the sfe repository: sending changelog sending sfegit.spec transmitting file data ..
this is a core asset of the gnome platform since it encourage our so beloved freedom of choice.
meanwhile, guys on vmware,  are making amazing things likethis.
i would like to congratulate paul and thomas and the rest of the organization for such a great job, and i'm looking forward to go to istambul next year.
it seems that gtk 2.12 is going to include the gtkbuilder api that johan has been developing for a while, this is going to allow to abtract a lot of details, it not only replace libglade and uimanager, but also, it will be possible to define treeview columns and even populate data on it from a ui designer, such designer doesn't exist yet, this ui is yet to be created, but again, time will fix this.
being away from home is making it even more strange.
i cannot tell you yet ;-) posted at 02:38 pm | permalink | comments (2) | reblog (0)
posted at 07:35 pm | permalink | comments (3) | reblog (0) 07/05/2007 spec files extras developer.
i'm starting to seriously believe that this kind of progress on the  virtualization space is going to change we think about applications, operating  systems and even debugging.
you can check the software available on the repositoryhere.
however,  i had a great fun, and it was great to stay there again.
one of the most beautiful landscapes of my island, lost.
by the way, the clutter api is just beautiful, kudos to the o-hand  hackers.
i'm starting to seriously believe that this kind of progress on the virtualization space is going to change we think about applications, operating systems and even debugging.
meanwhile, guys on vmware, are making amazing things likethis.
what a crazy week, the first day i lose my  backpack with my laptop and my home's keys, so it wasn't a good start.
by the way, the clutter api is just beautiful, kudos to the o-hand hackers.
i would like to congratulate paul and thomas and the rest of the  organization for such a great job, and i'm looking forward to go to istambul  next year.
if you are looking for an easy hack, metacity and gtk themes variants of  the app would be really cool.
spec files extras, is a project maintained by some guys at sun to provide  an easy way to create solaris/opensolaris packages from rpm-like spec files.
« june 2007 | main | august 2007 » i have no words on what's happening at home.
committed revision 329.
the saddest thing is that it was intentional, someone did it, someone wanted this to happen.
the results of the benchmarks are just impressive.
i hope they can include it for the development suite for 2.22, this is a must have.
basically it allows you to show opengl accelerated graphics of applications running in a virtualized guest os like linux.
i've came up with a another idea for it: this one looks like a husky for sure (is a vectorized photo of a husky actually), brought to you byinkscape.
posted at 05:30 pm | permalink | comments (7) | reblog (0) yesterday a coworker passed me a link about an opengl virtualization project fromgsoc '06, vmgl.
laszlo peters (laca), from the jds common build environment fame, has  granted me today commit access to the sfe repository: sending        changelog