a large assembly “capacity meter” shows you how much memory is available.
ensure the highest level of confidence when sharing design data with autodesk®realdwg® toolkit, the only solution to bring full read/write capability of the latest autocad® dwg™ and dxf™ file formats into your application.
pentium® 4 or amd® athlon dual-core processor, 3.0 ghz or higher with sse2 technology • 2 gb ram • 1.7 gb free disk space for installation • 1 gb free disk space for development • 1,024 x 768 display with true color • microsoft® internet explorer® 7.0 or later • microsoft® visual studio® 2008 (sp1) for c/c++ development; microsoft® visual studio® 2010 for managed development • dvd drive or • microsoft® windows® xp professional edition (sp3 or later) • intel pentium 4 or amd athlon dual-core, 1.6 ghz or higher with sse2 technology • 2 gb ram • 1.7 gb free disk space for installation • 1 gb free disk space for development • 1,024 x 768 display with true color • internet explorer 7.0 or later • visual studio 2008 (sp1) for c/c++ development; visual studio 2010 for managed development • dvd drive
developer support the standard developer support service includes: priority support the optional priority support service includes everything under developer support together with the following additional benefits: hoops visualize supports the following platforms:platform architecture operating system compiler sun studio 8 c/c++ 5.5 hoops visualize supports a range of 3d and 2d formats.
realdwg® guarantees that your product is reliable and always up-to-date with the latest autocad format.
you’re enabled to give users only the features they need in a customized environment, while benefiting from the robust autodesk® technology which guarantees fidelity of dwg data and broad api access.
using the dynamic oem api, we were able to combine the power of autocad with our proprietary technology.
by incorporating the hoops exchange toolkit into an application, software development teams can readily offer a robust and rich access to precise engineering information to satisfy even the most demanding technical requirements.
docupoint uses realdwg to read dwg/dxf files, extract all text information, make raster pictures of each drawing file and then export dwf files.
file formats for every version of autocad® design software through autocad 2012 •
the adobe pdf library was specifically created to support oems, systems integrators, independent software vendors, and enterprise it developers who want to incorporate adobe pdf functionality into new or existing applications and workflows.
inventor oem combines an intuitive 3d mechanical design  environment for creating parts and assemblies with specialized design tools  that enable engineers to focus on design function, not geometry creation.
the benefit of using inventor oem over writing an application that  runs in inventor is that you can package your application with inventor oem and deliver it as your own application.
it also supports the tools in standard autocad software for customizing menus, toolbars and quick keys • provides encryption and binding security mechanisms that help prevent copying or reverse-engineering of your lisp and visual basic® for applications (vba) software programs.
each package provides a single, consistent api giving access to all underlying supported formats so that implementation is easy for your development team and access to all formats is consistent and simplified for your users.
the adobe® pdf library software development kit (sdk) allows developers to support the adobe portable document format (pdf) within their own standalone applications.
inventor oem combines an intuitive 3d mechanical design environment for creating parts and assemblies with specialized design tools that enable engineers to focus on design function, not geometry creation.
using hoops publish, developers can read source 3d data from a range of industry-standard formats including step, stl, u3d, prc and vrml and publish the data to a 3d pdf file in either u3d format or adobe’s preferred prc format.
create an industry-specific product which targets specific markets and/or to extend design information to users who do not belong to the traditional cad community.
to help you explore the features of inventor oem and review the benefits of building your application on theinventor platform, you can apply for a free 60-day software evaluation from tech soft 3d. with full access to the api libraries, documentation, tutorials and sample code, tech soft 3d consulting engineers will guide your team help you discover how our toolkits can meet your requirements.
inventor oem includes the ilogic™ module, which extends and enhances the parametric design capabilities of inventor oem, automates tedious design tasks, and adds higher levels of design intelligence to the production of digital prototypes.
form, or through a web page.
rendering large pages with better precision •
example: animated disassembly of landing gear (pdf, 4.7mb) example: mouse with multi-view components (pdf, 2.8mb)
ilogic module product options build custom applications using autodesk® inventor® oem to accelerate your engineering development project using a  world-class oem software platform.
inventor oem gives you precise control of shape characteristics such as tangency and continuity.
some formats require additional libraries to be installed as shown in the tables below: 3d formatsfile format import export additional libraries required *
bring dwg compatibility into your application thanks to realdwg ®, the same software libraries used in autocad, autodesk® viz, autocad® revit® and autodesk® inventor®.
hoops exchange is robust, high-performance and the technology of choice for adding data access into your application workflow.
assembly design quickly assemble individual parts and subassemblies to define the complete product structure.
it also delivers advanced capabilities to accelerate your application development, including an animation engine, clash detection, multi-plane sectioning, advanced point-cloud handling and graphing classes.
write dwg files for autocad software release 14 or its later versions • dxf files can be written back to autocad software release 12 version.
2d formatsfile format import export additional libraries required hoops visualize provides core and advanced functionality for creating high performance 2d & 3d applications, including: for each tech soft 3d product, licensing and license fees are designed to provide excellent value, helping developers spend their r&d funds efficiently and quickly deliver successful products to market.
with ilogic  there are no new documents to manage!
hoops publish is uniquely based on the native adobe® technologies and is the only software toolkit that offers access to the native 3d read and write technology used within acrobat® reader®.
allows design and engineering knowledge to be defined and stored as  ilogic rule objects that are embedded directly into the models.
improved editing of pdfs and reduce content loss • better precision apis while editing pdfs •
the functional scope and typical application at each level are outlined below, and the product functionality table in this section summarizes the corresponding functionality.
inventor oem includes the ilogic™ module, which extends and enhances the parametric design capabilities  of inventor oem, automates tedious design tasks, and adds higher levels of  design intelligence to the production of digital prototypes.
the inclusion of user-friendly tools for rules-based design automation  make it easier for design professionals to capture design intent and automate  common tasks by creating parts that can embed higher levels of design  intelligence directly into an inventor digital prototype.
divide the 3d component to define the molded parts, using tools to identify  silhouette curves for optimum parting plane geometry and multibody operations  that make it easy to split the part into separate bodies.
the advantage of the prc format is to provide highly accurate and highly compressed format for describing 3d cad models including assembly structure, b-rep, geometry and product manufacturing information (pmi).
a rules drive​n design solution the ilogic module allows designers and engineers to capture and embed  engineering and product knowledge directly into virtual models.
provides easy access to powerful design automation functions through a  simple, user-friendly interface designed for users with little or no  programming experience.
to import fully rendered 3d information, a plugin for microstation is provided to export an hsf file that can be read by hoops visualize.
the result was a high-value solution that served a unique set of customers and generated significant revenue for our company – and eventually a union with illinois tool work (itw).
hoops visualize provides a wealth of high-level apis delivering a wide range of functionality that also insulates your application from the rapidly changing graphics landscape, protecting your development project from the underlying changes while taking full advantage of the most recent graphics capabilities.
that's building with the best.
in addition, users may take advantage of acrobat x pro's template creation functionality to create custom pdf templates for use when publishing from within your application.
hoops visualize provides you with a rich set of apis delivering a wealth of ready-made functionality while allowing you to retain full control over detailed implementation.
“project management systems are complex by nature, especially if they integrate with 3d design output to create resources that are the basis for project planning and delivery.
using inventor ilogic you can: create smart parts and assemblies that define multiple product  configurations and make automatic updates in real-time based on logical  relationships between design parameters such as mass, volume, dimensional  values, material types, feature and component activation or suppression,  patterns, and more.
your customers can enhance, manage and securely share data through 3d pdf as well as create custom pdf templates for use in your application's pdf publishing.
with level of detail (lod) representations, you can switch between full and lightweight representations to control memory consumption and increase performance.
licensees of hoops visualize are provided with a full developer support service, and can optionally request a priority support service if an even closer level of technical partnership is required.
combining the power of constraints with  easy-to-use tools for modifying sketches lets you try different design concepts  and control color and line style, allowing you to find the best way to convey  your design ideas.
autodesk inventor oem is a development platform that allows you to create a stand-alone application built on autodesk inventor technology.
autodesk inventor oem is essentially inventor with  additional capabilities as detailed below: it is modular.
• be sure that you can always access the most up-to-date format produced by autocad and autocad-based products.
parasolid communicator is comprised of versatile base functionality, including interoperability, visualization and data interrogation capabilities that provide a platform for applications to consume existing 3d models.
advanced modeling tools include loft to a point, n-sided patch, sweep normal to surface, area loft, centerline loft, g2 continuous fillets, full round fillets, and face-to-face fillets sculpt tool quickly and easily modify shape details using surfaces from inventor oem or by incorporating imported surfaces.
plastic part design functional plastic features, rule-based fillets and powerful multi-body workflows simplify the design of high-quality molded part models.
hoops publish uniquely provides you with the same native 3d pdf technology as used in adobe® acrobat® and adobe reader®, so 3d pdf documents produced usinghoops publish can be distributed and guaranteed to be viewed using the standard adobe reader, available on 98% of internet-enabled desktops worldwide.
for 64-bit realdwg 2012 • microsoft windows 7 enterprise or ultimate edition, microsoft windows vista enterprise, business, or ultimate edition (sp2 or later), or windows xp professional edition (sp2 or later) • amd athlon or amd opteron® processor with sse2 technology, or intel pentium 4 or intel® xeon® processor with intel em64t support with sse2 technology • 2 gb ram • 425 mb free disk space for installation • microsoft visual studio 2008 (sp1) for c/c++ development; microsoft visual studio 2010 for managed development • available on cd •
ilogic  introduces a design for reuse and automation methodology that is the next  logical step in parametric modeling.
generate new revenue streams and encourage upgrades, while conveniently providing a high-value, all-in-one product to your customers that allows them to enhance, manage, publish and securely share data through 3d pdf.
portability across all major platforms, rendering and hardcopy interfaces makes it easy your software team to rapidly develop applications with no constraints on deployment.
removed 27 spot color limitation in print workflow •
the adobe pdf library gives you full access to the complete set of native pdf api's to further customize and enhance your hoops publish-generated 3d pdf files.
hoops publish advanced provides the functionality of the lite product and additionally offers direct api access to the underlying 3d pdf libraries allowing the application to create or modify 3d data or add attribute information including pmi data.
we would be glad to arrange a consultation with a member of our business development team to review your specific project and provide detailed licensing information based on your own requirements.
hoops exchange fully supports the latest versions of both proprietary and open data formats.
using the publishing api, software development teams can easily add simple or complex document output capabilities into existing applications.
interpret custom objects seamlessly with built-in object enablers.
getting these world-class components and technical assistance from a single vendor has been of significant value to our development process.”
specific license fees vary depending on the tech soft 3d products and modules required, the level of service and support desired, end-user seat volumes, operating business model, etc.
using hoops publish, developers are able to: hoops publish is designed as a publishing solution only.
the sdk includes many features such as: create, edit, fonts, assemble document, compress, security features.
using hoops visualize as your graphics platform you can work at a very high level to rapidly implement complex functionality, accelerating your project to a much earlier completion.
the adobe® pdf library enables adobe pdf functionality to be seamlessly embedded within applications, including server-based applications.
exclude or substitute individual  components and make changes to dimension and constraint values.
exclude or substitute individual components and make changes to dimension and constraint values.
to control the unfolding geometry, inventor software supports linear unfolding, custom unfold equations, and custom bend tables.
tech soft 3d is a founding member of the3d pdf consortium, an organization comprised of developers, software vendors, end users and standards and governmental organizations, dedicated to the ongoing development of 3d pdf and prc as open standards.
to help you explore the features of hoops publish and review the benefits it can bring to your own application, you can apply for a free 60-day software evaluation from tech soft 3d. with full access to our api libraries, documentation, tutorials, sample code and training classes, tech soft 3d consulting engineers will help your team discover how our toolkits can meet your requirements.
with level of detail (lod) representations, you can switch between full  and lightweight representations to control memory consumption and increase  performance.
plastic part design functional plastic features, rule-based fillets and powerful multi-body  workflows simplify the design of high-quality molded part models.
parasolid is built on foundation capabilities that enable it to be deployed successfully in a wide variety of software applications.
document the whole part or assembly configuration using the table tool, which automatically creates the parameter table in a 2d drawing.
parasolid offers exact boundary representation for solid, generalized cellular, and integrated freeform surface/sheet modeling.
hoops exchange easily integrates with other 3d toolkits in the hoops product suite, hoops visualize and hoops publish, to create a complete framework for reading, interrogating and publishing 3d data.
file format versions tessellation b-rep pmi file formats versions tessellation b-rep pmifile formats versions tessellation b-rep pmi hoops publish is available on 32 and 64-bit windows platforms: using hoops publish together with source pdf template files, an almost limitless range of 3d pdf documents can be created .
advanced shape description create a wide range of complex geometries by easily combining solids and surfaces.
for 64-bit autocad oem 2012 • windows 7 or windows vista (64-bit) enterprise, business, or ultimate edition (sp1 or later) or windows xp professional x64 edition (sp2 or later) • amd® athlon 64, opteron® processor with sse2 technology, intel pentium 4 or xeon® processor with intel em64t support and sse2 technology • 2gb ram • 2 gb free disk space for installation • 1 gb free disk space for development • 1,024 x 768 display with true color • internet explorer 7.0 or later • visual studio 2008 (sp1) for c/c++ development; visual studio 2010 for managed development • dvd drive notes: autocad® oem 64-bit software cannot be installed on a 32-bit windows operating system.
the adobe® pdf library is based on the native technology of adobe acrobat software and offers complete functionality for generating, manipulating, rendering, and printing adobe pdf documents.
• reliability and fidelity • available for c++ and .net development (c# to be confirmed) • read/write dwg including read and write support for the autocad 2000-2011 releases (as well as r14), drawing enhancements now available with autocad 2012 and read and write support for visual studio 2010 • read/write dxf r12 and newer as well
details of which functionality is available in which package are in the product functionality table in this section.
all hoops products are tightly integrated to form a complete framework for full-spectrum application development covering file import, modification and publication.
document the  whole part or assembly configuration using the table tool, which automatically  creates the parameter table in a 2d drawing.
hoops exchange offers a range of benefits to companies building engineering applications.
ilogic highlights ilogic enables a rules-driven design for inventor oem by equipping cad designers and cad engineers with an easy-to-use solution seamlessly integrated into inventor oem.
to arrange your consultation please contact us today.
automate tedious design tasks by adding higher than ever before levels of  intelligence to your digital prototypes.
the acrobat pro bundle was specifically created to support oems, systems integrators, independent software vendors and enterprise it developers who want to incorporate adobe pdf functionality into new or existing applications and workflows.
tech soft 3d is a founding member of the3d pdf consortium, an organization comprised of developers, software vendors, end users, and standards and governmental organizations, dedicated to the ongoing development of 3d pdf and prc as open standards.
write: dwg files for autocad software release 14, 2000, 2000i, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2012.
across the manufacturing and construction industries, both individual users and enterprises recognize the benefits of 3d pdf and are widely adopting it within their engineering document workflows.
the autocad® oem platform provides software developers with a robust foundation to help them quickly create highly customized, affordable software solutions.
“we believe our experience with autocad architecture oem is a perfect example of the value of that program.
prc is the foundation of 3d pdf data archiving and visualization technology.
hoops exchange delivers the highest performance file-reading capability available, so you can compete effectively in different markets without any dependency on proprietary cad systems and without having to develop all the file-reading technology in-house.
hoops publish integrates with adobe's acrobat pro bundle and pdf library sdk for expanded 3d pdf options within your application.
to create a custom application using inventor oem use the inventor  api and supply your functionality through an add-in.
extends inventor’s parameter types to include boolean, string and  multi-value lists.
for more information on licensing autocad oem, please contact us here.
we would be glad to arrange a consultation with a member of our business  development team to review your specific project and provide detailed licensing  information based on your own requirements.
hoops exchange export: applications using hoops exchange export can simply integrate with external workflows by exporting iges, parasolid, step, stl and u3d.
autocad oem 2012 development platform supports objectarx® programming environment, visual lisp®, activex®, vba programming environments, and the .net framework.
for each tech soft 3d product, licensing and license fees are designed to provide excellent value, helping developers spend their r&d funds efficiently and quickly deliver successful products to market.
docupoint could not have developed such an industrial-strength product, used by the largest autocad customers in the world, without access to the features available in a tool/utility like realdwg.
the software can drive the automatic design and creation of intelligent components, such as plastic parts, steel frames, rotating machinery, tube and pipe runs and electrical cable and wire harnesses.
32- and 64-bit) • linux® (32- and 64-bit) • ibm® aix® (32- and 64-bit) • hp-ux (itanium and pa risc, 32- and 64-bit) • sgi irix
by integratinghoops publish in your own application, you can simply generate 3d pdf documents that can be read by the vast majority of the world's desktops.
whereas parametric design allows the capturing of design intent, ilogic design in inventor oem allows the capture of design intelligence and offers the possibility for custom design of standard parts.
sheet metal styles generate flat patterns that accurately reflect your manufacturing  capabilities.
it is independent of autodesk licensing, allowing you to control the  licensing.
the  software can drive the automatic design and creation of intelligent components,  such as plastic parts, steel frames, rotating machinery, tube and pipe runs and  electrical cable and wire harnesses.
lets users add knowledge to existing designs with full support for iparts  and iassemblies.
• multi-level licensing allows you to deliver a cost-effective solution.
“the transition of the ttf library to the hoops exchange library, the improvements in the functional content of the hoops exchange technology, and maybe most importantly, the knowledge, expertise and support of the entire tech soft 3d organization has reassured softech that we made the right decision,” jay pappas, productcenter product manager, softech.
autocad oem does not support windows xp home, windows vista home premium, or windows vista home basic as development platforms.
it delivers a wide range of 3d data types in all major cad and 3d formats via a rich set of apis that provide ease of implementation as well as full control over the data delivered.
the branding is configurable so you can define your own application name,  splash screen, application icons, executable name, etc.
the autocad® oem cad development platform empowers you to build custom autocad®-based applications that contain only the features, commands, menus, and design data your customers require.
a plug-in is also provided to export 3d and visualization data from autodesk 3ds max.
using the inventor oem sketch environment, you can quickly capture  design ideas as versatile 2d layouts.
simplify rules-based design with easy-to-use, clickable tools that any  inventor user working at the individual and engineering workgroup level can use  – even those with little or no programming experience.
parasolid bodyshop – access advanced healing, geometry repair and model clean-up while enhancing interoperability with parasolid tolerant modeling™ technology.
to arrange your consultation pleasecontact us today.
construct 3d part geometry from a closed set of surfaces, and incorporate imported surface data into the model using the sculpt tool to modify existing parts by adding or removing material.
it is independent of inventor with regards to shared files and registry  entries.
" - docupoint parasolid® is the world’s premier 3d geometric modeling kernel technology, selected by leading application vendors and end-user organizations as their preferred platform for delivering innovative 3d solutions with unparalleled modeling power, versatility and interoperability.
tech soft 3d licensesparasolid in three different commercial packages: designer, editor and communicator.
huw jones, chairman, synchro hoops exchange is the best-in-class, high-performance 3d data access toolkit allowing software developers to easily extend engineering applications with the capability to access all major cad and 3d file formats.
using the acrobat pro bundle, you can develop software that integrates with acrobat and adobe reader in several ways: for each tech soft 3d product, licensing and license fees are designed to provide excellent value, helping developers spend their r&d funds efficiently and quickly deliver successful products to market.
leopard (mac os x 10.6)
hoops exchange import: hoops exchange import enables your applications to quickly and accurately import data from proprietary formats including catia, creo parametric, pro/engineer, nx, solid edge and solidworks, and also a range of industry standard formats including iges, step and stl for manufacturing applications, and industry foundation classes (ifc) for construction applications.
you can choose to include inventor commands as-is or create your own commands.
ilogic introduces a design for reuse and automation methodology that is the next logical step in parametric modeling.
autocad oem makewizard is a graphical interface that makes it easy for you to create customization.
available for 32-bit and 64-bit read: dwg™ and dxf™: every version of autocad® design software through autocad 2012
by incorporating a rich data-access capability within your applications you are able to provide your products into engineering workflows that rely on access to third-party cad or 3d data formats.
use the native dwg libraries • high level of confidence when sharing design data.
using inventor ilogic you can: a rules driven design solution the ilogic module allows designers and engineers to capture and embed engineering and product knowledge directly into virtual models.
direct access to autocad ws web and mobile applications allows your customers to view, edit and share designs from a web browser or mobile device a product developed using autocad® oem software can provide customers with a subset of the complete autocad®feature set, in addition to custom features created by theautocad®oem developer.
inventor oem gives you precise control of shape characteristics such  as tangency and continuity.
once this application is approved, tech soft 3d will be providing with a contract to review and sign.
for information on licensing realdwg®, please contact ushere "docupoint's app, drawingsearcher, is a robust web browser-based search engine able to find any alpha-numeric text across hundreds-of-thousands of autocad drawings in real-time.
parasolid® component software is the world’s premier 3d geometric modeling kernel technology, selected by leading application vendors and end-user organizations spanning multiple industries as their preferred platform for delivering innovative 3d solutions with unparalleled modeling power and versatility.
control sheet metal unfolding with styles that define the material thickness, bend rules, and corner reliefs.
dxf files can be written back to autocad software release 12 version.
to create a custom application using inventor oem use the inventor api and supply your functionality through an add-in.
combining the power of constraints with easy-to-use tools for modifying sketches lets you try different design concepts and control color and line style, allowing you to find the best way to convey your design ideas.
your application might only need to use the 'part  function'.
ilogic is used to define the product behaviors, using logimetric rules,  that result from changing the design input values.
ilogic highlights uses the power of autodesk inventor to capture initial parametric design  intent.
hoops visualize is the only visualization platform with a history of driving leading commercial engineering software across the entire application industry.
construct 3d part geometry from a closed  set of surfaces, and incorporate imported surface data into the model using the  sculpt tool to modify existing parts by adding or removing material.
for 32-bit autocad oem 2012 • microsoft® windows® 7 or windows vista® enterprise, business, or ultimate edition (sp2 or later) • intel®
in addition there is a further optional package for advanced healing of models.
parasolid’s foundation capabilities include: in addition to these foundation capabilities there are a wealth of further features available depending on the level ofparasolid licensing selected: communicator, editor or designer.
• full compatibility with acrobat x • support for windows platforms (32- and 64- bit) • support for linux 64 bit platforms •
hoops exchange parasolid hoops visualize autodesk realdwg hoops publish adobe pdf library autodesk autocad oem autodesk inventor oem acrobat pro bundle consulting training news and innovations from our development team video channel getting started with our products executive team global offices press releases e-newsletter careers events if you develop with hoops publish, tech soft 3d's unique licensing program gives you the opportunity to bundle adobe acrobat x pro alongside your application.
3d pdf documents produced usinghoops publish can include a range of graphics, data and dynamic interactive 3d content that significantly enriches the communication of intent through the design and manufacturing supply chain.
software application developers who currently provide output to common 3d data formats can easily integrate hoops publish lite into their applications with a minimum of additional code to add a rich 3d pdf publishing capability to their products.
by integratinghoops publish into your application, your products can be easily enabled to deliver native-readable 3d pdf documents.
some of the most recognizable customers of the adobe pdf library are prominent adobe products, including adobe acrobat, reader®, photoshop®, illustrator®, indesign®, and framemaker® software; adobe livecycle™ server products family; the adobe postscript® language; and others.
the advanced modeling and read/write capabilities of the popular xt format will boost your application’s precision and appeal.
gronum smith, director sales/marketing and isak theron, director/gui development manager, emss build custom applications using autodesk® inventor® oem to accelerate your engineering development project using a world-class oem software platform.
hoops exchange provides all the integration controls a development team requires to easily build robust data-access into an application.
your customers don't need  to know that it is based on inventor since it is installed using your  installer, licensed with your licensing, and is branded as your product  (application name, splash screen, and various other icons), save the  "powered by autodesk inventor" graphic in the zero-document state.
native shrinkwrap gives you the ability to manage large assemblies by  converting sub-assemblies into simplified part models or lightweight surface  models.
improved print output to bring it closer to acrobat • core dynamic libraries and header files provided •
platform products autodesk autocad
give your application file-reading, faceting, clash detection, face sewing and sectioning capabilities, and calculate hidden lines, geometric intersections, mass properties and minimum distances.
your customers don't need to know that it is based on inventor since it is installed using your installer, licensed with your licensing, and is branded as your product (application name, splash screen, and various other icons), save the "powered by autodesk inventor" graphic in the zero-document state.
you can choose to include inventor commands as-is or create your own  commands.
sheet metal styles generate flat patterns that accurately reflect your manufacturing capabilities.
the best-in-class performance combined with the broad range of data provided by the libraries makeshoops exchange the perfect choice for use in technical applications where precision and accuracy are critical.
divide the 3d component to define the molded parts, using tools to identify silhouette curves for optimum parting plane geometry and multibody operations that make it easy to split the part into separate bodies.
if cad import is required directly into your application, you must license hoops exchange.
parasolid designer delivers the full power of parasolid functionality for unlimited creation, manipulation, interrogation, and storage of 3d models.
built on the industry standard autocad platform, these applications have reliable underlying technology that has been heavily tested both in the lab and on the desktops of millions of users.
• create host programs that run your autocad oemsoftware development platform in a child window, microsoft® windows® .net
this means it can be installed on a machine that has inventor or  another oem application.
large assembly performance realize the benefits of 3d design when developing very large assemblies.
insert and position new components in the assembly, using constraints to capture the positional relationships that define fixed and moving components.
autodesk inventor oem is a development platform that  allows you to create a stand-alone application built on autodesk inventor  technology.
to control the unfolding  geometry, inventor software supports linear unfolding, custom unfold equations,  and custom bend tables.
assembly design quickly assemble individual parts and subassemblies to define the complete  product structure.
the 3d pdf format is an open, data-rich and secure solution for sharing and archiving 3d data.
the application form is available from this website and should be returned toinfo@techsoft3d.com
example: drinks can product with multi-views (pdf, 2.1mb) example: sports car with multi-views (pdf, 9.1mb) hoops publish is available in two different configurations of product: hoops publish lite provides functionality for reading a range of standard format files from within your application and publishing to a pdf document or provided pdf template.
example: simple part with complicated pmi (pdf, 5.1mb)
the range of data provided by the hoops exchange toolkit includes: hoops exchange ensures you get everything you need to build data-exchange into your application in one self-contained development toolkit: hoops exchange gives you access to the following formats for import:format tess b-rep pmi xx x x*: tessellation generated by hoops exchange x': limited pmi available hoops exchange gives you access to the following formats for export:format tessellation b-rep pmi hoops exchange is made available to your developers in two separate packages, one for reading and one for writing 3d data.
they can also take advantage of full compatibility with the latest pdf specification; full interoperability with adobe products; consistent, reliable support on a broad range of platforms; as well as high-performance, scalability, and optimized pdf processing.
with easy-to-use  authoring capabilities and an intuitive user interface, inventor oem ilogic  integrates seamlessly with inventor oem.
in combination with other itw building software applications and business entities, our visionrez application is driving industry change through lean manufacturing technology and processes.”
note: realdwg 64-bit software cannot be installed on a 32-bit windows operating system.
at its core, hoops visualize provides a flexible, hierarchical scene-management engine capable of handling a range of graphics entities, together with a sophisticated graphics pipeline and high-performance graphics and interaction handling algorithms.
the benefit of using inventor oem over writing an application that runs in inventor is that you can package your application with inventor oem and deliver it as your own application.
defines product behavior based on true or false input or property values,  such as material type, mass or even custom properties.
for 32-bit realdwg 2012 • microsoft® windows® 7 enterprise, ultimate, or professional edition, microsoft® windows vista® enterprise, business, or ultimate edition (sp2 or higher), or microsoft® windows® xp professional edition (sp3) •
all applications are reviewed and considered on a case-by-case basis by autodesk.
• activation control enables your customers to interact with your autocad oem design software while remaining in the host program or browser.
for dgn, hoops provides basic capabilities to directly import dgn cad and wireframe information.
only the files required for your application are included in your product, shortening its build time and optimizing its size.
insert and  position new components in the assembly, using constraints to capture the  positional relationships that define fixed and moving components.
this level is useful for cam and cae pre-processing applications that must clean and simplify geometry with simple modeling operations.
3d pdf is in the process of becoming the standardized 3d file format within pdf/e (engineering) through iso (international standardization organization).
complete documentation, including an application programming interface (api) • reference guide • fonts • 16 completely functional solution samples • microsoft windows® (32- and 64-bit) • macintosh (32- and 64-bit) • sun™ solaris™(sparc
hoops visualize offers an extensive and configurable feature set, essential for creating competitive and complex 3d software applications to meet the demands of today's advanced application users.
using the inventor oem sketch environment, you can quickly capture design ideas as versatile 2d layouts.
with acrobat pro bundle, you can ship a full seat of adobe acrobat x pro alongside your application, generating new revenue streams and encouraging upgrades with an all-in-one product.
sketching evaluate different design ideas before creating detailed part and assembly  models.
control sheet metal unfolding with styles that define the  material thickness, bend rules, and corner reliefs.
it fully leverages the latest gpu innovations via both opengl and direct3d to deliver best-in-class performance and visual fidelity.
based on extremely reliable technology, used by over 4 million customers.
- jay moore, manager of business development, ameri-cad inc., an itw company hoops visualize is the industry leading 2d/3d graphics software development platform, allowing software engineering teams to rapidly develop interactive 2d and 3d applications that have the highest interactive performance and quality of visual presentation.
advanced shape description create a wide range of complex geometries by easily combining solids and  surfaces.
verify that your product can be assembled.
hoops exchange is the only data access technology based on the open prc format specification, which is progressing towards iso standardization.
over 800 object-based api functions provide the most comprehensive and robust 3d modeling platform for demanding 3d applications.
development interface: objectarx® programming environment, visual lisp®, activex®, vba programming environments, and the .net framework.
below are a few examples showing different approaches to delivering rich 3d information for the design and manufacturing process: example: crank arm with complex pmi (pdf, 5.1mb)
specific license  fees vary depending on the tech soft 3d products and modules required, the  level of service and support desired, end-user seat volumes, operating business  model, etc.
molded part definition make sure molded parts meet aesthetic guidelines for the position of  parting lines while supporting cost-effective manufacturing requirements.
don't just take our word for it...
"hoops visualize and parasolid have proven to be a powerful combined solution, accelerating our development and helping us deliver better software.
developed and used by siemens plm, parasolid is found in multiple high-end and leading mid-range cad/cam/cae products and is targeted at a broad range of applications across the product lifecycle and aims to provide robust, high-quality functionality that is easy to use and cost- effective to implement.
hoops publish is a software toolkit that can be integrated into your application to provide a rich 3d pdf publishing capability.
parasolid is tightly integrated with both hoops exchange and hoops visualize.
whereas parametric design allows the  capturing of design intent, ilogic design in inventor oem allows the capture of  design intelligence and offers the possibility for custom design of standard  parts.
molded part definition make sure molded parts meet aesthetic guidelines for the position of parting lines while supporting cost-effective manufacturing requirements.
parasolid editor provides an extended subset of parasolid functionality that is ideal for analysis, manufacturing and other downstream applications that need to easily manipulate, edit, repair or simplify 3d models without the need for advanced modeling operations.
hoops publish provides a purpose-built publishing api built on top of the native pdf libraries from adobe® with no need for extra licensing.
the inclusion of user-friendly tools for rules-based design automation make it easier for design professionals to capture design intent and automate common tasks by creating parts that can embed higher levels of design intelligence directly into an inventor digital prototype.
intel® pentium® 4 or amd athlon® dual-core processor, 3 ghz or higher with sse2 technology, or intel pentium 4 or amd athlon dual-core, 1.6 ghz or higher with sse2 technology • 2 gb ram • 350 mb free disk space for installation • microsoft® visual studio® 2008 (sp1) development system for c/c++ development; microsoft® visual studio® 2010 for managed development • available on cd note: development of realdwg® 32-bit software on a 64-bit windows operating system is supported; however, deployment of 32-bit software on a 64-bit system is not supported.
autodesk inventor oem is essentially inventor with additional capabilities as detailed below: sketching evaluate different design ideas before creating detailed part and assembly models.
read, write and interrogate files in the xt form and exchange geometric data with other parasolid-enabled products.
assembly configurations easily design and document product families using assembly configurations to define variations from a master assembly.
rules can be added to any inventor part or assembly model  transforming it into a reusable knowledge asset.
ilogic enables a rules-driven design for inventor oem by equipping cad  designers and cad engineers with an easy-to-use solution seamlessly integrated  into inventor oem.
assembly configurations easily design and document product families using assembly configurations  to define variations from a master assembly.
it can be licensed on its own or together with these additional industry-leading toolkits to offer a complete, world-class platform of cooperative engineering software components for your applications development.
individual users and enterprises alike are rapidly recognizing the benefits of the pdf format within 3d document workflows in the manufacturing and construction industries.
docupoint wrote an additional "vectorizer" software routine on top of realdwg which allows drawingsearcher's smartzoom feature to display the many findings throughout each drawing by centering and properly zooming to enable the user to read each instance with little effort.
hoops visualize is part of the hoops product suite alongside hoops exchange, providing access to a comprehensive range of major cad and 3d formats, andhoops publish , offering an easy route to complex document generation based on the 3d pdf standard.
hoops publish 3d pdf documents also take advantage of the security features of the adobe document management technology, ensuring your built-in document production capability has the most secure distribution of any documentation system.
a large assembly “capacity meter” shows you how much  memory is available.
for each tech soft 3d product, licensing and license fees are designed to  provide excellent value, helping developers spend their r&d funds  efficiently and quickly deliver successful products to market.
hoops visualize offers a wide range of technical features, outlined below.
to help you explore the features of inventor oem and  review the benefits of building your application on theinventor platform, you can apply for a free 60-day software evaluation from tech soft  3d. with full access to the api libraries, documentation, tutorials and sample  code, tech soft 3d consulting engineers will guide your team help you discover  how our toolkits can meet your requirements.
advanced modeling tools include loft to a point,  n-sided patch, sweep normal to surface, area loft, centerline loft, g2  continuous fillets, full round fillets, and face-to-face fillets sculpt tool quickly and easily modify shape details using surfaces from inventor oem  or by incorporating imported surfaces.
by working with hoops visualize, a huge part of our development work was shared - with synchro resources being re-deployed toward enriching our system in other areas that ultimately integrate project design timing and cost. ”
introduces a new way of capturing design intent that goes far beyond what  can be achieved with only parametric design capability.
native shrinkwrap gives you the ability to manage large assemblies by converting sub-assemblies into simplified part models or lightweight surface models.
functionality designer editor communicatorfunctionality designer editor communicator developed and used by siemens plm, parasolid is found in multiple high-end and leading mid-range cad/cam/cae products.
with inventor oem you can choose which components to install; 'part'  only, 'part' and 'assembly', or 'part', 'assembly', and 'drawing' for example.
please note that to license realdwg® approval must be granted by autodesk.
get to market faster • possibility to self-brand, create/hide menus, modify commands, add/remove features • create a product that can read and write dwgtm files • greatly customizable and flexible: your developers can create specific features to target niche markets or customer-specific requirements.
there is additionally the option of licensing parasolid bodyshop , which offers advanced healing, geometry repair and model clean-up capabilities.
with easy-to-use authoring capabilities and an intuitive user interface, inventor oem ilogic integrates seamlessly with inventor oem.
it also provides reliable, accurate, and adobe-supported implementation of the latest pdf specification.
your end users can convert their work to a 3d pdf from within your application, and bring that data to acrobat x pro as a high-fidelity file for collaborative mark-up, design review, bid generation, plm documentation, manufacturing instruction and delivery of purchasing information.
developers can flexibly implement and develop powerful adobe pdf solutions in desktop environments as well as a wide range of server platforms.