though second life has no overt goal unlike a role playing game, the culture and economy are now sophisticated and lucrative enough that common physical world goals of exploration, socialization, and commerce have become sufficiently rewarding "in world" for many users.
f • wired bandwidth growth (gilder's law,nielsen's law).
google's revenue model is  the most innovative, giving 70% of the revenues from paid video content to the  content producer, allowing independent video producers to go direct-to-internet  with a revenue model far better than they've ever had before.
the main body of the roadmap.
myspace is now thefourth most popular english language website, according to alexa internet, adding an astonishing 500,000 new users a week (jul 2006).
while each particular technology paradigm will improve on a decaying exponential curve approaching a fixed performance limit, ongoing important problems usually elicit periodic technology shifts, allowing average capacity doubling times to remain relatively stable for long periods of time.
" the second life platform continues to accelerate in membership.
over an afternoon of  public driving and walking, a citizen might be photographed 200 times by the  network.
while performance, interface, and technical issues persist, this version of the metaverse is both a business success and a great training ground for first generation virtual creativity.
it is questionable whether this "multiple-burn policy" will spread to other content providers, as pornography is less socially sharable than other media.
in 2004,gloventures demo game raygun pushed current  gps technology "to its limits," updating the players position once  per second and making the player's "next three steps matter."
human pac-man was another concept game that demoed in  singapore in 2004, where the players used augmented reality goggles to capture  pellets and run from ghosts, just like the 1980's video game.
rich media-enabled social networking sites like myspace are another.
a high diversity cost of current content filters.
as roy amara of iftf says (amara's law), "we tend to overestimate the [business and social] effects of a [disruptive] technology in the short run, and underestimate the effects in the long run."
martin cooper observed that the spectrum efficiency of radio communication (both voice and data) has doubled every two and a half years, over 104 years, since radio waves were first used for communication.
ultima saw peak subscribers of 250,000 in july  of 2003.
in 2005, virtual worlds commerce was estimated at $30m in the us and $100m globally.
this has recently attracted attention in the mainstream business  media ("my virtual life," business week, 2006), but so far there has  been little political response [17].
c • "universal game theory" and the promise and limits of 3d games.
this observation, first  quantified for aircraft production in 1936, and later generalized by bruce  henderson of the boston consulting group in the 1960's, notes that the time and  cost to perform a broad range of technological tasks decreases exponentially in  repeated trials.
in 2001, the economist edward castronova published the first  online paper analyzing the impact of virtual economies.
in 1997, doug crockford wrote but did not publish"living worlds considered harmful" , a critique of the vrml web-based virtual reality community, which prioritized 3d graphics and standards over enabling "socialization" (the development of social communities within worlds).
in crowd scenes, these characters animate in a highly realistic  fashion.
consistent with kryder's law, gmail adds storage behind the scenes daily.
in most cases, given the limitations of today's online worlds, including their current non-physicality, we can see why non-virtual games will continue to outcompete virtual space for most social games for the forseeable future.
summit quote: "our metaverse concepts [in the current foresight community] are ethnocentric.
there is already a healthy business in 2d virtual world chat spaces,  where avatars navigate 2d space, make friends, participate in activities, and  purchase items.
cell phones are  the most likely platform for mobile, augmented reality interaction with  geospatial virtual worlds in coming years.
other studies estimate that youth "heavy gamers", the top 25% of youth gamers, mostly male, age 14-17 years of age, spend on the order of 20-30 hours/week playing games.
the bls'samerican time use survey (atus) is a major new undertaking that will give us insights into actual time use changes from year to year in american workplaces and households.
in contrast to game titles, which experience rapid turnover and obsolescence, synthetic worlds rarely go away once they achieve any kind of subscriber base.
nevertheless, after decades of research neglect, recent attempts to improve the nanostructure of solid battery technology have yielded dramatic improvements in cycle life (more than a 2x increase), and charge time (an impressive 15x reduction) in just the last few years.
and this is why i don't believe that avatars are going to be ubiquitous.
other studies estimate that youth "heavy  gamers", the top 25% of youth gamers, mostly male, age 14-17 years of age,  spend on the order of 20-30 hours/week playing games.
though  second life has no overt goal unlike a role playing game, the culture and  economy are now sophisticated and lucrative enough that common physical world  goals of exploration, socialization, and commerce have become sufficiently  rewarding "in world" for many users.
l • legal and political implications of virtual world use are just beginning to be considered.
[18], and the cultural effects of modern digital and interactive media recently chronicled in steven johnson's new book,everything bad is good
beginning in the mid 1960's, gordon moore observed that the price/performance ratio of computing hardware doubles every 18-24 months.
2d navigation systems come preinstalled on many new cars, boats, and planes, and are available on portable units for $200-2,000.
increasingly, such may be the case with any virtual world that develops a passionate user base, subject of course to legal and economic hurdles.
e • thefrontier paradigm is an analogy we assume has strong applicability to the future of virtual worlds [1].
diversity and deviant and mildly antisocial behavior can persist and even increase in the civilized world, but the effects of this behavior on the whole become increasingly circumscribed.
driving a car is incredibly complex, but we don't even question learning because there's so much value."
3m sells anrfid tracking solution that allows the realtime location of physical files, and other important objects throughout the office.
summit quote #2: "i was at theaustin game conference talking to a big shot from sony online, he was talking about how great it was to see sl succeeding...
the dominant virtual world story to date is medieval fantasy.
they also claim that 44% of the most frequent video game players play online games.
a range of open (scalable vector graphics ), semi-open (java) and proprietary (adobe flash, microsoft's directx 10, ms  vista'swindows presentation foundation, xaml, and dassault and microsoft's 3d  xml) 3d web enhancement standards are in competition, and each has taken many  years to develop.
of2.4 megabits/second in just 1.25 mhz of spectrum.
even the most primitive communication technologies (semaphore, morse code) remain used by a subculture interested in history.
in 2001, the economist edward castronova published the first online paper analyzing the impact of virtual economies.
k • since many of the legal liability issues of virtual spaces haven't been resolved, perhaps only smaller companies, willing to take calculated risks, can pioneer the development of virtual worlds at present.
in 2007, second life announced they would release their complex (and for newbies, difficult-to-use)
xbox 360  peaks at 8.3 million polygons (triangles) per frame (the ps3 will have only  half this, yet another reason it may be a big setback for sony).
hardware (speed, graphical realism) and interface intutiveness remain important, but they are not the primary drivers of game success, as originally envisioned by virtual reality pioneers.
myspace was initially ugly vs. friendster, but it gave people more of what they really wanted (anhtml-based rich media architecture in a simple, easy to use interface) for the purpose of showing their personality and creativity to their friends.
dramatic rise of social networks and social virtual worlds.
a few  hcmp objectives have even been achieved using biologically-inspired,  evolutionary computing strategies [22].
there are at present few signs that this kind of top-down censorship  is significantly impeding the increasing sophistication and personalization of  either the internet or its web services.
[67] a competitor to internet2 in the u.s. and an  effort to become leaders of the next generation internet.
more accurately then, we might refer to the metaverse as "the 3d enhanced web," and this roadmap is about discovering and forecasting opportunities and challenges to some of the enhancement paths.
see picture right, from "new bar codes can talk with your cellphone," louise story, ny times, 1 apr 2007.
this  is probably because our primary western and eastern cultural mythologies are  fantasies and fables adapted from our distant past.
qr codes displayed on all nippon airways kiosks now  allow cellphone users to travel with paperless electronic tickets.
ipv6 adoption will be an enabler of such 3d web advances as internet television and geospatial platforms, particularly in the longer run, once people are using a mobile geospatial web in five or more years.
the ability to easily incorporateyoutube and other video in  leading social networking sites has really improved the stickiness of online  community.
adoption of vrml, an early attempt at metaverse 1.0, ceases shortly afterward.
some believe in-game  advertising can grow significantly, but others believe such product placement  will be too disruptive to be tolerated in many game environments (e.g., picture  soft drink ads inside a medieval fantasy game).
it was also the first synthetic world seeking to attract the advertisement of  real world services within the game world.
increasingly, such may be the case with  any virtual world that develops a passionate user base, subject of course to  legal and economic hurdles.
besides blogosphere commentary on in-game activity, rmt is one of the few significant feedback systems today between events in the virtual and real world.
kitihara's law describes the evolution of fpd panels.
xbox 360 peaks at 8.3 million polygons (triangles) per frame (the ps3 will have only half this, yet another reason it may be a big setback for sony).
this is evidence that it, not services, is now  the largest marginal driver of u.s. economic growth.
by late 2004 it was clear to early observers that this was the first persistent world platform that had made it "over the hump" into sustainable exponential growth.
in the early 1990's robert poor observed that spatial network address density, a measurement of digital connectivity, doubles every 12 months in urban environments [29].
honda's navigation system provides spoken response to 700 natural language commands.
this is especially evident in the korean market.
likewise, next generation internet will  bring hd videoconferencing, 3d television and other data-intensive services,  possibly beyond the 10 year horizon for this roadmap.
when these emerge in 2008 they will enable such mobile features as television, and internet browsing while making voip calls, and the enough extra bandwidth to support location-based streaming radio in the car (a huge new market, see: predictions: business and econ)
in 2005, google released  google maps, a free web server gis application that can be embedded on any  website using the google api.
alvy ray smith of microsoft/pixar has estimated that the "reality threshold" (simulations indistinguishable from ordinary human vision) is 80 million polygons per frame, and on the order of a million motion control points on the objects within our field of view [21].
in their small annual phone survey,harris interactive estimated that the average american spent 9 hours online in 2006, up from 7 in 1999.
while still a dramatic growth rate, the doubling period is nevertheless three to four times slower than moore's law.
as fiber to the home rolls out, we can forsee a world of ubiquitous video on demand, and the opportunity forvideo wall emergence, bringing simultaneous video multicasts with internet video, hd video, group videoconferencing, 3d worlds, and other streams to large wall-sized displays in many rooms of the future home (see predictions - sci-tech, video wall).
boxxet, a website and set of tools for generating community-ranked topical interest pages, launched in 2006.
netflix's movie recommendationcollaborative  filtering system pushes consumers down the long tail of similar but more  obscure fillms.
even if such applications compete with existing provider offerings, are bandwidth intensive and force network upgrade, network providers have few options to restrict network usage.
in this decade, the rate of doubling has increased  from every 24 months to about 18 months."
ev-do revision a, allowing3.1 megabits per second [24], are scheduled for commercial release in late 2006 [25].
in contrast to game titles, which  experience rapid turnover and obsolescence, synthetic worlds rarely go away  once they achieve any kind of subscriber base.
by the early 2000's, the cost of creating popular mmogs numbered in the millions per project.
design by extremecreative
more generally, with each doubling in total production, unit  production cost for a given level of performance or capacity falls by a  predictable and generally constant percentage.
e • digital storage capacity growth (kryder's law).
these emerging “network neutrality” policies bode well for u.s.  consumer rights to run complex 3d applications in coming years.
this will  allow users of portable and wearable electronics to recharge while waiting,  eliminating one of the major problems with current portability of the 3d web.
bob metcalf noted that the total value of a network to its users grows exponentially, and may be as high as the square of the total number of users/nodes (n squared, though the actual value is probably closer ton log(n)).
"for nearly three decades--from the  late 1960s to the end of the 1990s--the light output levels from packaged led  devices have roughly doubled every two years, based on observations and  projections by roland haitz.
the faces of  the best digital actors intoy story (1996) had over 100 motion control points.
[18], and the cultural  effects of modern digital and interactive media recently chronicled in steven  johnson's new book,everything bad is good
summit quote: "first generation technologies are usually net dehumanizing, they have disruptive social effects, are crude, and don't get the interface right.
john smart has charted stepwise efficiency/performance advances of 10,000x, 100,000x, 1,000,000x and beyond with incremental redesign in microscopic systems, advances that greatly exceed the average magnitude of gains we see from system redesign at the macroscopic scale.
in august 2005, the fcc adopted the following guidelines regarding network neutrality: d 1.
most classes of technology problems  show experience curve price/performance improvements from 10 to 30% with each  doubling of production.
having one's life experiences auto-archived, persistently available, and only a voice query away is a threshold with major implications, including both personal empowerment and the potential for abuse of privacy, if accessible to others.
in combination with vision simulation, a number of virtual reality  simulators (pilot trainers, combat trainers, etc.) use onset cues to provide  kinesthetic feedback in highly immersive environments without requiring motion  through space.
there is a gap between advertising dollars spent on television, print, and other media versus video games.
some original quotes remain, but most have been edited and interpreted by asf staff in subsequent research.
registration in such worlds is free but access to activities and purchase of virtual items (furniture, etc.)
what's more, its growth as a percentage of our total economy is an anemic 3% per year, a doubling time of 23 years [35].
human pac-man was another concept game that demoed in singapore in 2004, where the players used augmented reality goggles to capture pellets and run from ghosts, just like the 1980's video game.
projecting this forward into the next generation bandwidth  technology, fiber to the home, utah'sutopia initiative is today delivering 30  megabit per second access to 14 lucky cities in utah, and will soon offer 100  megabits/second.
the mass-accessible lifelog threshold for email was crossed in 2004 with the advent ofgoogle gmail, which began by offering 1 gigabyte of free email storage to users.
the metaverse is a shared social space that needs 3d capacity, but there are many instances where it will not be 3d.
rapidly increasing storage capacity has enabled successive thresholds in database complexity, allowing the mass storage and manipulation of digital pictures, audio, video, hd video, etc.
to date none has received major support in developer time or funding from the volunteer community.
yahoo im avatars can be upgrade with faces,  outfits, and backgrounds for a small fee.
relevant facts in the history of metaverse  development.
wireless games will grow  the fastest, 28% per year, to $2.3 billion in the u.s. and $4.2 billion in asia  by 2010 [39].
in fact, the chinese effort shares many features of failed soviet centralized information control programs from the 1950s to 1980’s, a far simpler era in terms of information management.
in 1994, dave gobel spun knowledge  adventure worlds (renamedworlds inc. in 1995) out of knowledge adventure to  create fully navigable 3d virtual worlds for global users of the internet.
summit  quote: "talking about augmentation and youth and the fact that we adapt  [to our technology], this generation is much more game savvy than the last one.
this has recently attracted attention in the mainstream business media ("my virtual life," business week, 2006), but so far there has been little political response [17].
[the everquest world] they would quit their current job or school and make  their money there instead [1].
while each particular technology  paradigm will improve on a decaying exponential curve approaching a fixed  performance limit, ongoing important problems usually elicit periodic  technology shifts, allowing average capacity doubling times to remain  relatively stable for long periods of time.
in 2005,  virtual worlds commerce was estimated at $30m in the us and $100m globally.
flock, a web2.0 browser, is developing a  lifelog of all previous websites visited, and using this as a basis for  context-sensitive internet search queries initiated by the user, displayed  preferentially at the top of the list in the manner ofgoogle desktop.
figures below are for commercial  cylindrical batteries, cost/cycle is in 2001 prices [27,28]: type energy density charge time (80%) cycle life (80%) cost/cycle year
another moore's law-dependent constant we have observed is that increasingly complex "actions" of human labor and "modules" of human intelligence, have been achieved in a human-competitive fashion in our robotic, automation, and it systems.
a billboard qr code  presently takes up significant space, but this space will certainly shrink as  cell phone cameras and processors get better.
companies like 3b, browse3d, and spheresite have first generation 3d browsers available.
coinciding with the emergence of the world wide web, snow crash helped many early web users to begin to perceive the "space behind their screens" as nothing less than a fundamental new informational dimension to physical space.
in 1987, the first 2d chat world, or  "graphical mud,"habitat, by lucasfilm's chip morningstar and randy  farmer, was launched.
many virtual world businesses and social activities can’t be easily partitioned between physical and virtual components.
increasing system integration capabilities on small scales is another major contributor.
amd as of june 2006 offers 2.7 gb to their users, a growth rate well in excess of many user's email needs, including attachments.
3b's is the most participatory, allowing users to pull in pages and graphics from sites like myspace and flicker to create a "personalized 3d space" for others to view, but doesn't yet include community or avatars.
many historical 3d web standards (vrml, microsoft chrome,  adobe atmosphere, shockwave 3d) failed to gain traction, while others (x3d, the  vrml successor, adopted as an iso standard in 2004) have had slow adoption  rates and increasing competition from other open standards developed by  proprietary groups (microsoft's directx and xaml, intel’suniversal 3d,  others).
passively multiplayer is a research  idea for more broadly recording and sharing user data generated in virtual  worlds.
m • organic led brightness growth (haitz's law).
getting beyond science fiction myths to the real dynamics is going to take humility, systematic breadth, and a lot more repetitive publicity, analysis, and critique.
these low-latency and efficient 2d  worlds are still vastly more popular than 3d, and may remain so for some time.
this has led some to forsee  virtual worlds potential to become a low cost and low risk environment for  prototyping physical products and architectures.
a • major technological development will be a necessity for mass web collaboration and subsequent 3d web adoption.
this latter number hasn't been independently verified.
it is first and foremost a social space, allowing persistent connection, exploration, innovation, and new ways to fulfill a relatively constant set of human needs.
after this point, we may  consider our best 3d online spaces to be "hyperreal" (environments  with simulation capacity, and eventually entertainment, education and  productivity capacity, that exceeds reality).
the video game market will  continue to grow at a healthy rate for the foreseeable future, as increasingly  global youth markets are established, as non-players are targeted by new types  of games, and as gamers encounter a host of new pc, console and mobile  computing platforms and faster and better networks.
some (not all) game providers have since banned virtual asset and currency  sales, driving much of this traffic to third party sites.
at the same time, synthetic worlds hold the potential, for some, to be more compelling games than those we play in the physical world.
eliminating any signs of lag/processor overload for the 3d components, and developing entirely natural manipulation interfaces (possibly touch, verbal, or vision driven) are still significant barriers to be overcome.
this, in combination with the accelerating popularity of our larger online worlds, allows for the accumulation of significant physical world income from virtual world activities.
we don't have good security, privacy,  identity, or reputation.
given the unique properties of the microcosm, this growth is widely expected to continue in our information technology for the forseeable future, enabling exponentially more immersive and intelligent virtual worlds with each passing year.
there is a lot to be done, this is a very incomplete list.
it can be educational or entertaining, political or prosaic.
if that assumption is wrong, then the 10-year forecast [for mass-appeal second life-style metaverse worlds being common in 2016] could be way off."
habitat was the first successful attempt at a large-scale commercial 2d virtual community.
structural change occurs in an economy when gdp (or for the  world, gwp) or employment in one sector grows to exceed another.
sony'seyetoy has a number of exergames, and nintendo'swii console will be coming out motion controllers that will bring physical activity to the video game.
beginning with interactive cds in the 1980s, virtual tourism is slowly gaining interest.
m • in 2006, the google api was updated to support geocoding, and google sketchup, a free professional 3d modelling program, was released.
vw viewer software to theopen source community  for modification and customization.
in addition to enabling ubiquitous portable electronics, nanobatteries will eventually allow hybrid electric vehicle owners to recharge their batteriesas fast as they fill their gas tanks, at fast charge stations like posicharge.
such constant performance advances are strong evidence that not only hardware,  but software will continue its accelerating ability to deliver simulated  reality.
despite several korean studies linking broadband development with economic prosperity and social welfare, and the obvious value of broadband as a platform for web 2.0 innovation, there are no government initiatives to accelerate broadband development in the united states.
konami'sdance dance revolution and imitators are a flagship exergame.
the mass-accessible  lifelog threshold for email was crossed in 2004 with the advent ofgoogle gmail,  which began by offering 1 gigabyte of free email storage to users.
they see 3d geospatial  visualization programs like google earth as major new tools for "location-based simulation."
that is the most conservative business strategy at present.
third generation technologies, with luck and repeated feedback, are usually net humanizing."
but it is simple enough for the early adopters (if not the masses) who want the freedom to make their own spaces and stories.
could augmented reality systems, for example, when they arrive, pull people out of our virtual worlds and digital spaces and back into physical space in large numbers?
some of the  free user-rated content is so interesting and tagged to user interests that it  would, if downloaded to adigital video recorder (dvr) be preferable to watching  regular television in the evening for some users.
b • virtual world persistence.
in other words, you've gone backwards, which is why most 3d scientific visualizations are confusing toys that people don't use.
making a bet on in-game  placement, microsoft recently purchased the in-game advertising company,massive  inc. michael cassidy of xfire at e3 2006 said "$15 billion is spent on tv  advertising.
such constant performance advances are strong evidence that not only hardware, but software will continue its accelerating ability to deliver simulated reality.
exploring and building virtual  worlds on the internet, 1998), anthropologist jim funaro, and science  fiction writer keith ferrel started thecontact consortium, a network to serve  as a catalyst and forum for the emerging medium of multi-user virtual worlds  and virtual communities in cyberspace.
countries wth better quality and more ubiquitous broadband, like korea,  are likely to have significantly higher percentages.
ogs was the first private sector organization of companies, government agencies and universities chartered to develop public interface specifications to geo-enable the web.
in 2005, in korea, successful  lawsuits have been conducted against game providers by those who have lost  their virtual items due to game-server insecurities [1].
exergames reverse the bias that video  games will continue to contribute to the obesity epidemic presently seen in all  youth in the developed worlds and many in the emerging nations.
communities and platforms (aol, etc.) can provide  such filters, but presently in a coarse-grained manner, that involves a loss of  diversity.
[67] a competitor to internet2 in the u.s. and an effort to become leaders of the next generation internet.
the creativity of the space is limited.
[at the present time].
in the way it is currently measured by the economics and statistics administration (esa) of the department of commerce, the u.s. information technology sector (it hardware, software, and services, including communications, both business and consumer) contributed only 8% to u.s. gdp in 2003
hmds are likely to remain niche applications for the  forseeable future (see predictions, tech and science).
broadcast pioneer david sarnoff noted the value of a broadcast network to the broadcaster is linearly proportional to the number of users.
if you don't stay in with your fellow gamers you feel like they're racing ahead."
it has the potential to represent anything: real world data  sets (as in google earth, gis, and scientific visualization), socially  constructed visions (myspace,second life), thematic visions (as corporate  collaboration platforms, role playing games, or worlds with physics unlike our  own).
b • there is presently very weak broadband leadership at the federal level.
most classes of technology problems show experience curve price/performance improvements from 10 to 30% with each doubling of production.
coke studios (coca cola, inc.) is the most successful branded 2d world where users trade music, wander, chat, and collect items for their 2d "studios."
in 1995 gobel madestarbright world, the first broadband virtual world and one of the first vw therapy applications, to help hospitalized children overcome their isolation.
people are drawn to many 2d games, like tetris or puzzle pirates.
their policies and mechanics are inherently in conflict."
in short, a complex and changing set of motivations.
today's structured audio is not yet cd quality, but if the historical  growth rate continues, we may see such a format used in portable players in  2012.
there are many standards bodies:iso, ansi, w3c, etc.
the era of public annotation of the planet begins.
in 2004, marvel comics sued ncsoft, publisher ofcity of heroes (coh), the first major mmog based on the superhero comic action genre.
in  coming years, when we have significantly faster computers, and can rapidly tour  "interactive los angeles" or "interactive yosemite" and  sample micronarratives before deciding which of the many possible experiences  we will take in a given day, and when this platform is integrated into  tomorrow's browsers and today's passive, narrative-driven experiences likela  city view or the travel channel, virtual tourism is likely to be a very  compelling activity.
the first official 2005 dataset has not yet been released, butearly datasets have been analyzed in the first atus conference.
it's interesting that they're  early here as well."
h • mmogs like world of warcraft (wow) have been called “the new golf” (only partially tongue in cheek) among online gamers because they are an excuse to get together and talk about real world life (business, social events) while engaging in automatic and ritualized behavior.
the metaverse is representational.
in 1996, nintendo’s,super mario 64 introduced a new era for the 3d platform game genre, allowing players to creatively explore and interact with a virtual world in three dimensions without restriction.
in 2004, according to the entertainment software  association: [7] - more than 50% of the us population over the age  of 6 plays video or computer games at least occasionally.
some believe in-game advertising can grow significantly, but others believe such product placement will be too disruptive to be tolerated in many game environments (e.g., picture soft drink ads inside a medieval fantasy game).
b • from janna anderson’s research, the key themes of any communication technology center around addressing such values as: c - identity, reputation, and trust - security and privacy - connection, persistence, and community - ease of use, portability, interoperability - affordability and value each community of users has a threshold value for each of these that must be met before a social space will be broadly adopted.
it's hard to imagine anything powerful enough to reverse our virtualization trend, and yet it must eventually stop growing, and it is a key assumption that it will continue.
h • flat panel display (fpd) growth (nishimura's, kitihara's and odawara's laws).
beginning in the mid 1960's, gordon moore observed  that the price/performance ratio of computing hardware doubles every 18-24  months.
that process is  automated, so we can do that easier and easier with the demo files and high-res  photos."
a few hcmp objectives have even been achieved using biologically-inspired, evolutionary computing strategies [22].
most technologies at the human scale, such as transportation, eventually saturate, though they may proceed through many decades of exponential improvement, through a range of paradigms, before they do so.
this hardware advance enabled us to move from planar 2d worlds and 2.5d sprites to true 3d games.
get up move a site that promotes fitness with exergames, reports that people have lost weight and improved school performance by using them.
the number of online worlds was doubling roughly every two years, consistent with moore's law [1].
adoption of vrml, an early  attempt at metaverse 1.0, ceases shortly afterward.
f • 3d desktop prototypes.
the next networking protocol, ipv6, already in early deployment, will move us beyond the present 4.3 billion addresses of ipv4 (allowing not even one ip address per person) to 3.4x10^38 addreses, or 50 octillion for each of the 6.5 billion people alive today, plenty enough to give every important physical item, no matter how small, its own connection to the web.
we may still be in or just leaving stage 1, the  dehumanizing stage, of john smart's proposedthree stages of technological  development.
we may still be in or just leaving stage 1, the dehumanizing stage, of john smart's proposedthree stages of technological development.
while  performance, interface, and technical issues persist, this version of the  metaverse is both a business success and a great training ground for first  generation virtual creativity.
people with time and patience can createannotations of their local spaces and journeys using tools like google maps [20], and there is a mash-up startup that revolves around people telling their personal travel stories in sharable cartographic journals.
prior to this, all 3d  cards for desktop pcs were simply aids to the cpu.
this has allowed successively more computing-intensive performance  thresholds (desktop publishing, 3d graphics, pda's etc.) to be crossed for mass  market ict devices.
many are creating  new digital rights management (drm) systems for distribution of proprietary  content.
this would be a global transition, or phase change, that technology scholars and futurists call the "technological singularity."
a recent nyt article [49] noted that netflix , the online dvd rental service, with 5 million subscribers and 60,000 titles,  has more than half (35-40k) of these titles rented out in any particular day.
" the second life  platform continues to accelerate in membership.
in korea, where  broadband penetration is greatest, a 2000 study estimated that 80% of all youth  (8-24 years) played games online at least once a month.
see also "a brief history of the virtual world " (bruce damer interview, cnet)," 2006 m 2.
wh/kg 12 (8-16) hrs 250 (200-300) $0.10 1860 nicd 62.5 (45-80) 1 hr 1500 $0.04 1899 alkaline 80 (initially) 2.5 (2-3 hrs 1100 (200-2000) $0.30 1949 nimh 90 (60-120) 3 (2-4) hrs 400 (300-500) $0.12 1989 li-ion 135 (110-160) 2.5 (2-3) hrs 750 (500-1000) $0.14 1991 li-ion nanobattery 150 (est.)
foresight frameworks call forth a broad set of future-relevant information, but do not fully address any category.
violation of this assumption causes very real mental and emotional effects.
geotango'ssilvereye is a similar product.
this is a development with global implications, as it promises to eliminate the current sensory opportunity cost of spending extended time in virtual environments.
as examples of progress, but offers  no specific monies, strategy, or program.
on 3g phones with good built-in cameras, even qr codes on billboards can be resolved by the camera phone, to play a movie trailer, provide a coupon code, etc.
in 2007, second life announced they would release their complex (and  for newbies, difficult-to-use)
polygon count generated by leading video game hardware doubles roughly every 2 years.
honda's navigation  system provides spoken response to 700 natural language commands.
between 1997 and 2003, the it sector's contribution to  marginal gdp growth averaged 40%, and was as high as 80% in some recessionary  years (digital economy 2003, table 1.1).
q 2c. current conditions - social, legal and other •
linden lab (creators of second life) is a rare  example of a company willing to accept the emergence of loosely controlled  user-generated content and expression within their world, including  pornographic content on the adult version of the world, and user mashups  involving visual imagery that is not their own intellectual property.
there is already a healthy business in 2d virtual world chat spaces, where avatars navigate 2d space, make friends, participate in activities, and purchase items.
mpeg-4 aac audio compression, available on today's ipod, offers modest additional compression over mp3.
second life is primitive vs. other virtual worlds
looking glass is a mostly 2d  environment, but desktop objects become as manipulable as pieces of paper in  the physical world, with windows, objects, and tabs that move, zoom, stack, and
after this point, we may consider our best 3d online spaces to be "hyperreal" (environments with simulation capacity, and eventually entertainment, education and productivity capacity, that exceeds reality).
since batteries were  commercialized 147 years ago we have seen just two doublings in energy density  (a modest constant of 0.9% capacity growth per year), three doublings in cycle  life (1.4% improvement/year, and six halvings in charge time (3%  improvement/year).
as the market develops, software should increasingly become the key differentiator among competing vt systems, as we have seen with video games and online worlds.
i • battery energy density growth, cycle life growth, and charge time  reduction, and thepervasive computing threshold.
c • polygon count growth, motion control point growth, and the reality  threshold (smith).
nevertheless, after decades of research neglect, recent  attempts to improve the nanostructure of solid battery technology have yielded  dramatic improvements in cycle life (more than a 2x increase), and charge time  (an impressive 15x reduction) in just the last few years.
controlling copy count still seems by far the most prevalent future business model for providers of most types of proprietary content, with promotional samples and small independent material available free on public download sites.
there is a natural tension between those trying to set the code free and those trying to gain ip control over it, or legislate public conduct.
h.263 video encoding (1995) is twice as good ash.261 (1990), and h.264/mpeg-4 v10 (2003) is twice as good asmpeg-4 v1 (1998).
will tomorrow's social networks and ai systems reverse the declining time we presently spend in real world social interactions, or will we keep choosing to spend more and more of our free time "inside boxes, sitting in front of boxes?"
d • 3d worlds do not yet provide a useful work experience for most people, nor have enough features that integrate into people's nonvirtual lives.
the network can be used to visually search for the car and the pedestrian throughout the city if an arrest is warranted.
as ceo philip rosedale says, "this extends the control residents can have over the second life experience and allows a worldwide community to examine, validate and improve the software’s sophistication and capabilities.”
prior to this, all 3d cards for desktop pcs were simply aids to the cpu.
as image recognition improves, such networks will allow a virtual realtime map of city auto and foot traffic, a major advance for secure cities.
first available in the diamondrio  pmp300 in 1998, cd-quality mp3's (128kbps mpeg-1 layer 3), had a 10x  compression over files in thepulse code modulation (pcm) based compact disks  that played on sony's first portable cd player, thediscman d-50, in 1984.
summit quote: "i remember in ny when the internet was getting to be something, the lawyers were early.
as john smart and others have observed, with rare exceptions, culture changes more slowly than business, and business changes more slowly than technology.
games likeuru live, the never-finished online myst successor, have been kept alive by the beta user community.
many classes of accelerating technological change have been, in the long term, a surprisingly constant and inexorable progression, and they present major opportunities and challenges for social guidance in the process.
it spawned a decade of increasingly popular text-based virtual communities run on servers.
the attractiveness of virtual tourism systems seems today to be a complex function of hardware (speed and resolution), design (interface intutiveness), and software (story appeal and usefulness in connection to "real world" activities).
according tonielsen/netratings, less than half of all americans (142 million of 295 million total) were active internet users in 2004.
ray kurzweil has extended this observation back 120 years, charting an initial doubling rate of 36 months for mechanical computing devices of the late 1800's.
he notes that the gdp per capita in everquest's norrath, the most popular synthetic world for u.s. players at the time, was four times higher than that of india and china[3].
open apis for tagging the web and tying it to the world, likegoogle maps, are another.
differential learning curves of technology,  business, and society (smart).
in habitat the user was represented as anavatar , a term coined by chip morningstar from the sanscrit avatara (incarnation of a higher being).
read"2d is better than 3d,"
flock, a web2.0 browser, is developing a lifelog of all previous websites visited, and using this as a basis for context-sensitive internet search queries initiated by the user, displayed preferentially at the top of the list in the manner ofgoogle desktop.
one development being enabled  by this is thelifelog, a storage system that allows persistent global access,  retrieval, and potential sharing of all past information generated by an  individual user's life experience, in various data categories (email, websites  visited, gps coordinates visited, audio, video, etc.).
j • network address density growth (poor's law) and the transparent society.
imagemodeler by realviz, available for all the major 3d animation packages, is another such professional tool (using 2d photos as input).
summit quote #1: "as an outsider one of the reasons why second life works is because you've got management who was willing to take the positions that they've taken on sex and ip etc.
they also claim that 44% of the most frequent video game  players play online games.
in japan, companies like gaiax have built social networking websites that allow their users, as one of many community options, to invite each other to online games and virtual worlds.
problems and  indicators.
technology exists for our own convenience, not just society’s convenience.
summit quote: "millions of people use wow. it's complex
reputation-based public wikis, likewikipedia, are pioneering examples of participatory web technology.
the current spec has an alphanumeric data capacity of 4,296 characters.
amd as of june  2006 offers 2.7 gb to their users, a growth rate well in excess of many user's  email needs, including attachments.
we're going to have a real hard time getting away from it [for many applications].
e • business models  are emerging that allow humans to do piecework in cyberspace (and with gold  farming, even in virtual worlds), and even to train simple ai programs.
this observation is named after mark kryder, a storage  research pioneer.
the us, europe, and china are all  experimenting with virtual geographic environments for city planning, building,  construction, modeling.
b •  miniaturization growth and theunreasonable efficiency of the microcosm  (kurzweil, mead, smart).
d • 3d worlds  do not yet provide a useful work experience for most people, nor have enough  features that integrate into people's nonvirtual lives.
projecting this forward into the next generation bandwidth technology, fiber to the home, utah'sutopia initiative is today delivering 30 megabit per second access to 14 lucky cities in utah, and will soon offer 100 megabits/second.
in late 2007, qualcomm will release cdma ev-do  revision b data modem and cellphone chips to card makers, which will provide up  to14.7 megabits per second on downlink.
summit quote #2: "we've seen tremendous growth in the non-generative spaces like everquest, wow, legend.
you will know a particular metaverse will have arrived when it has healthy commercial endeavors, marketing, taxation, and crime.
consumers are entitled to access the lawful  internet content of their choice; 2.
[41] for 3d drawbacks  (increased cognitive overhead, as we are evolutionarily optimized for 2d  interaction at a distance), and"2d vs 3d, implications on spatial  memory," [42] for 3d advantages (better task memory, as we use 3d up  close).
[41] for 3d drawbacks (increased cognitive overhead, as we are evolutionarily optimized for 2d interaction at a distance), and"2d vs 3d, implications on spatial memory," [42] for 3d advantages (better task memory, as we use 3d up close).
o 1b. history - business and economics •
it's interesting that they're early here as well."
pricewaterhousecoopers estimates that the worldwide video game market, a $28 billion industry today, will be$46.5 billion in 2010, an annual growth rate of 11.4%, triple the gdp growth in developed economies over the same period.
as touradj ebrahimi notes [36], algorithmic efficiency in video compression has doubled every five years for the last fifteen years.
assumptions link directly to any input - copy the link from the lowercase letter to the right of the input.
in short, a perfect place to amplify the lessons learned in conflict and competition as a social game.
vp systems "automate the exploration of the  design space", allowing designers to try different materials and design  parameters, rapidly simulating the physical and cost characteristics of the  expected result.
some (not all) game providers have since banned virtual asset and currency sales, driving much of this traffic to third party sites.
a  sketchup add-on allows the user to export their 3d model as a .kmz file into  google earth, allowing accurate geo-referencing and accurate placement of those  models in google earth.
only today are web strategies beginning  to broadly revolutionize business, and perhaps only in another decade or beyond  should we expect them to revolutionize culture, through the spread of the  participatory web, social networks, internet television, digital democracy, and  collaborative culture.
countries wth better quality and more ubiquitous broadband, like korea, are likely to have significantly higher percentages.
r • first generation exergames, also known as active video games  (avgs), are becoming broadly adopted [69].
sold lead acid 40 (30-50)
in 2004, according to the entertainment software association: [7] - more than 50% of the us population over the age of 6 plays video or computer games at least occasionally.
many farmers work in less developed countries and sell online to affluent gamers in the more developed nations.
one of boxxet's innovations is the use of human web users to train support vector ai machines to recognize valuable aggregated content.
but even though the it sector's total share of the economy remains low, its marginal contribution to u.s. productivity is very high, indicating a structural transition is underway.
playdo in sweden has more than 300,000 registered members in 2006.habbo hotel in the uk is a similar service.
in 1999, nvidia introduced the geforce 256, the first pc card built  around a gpu (graphics processing unit) a microprocessor that brought parts of  the geometry rendering pipeline into specialized silicon.
l • onset  cues are used for realistic motion simulation in high-end simulators.
the "stickiness" of wow is that it is a shared experience.
and he said, 'oh no we can't do that because then we'll have nazis running around everywhere.'"
lawyers are already looking at the virtual worlds space, and a growing number are very interested in the issues.
this same year it also released google earth, a  free downloadable virtual earth simulation based on satellite imagery.
in this same year multiplayer online  role-playing games (morpgs) gain the technical ability to expand player numbers  beyond small groups (8-16) to very large player numbers (3,000+).
we don't have worldwide ultra-broadband or wireless  connectivity, which greatly limits efficiency and scope of the collaboration  space.
ray kurzweil has observed that many technological processes shrink by an average factor four per linear dimension per decade.
konami'sdance dance revolution and  imitators are a flagship exergame.
in  2003,second life debuted, the first 3d persistent virtual world that allows its  users to retain property rights to the virtual objects they create in the  online economy.
the public 3d metaverse begins.
flip in a manner that conveys an appealing weight and physicality.
the law further estimates that the number of bits needed to specify the image  on the screen has increased fourfold every cycle, matching moore's law for ics.
we don't have good security, privacy, identity, or reputation.
taken together, these network  theories dictate a trend toward the "participatory web:" as the  global internet develops, utility economics will drive it to become an  infrastructure that facilitates social networks, secondarily an open network,  and only tertiarily a hierarchical network.
it is questionable whether this  "multiple-burn policy" will spread to other content providers, as  pornography is less socially sharable than other media.
there is a gap between advertising  dollars spent on television, print, and other media versus video games.
but there are major technical complexities and competitive pressures working against such projects, and the benefits of interoperability are small, versus the historical course of balkanized, pluralistic, competing standards.
looking glass is a mostly 2d environment, but desktop objects become as manipulable as pieces of paper in the physical world, with windows, objects, and tabs that move, zoom, stack, and
according to the economist magazine, china has roughly 30,000 people employed specifically censoring their  domestic websites, but it’s almost all political censorship, very narrow  in scope.
less than 1% today spent on gamers.
carver mead has long noted the  "unreasonable efficiency" of the microcosm.
president bush's technology agenda gives only the expectedlip service to broadband development, and touting minor economic incentives such as a two year deferment on the plannedinternet access tax (hey look, we didn't tax your access this year!)
a good source for the business, cultural, and some of the technical history of video game development is steven kent'sultimate history of video games, 2001.
this creates a market-entry opportunity [in the small form factor screens] for amlcds made with polysilicon thin-film transistors, organic light-emitting diodes (oleds) and electronic paper."
while the actual transition might take twice this time (2022), it is clear that  within a relatively short time our best simulated realities will be  indistinguishable from physical reality.
summit quote: "we can't just take wow and mesh it with sl.
bbss were run by system operators  ("sysops") and added a new level of decentralization to virtual  community.
consider an e-commerce  site, or a virtual real estate site that has employees in the physical world,  or online social communities that involve both virtual and physical world  meetups.
kitihara's law describes the  evolution of fpd panels.
their  policies and mechanics are inherently in conflict."
bandwidth growth has since continued at the 21 month rate, with the  average premium (cable modem) user in 2006 receiving5 megabits per second of  bandwidth, exactly whatnielsen's 1998 graph predicted a typical premium user  would have in 2005.
in 1981,  vernor vinge publishedtrue names, perhaps the earliest story to  present a fully developed concept of cyberspace as an alternate world.
in 1997, ultima online  (uo) became the first 3d mmorpg.
jakob nielsen later amended this observation to note that premium internet users received new bandwidth at an annual growth rate of 50%, giving a doubling rate of 21 months from 1983-1998, a rate slower than processor capacity growth (moore's law) over this same period.
in japan, companies like gaiax have built social networking websites that allow their users, as one of  many community options, to invite each other to online games and virtual  worlds.
while the actual transition might take twice this time (2022), it is clear that within a relatively short time our best simulated realities will be indistinguishable from physical reality.
in 1997, ultima online (uo) became the first 3d mmorpg.
one development being enabled by this is thelifelog, a storage system that allows persistent global access, retrieval, and potential sharing of all past information generated by an individual user's life experience, in various data categories (email, websites visited, gps coordinates visited, audio, video, etc.).
sports are an analog for life, with clear rules, circumscribed conflict immediate if temporary resolutions, highly transparent interactions, swift punishment of cheaters, and disproportionate economic and social rewards for the victors.
first available in the diamondrio pmp300 in 1998, cd-quality mp3's (128kbps mpeg-1 layer 3), had a 10x compression over files in thepulse code modulation (pcm) based compact disks that played on sony's first portable cd player, thediscman d-50, in 1984.
we may need to see useful 3d desktops first, then an extension of this metaphor into collaborative 3d space and virtual worlds.
today, cdma evdo 1x is available from verizon wireless and sprint in the u.s.  for $60/month, delivering peak cellular modem speeds of2.4 megabits/second in  just 1.25 mhz of spectrum.
e 4b. assumptions - business and economics • metaverse builders assume an immersive 3d web and more and better virtual worlds are things people want at the present time.
it may take  another generation or two for the metaverse sector, however liberally defined,  to grow to represent the majority of us gdp or employment, but the marginal  slowdown in traditional economic sectors, as well as general economic slowdown  during the transition, is already being charted by leading economists, as with the way it worked and why it won't: structural change and the slowdown of  u.s. economic growth, gordon bjork's 1999 analysis of the maturing u.s.  economy, as it waits for the emergence of a global metaverse-enabled service  and automation economy.
each was also considered in three subcategories: a. technology and science, b. business  and economics, or c. social, legal and other domains.
in 1993, mosaic became the first widely distributed web browser (multimedia graphical user interface), to run on the windows operating system.
people will still want privacy in our publicly transparent future.
the seven year old ultima online, for example, had 150,000 paying subscribers in 2006.
if the social content is powerful enough, and the interface simple enough, we don’t care that the graphics are primitive.
in 1982, william gibson coined the term "cyberspace" in  his novelette,burning chrome.
a • internet  penetration in the us homes in 2006: 42% of americans have broadband at home.
but they do it because the payoff is so high.
d • software algorithmic efficiency and simulation/representation  capacity growth (kurzweil, ebrahimi).
in the sensor and effector space we are making a growing variety ofmicroelectromechanical systems (mems), enabling new features.
nevertheless, their use for object tracking, and their ability to feed  this data into visualizations, continues to grow.
according to the above article, highly effficient and durable high brightness leds will soon be good enough to replace halogens as automobile headlights.
some interface designers assume a 3d interface will be more intuitive or efficient than 2d, but that often isn't true.
ipv6’s mandatory security, (authentication and non-repudiation),  auto-configuration, multiple options for communication (unicast, multicast,  broadcast, anycast), logical group indexing for addresses, and 128 bit address  space (10^23 addresses per square meter of planet surface area) should be  sufficient for all global embedded devices for the foreseeable future.
this  creates a market-entry opportunity [in the small form factor screens] for  amlcds made with polysilicon thin-film transistors, organic light-emitting  diodes (oleds) and electronic paper."
2d online collaboration environments, like webex, could continue to be more efficient than anything we can create in 3d. 3d videoconferencing, which is easily available in many work environments, is used today only for special occasions, such as meetings.
summit quite: "people get porned out."
to this day, no  virtual world has ever been completely shut down unless the operating company  absolutely forced it to be.
we will need new social conventions for consented recording of  public experiences, but we see nothing that would stop large fractions of the  global population, particularly youth, from running lifelogs for personal and  trusted network use as computing technology improves.
assumptions link directly to any input - copy the link from the  lowercase letter to the right of the input.
monetary exchanges of player accounts  and the promise to provide game items to players in world, began on the new  online action websiteebay (named in sept 1997).
problems and indicators.
when these emerge in 2008 they will  enable such mobile features as television, and internet browsing while making  voip calls, and the enough extra bandwidth to support location-based streaming  radio in the car (a huge new market, see: predictions: business and econ)
in 1987, the first 2d chat world, or "graphical mud,"habitat, by lucasfilm's chip morningstar and randy farmer, was launched.
i • 2d avatarized im and chat worlds are popular and profitable, more so  than 3d.
b • miniaturization growth and theunreasonable efficiency of the microcosm (kurzweil, mead, smart).
mikioshi, a mobile online games leader, makesgunslingers 2 a combat-based cell phone lbg played in asia.
increasingly  these will maps will also have 3d (video, 3d object, and virtual world)  components.
have additional entries or feedback?
in 2004, internet penetration in china was still less than 6% of the urban population in 2004 [6], yet by that time china already had the single largest population of online gamers.
exergames reverse the bias that video games will continue to contribute to the obesity epidemic presently seen in all youth in the developed worlds and many in the emerging nations.
the faces of the best digital actors intoy story (1996) had over 100 motion control points.
arthur c. clarke made this general observation: "no communication technology has ever disappeared, but instead becomes increasingly less important as the technology horizon widens."
in 1982, william gibson coined the term "cyberspace" in his novelette,burning chrome.
providing plausible indicators and examples of  metaverse sector development is a major goal of our roadmap.
a recent nyt article [49] noted that netflix , the online dvd rental service, with 5 million subscribers and 60,000 titles, has more than half (35-40k) of these titles rented out in any particular day.
there is a gamer generation that is psychologically and  culturally augmented to navigate virtual space and socialize within and around  these environments.
we don't have robust data interchange, rich annotation (video, etc.), or conversational search.
alvy ray smith of microsoft/pixar has estimated  that the "reality threshold" (simulations indistinguishable from  ordinary human vision) is 80 million polygons per frame, and on the order of a  million motion control points on the objects within our field of view [21].
h • flat panel display (fpd) growth (nishimura's, kitihara's and  odawara's laws).
as far as we can see into our extraordinary future materials  scientists and research physicists expect these new efficiencies to continue to  emerge, driving the miniaturization trend forward, and making the idea of  highly effective and largely invisible wearable and ubiquitous computing,  sensing, effecting, and communication systems a likelihood in coming decades.
while there have been many false starts and fadeouts (tribe, ryze, yahoo! 360, etc.), today's leading 2d social networks like myspace (94 million users), xanga (27 million users),bebo (22 million users) and orkut (16 million users), etc., have experienced sustained explosive growth in recent years.
that would seem the rare thing: finding a management team willing to make those decisions again."
1d (text) and 2d are faster and more user-friendly for many types of interactions, both with data and with other people.
a number of these communities, like cyworld (18 million users), habbo hotel (7 million users) and playdo (300,000 users) also support avatars and the navigation of 2d social space, making them true "social worlds."
a few products designed in today's virtual worlds have already made the jump to the physical world.
the no. 2 telco in japan, kddi corp, has developed thelifelog pod, software that keeps track of every user action (photos, searches, mp3 listens, software runs) made through a cellphone or computer, extending one's searchable memory into even the minor details of their online history [64].slstats is a log program, activated by a watch your avatar wears in second life, that records simple statistics on the user's in-game activity.
myspace supports streaming  audio and internet video, giving it limited 3d functionality and making it very  popular with independent musicians and filmmakers.
"for nearly three decades--from the late 1960s to the end of the 1990s--the light output levels from packaged led devices have roughly doubled every two years, based on observations and projections by roland haitz.
the metaverse is  representational.
those who do so can be  publicly acknowledged at thecontributors and reviewers section of this website.
m • head mounted displays (hmds) and spatially immersive displays (sids)  likecave for virtual reality exist, but both technologies today are used only  in niche markets.
m • organic  led brightness growth (haitz's law).
this metaphor, copied by the microsoft windows operating system in 1985, opened up the computer screen as a visual portal to cyberspace in an intuitive point and click metaphor.
recall the hyperbole inwired and other leading magazines about the way the internet was going to imminently revolutionize both business and culture during the early "awe" stage of the internet (mid-to-late 1990's).
this will enable a world of embedded, ubiquitous, and pervasive computing,  as outlined in such books aswhen things start to think (2000)
carver mead has long noted the "unreasonable efficiency" of the microcosm.
unless otherwise informed, we assume an equivalent permanency, consistency, and fairness to the virtual world that we find in the real world.
we can anticipate  these significant gains to increase over the near term, taking us past a  "pervasiveness threshold," where our portable electronics will  experience no significant downtime.
they see 3d geospatial visualization programs like google earth as major new tools for "location-based simulation."
it is so advanced that, like amazon's, it is a competitive  advantage.
issues and questions, and iv.
nevertheless, there is still  significant room for advertising around the delivery of the game, as during  free downloads of advertiser-supported game modules.
this is  disproportionate to the time people spend playing, so there may be room for  significant growth in game advertising revenue.
there are many small hmd makers.emagin makes a head-mounted, head-tracking 3d visor with a 600 x 800p oled display for immersive gaming for $600.sensics uses the emagin displays to make a very expensive panoramic hmd vr system with 2200 x 1200p per eye for military customers.
even the  most primitive communication technologies (semaphore, morse code) remain used  by a subculture interested in history.
i • online virtual worlds can  already be considered places where social behavior is "prototyped,"  and several social scientists now conduct research on social behavior in  virtual worlds like second life, aided by their superior transparency to  physical space.
ultima saw peak subscribers of 250,000 in july of 2003.
and many competing standards that find their own niches.
we are very early in  collaborative productivity software, likewritely (google's online word  processor).
when you look at wow or sl the most interesting stuff comes from people who are almost living in the game, and i partly think that's because these worlds are persistent.
and it's not supposed to happen, it's actually against the  rules in most mmos."
l • onset cues are used for realistic motion simulation in high-end simulators.
in japan  today, 2d barcodes calledqr ("quick response") codes, originally used  for inventory management, are now proliferating on business cards, in magazine  ads and product packaging.
this same year it also released google earth, a free downloadable virtual earth simulation based on satellite imagery.
in 1978,  the first "1d" (text-based) chat world,mud (multi-user  dungeon/domain), by essex university's roy trubshaw and richard bartle,  emerged.
today's structured audio is not yet cd quality, but if the historical growth rate continues, we may see such a format used in portable players in 2012.
i • battery energy density growth, cycle life growth, and charge time reduction, and thepervasive computing threshold.
direct3d currently leads opengl in video games (both have major share), but opengl has developed a clear lead for academic research and scientific visualization, as well as for non-microsoft platforms.
in the early 1990's robert poor observed that spatial network address  density, a measurement of digital connectivity, doubles every 12 months in  urban environments [29].
the state of online and virtual worlds time statistics today is poor.
after a period of low initial growth, by may 2006 second life  has more than 230,000 downloads to date (paying no subscription fee) and a  transaction volume (virtual gdp) of us $60m per year.
e • business models are emerging that allow humans to do piecework in cyberspace (and with gold farming, even in virtual worlds), and even to train simple ai programs.
but  i'm not there just for the social activity.
likewise, next generation internet will bring hd videoconferencing, 3d television and other data-intensive services, possibly beyond the 10 year horizon for this roadmap.
we contend  that the emerging it-based metaverse sector, economic activity enabled and  managed by our 2d and early 3d digital web (including not only traditional it  but all digital media, geospatial web, wireless and participatory web  technologies), will surpass, encompass and redefine each of the three  traditional economic sectors in coming decades, the way each have done during  their own historical emergence.
they are in stealth mode in 2006.
the second generation is ambivalent to humanity, with new  benefits but persistent drawbacks.
the us, europe, and china are all experimenting with virtual geographic environments for city planning, building, construction, modeling.
a • computing  growth (moore's law), human-competitive machine performance (hcmp), and the  technological singularity.
worldsaway and the palace were two other early persistent worlds that debuted as technical innovations but business failures during this time.
yet we also want it to be one with fine-grained filters for those who want them, and in this function it presently fails (pornography, spam, etc.).
now with over 310 member organizations.
in most cases, certainly in its early years, we will probably want to keep metaversal 3d hidden but available.
in their small annual phone survey,harris interactive  estimated that the average american spent 9 hours online in 2006, up from 7 in  1999.
let's hope we can move  quickly to later generations of these very important social technologies.
on this laptop computer my guys at u.  arkansas flew over the city, wrote a program, and four hours later had 3,000  real life buildings virtualized with x, y, and z coordinates.
q • most virtual environments today still socially isolate us, distract us, and undereducate us more than they empower us in the physical world.
of this latter 35 they spend roughly 10 hours watching television.
this is an adaptation of  theforesight framework model of dr. peter bishop, chair of the  futures studies masters program at the university of houston.
also in 1997, electric communities beta tested the fully distributed virtual world platform ec habitats.
today's browsers are just beginning to  manage 3d web capabilities (3d graphics, games, and video).opera 9, for  example, includes "widgets" that make it easy for users to organize  their online games.
back to inputs index metaverse roadmap foresight framework inputs were solicited in four topic areas: i. industry conditions, ii.
summit quote: "there is the  idea that what happens in the virtual can be tied to the real world.
while being on a social network of some type is a prerequisite to "being cool," using an open-ended virtual world today (second life, there, project entropia) can still have the opposite effect, positioning you as "out of the mainstream."
an brief history of active  worlds, 1985 to present.
lesiglation and activism that guarantees democratic access to the network.
in 2004  the chinese launchedcernet2
2d navigation systems come  preinstalled on many new cars, boats, and planes, and are available on portable  units for $200-2,000.
public surveillance in some cities is already in an advanced state.
many of these vod aplications allow unlimited burns to disk.
3a. constants - technology and science • learning/experience curve (henderson's law).
hardcore users keep the communities alive.
nevertheless, their use for object tracking, and their ability to feed this data into visualizations, continues to grow.
within 3d spaces, we don't have easy access to professional digital modelling tools, or grid computing for data rich simulations.
nonplayer characters (npcs) in virtual worlds also are making progress in autonomy and ai, but are several years away from the scale and sophistication seen in these feature films.
n • physical hyperlinks (physical world hyperlinks) are any machine readable identifier (1d and 2d barcodes, rfid tag, image, sound, fingerprint) that can be resolved by a cell phone to dial a phone number, start an email, or facilitate a direct internet connection.
see picture right, from "new  bar codes can talk with your cellphone," louise story, ny times, 1 apr  2007.
roughly 1,000 images, 6,000 bc to the present.
of this latter 35 they spend roughly 10  hours watching television.
a number of companies have recently innovated serving video over the  internet to large numbers of users, setting the stage for the emergence of  true, network-independentinternet television (iptv).
the milestones project is an online respository for the history of advances in data visualzation.
in 2005, ebay's internet games category, hosted $30 million in trade for goods (virtual items and currency) that only exist in synthetic worlds [1].
the virtual world's features and theme may look very different, but we bring to it all our predictable social and legal norms [1].
at this rate, a two hour video on demand movie can be downloaded in six minutes [23].
polygon count generated by leading video game hardware
this same year ron brivitch and others at kaw developed an internal  project called alphaworld, which included limited property rights, multi-user  peer-to-peer construction tools, drag and drop objects that appear to all users  simultaneously, teleportation, user-authored worlds, and ai-based bots.
you are able to talk about anything you want while working your group through a relatively simple arc of gameplay.
the smaller we make our computing systems, the more efficient they become, often yielding astounding and "unreasonable" efficiency increases.
a sketchup add-on allows the user to export their 3d model as a .kmz file into google earth, allowing accurate geo-referencing and accurate placement of those models in google earth.
this perspective was persuasively outlined from the perspective of educational reform in a national academies publication, reinventing schools: the technology is now!
companies like youtube (70  million clips watched daily in july 2006),google video, apple itunes video,  ifilm, and metacafe are leading examples.
beginning with theserious games initiative in 2000, the serious games community (game-based education and training occurring outside the traditional primary and secondary educational software markets) has grown steadily.
in 2005, google released google maps, a free web server gis application that can be embedded on any website using the google api.
the current  spec has an alphanumeric data capacity of 4,296 characters.
the second generation is ambivalent to humanity, with new benefits but persistent drawbacks.
we apologize for any mistakes or misrepresentations, and hope you enjoy this rich source of community insight relevant to the future of the 3d-enabled web.
tabbed browsing makes things faster and easier."
history tells us that the initial migration to geographic frontiers is often led by those who are less enfranchised in their prior environment and thus have less to risk and more to gain.
mova's contour is a system for live action volumetric performance capture in video, mapping the performance to 3d and eliminating much of the post-production work in 3d animation.
the assumption is that people will be more creative in these spaces.
f • gold farmers are individuals who acquire  in-game currency or objects by continually defeating enemies within online  games.
as usability gurus like jakob nielsen observe ("2d is better than 3d"), if a particular information set has 100 dimensions, visualizing in 3d instead of 2d still leaves 97 that must be abstracted, but now you are saddled with the cognitive overhead of a third dimension to navigate visually and mentally.
this presently allows rapid web browsing, very light  streaming video and audio to the mobile user, and dedicated voip.
odawara's law centers on [desktop and wall mounted fpd] panel prices, stating that each doubling in the cumulative area of flat panels produced results in a cost reduction of 22 to 23 percent [per area produced].
many virtual world currencies trade at rates higher than national currencies such as the korean won and chinese yen [1].
the network can be used to visually search for the car and the  pedestrian throughout the city if an arrest is warranted.
in crowd scenes, these characters animate in a highly realistic fashion.
a number of companies have recently innovated serving video over the internet to large numbers of users, setting the stage for the emergence of true, network-independentinternet television (iptv).
books like ray kurzweil'sthe singularity is near, 2005 [35] are  commendable early efforts at charting these developmental trends, yet this  phenomenon remains largely understudied at present.
myspace supports streaming audio and internet video, giving it limited 3d functionality and making it very popular with independent musicians and filmmakers.
o • local positioning systems (lps),  extensions ofgps tracking systems in use in shipping logistics, allow the  ability to identify and inventory all objects in a local space, which in turn  can be used to improve the value of 2d and 3d gis visualizations.
consumers are entitled to competition among network providers, application and service providers, and content providers.
as a related observation, we note that cartoons with low graphical resolution are compelling even for many adults, if the story is interesting.
in 2002, project entropia (now entropia universe) launches as  the first virtual world where virtual currency can be exchanged for us dollars.
" q • most virtual environments today still  socially isolate us, distract us, and undereducate us more than they empower us  in the physical world.
that would seem the rare thing: finding a  management team willing to make those decisions again."
the 2006 esagame player data page claims that 50% of all americans play video games, and that the average male game player plays 7.6 hours, and adult female game player
most of this software is proprietary today, likesimdesigner by msc software, and noesis plm optimization software, by noesis solutions, both built on the catia  v5 product development platform of product lifecycle management (plm) software  leader dassault systems.
get up move a  site that promotes fitness with exergames, reports that people have lost weight  and improved school performance by using them.
summit quote: "first generation technologies are usually net  dehumanizing, they have disruptive social effects, are crude, and don't get the  interface right.
nothing else, just give me that.
keeping these laws on track will  require alternative technologies or new materials, or both at some point.
roadmap inputs the main body of the roadmap.
there is an ongoing primal social conflict between hackers and lawyers (politicians, hollywood, interest groups, etc.) in metaverse space.
right now it's an early adopter culture with a lot of geeks in it."
b •  software and story are today the prime indicators of success in online virtual  worlds.
a number of these  communities, like cyworld (18 million users), habbo hotel (7 million users) and  playdo (300,000 users) also support avatars and the navigation of 2d social  space, making them true "social worlds."
crockford published this  essay for historical value in conjunction with the metaverse roadmap summit  2006.
some of the free user-rated content is so interesting and tagged to user interests that it would, if downloaded to adigital video recorder (dvr) be preferable to watching regular television in the evening for some users.
this year also saw the  first 3d morpg (multiplayer online role-playing game)meridian 59, by archetype  interactive.
making a bet on in-game placement, microsoft recently purchased the in-game advertising company,massive inc. michael cassidy of xfire at e3 2006 said "$15 billion is spent on tv advertising.
3b's is  the most participatory, allowing users to pull in pages and graphics from sites  like myspace and flicker to create a "personalized 3d space" for  others to view, but doesn't yet include community or avatars.
adec 2005 nyt article [15] estimated as many as 100 million people worldwide play interactive computer games on a monthly basis, that as many as 100,000 people in china (0.4% of chinese gamers) are employed (self employed or in small businesses) as gold farmers.
consumers are entitled to  run applications and services of their choice, subject to the needs of law  enforcement; 3.
computing resource load was a primary reason thatvrml, a 1990’s 3d web protocol, was not able to scale beyond a small number of early adopters.
michael friendly, york u. j •
many virtual world currencies trade at rates higher than national currencies  such as the korean won and chinese yen [1].
massive software, started as an ai project for massive simultaneous character animation forthe lord of the rings trilogy (2001-2003), has developed a framework to provide each character a broad range of attributes and personality traits, and allow them to make independent decisions based on those traits and what they encounter in their virtual environment.
also during this year, scott adams created adventureland, the first text-based themed virtual world for home computers.
we are very early in collaborative productivity software, likewritely (google's online word processor).
over us $1m in transactions occur daily, on average, "in  world.
they've learned different patterns for interaction [with virtual systems]"  o • personal cartography is emerging.
b • from janna anderson’s research, the key themes of any  communication technology center around addressing such values as: - identity, reputation, and trust
they take away clarity by comparision to a set of alternative 2d representations, each of which can be rapidly scanned, that designers like edward tufte,the visual display of cognitive information, 1992 [45], find so useful.
back to inputs index metaverse roadmap foresight framework inputs were solicited in four topic areas: i. industry  conditions, ii.
automation allows these users to be supported by a company of only 500 employees.
as roy amara of iftf says (amara's law), "we tend to overestimate the  [business and social] effects of a [disruptive] technology in the short run,  and underestimate the effects in the long run."
this same year ron brivitch and others at kaw developed an internal project called alphaworld, which included limited property rights, multi-user peer-to-peer construction tools, drag and drop objects that appear to all users simultaneously, teleportation, user-authored worlds, and ai-based bots.
secondary to massive recent media exposure, the last three  doublings have occurred an average of every two months, to 2.5 million accounts  by jan 2007.
even  with "software bloat," general software efficiency for many classes  of problem has been quoted by ray kurzweil and others as doubling in  price/performance efficiency every six years [35].
m • head mounted displays (hmds) and spatially immersive displays (sids) likecave for virtual reality exist, but both technologies today are used only in niche markets.
some  contradict each other due to controversy, uncertainty, and the breadth of  community perspective.
i • online virtual worlds can already be considered places where social behavior is "prototyped," and several social scientists now conduct research on social behavior in virtual worlds like second life, aided by their superior transparency to physical space.
croquet is a potential candidate, and the opensource metaverse project is another even more recent early effort, but
participate in this collaborative foresight process byletting us know.
© 2007 metaverse roadmap all rights reserved.
a • proliferation of internet video  viewing platforms, and innovative video content distribution and revenue  models.
but perhaps a more competitive  future will be the ability to run professional cad/cam, architecture, plm and  other simulation software from within virtual worlds, as specialized creation  environments for those with prototyping interests.
important metaverse-relevant things expected to remain the same (continue as is) in coming years.
reputation-based  public wikis, likewikipedia, are pioneering examples of participatory web  technology.
unless the metaverse makes solving our existing problems faster or easier people won't use it.
in 2004, internet penetration in china was still less than 6% of the  urban population in 2004 [6], yet by that time china already had the single  largest population of online gamers.
in 2002, project entropia (now entropia universe) launches as the first virtual world where virtual currency can be exchanged for us dollars.
the  nintendo generation.
the first official 2005 dataset has not yet  been released, butearly datasets have been analyzed in the first atus  conference.
simulearn's virtual leader, a corporate workforce training tool used in a few fortune 1000 companies and developed with the budget of a normal video game, won awards in 2003.america's army, a free first-person shooter owned and distributed by the u.s. government, has been a very effective, and controversial, global public relations and recruiting tool.
in late 2007, qualcomm will release cdma ev-do revision b data modem and cellphone chips to card makers, which will provide up to14.7 megabits per second on downlink.
figures below are for commercial cylindrical batteries, cost/cycle is in 2001 prices [27,28]: type energy density charge time (80%) cycle life (80%) cost/cycle year sold lead acid 40 (30-50)
after a half hour in world of warcraft or even second life, you feel you are “in” the space.
george gilder originally observed in the 1980's that wired bandwidth capacity was doubling every 6-18 months, apparently faster than moore's law.
p • serious games and training simulations have been used for decades  and are seeing increasing use by the military and other large organizations.
- 43 percent of game players are women.
chief among lps solutions today arerfid systems, which integrate microprocessors, memory, modems, antennas, and power sources on a piece of silicon the size of grain of rice to a postage stamp.
e • independent developers and the open source community have not yet rallied around an open metaverse platform, as opposed to proprietary worlds.
of $80  billion spent on advertising worldwide, only 10% of is games-related.
doubles roughly every 2 years.
as ceo philip rosedale says, "this  extends the control residents can have over the second life experience and  allows a worldwide community to examine, validate and improve the  software’s sophistication and capabilities.”
perhaps only when your avatar-butler can speak back to you does it make sense to add the parallel nonverbal communication that avatar gestures can provide, to increase the efficiency of verbal communication.
but such games will be in competition with our existing physical world, and our current 1d and 2d internet communication technologies.
navigator is a cell phone service with  turn-by-turn directions and voice instruction for $10/month.
b • software and story are today the prime indicators of success in online virtual worlds.
the 2006 esagame  player data page claims that 50% of all americans play video games, and that  the average male game player plays 7.6 hours, and adult female game player
n 3b. constants - business and economics • information technology's (it's) share of gdp and economic growth and  the emergingmetaverse sector.
companies like 3b,  browse3d, and spheresite have first generation 3d browsers available.
a brief history of virtual reality.
university of illinois.
sun’s project  looking glass, built on java 3d, is an interesting but early attempt to enhance  a primarily 2d desktop by incrementally adding fast and natural 3d  functionality only where it makes the most sense.
we can expect simiilar advances in recommendation systems for social communities within 3d worlds, as they proliferate.
in coming years, when we have significantly faster computers, and can rapidly tour "interactive los angeles" or "interactive yosemite" and sample micronarratives before deciding which of the many possible experiences we will take in a given day, and when this platform is integrated into tomorrow's browsers and today's passive, narrative-driven experiences likela city view or the travel channel, virtual tourism is likely to be a very compelling activity.
in korea, where broadband penetration is greatest, a 2000 study estimated that 80% of all youth (8-24 years) played games online at least once a month.
lawyers are already looking at the virtual  worlds space, and a growing number are very interested in the issues.
in 2005, roughly 600 million cell phones, 110 million desktop pcs, and  60 million laptop pcs were being sold globally per year [66].
games  likeuru live, the never-finished online myst successor, have been kept alive by  the beta user community.
even with today's primitive network  we are already seeing early disruptions and flattening of the hierarchies, and  it is clear we can expect much more of this in coming years, as the individual  actor is increasingly empowered relative to the most powerful nodes in the  system.
a good source for the business, cultural, and some  of the technical history of video game development is steven kent'sultimate  history of video games, 2001.
h next set of inputs | return to inputs index mistakes?
in 1992, neal stephenson, in his science fiction novel snow  crash, coined the term "metaverse" for immersive 3d online  worlds, and also popularized the term "avatar" for 3d simulations  representing the user.
current conditions 3.
combined  with intuitive mouse or touch gestures for object manipulation, such future  desktops promise to greatly increase the ability to manipulate and manage  information.
a few products designed in today's virtual worlds have already  made the jump to the physical world.
increasing system integration capabilities on small scales is another major  contributor.
c 3c. constants - social, legal and other • 2d visual interfaces will remain a more efficient solution than 3d for many applications.
71% of "active users" (those going online at least once a month) have  broadband, and over 85% have dialup or better.
passively multiplayer is a research idea for more broadly recording and sharing user data generated in virtual worlds.
some assume that avatars will be ubiquitous early in the 3d web, but the threshold for mass adoption may be very high.
various non-atus studies have estimated that americans spend  roughly 35 hours per week either at school or at their jobs, and another 35  hours a week in leisure activities.
c 3c. constants - social, legal and other •
even for proprietary platforms (consoles, portables), the quantity and quality of software titles remains the key market differentiator [1].
important current conditions in the  metaverse industry.
imagemodeler by realviz,  available for all the major 3d animation packages, is another such professional  tool (using 2d photos as input).
in 1995, software  developer bruce damer (author ofavatars!
ray kurzweil has observed that many technological  processes shrink by an average factor four per linear dimension per decade.
an brief history of active worlds, 1985 to present.
the ant bully (2006) is the first u.s.-produced film to use  the massive crowd-based computer graphics, but a score of other films using  massive's system are in development.
on this page i. industry conditions (18 pages) 1.
mogi is virtual treasure game played with cellphones  and mobile im in france.
consider an e-commerce site, or a virtual real estate site that has employees in the physical world, or online social communities that involve both virtual and physical world meetups.
even virtual worlds likesecond life, which have deficits in  graphical realism (several generations behind the state of the art), interface  ( a nonintuitive system requiring real dedication to learn to use) and  traditional story (being entirely user-driven) nevertheless have a strong niche  that caters to users desiring the freedom to create their own story, in a  framework that encourages the marketing of their digital creations to other  users.
another is the open sourceflock web browser, which encourages rss aggregation, automated blog posting, photo sharing, gathering and indexing of web searches, and other participatory technologies.
from the u.s. display consortium (usdc) website: "nishimura's law, states that the size of [the glass] substrate used [and thus the display size available at the same cost] grows by a factor of 1.8 every 3 years, i.e., it doubles every 3.6 years, less than half the time ic wafers take to double in size (7.5 years).
intoy story 2 (1999) they had over 1,000 motion control points.
it has the potential to represent anything: real world data sets (as in google earth, gis, and scientific visualization), socially constructed visions (myspace,second life), thematic visions (as corporate collaboration platforms, role playing games, or worlds with physics unlike our own).
experience curves for ict and  nanotechnology argue that many of the computing and communication tools  available only to the most powerful corporations today will be affordable to  the poorest global citizens in coming years.
in 1997,  users of mmogs began treating inworld game items as assets that could be  exchanged for real world economic value.
in 2004, marvel  comics sued ncsoft, publisher ofcity of heroes (coh), the first major mmog  based on the superhero comic action genre.
i • ai agents continue to make major strides in  computer animation.
habitat was the first successful attempt at a large-scale  commercial 2d virtual community.
in 1985, the term "avatar"  is introduced as the goal of the computer game ultima iv (the winner becomes  "the avatar").
while  being on a social network of some type is a prerequisite to "being  cool," using an open-ended virtual world today (second life, there,  project entropia) can still have the opposite effect, positioning you as  "out of the mainstream."
summit quote: "2d is very powerful.
2a. current conditions - technology and science • web 2.0 (participatory web) technologies, led by innovative social networks, browsers, and search platforms, are accelerating the use of 3d and other rich media.
g • wireless bandwidth growth (cooper's law).
this hardware advance enabled us to move from planar 2d worlds and 2.5d sprites  to true 3d games.
the bls'samerican time use survey (atus) is a major new undertaking that  will give us insights into actual time use changes from year to year in  american workplaces and households.
but our most efficient and valuable interfaces for many types of communication will long remain 1d and 2d abstractions of a 3d world.
frequency, spatial, and code division  multiplexing, modulation techniques, mesh networks, and now smart antennas are  examples of technologies that have kept wireless bandwidth on this growth path.
this will allow users of portable and wearable electronics to recharge while waiting, eliminating one of the major problems with current portability of the 3d web.
linden lab (creators of second life) is a rare example of a company willing to accept the emergence of loosely controlled user-generated content and expression within their world, including pornographic content on the adult version of the world, and user mashups involving visual imagery that is not their own intellectual property.
d • transparent cities.
less than half of one percent of searchable web pages contain hard-core porn, incecil adam's 2005 estimate
ipv6 adoption will be  an enabler of such 3d web advances as internet television and geospatial  platforms, particularly in the longer run, once people are using a mobile  geospatial web in five or more years.
the participatory web is tools and platforms that empower the user to tag, blog, comment, modify, augment, select from, rank, and talk back to the contributions of other users and the world community.
the cost of a full-color active matrix lcd cell-phone display, however, is expected to remain about six times higher than would be expected by applying this theory.
c • virtual prototyping (vp) is term from computer aided design (cad), development, manufacturing, product lifecycle management (plm), and quality assurance circles that involves simulation and testing of designs prior to manufacture.
this is an adaptation of theforesight framework model of dr. peter bishop, chair of the futures studies masters program at the university of houston.
in 2001, 39% of 3,916 respondents to a survey of everquest players said that if they could make enough money selling things from norrath
summit quote: "there is the idea that what happens in the virtual can be tied to the real world.
further developments will show if these growth rates continue to hold, but as we continually learn new ways to represent, locally store, and generate data, these growth constants seem a reasonable expectation for many classes of visual, sensory, and system simulation.
some social theorists, philosophers, economists, and game theorists, like herbert gintis (moral sentiments and material interests: the foundations of cooperation in economic life, 2005 [46]) contend that every role humans engage in, from social roles, to political roles, to athletic roles, to business roles, are in fact best understood in the context of games.
in orienting to the world, the human body responds primarily to "onset cues," inital rapid accelerations that signify a change in speed or direction.
john smart has charted  stepwise efficiency/performance advances of 10,000x, 100,000x, 1,000,000x and  beyond with incremental redesign in microscopic systems, advances that greatly  exceed the average magnitude of gains we see from system redesign at the  macroscopic scale.
as john smart and others have observed, with  rare exceptions, culture changes more slowly than business, and business  changes more slowly than technology.
[33],  andeveryware (2006)
ogs  was the first private sector organization of companies, government agencies and  universities chartered to develop public interface specifications to geo-enable  the web.
many basic features of the participatory web have yet to be developed, and there is a common assumption that we'll need much better collaboration tools (artistic, scientific, commercial, and social, etc.) before the web will become the preferred social medium over today's dominant communication media, including face to face.
this is a development with global  implications, as it promises to eliminate the current sensory opportunity cost  of spending extended time in virtual environments.
exploring and building virtual worlds on the internet, 1998), anthropologist jim funaro, and science fiction writer keith ferrel started thecontact consortium, a network to serve as a catalyst and forum for the emerging medium of multi-user virtual worlds and virtual communities in cyberspace.
he notes that the gdp  per capita in everquest's norrath, the most popular synthetic world for u.s.  players at the time, was four times higher than that of india and china[3].
companies like youtube (70 million clips watched daily in july 2006),google video, apple itunes video, ifilm, and metacafe are leading examples.
besides blogosphere commentary on  in-game activity, rmt is one of the few significant feedback systems today  between events in the virtual and real world.
as examples in the 3d web space, microsoft developed direct3d as a windows-proprietary 3d graphics standard, and opengl (open  graphics library) has emerged as a competing open source standard.
this "gold" is then sold to other players through third party  rmt (real-money trade) websites.
if you believe in an efficient market, there's going to be a huge shift into gamers."
h 4c. assumptions - social, legal and other •
h • creation of 3d worlds from 2d photos and video is now possible in rudimentary form.
we don't have robust data interchange, rich annotation (video,  etc.), or conversational search.
- 43  percent of game players are women.
3m sells anrfid tracking solution that allows the  realtime location of physical files, and other important objects throughout the  office.
the reality is it's only happened a few times, real-money trade being one of these cross-over points.
familiarity and community  creates unique inertia versus standalone games.
we can anticipate these significant gains to increase over the near term, taking us past a "pervasiveness threshold," where our portable electronics will experience no significant downtime.
massively multiplayer online role-playing games (mmorpgs, "mor-peg's") and all their social complexities, emerged.
d • pluralistic standards.
music, travel, shopping, and other subjects take a higher share of internet traffic.
if this assumption is correct, we may also observe why many types of games are best played primarily in "real space" today, as opposed to virtual space.
as soon as they bring in document creation or start being able to trade real things that have value outside the virtual environment i'm in."
communities fromgeoplace  to thevirtual terrain project exist to promote tools for constructing the real  world in interactive, 3d digital form.
apple itunes video allows viewing of reasonably priced content ($2 per  network tv show) on computer or wearable video ipod.
it is tempting to believe that many of our current virtual cooperative activities (e.g., wikipedia development, online community, etc.) may better engaged in within the immersive environment of a 3d virtual world.
2d  visual interfaces will remain a more efficient solution than 3d for many  applications.
r • first generation exergames, also known as active video games (avgs), are becoming broadly adopted [69].
h • mmogs like world of warcraft (wow) have been  called “the new golf” (only partially tongue in cheek) among online  gamers because they are an excuse to get together and talk about real world  life (business, social events) while engaging in automatic and ritualized  behavior.
in 2004 the chinese launchedcernet2
while 2d+ social networks (cyworld in korea, myspace, livejournal,  many others in the us) have gone mainstream, 3d worlds have yet to do so.
consistent  with kryder's law, gmail adds storage behind the scenes daily.
yahoo im avatars can be upgrade with faces, outfits, and backgrounds for a small fee.
their suit alleges coh's powerful  character creation and modification system only allows, but actively promotes  the creation of characters whose copyrights and trademarks are owned by marvel.
compression in portable audio (audio simulation/re-representation)
the ability to easily incorporateyoutube and other video in leading social networking sites has really improved the stickiness of online community.
in 1994, beginning in japan, hardware-accelerated 3d and dedicated graphics/polygon processors began appearing in console games like the sega saturn andsony playstation (1994 japan, 1995 u.s.), and nintendo’s cartridge based nintendo 64 (1996).
that process is automated, so we can do that easier and easier with the demo files and high-res photos."
e • independent developers and the open source  community have not yet rallied around an open metaverse platform, as opposed to  proprietary worlds.
as youtube and other internet video sites gain traction, we should expect relative porn volume to subside further still.
we can expect simiilar advances in recommendation systems for social  communities within 3d worlds, as they proliferate.
there are many small hmd  makers.emagin makes a head-mounted, head-tracking 3d visor with a 600 x 800p  oled display for immersive gaming for $600.sensics uses the emagin displays to  make a very expensive panoramic hmd vr system with 2200 x 1200p per eye for  military customers.
some contradict each other due to controversy, uncertainty, and the breadth of community perspective.
but i'm not there just for the social activity.
all the elaborate social structures we participate in (stock market, the value of our fiat currency, custom, tradition, law) can be formalized as games.
public surveillance  in some cities is already in an advanced state.
frequency, spatial, and code division multiplexing, modulation techniques, mesh networks, and now smart antennas are examples of technologies that have kept wireless bandwidth on this growth path.
we will need new social conventions for consented recording of public experiences, but we see nothing that would stop large fractions of the global population, particularly youth, from running lifelogs for personal and trusted network use as computing technology improves.
providing plausible indicators and examples of metaverse sector development is a major goal of our roadmap.
in 1977, theapple ii microcomputer (followed by the ibm pc in 1981)  launched the mass market home computing revolution.
google video is  also allowing the content producer to set the price, another first.
this perspective was persuasively outlined from the  perspective of educational reform in a national academies publication, reinventing schools: the technology is now!
but our fantasy worlds play fast and loose with the laws of physics, inventing new rules with less restrictiveness, and even nonfiction virtual worlds have common features, such as flying and teleportation that would be "supernatural" in physical space.
summit quote: "how much time do we expect people to spend in the metaverse?
worldsaway and the palace were two other early persistent worlds that  debuted as technical innovations but business failures during this time.
[30], as well as a very high degree of fidelity in our digital and visual "mirror worlds," as forecast in david gelernter's mirror worlds, 1993 [31].
in the way it is currently measured by the  economics and statistics administration (esa) of the department of commerce,  the u.s. information technology sector (it hardware, software, and services,  including communications, both business and consumer) contributed only 8% to  u.s. gdp in 2003
finally, a few social worlds, likesecond life (340,000 users) and there, offer a fully 3d immersive experience, but have the slowest acquisition rates, as the technology overhead and user effort required for 3d worlds remain higher at present.
combined with intuitive mouse or touch gestures for object manipulation, such future desktops promise to greatly increase the ability to manipulate and manage information.
i • 2d avatarized im and chat worlds are popular and profitable, more so than 3d.
toshiba has announced a portable nanobattery, expected commercially in 2008, which recharges80% of its power in 60 seconds.
how many people want to be on call, available to their community 24/7?
this "gold" is then sold to other players through third party rmt (real-money trade) websites.
regulators have increasingly  shown willingness to require broadband providers (cable, dsl, wireless) to  eliminate competitive restrictions on network usage (e.g., ensuring the  consumer has freedom to run free voip programs likeskype over telco-run  broadband infrastructure, to set up wi-fi extensions on home networks, etc.).
in 1995  gobel madestarbright world, the first broadband virtual world and one of the  first vw therapy applications, to help hospitalized children overcome their  isolation.
google's revenue model is the most innovative, giving 70% of the revenues from paid video content to the content producer, allowing independent video producers to go direct-to-internet with a revenue model far better than they've ever had before.
there are at present few signs that this kind of top-down censorship is significantly impeding the increasing sophistication and personalization of either the internet or its web services.
n 3b. constants - business and economics • information technology's (it's) share of gdp and economic growth and the emergingmetaverse sector.
this rapid doubling rate, more rapid than all the  growth constants yet discussed (and not yet independently quantified) has major  implications for the structure of physical reality and nature of the 3d web.
once that support exists, some assume that people who find it most efficient to collaborate on the web will then gravitate to 3d spaces as their technology allows, simply because 3d is more intuitive and less isolating than existing interfaces for some forms of social interaction and exploration.
we may need to see  useful 3d desktops first, then an extension of this metaphor into collaborative  3d space and virtual worlds.
as fiber to the home rolls out, we can forsee a  world of ubiquitous video on demand, and the opportunity forvideo wall  emergence, bringing simultaneous video multicasts with internet video, hd  video, group videoconferencing, 3d worlds, and other streams to large  wall-sized displays in many rooms of the future home (see predictions -  sci-tech, video wall).
these emerging “network neutrality” policies bode well for u.s. consumer rights to run complex 3d applications in coming years.
n • physical hyperlinks (physical world  hyperlinks) are any machine readable identifier (1d and 2d barcodes, rfid tag,  image, sound, fingerprint) that can be resolved by a cell phone to dial a phone  number, start an email, or facilitate a direct internet connection.
some think avatars won't make sense for general use until we can all talk to our computers verbally, using a primitiveconversational interface.
this same year chinese game companies  shanda and nexon announced a world record for simultaneous online play of  700,000 users, playingcrazy arcade (bnb), a game where families play a simple  virtual world game as teams against other families online.[1].
this same year chinese game companies shanda and nexon announced a world record for simultaneous online play of 700,000 users, playingcrazy arcade (bnb), a game where families play a simple virtual world game as teams against other families online.[1].
if you believe in an efficient  market, there's going to be a huge shift into gamers."
[4], ambient findabilty (2005)
by comparison, technologies at the nanoscale may in theory continue  their exponentiation past the limits of human systems, as they are driven by  the discovery and implementation of the unique physics of the nanocosm, not  human creativity, and as informational nanotechnologies become increasingly  autonomous (human-independent) with time.
one of boxxet's innovations is the use of  human web users to train support vector ai machines to recognize valuable  aggregated content.
controlling copy count  still seems by far the most prevalent future business model for providers of  most types of proprietary content, with promotional samples and small  independent material available free on public download sites.
in  august 2005, the fcc adopted the following guidelines regarding network  neutrality: 1.
since batteries were commercialized 147 years ago we have seen just two doublings in energy density (a modest constant of 0.9% capacity growth per year), three doublings in cycle life (1.4% improvement/year, and six halvings in charge time (3% improvement/year).
still has 150,000 subscribers in june 2005.
serious games and training simulations have been used for decades and are seeing increasing use by the military and other large organizations.
m • there is very limited interoperabilty between virtual worlds, for technical, business, and gameplay reasons.
from the u.s. display consortium (usdc) website:  "nishimura's law, states that the size of [the glass] substrate used [and  thus the display size available at the same cost] grows by a factor of 1.8  every 3 years, i.e., it doubles every 3.6 years, less than half the time ic  wafers take to double in size (7.5 years).
we apologize for  any mistakes or misrepresentations, and hope you enjoy this rich source of  community insight relevant to the future of the 3d-enabled web.
2d virtual worlds likepuzzle pirates are presently trying to bring this formula to the us and europe.
the cost of a  full-color active matrix lcd cell-phone display, however, is expected to remain  about six times higher than would be expected by applying this theory.
boxxet, a website and set of tools for generating community-ranked topical  interest pages, launched in 2006.
familiarity and community creates unique inertia versus standalone games.
even if national productivity is not significantly enhanced by virtual worlds in the short term, as long is it isn't hurt significantly it may be reasonable to assume that social backlash won't slow down the spread of the participatory web.
when we first began tracking  it, accounts doubled from 160,000 to 330,000 accounts in four months (march to  july 2006).
coke studios (coca cola, inc.) is the most successful  branded 2d world where users trade music, wander, chat, and collect items for  their 2d "studios."
consumers are entitled to competition among network providers, application and  service providers, and content providers.
plays 7.4 hours/week.
consumers are entitled to run applications and services of their choice, subject to the needs of law enforcement; 3.
this suggests a strong appetite for the"long tail" [50] of 3d media  content, at least among a subset of consumers, that is presently not being  fulfilled by lowest common denominator hollywood video productions, but is  begining to be addressed by new media (netflix, internet video) in an  increasingly participatory culture.
in each three-year cycle, the average screen area  grows 44 percent, while the power consumption required for a given function  decreases by 44 percent and panel thickness and weight is reduced by one-third.
i • ai agents continue to make major strides in computer animation.
but perhaps a more competitive future will be the ability to run professional cad/cam, architecture, plm and other simulation software from within virtual worlds, as specialized creation environments for those with prototyping interests.
it was also the first synthetic world seeking to attract the advertisement of real world services within the game world.
in 1994, dave gobel spun knowledge adventure worlds (renamedworlds inc. in 1995) out of knowledge adventure to create fully navigable 3d virtual worlds for global users of the internet.
the "cyberpunk" genre of science fiction emerges.
mturk,  amazon's automated system for employing humans in contracts for simple online  tasks, launched in beta in 2006.
previous unification efforts (e.g. microsoft passport, national id cards) have been held with high suspicion and very low adoption rates.
in london today,closed-circuit tv networks take pictures of many drivers of cars as they enter the city, record and run their licence plates, and officers check for major law violators.
some are also innovating new  downloading systems, like metacafe, which allows regular users to download  desired content to their hard drives automatically at night.
• network value growth by structure (sarnoff's,metcalfe's, and reed's laws), social networks, and the participatory web.
in 1997, users of mmogs began treating inworld game items as assets that could be exchanged for real world economic value.
mturk supports micropayments (e.g., a few  pennies per task) and the monitoring of piecework performance via reputation.
what about when virtual spaces become so high fidelity that we feeltelepresence remotely?
this is evidence that it, not services, is now the largest marginal driver of u.s. economic growth.
apple itunes video allows viewing of reasonably priced content ($2 per network tv show) on computer or wearable video ipod.
algorithmic efficiency is a vast and  technical topic that is dependent on automation, representation schemes,  processing capacity growth, and experience curves, among other factors.
these were divided intonineteen categories , from history to progress indicators.
in 1994, beginning in  japan, hardware-accelerated 3d and dedicated graphics/polygon processors began  appearing in console games like the sega saturn andsony playstation (1994  japan, 1995 u.s.), and nintendo’s cartridge based nintendo 64 (1996).
the next networking protocol, ipv6, already  in early deployment, will move us beyond the present 4.3 billion addresses of  ipv4 (allowing not even one ip address per person) to 3.4x10^38 addreses, or 50  octillion for each of the 6.5 billion people alive today, plenty enough to give  every important physical item, no matter how small, its own connection to the  web.
this observation, first quantified for aircraft production in 1936, and later generalized by bruce henderson of the boston consulting group in the 1960's, notes that the time and cost to perform a broad range of technological tasks decreases exponentially in repeated trials.
as brian arthur of santa fe institute notes, the first years of the railroad, telegraph, auto, airplane, and other disruptive technologies produced similarly inflated expectations--and investment bubbles.
right now it's a small group of people imposing their thinking on a culture not yet engaged with these ideas.
the suit is settled for undisclosed terms in 2005, and the issue of physical world intellectual property infringement by players in virtual worlds becomes increasingly important.
coinciding with the emergence of the world wide web, snow crash helped many early web users to begin to perceive the  "space behind their screens" as nothing less than a fundamental new  informational dimension to physical space.
in addition to enabling ubiquitous portable electronics, nanobatteries will  eventually allow hybrid electric vehicle owners to recharge their batteriesas  fast as they fill their gas tanks, at fast charge stations like posicharge.
there's a bigger hill over there [3d interfaces that  include efficient 2d representations, or perhaps more likely, 2d interfaces  that are tightly integrated with 3d experiences where most appropriate] but we  can't cross that chasm yet."
with electricity at only 70 cents per gallon equivalent when drawn in off-peak  hours (roughly twice this cost in peak hours), these will be deployed privately  at a greatly increasing frequency in the coming decade.
every 5 years has thus provided as much as 10x additional computing platform capacity, and every 15 years as much as 1,000x additional delivered capacity.
- 97 percent of games are  purchased by adults over the age of 18 - 60 percent of parents  play games with their children at least once a month - the  average game player is 29 years of age.
not just for nostalgia, but because the simplicity is elegant, focusing, and efficient.
in 1994 kaw created the worlds first avatar-based 3d chat (worlds chat).
the online pornography industry is now innovating internet  video on demand (vod), with downloads burnable to dvd.
the ant bully (2006) is the first u.s.-produced film to use the massive crowd-based computer graphics, but a score of other films using massive's system are in development.
what other disruptions can we expect  next?
71% of "active users" (those going online at least once a month) have broadband, and over 85% have dialup or better.
tringo, a multiplayer game designed and played in second life, has been licensed for "real world" distribution on thegame boy advance in 2006.
privacy advocates have major concerns with rfid tracking, which is both  invasive of privacy and not secure, as the chips can easily be interrogated and  spoofed.
there is an initial period of wild and lawless experimentation, of seeing what can be done with new tools and freedoms in the new environment, followed by eras of increasing acclimatization and civilization.
on this laptop computer my guys at u. arkansas flew over the city, wrote a program, and four hours later had 3,000 real life buildings virtualized with x, y, and z coordinates.
in london today,closed-circuit  tv networks take pictures of many drivers of cars as they enter the city,  record and run their licence plates, and officers check for major law  violators.
relevant facts in the history of metaverse development.
consumers are entitled to access the lawful internet content of their choice; 2.
it is so advanced that, like amazon's, it is a competitive advantage.
the rising importance of “network neutrality” policies.
there is a lot to  be done, this is a very incomplete list.
online, he was talking about how great it was to see sl succeeding...
we contend that the emerging it-based metaverse sector, economic activity enabled and managed by our 2d and early 3d digital web (including not only traditional it but all digital media, geospatial web, wireless and participatory web technologies), will surpass, encompass and redefine each of the three traditional economic sectors in coming decades, the way each have done during their own historical emergence.
adoption of ipv6 since standardization has been slow, due to such factors as cost of conversion, operational conservatism, short term industry outlook, and difficulty of quantifying the cost of not converting in competitive markets [68].
l • virtual tourism is in its infancy.
computing has moved from mechanical, to electromechanical, to vacuum tubes, to transistors, to integrated circuits, and integrated circuits have become multicore ics and system-on-a-chip (soc) platforms.
c • virtual  prototyping (vp) is term from computer aided design (cad), development,  manufacturing, product lifecycle management (plm), and quality assurance  circles that involves simulation and testing of designs prior to manufacture.
navigator is a cell phone service with turn-by-turn directions and voice instruction for $10/month.
35% of all internet users post  content to the web.
so it might be more accurate to say that our best virtual virtual worlds seek to recreate the reality of physical space, yet to also exceed the limitations of that reality, in a consistent and intuitive way, with persistent rules that can be learned through play, as in physical space.
more generally, with each doubling in total production, unit production cost for a given level of performance or capacity falls by a predictable and generally constant percentage.
and it's not supposed to happen, it's actually against the rules in most mmos."
• transparent cities.
a • proliferation of internet video viewing platforms, and innovative video content distribution and revenue models.
important current conditions in the metaverse industry.
university of  illinois.
from a marginal perspective, it is clear this transition has already taken place.
as randy farmer notes, persistent virtual worlds without an obvious role playing  goal require significantly more initiative and creativity from their populace,  and business models must expect them to be much slower to gain traction.
it's contribution to the productivity of non-it sector industries (entertainment, education, manufacturing, retail, tourism) is not included here, and must make the total it figure substantially higher.
this rapid doubling rate, more rapid than all the growth constants yet discussed (and not yet independently quantified) has major implications for the structure of physical reality and nature of the 3d web.
with regard to system simulation,virtual machines like vmware, and such tools assoftware defined radio are examples of the representational capacity in software of a large and ever growing class of hardware systems.
in the sensor  and effector space we are making a growing variety ofmicroelectromechanical  systems (mems), enabling new features.
in combination with storage growth trends, today's 60 gb, 15,000 song  ipod will be capable of storing 2.4 million songs in 2014, more than the entire  current song catalogs of today's leading online sites (itunes music store,  urge, etc.).
based on the movement of reading from physical to virtual space, a 1997 oc&c strategy report estimated that by 2010 people would spend more time online than reading books, magazines, and newspapers combined.
in later ultima releases and in the online virtual  world habitat (1987) the avatar is the players on-screen visual persona.
david reed noted that when a network allows users to form their own self-determined groups within the network, total value may grow in proportion to 2^n, a rate greater than the square of the nodes, as it accounts for the additional value of the overlapping subgroups.
a123 systems, an mit spinoff, is in phase two multimillion dollar  development on nanobattery they claim is 80% lighter, has 10x longer cycle  life, 5x power gain, and "dramatically faster" charge time vs.  conventional batteries.
mikioshi, a mobile online games leader, makesgunslingers 2 a combat-based cell  phone lbg played in asia.
crockford published this essay for historical value in conjunction with the metaverse roadmap summit 2006.
wh/kg 12 (8-16) hrs 250 (200-300) $0.10 1860 nicd 62.5 (45-80) 1 hr 1500 $0.04 1899 alkaline 80 (initially) 2.5  (2-3 hrs 1100 (200-2000) $0.30 1949 nimh 90 (60-120) 3 (2-4) hrs 400  (300-500) $0.12 1989 li-ion 135 (110-160) 2.5 (2-3) hrs 750 (500-1000)  $0.14 1991 li-ion nanobattery 150 (est.)
regulators have increasingly shown willingness to require broadband providers (cable, dsl, wireless) to eliminate competitive restrictions on network usage (e.g., ensuring the consumer has freedom to run free voip programs likeskype over telco-run broadband infrastructure, to set up wi-fi extensions on home networks, etc.).
i said if  you like it so much, how come when i play a sony game i can't at least upload a  coat of arms to wear on my armor?
based on the movement of reading from physical to virtual space, a 1997 oc&c strategy report estimated that by 2010 people would spend more time  online than reading books, magazines, and newspapers combined.
it is one of those interesting local maxima.
in 2005, ebay's internet games category, hosted $30 million in trade  for goods (virtual items and currency) that only exist in synthetic worlds [1].
similar approaches are used in amusement park rides andsimulated racing.
heavy use of virtual worlds is clearly compelling for a subset of internet users, some of the time, but we have no idea yet how large or cosmopolitan this market can become, or what other competitors to their use might emerge.
monetary exchanges of player accounts and the promise to provide game items to players in world, began on the new online action websiteebay (named in sept 1997).
we want the web to be an intimate social medium.
adoption of  ipv6 since standardization has been slow, due to such factors as cost of  conversion, operational conservatism, short term industry outlook, and  difficulty of quantifying the cost of not converting in competitive markets  [68].
consistently, however, it returns to fulfilling basic human desires.
• location-based games (lbg) (also called "locative games") for mobile phones are now emerging on gps-equipped cell phones.
the attractiveness of virtual tourism  systems seems today to be a complex function of hardware (speed and  resolution), design (interface intutiveness), and software (story appeal and  usefulness in connection to "real world" activities).
at this rate, a two hour video on demand movie can be  downloaded in six minutes [23].
communities fromgeoplace to thevirtual terrain project exist to promote tools for constructing the real world in interactive, 3d digital form.
microsoft'sxbox had a peak capacity of 2.1 million polygons per frame.
link's ah-64 apache helicopter simulator, which requires a  security clearance to operate, employs such such powerful onset cues that  operators can get broken noses and bruises from the impact of virtual missiles,  etc.
ev-do  revision a, allowing3.1 megabits per second [24], are scheduled for commercial  release in late 2006 [25].
according to the economist magazine, china has roughly 30,000 people employed specifically censoring their domestic websites, but it’s almost all political censorship, very narrow in scope.
it opened the internet's burgeoning wealth of  distributed information services (websites, databases, etc.) to the general  public and began the modern web era.
each was also considered in three subcategories: a. technology and science, b. business and economics, or c. social, legal and other domains.
even if such  applications compete with existing provider offerings, are bandwidth intensive  and force network upgrade, network providers have few options to restrict  network usage.
from a marginal  perspective, it is clear this transition has already taken place.
this makes the social network the hub and the virtual worlds the occasional immersive experience [16].
michael friendly,  york u. j •
while 2d+ social networks (cyworld in korea, myspace, livejournal, many others in the us) have gone mainstream, 3d worlds have yet to do so.
this was the world's first  operational computerized geographic information system (gis), built by roger  tomlinson at the canadian department of energy, mines and resources.
summit quote: "if i could go to these worlds and do something [useful] i'd be there everyday.
with regard to system simulation,virtual machines like vmware, and  such tools assoftware defined radio are examples of the representational  capacity in software of a large and ever growing class of hardware systems.
in 1995, software developer bruce damer (author ofavatars!
one can foresee a great  platform for delivering specialized video content (machinima, tournaments,  etc.) to game players and virtual world denizens just a few years hence.
some are also innovating new downloading systems, like metacafe, which allows regular users to download desired content to their hard drives automatically at night.
taken together, these network theories dictate a trend toward the "participatory web:" as the global internet develops, utility economics will drive it to become an infrastructure that facilitates social networks, secondarily an open network, and only tertiarily a hierarchical network.
ipv6’s mandatory security, (authentication and non-repudiation), auto-configuration, multiple options for communication (unicast, multicast, broadcast, anycast), logical group indexing for addresses, and 128 bit address space (10^23 addresses per square meter of planet surface area) should be sufficient for all global embedded devices for the foreseeable future.
summit quote: "i'm going to make a generalization.
mturk, amazon's automated system for employing humans in contracts for simple online tasks, launched in beta in 2006.
chief among  lps solutions today arerfid systems, which integrate microprocessors, memory,  modems, antennas, and power sources on a piece of silicon the size of grain of  rice to a postage stamp.
should this progressive and modular  "machine takeover" of human physical and intellectual tasks continue,  which is presently the most reasonable assumption, at some point future machine  performance will achieve generalized human competitive abilities even in the  highest human functions.
stated or hidden assumptions with regard to the emerging 3d web.
mturk supports micropayments (e.g., a few pennies per task) and the monitoring of piecework performance via reputation.
rapidly increasing storage capacity has enabled successive  thresholds in database complexity, allowing the mass storage and manipulation  of digital pictures, audio, video, hd video, etc.
george gilder originally  observed in the 1980's that wired bandwidth capacity was doubling every 6-18  months, apparently faster than moore's law.
adec 2005 nyt  article [15] estimated as many as 100 million people worldwide play interactive  computer games on a monthly basis, that as many as 100,000 people in china  (0.4% of chinese gamers) are employed (self employed or in small businesses) as  gold farmers.
they've learned different patterns for interaction [with virtual systems]" o • personal cartography is emerging.
classic economic theory charts u.s. economic development from resources, to products, to services sectors over time.
they don't make things easier
2d virtual worlds likepuzzle  pirates are presently trying to bring this formula to the us and europe.
c • polygon count growth, motion control point growth, and the reality threshold (smith).
most of this software is proprietary today, likesimdesigner by msc software, and noesis plm optimization software, by noesis solutions, both built on the catia v5 product development platform of product lifecycle management (plm) software leader dassault systems.
n •  the aec (architecture, engineering, and construction) industry is a major  constituency driving metaverse development.
what other disruptions can we expect next?
it spawned a decade of increasingly popular text-based virtual  communities run on servers.
you are able to talk about anything you want while working your group through a  relatively simple arc of gameplay.
f 1c. history - social, legal and other •
this mistaken assumption has been around since a 1995time magazine cyberporn cover story, but it doesn't hold up to analysis.
broadcast pioneer david sarnoff noted the value of a  broadcast network to the broadcaster is linearly proportional to the number of  users.
in  1994 kaw created the worlds first avatar-based 3d chat (worlds chat).
eliminating any signs of lag/processor overload for the 3d  components, and developing entirely natural manipulation interfaces (possibly  touch, verbal, or vision driven) are still significant barriers to be overcome.
in 2005, blister  entertainment launchedswordfish and torpedo bay as the first us location-based  gps games.
summit quote: "training time has gone down  from the amount of time new recruits have spent playing first person  shooters.
in general, the  3d browser space presently fails to make a compelling case.
but 18-34 year old men spend more time playing video games than watching tv.
consumers are entitled to connect their choice  of legal devices that do not harm the network; and 4.
capacity has grown at a roughly similar rate.
k • network value growth  by structure (sarnoff's,metcalfe's, and reed's laws), social networks, and the  participatory web.
the law further estimates that the number of bits needed to specify the image on the screen has increased fourfold every cycle, matching moore's law for ics.
this suggests a strong appetite for the"long tail"
in  computing, miniaturization is a leading contributor to price/performance  acceleration.
[30], as well as a very high degree of fidelity in our  digital and visual "mirror worlds," as forecast in david gelernter's mirror worlds, 1993 [31].
arthur c. clarke made this general observation:  "no communication technology has ever disappeared, but instead becomes  increasingly less important as the technology horizon widens."
but even  though the it sector's total share of the economy remains low, its marginal  contribution to u.s. productivity is very high, indicating a structural  transition is underway.
mvr summit quote: "it's getting really easy to measure the world physically and recreate it using data acquisition.
pricewaterhousecoopers  estimates that the worldwide video game market, a $28 billion industry today,  will be$46.5 billion in 2010, an annual growth rate of 11.4%, triple the gdp  growth in developed economies over the same period.
their suit alleges coh's powerful character creation and modification system only allows, but actively promotes the creation of characters whose copyrights and trademarks are owned by marvel.
the  number of online worlds was doubling roughly every two years, consistent with moore's law [1].
even with today's primitive network we are already seeing early disruptions and flattening of the hierarchies, and it is clear we can expect much more of this in coming years, as the individual actor is increasingly empowered relative to the most powerful nodes in the system.
when you start saying what this game savviness is, it's really augmentation.
having one's life experiences auto-archived, persistently available,  and only a voice query away is a threshold with major implications, including  both personal empowerment and the potential for abuse of privacy, if accessible  to others.
keeping these laws on track will require alternative technologies or new materials, or both at some point.
in each three-year cycle, the average screen area grows 44 percent, while the power consumption required for a given function decreases by 44 percent and panel thickness and weight is reduced by one-third.
finally, a few social  worlds, likesecond life (340,000 users) and there, offer a fully 3d immersive  experience, but have the slowest acquisition rates, as the technology overhead  and user effort required for 3d worlds remain higher at present.
cell phones are the most likely platform for mobile, augmented reality interaction with geospatial virtual worlds in coming years.
by comparison, second life-style spaces have had less growth or less explosive growth.
various non-atus studies have estimated that americans spend roughly 35 hours per week either at school or at their jobs, and another 35 hours a week in leisure activities.
in december 2003 the u.s. dept. of  defense announced one of the first large-scale deployments of ipv6.
the human social environment that emerges in a virtual world is really no different from any other human social environment.
in fact, the chinese effort shares  many features of failed soviet centralized information control programs from  the 1950s to 1980’s, a far simpler era in terms of information management.
currently there is an early economy (in a few worlds), and minor crime (griefing, farming).
for each input,  category and subcategory assignments are arbitrary and arguable.
[32], geospatial matters (2006)
it opened the internet's burgeoning wealth of distributed information services (websites, databases, etc.) to the general public and began the modern web era.
google video is also allowing the content producer to set the price, another first.
sony'seyetoy has a number of exergames, and  nintendo'swii console will be coming out motion controllers that will bring  physical activity to the video game.
even with "software bloat," general software efficiency for many classes of problem has been quoted by ray kurzweil and others as doubling in price/performance efficiency every six years [35].
there's a bigger hill over there [3d interfaces that include efficient 2d representations, or perhaps more likely, 2d interfaces that are tightly integrated with 3d experiences where most appropriate] but we can't cross that chasm yet."
it is  first and foremost a social space, allowing persistent connection, exploration,  innovation, and new ways to fulfill a relatively constant set of human needs.
density of information on digital storage devices has been doubling every 23 months, on average, since 1956.
the  milestones project is an online respository for the history of advances in data  visualzation.
secondary to massive recent media exposure, the last three doublings have occurred an average of every two months, to 2.5 million accounts by jan 2007.
we'll do our best to include your perspective, and will acknowledge you in themetaverse roadmap community.
computing has moved from mechanical, to electromechanical, to  vacuum tubes, to transistors, to integrated circuits, and integrated circuits  have become multicore ics and system-on-a-chip (soc) platforms.
in 2005, in korea, successful lawsuits have been conducted against game providers by those who have lost their virtual items due to game-server insecurities [1].
summit quote: "talking about augmentation and youth and the fact that we adapt [to our technology], this generation is much more game savvy than the last one.
experience curves for ict and nanotechnology argue that many of the computing and communication tools available only to the most powerful corporations today will be affordable to the poorest global citizens in coming years.
this observation is named after mark kryder, a storage research pioneer.
in later ultima releases and in the online virtual world habitat (1987) the avatar is the players on-screen visual persona.
seriosity may be the first company developing virtual worlds as online collaboration spaces and workspaces for virtual companies.
d • satisfying user needs with simplicity and dependability is a key adoption driver for digital solutions.
hardware and interface may be more  negative factors, limiting the size of the market rather than driving  differential success among offerings, at least in more mature markets.
only today are web strategies beginning to broadly revolutionize business, and perhaps only in another decade or beyond should we expect them to revolutionize culture, through the spread of the participatory web, social networks, internet television, digital democracy, and collaborative culture.
many classes of accelerating technological change have been,  in the long term, a surprisingly constant and inexorable progression, and they  present major opportunities and challenges for social guidance in the process.
asgeospatial tagging (geotagging or geocoding) begins to be added to  these games, a collaborative game reality can emerge, directing game play.
also in 1997, electric  communities beta tested the fully distributed virtual world platform ec  habitats.
in 1996, nintendo’s,super mario 64 introduced a new era for the 3d  platform game genre, allowing players to creatively explore and interact with a  virtual world in three dimensions without restriction.
many of these vod  aplications allow unlimited burns to disk.
this has led some to forsee virtual worlds potential to become a low cost and low risk environment for prototyping physical products and architectures.
this has allowed successively more computing-intensive performance thresholds (desktop publishing, 3d graphics, pda's etc.) to be crossed for mass market ict devices.
o 2b. current conditions - business and economics •  real-money trading (rmt) (also known as virtual asset trading), the purchase of  virtual game items and virtual currency online, through such online enterprises  asige, mogs, and tekgaming, is a major global annual business, with the 2005  market size estimated at somewhere between$200 million and 1.5 billion [13].
by nov 2006 these figures  have jumped to 1.7m downloads and a $220m/year economy (marginal rate).
nevertheless, there is much to be done.
there is a gamer generation that is psychologically and culturally augmented to navigate virtual space and socialize within and around these environments.
by the early  2000's, the cost of creating popular mmogs numbered in the millions per project.
sun’s project looking glass, built on java 3d, is an interesting but early attempt to enhance a primarily 2d desktop by incrementally adding fast and natural 3d functionality only where it makes the most sense.
k • ipv6 and next generation internet (internet2, etc.).
most focus on the youth demographic, rapid adopters of new online behavior.
we assume people will invest time learning a complex new program interface as long as the payoff is high enough.
in habitat the user was represented as anavatar , a term coined by chip morningstar from the sanscrit avatara (incarnation of a  higher being).
every 5 years has thus provided as much as 10x additional computing  platform capacity, and every 15 years as much as 1,000x additional delivered  capacity.
a • there is a growing assumption that we gravitate to 3d spaces primarily to satisfy our physical world social instincts, not for cutting edge virtual realism.
in 1978, the first "1d" (text-based) chat world,mud (multi-user dungeon/domain), by essex university's roy trubshaw and richard bartle, emerged.
in 1981, vernor vinge publishedtrue names, perhaps the earliest story to present a fully developed concept of cyberspace as an alternate world.
within 3d spaces, we don't have easy access to professional digital  modelling tools, or grid computing for data rich simulations.
some original quotes remain, but most have been edited  and interpreted by asf staff in subsequent research.
if these trends continue, the reality threshold may as close as eight years away, in 2014.
bob metcalf noted that the total value of a network to its users grows  exponentially, and may be as high as the square of the total number of  users/nodes (n squared, though the actual value is probably closer ton log(n)).
35% of all internet users post content to the web.
in december 2003 the u.s. dept. of defense announced one of the first large-scale deployments of ipv6.
a • internet penetration in the us homes in 2006: 42% of americans have broadband at home.
the harvard/nyu/yalestate of play conference began the legal education around this space in 2003.
as the market  develops, software should increasingly become the key differentiator among  competing vt systems, as we have seen with video games and online worlds.
this  metaphor, copied by the microsoft windows operating system in 1985, opened up  the computer screen as a visual portal to cyberspace in an intuitive point and  click metaphor.
mogi is virtual treasure game played with cellphones and mobile im in france.
asgeospatial tagging (geotagging or geocoding) begins to be added to these games, a collaborative game reality can emerge, directing game play.
privacy advocates have major concerns with rfid tracking, which is both invasive of privacy and not secure, as the chips can easily be interrogated and spoofed.
in 1977, theapple ii microcomputer (followed by the ibm pc in 1981) launched the mass market home computing revolution.
the sports paradigm may be a good model for the future of many virtual worlds.
in the  history of the video game industry, market share consistently accrues to  stories that mentally and emotionally engage the user and are accessible by  simple interfaces.
in 1985, the term "avatar" is introduced as the goal of the computer game ultima iv (the winner becomes "the avatar").
link's ah-64 apache helicopter simulator, which requires a security clearance to operate, employs such such powerful onset cues that operators can get broken noses and bruises from the impact of virtual missiles, etc.
a • computing growth (moore's law), human-competitive machine performance (hcmp), and the technological singularity.
summit quote: "where it went from being a very small community of white nerds who knew each other to being a very large community with a whole lot of interesting spaces."
g • virtual-physical commerce and social fusions.
the first users immigrated into alphaworld on june 28, 1995.
also in 1978, ward christensen createdcbbs, the first privately operated bbs (phone in community) in chicago, il.
after a period of low initial growth, by may 2006 second life has more than 230,000 downloads to date (paying no subscription fee) and a transaction volume (virtual gdp) of us $60m per year.
structural change occurs in an economy when gdp (or for the world, gwp) or employment in one sector grows to exceed another.
esa claims that women represent about 38% of the total game playing population.
in japan today, 2d barcodes calledqr ("quick response") codes, originally used for inventory management, are now proliferating on business cards, in magazine ads and product packaging.
it would be too distracting and disruptive to have on all the time, unless constant visual collaboration were necessary.
between 1997 and 2003, the it sector's contribution to marginal gdp growth averaged 40%, and was as high as 80% in some recessionary years (digital economy 2003, table 1.1).
consumers are entitled to connect their choice of legal devices that do not harm the network; and 4.
those who do so can be publicly acknowledged at thecontributors and reviewers section of this website.
though simple, this player vs. player (pvp) combat game enjoys a  small, loyal subscription base even today.
beginning with theserious games initiative in 2000, the serious games community  (game-based education and training occurring outside the traditional primary  and secondary educational software markets) has grown steadily.
a billboard qr code presently takes up significant space, but this space will certainly shrink as cell phone cameras and processors get better.
esa claims that women  represent about 38% of the total game playing population.
we want the web to be  an intimate social medium.
i said if you like it so much, how come when i play a sony game i can't at least upload a coat of arms to wear on my armor?
mova's contour is a system for live action volumetric  performance capture in video, mapping the performance to 3d and eliminating  much of the post-production work in 3d animation.
but without adequate diversity, repetition, and depth, we may easily be deluding ourselves with our early forays in metaverse foresight development.
semiconductor feature sizes shrink in half every 5.4 years in two dimensions, doubling the number of circuits per area every 2.7 years [35,37].
in this decade, the rate of doubling has increased from every 24 months to about 18 months."
if we try to define the metaverse in shorthand as "the 3d web," we communicate a mistaken assumption that the metaverse will be all 3d, or even 3d most of the time, to most users.
alphaworld becameactive worlds in 1996.
in combination with vision simulation, a number of virtual reality simulators (pilot trainers, combat trainers, etc.) use onset cues to provide kinesthetic feedback in highly immersive environments without requiring motion through space.
h.263  video encoding (1995) is twice as good ash.261 (1990), and h.264/mpeg-4 v10  (2003) is twice as good asmpeg-4 v1 (1998).
massively  multiplayer online role-playing games (mmorpgs, "mor-peg's") and all  their social complexities, emerged.
registration in such worlds is free but access to activities  and purchase of virtual items (furniture, etc.)
despite  several korean studies linking broadband development with economic prosperity  and social welfare, and the obvious value of broadband as a platform for web  2.0 innovation, there are no government initiatives to accelerate broadband  development in the united states.
summit quote #1: "some of my assumptions have to do with [content] generativity.
communities and platforms (aol, etc.) can provide such filters, but presently in a coarse-grained manner, that involves a loss of diversity.
and he said,  'oh no we can't do that because then we'll have nazis running around  everywhere.'"
a range of open (scalable vector graphics ), semi-open (java) and proprietary (adobe flash, microsoft's directx 10, ms vista'swindows presentation foundation, xaml, and dassault and microsoft's 3d xml) 3d web enhancement standards are in competition, and each has taken many years to develop.
it's contribution to the  productivity of non-it sector industries (entertainment, education,  manufacturing, retail, tourism) is not included here, and must make the total  it figure substantially higher.
of $80 billion spent on advertising worldwide, only 10% of is games-related.
[the everquest world] they would quit their current job or school and make their money there instead [1].
bbss were run by system operators ("sysops") and added a new level of decentralization to virtual community.
there will always be cultures and tools supporting each, but polarized positions don't take into account the necessity of both.
in 1994,  theopen geospatial consortium (ogs) was formed, with eight charter members.
in 2003,second life debuted, the first 3d persistent virtual world that allows its users to retain property rights to the virtual objects they create in the online economy.
a123 systems, an mit spinoff, is in phase two multimillion dollar development on nanobattery they claim is 80% lighter, has 10x longer cycle life, 5x power gain, and "dramatically faster" charge time vs. conventional batteries.
these have enormous communities.
o 2b. current conditions - business and economics • real-money trading (rmt) (also known as virtual asset trading), the purchase of virtual game items and virtual currency online, through such online enterprises asige, mogs, and tekgaming, is a major global annual business, with the 2005 market size estimated at somewhere between$200 million and 1.5 billion [13].
in 1997, doug  crockford wrote but did not publish"living worlds considered harmful" , a critique of the vrml web-based virtual reality community, which prioritized  3d graphics and standards over enabling "socialization" (the  development of social communities within worlds).
martin cooper observed  that the spectrum efficiency of radio communication (both voice and data) has  doubled every two and a half years, over 104 years, since radio waves were  first used for communication.
semiconductor feature sizes shrink in half every 5.4 years in two  dimensions, doubling the number of circuits per area every 2.7 years [35,37].
toshiba has announced a portable nanobattery, expected  commercially in 2008, which recharges80% of its power in 60 seconds.
automation allows these users  to be supported by a company of only 500 employees.
as touradj ebrahimi notes [36], algorithmic efficiency in  video compression has doubled every five years for the last fifteen years.
president bush's technology agenda gives only  the expectedlip service to broadband development, and touting minor economic  incentives such as a two year deferment on the plannedinternet access tax (hey  look, we didn't tax your access this year!)
this was the world's first operational computerized geographic information system (gis), built by roger tomlinson at the canadian department of energy, mines and resources.
identity metaguidelines will emerge (see kim cameron’sseven laws of digital identity [44]), but are likely to grow slowly and must compete with the existing network of abstraction layers between the user and the world.
in 2005, blister entertainment launchedswordfish and torpedo bay as the first us location-based gps games.
further developments will show if  these growth rates continue to hold, but as we continually learn new ways to  represent, locally store, and generate data, these growth constants seem a  reasonable expectation for many classes of visual, sensory, and system  simulation.
recall the hyperbole inwired and  other leading magazines about the way the internet was going to imminently  revolutionize both business and culture during the early "awe" stage  of the internet (mid-to-late 1990's).
[50] of 3d media content, at least among a subset of consumers, that is presently not being fulfilled by lowest common denominator hollywood video productions, but is begining to be addressed by new media (netflix, internet video) in an increasingly participatory culture.
• location-based games (lbg) (also  called "locative games") for mobile phones are now emerging on  gps-equipped cell phones.
in combination with storage growth trends, today's 60 gb, 15,000 song ipod will be capable of storing 2.4 million songs in 2014, more than the entire current song catalogs of today's leading online sites (itunes music store, urge, etc.).
in 1984, the apple macintosh became the first  commercially successful personal computer to use a graphical user interface  (gui) and mouse instead of the then-standard command line interface.
summit quote: "i remember in ny when the internet was  getting to be something, the lawyers were early.
increasingly these will maps will also have 3d (video, 3d object, and virtual world) components.
by late 2004 it was clear to  early observers that this was the first persistent world platform that had made  it "over the hump" into sustainable exponential growth.
myspace is now thefourth  most popular english language website, according to alexa internet, adding an  astonishing 500,000 new users a week (jul 2006).
another moore's law-dependent constant we have observed  is that increasingly complex "actions" of human labor and  "modules" of human intelligence, have been achieved in a  human-competitive fashion in our robotic, automation, and it systems.
in computing, miniaturization is a leading contributor to price/performance acceleration.
in 1999, nvidia introduced the geforce 256, the first pc card built around a gpu (graphics processing unit) a microprocessor that brought parts of the geometry rendering pipeline into specialized silicon.
also in 1978, ward christensen createdcbbs, the first privately operated bbs  (phone in community) in chicago, il.
beginning with interactive cds in  the 1980s, virtual tourism is slowly gaining interest.
as randy farmer notes, persistent virtual worlds without an obvious role playing goal require significantly more initiative and creativity from their populace, and business models must expect them to be much slower to gain traction.
playdo in  sweden has more than 300,000 registered members in 2006.habbo hotel in the uk  is a similar service.
i worry that people look at wow, it is an open game in that you can move around, but it's not so open that you can make a spaceship or change the physics.
if these trends  continue, the reality threshold may as close as eight years away, in 2014.
these low-latency and efficient 2d worlds are still vastly more popular than 3d, and may remain so for some time.
k • ipv6 and next  generation internet (internet2, etc.).
1a. history - technology and science •
p • 3d navigation systems are emerging in japan and europe.
b •  there is presently very weak broadband leadership at the federal level.
classic economic theory  charts u.s. economic development from resources, to products, to services  sectors over time.
the "cyberpunk" genre of  science fiction emerges.
hmds are likely to remain niche applications for the forseeable future (see predictions, tech and science).
there is an assumption among some that the people currently at the helm of metaverse sectors "see the future" better than others.
foresight frameworks call forth a broad set of future-relevant  information, but do not fully address any category.
the seven year old ultima  online, for example, had 150,000 paying subscribers in 2006.
we assume that new money and investment will continue to flow into this sector.
2a. current conditions - technology and science • web 2.0 (participatory web) technologies, led by innovative social  networks, browsers, and search platforms, are accelerating the use of 3d and  other rich media.
taken together with constant growth trends in miniaturization, processing,  storage, bandwidth, energetics, and sensor and effector efficiency, this trend  makes it reasonable to assume a coming world of incredible public and consented  private data accessibility, or "transparency" in our global  digital networks, as outlined in david brin'sthe transparent society , 1998
nevertheless, there is still significant room for advertising around the delivery of the game, as during free downloads of advertiser-supported game modules.
the suit is settled for undisclosed terms in 2005, and the issue of physical  world intellectual property infringement by players in virtual worlds becomes  increasingly important.
today's leading 2d social networks like myspace (94 million users), xanga (27  million users),bebo (22 million users) and orkut (16 million users), etc., have  experienced sustained explosive growth in recent years.
hardware (speed, graphical realism) and interface intutiveness remain  important, but they are not the primary drivers of game success, as originally  envisioned by virtual reality pioneers.
this year also saw the first 3d morpg (multiplayer online role-playing game)meridian 59, by archetype interactive.
what's more, its growth as a percentage of our total  economy is an anemic 3% per year, a doubling time of 23 years [35].
people with time and patience can  createannotations of their local spaces and journeys using tools like google  maps [20], and there is a mash-up startup that revolves around people telling  their personal travel stories in sharable cartographic journals.
the first users immigrated into  alphaworld on june 28, 1995.
today's browsers are just beginning to manage 3d web capabilities (3d graphics, games, and video).opera 9, for example, includes "widgets" that make it easy for users to organize their online games.
[33], andeveryware (2006)
the  harvard/nyu/yalestate of play conference began the legal education around this  space in 2003.
seriosity may be the first company developing  virtual worlds as online collaboration spaces and workspaces for virtual  companies.
g • false assumption (myth): "70% of the network traffic on the internet is pornography."
f •  wired bandwidth growth (gilder's law,nielsen's law).
mvr  summit quote: "it's getting really easy to measure the world physically  and recreate it using data acquisition.
massive software, started as an ai project for massive  simultaneous character animation forthe lord of the rings trilogy  (2001-2003), has developed a framework to provide each character a broad range  of attributes and personality traits, and allow them to make independent  decisions based on those traits and what they encounter in their virtual  environment.
the  reality of individuals making their livings via work in virtual economies, most  without income reporting or taxation, is beginning to reach mainstream  awareness.
tringo, a multiplayer game designed and  played in second life, has been licensed for "real world"  distribution on thegame boy advance in 2006.
in 2001, 39% of 3,916 respondents to a survey of everquest  players said that if they could make enough money selling things from norrath
we don't have worldwide ultra-broadband or wireless connectivity, which greatly limits efficiency and scope of the collaboration space.
10 (5-15) mins (est.)
to this day, no virtual world has ever been completely shut down unless the operating company absolutely forced it to be.
when we first began tracking it, accounts doubled from 160,000 to 330,000 accounts in four months (march to july 2006).
some of the benefits of social spaces are the ability to talk to friends, trade stories, learn, explore, create, and engage in economic transactions.
f • many of us assume that the metaverse is "where the internet was in the early/mid 90's," that it will boom soon.
there are  many standards bodies:iso, ansi, w3c, etc.
bandwidth growth has since continued at the 21 month rate, with the average premium (cable modem) user in 2006 receiving5 megabits per second of bandwidth, exactly whatnielsen's 1998 graph predicted a typical premium user would have in 2005.
k • since many of the legal  liability issues of virtual spaces haven't been resolved, perhaps only smaller  companies, willing to take calculated risks, can pioneer the development of  virtual worlds at present.
density of  information on digital storage devices has been doubling every 23 months, on  average, since 1956.
this is always a small minority, and such individuals are usually paid well for their time.
and many competing standards that  find their own niches.
p • 3d  navigation systems are emerging in japan and europe.
as barry vercoe of mit notes, future audio  standards are evolving toward a postscript-like, "structured audio"  description language, which will allow audio files another 10x compression over  mp3.
one can foresee a great platform for delivering specialized video content (machinima, tournaments, etc.) to game players and virtual world denizens just a few years hence.
- 97 percent of games are purchased by adults over the age of 18 - 60 percent of parents play games with their children at least once a month - the average game player is 29 years of age.
let's hope we can move quickly to later generations of these very important social technologies.
this presently allows rapid web browsing, very light streaming video and audio to the mobile user, and dedicated voip.
today, cdma evdo 1x is available from verizon wireless and sprint in the u.s. for $60/month, delivering peak cellular modem speeds
in 1992, neal stephenson, in his science fiction novel snow crash, coined the term "metaverse" for immersive 3d online worlds, and also popularized the term "avatar" for 3d simulations representing the user.
rich media-enabled social networking sites like myspace are  another.
it is one of those  interesting local maxima.
while  there have been many false starts and fadeouts (tribe, ryze, yahoo! 360, etc.),
mpeg-4 aac audio compression, available on today's ipod, offers modest  additional compression over mp3.
it may take another generation or two for the metaverse sector, however liberally defined, to grow to represent the majority of us gdp or employment, but the marginal slowdown in traditional economic sectors, as well as general economic slowdown during the transition, is already being charted by leading economists, as with the way it worked and why it won't: structural change and the slowdown of u.s. economic growth, gordon bjork's 1999 analysis of the maturing u.s. economy, as it waits for the emergence of a global metaverse-enabled service and automation economy.
the participatory web is tools and platforms that empower the  user to tag, blog, comment, modify, augment, select from, rank, and talk back  to the contributions of other users and the world community.
important metaverse-relevant things expected  to remain the same (continue as is) in coming years.
books like ray kurzweil'sthe singularity is near, 2005 [35] are commendable early efforts at charting these developmental trends, yet this phenomenon remains largely understudied at present.
in 1993, mosaic became the first widely  distributed web browser (multimedia graphical user interface), to run on the  windows operating system.
should this progressive and modular "machine takeover" of human physical and intellectual tasks continue, which is presently the most reasonable assumption, at some point future machine performance will achieve generalized human competitive abilities even in the highest human functions.
as image recognition improves, such networks will allow a virtual  realtime map of city auto and foot traffic, a major advance for secure cities.
differential learning curves of technology, business, and society (smart).
vp systems "automate the exploration of the design space", allowing designers to try different materials and design parameters, rapidly simulating the physical and cost characteristics of the expected result.
many are creating new digital rights management (drm) systems for distribution of proprietary content.
netflix's movie recommendationcollaborative filtering system pushes consumers down the long tail of similar but more obscure fillms.
many virtual world businesses and social activities can’t be easily  partitioned between physical and virtual components.
even virtual worlds likesecond life, which have deficits in graphical realism (several generations behind the state of the art), interface ( a nonintuitive system requiring real dedication to learn to use) and traditional story (being entirely user-driven) nevertheless have a strong niche that caters to users desiring the freedom to create their own story, in a framework that encourages the marketing of their digital creations to other users.
we assume the metaverse (3d enabled web and 3d worlds) will soon be a highly creative place, with users generating lots of new content.
this will enable a world of embedded, ubiquitous, and pervasive computing, as outlined in such books aswhen things start to think (2000)
given the unique properties of the microcosm, this growth  is widely expected to continue in our information technology for the forseeable  future, enabling exponentially more immersive and intelligent virtual worlds  with each passing year.
as examples in the 3d web space, microsoft developed direct3d as a windows-proprietary 3d graphics standard, and opengl (open graphics library) has emerged as a competing open source standard.
in 1967 the canadian geographic information systems came online.
hardware and interface may be more negative factors, limiting the size of the market rather than driving differential success among offerings, at least in more mature markets.
over an afternoon of public driving and walking, a citizen might be photographed 200 times by the network.
in general, the 3d browser space presently fails to make a compelling case.
as soon as they bring in document  creation or start being able to trade real things that have value outside the  virtual environment i'm in."
the  reality is it's only happened a few times, real-money trade being one of these  cross-over points.
open apis for tagging the web and tying it to the world, likegoogle  maps, are another.
summit quote #2:  "i was at theaustin game conference talking to a big shot from sony
the smaller we make our  computing systems, the more efficient they become, often yielding astounding  and "unreasonable" efficiency increases.
this is probably because our primary western and eastern cultural mythologies are fantasies and fables adapted from our distant past.
c • one common but questionable assumption is that we are converging toward the emergence of “single sign on” identities either at the governmental, proprietary, or ngo levels.
the no. 2  telco in japan, kddi corp, has developed thelifelog pod, software that keeps  track of every user action (photos, searches, mp3 listens, software runs) made  through a cellphone or computer, extending one's searchable memory into even  the minor details of their online history [64].slstats is a log program,  activated by a watch your avatar wears in second life, that records simple  statistics on the user's in-game activity.
the state of online and virtual worlds time statistics today is  poor.
d • with the exception of virtual world providers who significantly disrupt, inflate, or otherwise devalue their world, we assume the social value of virtual items and currency will be persistent.
as brian arthur of santa fe institute notes, the first  years of the railroad, telegraph, auto, airplane, and other disruptive  technologies produced similarly inflated expectations--and investment bubbles.
as we increasingly spend our time there, there's a growing responsibility to ensure the rules are fair, the lessons learned are helpful, and the result of play is personal empowerment, not addiction and diminishment.
by nov 2006 these figures have jumped to 1.7m downloads and a $220m/year economy (marginal rate).
direct3d  currently leads opengl in video games (both have major share), but opengl has  developed a clear lead for academic research and scientific visualization, as  well as for non-microsoft platforms.
4a. assumptions - technology and science •
odawara's law centers on [desktop and wall mounted fpd] panel prices, stating  that each doubling in the cumulative area of flat panels produced results in a  cost reduction of 22 to 23 percent [per area produced].
we're going to have a real  hard time getting away from it [for many applications].
according to the above article,  highly effficient and durable high brightness leds will soon be good enough to  replace halogens as automobile headlights.
the reality of individuals making their livings via work in virtual economies, most without income reporting or taxation, is beginning to reach mainstream awareness.
as barry vercoe of mit notes, future audio standards are evolving toward a postscript-like, "structured audio" description language, which will allow audio files another 10x compression over mp3.
but 18-34 year old men spend  more time playing video games than watching tv.
m • in 2006, the google api was updated to support geocoding, and  google sketchup, a free professional 3d modelling program, was released.
using a row of file cabinets in 3d would for many be a reduction of efficiency versus a navigating a 2d filing space.
we assume sufficient standards, including data transfer protocols, document formats, and other infrastructure pieces will emerge to support a rich content metaverse.
though we can expect a broader range of fiction and nonfiction worlds, medieval fantasy dominance may be very slow to change.
this makes the social network the hub and the virtual worlds the  occasional immersive experience [16].
in the history of the video game industry, market share consistently accrues to stories that mentally and emotionally engage the user and are accessible by simple interfaces.
ray kurzweil has extended this observation back 120 years,  charting an initial doubling rate of 36 months for mechanical computing devices  of the late 1800's.
most technologies at the human scale, such as  transportation, eventually saturate, though they may proceed through many  decades of exponential improvement, through a range of paradigms, before they  do so.
what we do know is that for at least the next few game development cycles, the bulk of our virtual worlds will continue to be"walled gardens" in respect to each other.
in 2005, roughly 600 million cell phones, 110 million desktop pcs, and 60 million laptop pcs were being sold globally per year [66].
in 2004,gloventures demo game raygun pushed current gps technology "to its limits," updating the players position once per second and making the player's "next three steps matter."
summit quote: "if  i could go to these worlds and do something [useful] i'd be there everyday.
qr codes displayed on all nippon airways kiosks now allow cellphone users to travel with paperless electronic tickets.
vw viewer software to theopen source community for modification and customization.
though we can expect a  broader range of fiction and nonfiction worlds, medieval fantasy dominance may  be very slow to change.
j • network address density growth (poor's law) and the transparent  society.
david reed noted that when a network allows users to form their own  self-determined groups within the network, total value may grow in proportion  to 2^n, a rate greater than the square of the nodes, as it accounts for the  additional value of the overlapping subgroups.
as far as we can see into our extraordinary future materials scientists and research physicists expect these new efficiencies to continue to emerge, driving the miniaturization trend forward, and making the idea of highly effective and largely invisible wearable and ubiquitous computing, sensing, effecting, and communication systems a likelihood in coming decades.
d • software algorithmic efficiency and simulation/representation capacity growth (kurzweil, ebrahimi).
nonplayer characters (npcs) in virtual  worlds also are making progress in autonomy and ai, but are several years away  from the scale and sophistication seen in these feature films.
in  orienting to the world, the human body responds primarily to "onset  cues," inital rapid accelerations that signify a change in speed or  direction.
even for proprietary platforms (consoles, portables), the quantity and  quality of software titles remains the key market differentiator [1].
yet we also want it to be one with fine-grained  filters for those who want them, and in this function it presently fails  (pornography, spam, etc.).
many farmers work in less developed countries  and sell online to affluent gamers in the more developed nations.
simulearn's virtual leader, a corporate workforce training tool used in a few fortune 1000  companies and developed with the budget of a normal video game, won awards in  2003.america's army, a free first-person shooter owned and distributed by the  u.s. government, has been a very effective, and controversial, global public  relations and recruiting tool.
wireless games will grow the fastest, 28% per year, to $2.3 billion in the u.s. and $4.2 billion in asia by 2010 [39].
this would be a global transition, or phase change,  that technology scholars and futurists call the "technological  singularity."
algorithmic efficiency is a vast and technical topic that is dependent on automation, representation schemes, processing capacity growth, and experience curves, among other factors.
creating something original in that space is impossible."
another is the open sourceflock web browser, which encourages rss  aggregation, automated blog posting, photo sharing, gathering and indexing of  web searches, and other participatory technologies.
croquet is a potential candidate, and the opensource  metaverse project is another even more recent early effort, but to date none  has received major support in developer time or funding from the volunteer  community.
some designers assume the superior value of an architecture of contiguous geography in the metaverse, transparently connecting spaces, versus archipelagos of loosely linked worlds, as we have today.
according tonielsen/netratings, less than half of all  americans (142 million of 295 million total) were active internet users in  2004.
f • gold farmers are individuals who acquire in-game currency or objects by continually defeating enemies within online games.
but how rapidly this participatory web vision occurs is yet to be determined.
chasing the long tail.
that assumption is yet to be validated, and remains a key uncertainty to metaverse development, to be tested in the marketplace.
over us $1m in transactions occur daily, on average, "in world."
h • creation of 3d worlds from 2d photos and video is now possible  in rudimentary form.
in this same year multiplayer online role-playing games (morpgs) gain the technical ability to expand player numbers beyond small groups (8-16) to very large player numbers (3,000+).
third generation technologies, with luck and  repeated feedback, are usually net humanizing."
we assume that there won't be a significant social backlash to people spending increasing amounts of time in virtual spaces, and reorganizing their lives to do so.
" o 1b. history - business and economics •
by comparison, technologies at the nanoscale may in theory continue their exponentiation past the limits of human systems, as they are driven by the discovery and implementation of the unique physics of the nanocosm, not human creativity, and as informational nanotechnologies become increasingly autonomous (human-independent) with time.
many historical 3d web standards (vrml, microsoft chrome, adobe atmosphere, shockwave 3d) failed to gain traction, while others (x3d, the vrml successor, adopted as an iso standard in 2004) have had slow adoption rates and increasing competition from other open standards developed by proprietary groups (microsoft's directx and xaml, intel’suniversal 3d, others).
though simple, this player vs. player (pvp) combat game enjoys a small, loyal subscription base even today.
the nintendo generation.
on 3g phones  with good built-in cameras, even qr codes on billboards can be resolved by the  camera phone, to play a movie trailer, provide a coupon code, etc.
as examples of progress, but offers no specific monies, strategy, or program.
g • 3d browser prototypes.
summit quote: "training time has gone down from the amount of time new recruits have spent playing first person shooters."
l • legal and political  implications of virtual world use are just beginning to be considered.
while still a dramatic  growth rate, the doubling period is nevertheless three to four times slower  than moore's law.
for each input, category and subcategory assignments are arbitrary and arguable.
o • local positioning systems (lps), extensions ofgps tracking systems in use in shipping logistics, allow the ability to identify and inventory all objects in a local space, which in turn can be used to improve the value of 2d and 3d gis visualizations.
summit  quote #1: "as an outsider one of the reasons why second life works is  because you've got management who was willing to take the positions that  they've taken on sex and ip etc.
compression in portable audio (audio simulation/re-representation) capacity has grown at a roughly similar rate.
with electricity at only 70 cents per gallon equivalent when drawn in off-peak hours (roughly twice this cost in peak hours), these will be deployed privately at a greatly increasing frequency in the coming decade.
most focus on the youth  demographic, rapid adopters of new online behavior.
in 1994, theopen geospatial consortium (ogs) was formed, with eight charter members.
m • there is very limited  interoperabilty between virtual worlds, for technical, business, and gameplay  reasons.
the aec (architecture, engineering, and construction) industry is a major constituency driving metaverse development.
we’ll use it only if it doesn’t take too much of our system’s computing resources, and adds significant additional value to the social space.
in 1984, the apple macintosh became the first commercially successful personal computer to use a graphical user interface (gui) and mouse instead of the then-standard command line interface.
this is disproportionate to the time people spend playing, so there may be room for significant growth in game advertising revenue.
c • metaverse designers commonly assume that extending a real world metaphor to virtual space is the best way to interact with computers and other people.
my feeling is that it's really hard to be generative in these worlds at present.
the online pornography industry is now innovating internet video on demand (vod), with downloads burnable to dvd.
jakob nielsen later amended this  observation to note that premium internet users received new bandwidth at an  annual growth rate of 50%, giving a doubling rate of 21 months from 1983-1998,  a rate slower than processor capacity growth (moore's law) over this same  period.
taken together with constant growth trends in miniaturization, processing, storage, bandwidth, energetics, and sensor and effector efficiency, this trend makes it reasonable to assume a coming world of incredible public and consented private data accessibility, or k "transparency" in our global digital networks, as outlined in david brin'sthe transparent society , 1998
the video game market will continue to grow at a healthy rate for the foreseeable future, as increasingly global youth markets are established, as non-players are targeted by new types of games, and as gamers encounter a host of new pc, console and mobile computing platforms and faster and better networks.