with directx 9, microsoft managed to strike a decisive victory, imposing  its api on developers.
i'm glad i didn't stop coming to thg.
so, for several years, direct3d’s capabilities were beyond the curve, with an interface that many programmers found a lot more confusing than opengl’s.
also, for 3ds max specific, you are able to have real time shadows and lightning conditions in viewports, but only under d3d.
a turning point was reached with directx 8, released in 2001.
but i still am a pc gamer through and through even though i am grampar foda i love buiding pc units and playing well i havent been to a net game in a couple of years pizza and beer
ow pc gameing is dieing allright the major game componies are starting to squeese out the pc games from there production list useing the excuse that they are loosing money through pirecy but what they are realy doing is cutting out one version forcing pc gamers to evolve into console players and from this article i get the impresion that microsoft has a hand in it aswell by making sure that the console games end up running better or as good as pc games i think if the origenal opengl was alowed to proceed years ago and if the follow up was taken and there wasnt any sabotage happening then the pc and its performance with mutly cpu gpu and the tecnolegy evolving with the progamers and propper apis in this area would have left the console market in the shade but this way microsoft is eliminating other similar competion
dx11 compliant several years before windows 7 is released.
unless you're using windows, which is proprietary, the only viable alternative cannot be used because of the fear of losing compability.
apple to cut to the chace apple and opengl is getting the microsft squeese and who has an interest in a console product :-)
even  when a company has maneuvered itself into a near monopoly, if it rests on its  laurels, it’s not all that rare for a competitor to rise from his ashes.
compute shader and texture compression 9.
but then you have people like tim sweeney telling us that graphics apis are not going to be relevant that much longer (http://arstechnica.com/articles/paedia/gpu-sweeney-interview.ars).
for dx11 to move forward and windows 7 to take hold, dx9 must die completely.
i do not know about the 4600 line, but i don’t see why they wouldn’t be.
in this modern david-versus-goliath battle, the “little guy” won a precious ally in one of the most famous game developers–-mr.
it would be nice if it became a viable anything-other-then-a-web-server viable platform though.
with each new version of direct3d, it gradually began to catch up with opengl.
so when the khronos group took over opengl two years ago, many hopes were  rekindled with all eyes on the upcoming siggraph conference that year.
opengl may not have gotten the changes it needed to compete with directx as a gaming graphics api.
direct3d 10 has changed very little in the industry so far, predictably only a very small number of games us it.
conversely, microsoft was working solely  with ati and nvidia, using its weight to cast a deciding vote if there was  disagreement.
and yet a reversal of  fortunes was still possible.
maybe ms learned by now that releasing a new api on only the latest platform is a huge mistake, but it will still be a while before people will adapt their new api.
the engineers in redmond worked very hard to bring performance up to its rival  api’s level.
latest gpu roundup was another massive success.
cool, but it will be a few years before we see at dx11 graphic card on the market.stridervm 09/16/2008 10:02 am
even when a company has maneuvered itself into a near monopoly, if it rests on its laurels, it’s not all that rare for a competitor to rise from his ashes.
in conclusion, thg needs more of these articles.
introduction opengl 3 (3dlabs
i use several autodesk products for engineering and autodesk made it clear about 1.5 years ago that their 3d products would only support directx in the future.
how can .1 increase bring ~2007 things while staying 5 years behind.
for the first  time, microsoft’s api did more than just copy from sgi.
i guess i might be one of the old dinosorse
the two companies were both trying to win over  developers, with microsoft using its financial muscle and sgi relying on its  experience and its reputation in the field of real-time 3d.
reminds me of some of the old school tom's articles we used to see.tomc100 09/16/2008 5:42 pm if ms was smart they should release the xbox3 that is fully
it should work when it is released unless they have bugs.spaztic7 09/16/2008
only john carmack and those who insisted on portability remained faithful to opengl.
normal noobs will be able to own super noobs who are standing around looking at over-detailed shrubs.
it actually introduced innovations of its own like support for vertex and pixel shaders.
but nobody can accuse microsoft of being easily discouraged.
however, in the cut throat buisness of game engines[epic vs whats-their-name anyone?] and gpu drivers, i seriously doubt that open source systems will ever be at the forefront of gaming dx11 is compatiable with dx10 hardware.
meanwhile, microsoft was starting from scratch, and the learning curve was  steep.
since the arb—the group in charge of ratifying the api’s development—included many different, competing companies, it was hard to reach agreement on the features to be added to the api.
doing away with fixed functions is also great however hardware tesselation if huge.. dx 11 also allows for hardware voxel rendering /raymarching thru compute shaders and alot of other stuff.. as apis become more general
lunaticwolf 09/16/2008 6:05 pm sadly tom, that would ruin us all, as all new consoles would cost $1000seodeo 09/16/2008
only john carmack and those who insisted on portability  remained faithful to opengl.
am i to understand that opengl can do the same, but the autodesk programmers chose not to implement them?
but their ranks dwindled.
sadly, i agree by the author's opinions.
so when the khronos group took over opengl two years ago, many hopes were rekindled with all eyes on the upcoming siggraph conference that year.
opengl’s development was also handicapped by bitter disputes among its  proponents.
as for the windows/other platforms discussion, it is not the fault of microsoft that there is no viable alternative on other platforms.
gazzoo 09/16/2008 3:12 pm ow pc gameing is dieing allright the major game componies are starting to squeese out the pc games from there production list useing the excuse that they are loosing money through pirecy but what they are realy doing is cutting out one version forcing pc gamers to evolve into console players and from this article i get the impresion that microsoft has a hand in it aswell by making sure that the console games end up running better or as good as pc games i think if the origenal opengl was alowed to proceed years ago and if the follow up was taken and there wasnt any sabotage happening then the pc and its performance with mutly cpu gpu and the tecnolegy evolving with the progamers and propper apis in this area would have left the console market in the shade but this way microsoft is eliminating other similar competion
search| given the prevalence of directx nowadays, we tend to forget that 10 years ago an all-out war was being waged between microsoft and silicon graphics in the field of 3d apis.
the dx11 games will then force people to upgrade to windows 7.
in fact, it  gave 3dfx one of its early advantages and knocked ati to the back of the pack  as it struggled with its opengl support.
it had happened with web browsers, after all.
the engineers in redmond worked very hard to bring performance up to its rival api’s level.
as far as i know, dx11 features is not possible on the open platforms like the ps3 or 4 so multiplatform games will always look and run better (provided that dx11 does what it says it will do) on the xbox3 thus annihilating the console market.
conversely, microsoft was working solely with ati and nvidia, using its weight to cast a deciding vote if there was disagreement.
but il be buggered if i will lie down and die because of big buisness gazza al3891: "as for the windows/other platforms discussion, it is not the fault of microsoft that there is no viable alternative on other platforms.
[as dx 10/11 are] im sure the pace of new apis: will slow down, but that's not a indicator that pc gaming is dying (un informed people have claimed that the pc is dead since the ps1)
as for real gamers, we'll stick with xp until either microsoft gets smart and clones xp and only adds on aero or opengl gets it's act together and linux becomes a viable gaming platform.
i find these to statements contradictory.
last month, khronos was to have announced opengl 3, a major revision of the  api that’s supposed to catch up with microsoft, which was also scheduled  to launch its next-gen directx 11 api.
to even get access to the necessary functions you'd have to cripple your efforts with m$ bs.
sgi, whose main source of revenue was the sale of expensive 3d workstations,  was in a bad position, having failed to foresee that the explosion of 3d cards  for gamers would prompt ati and nvidia to move into the professional market  with prices so low (due to economies of scale) that sgi couldn’t keep up.
with directx 9, microsoft managed to strike a decisive victory, imposing its api on developers.
what really should be done is a port/implementation of dx11 in open source..
look at how windows systems cost now compared to the the alternative.johnbilicki 09/16/2008 10:39 am directx 11 will be available on windows 7 and vista?
in fact, it gave 3dfx one of its early advantages and knocked ati to the back of the pack as it struggled with its opengl support.
it actually  introduced innovations of its own like support for vertex and pixel shaders.
linux gurus, feel free to let us know in sixty years that i won't have to explain to my grandmother how to type console commands to install a copy of opera.
meanwhile, microsoft was starting from scratch, and the learning curve was steep.
-- it would be interesting (if possible at all) to make an unbiased api performance shootout.
also, you said that opengl 3.0 is more like 2.2, but you also said that it barely caches up with dx10.
in part due to the success of the quake engine, solid support for opengl became important enough to motivate makers of 3d cards to provide complete drivers.
the two companies were both trying to win over developers, with microsoft using its financial muscle and sgi relying on its experience and its reputation in the field of real-time 3d.
have fun making a viable open alternative to a closed source api that runs really close to the closed source kernel of the closed source os.
their timeline may also be affected since those products have not been under the direct control of autodesk for quite as long (3ds max and maya).
but things didn’t really go as  planned.
i know that professional 3d programs like max and maya run much smoother on d3d even when run on the non-crippled version of opengl (on workstation cards).
dx 10 may not appear major but for devs its actually is.. no more checking cap bits.. that is a big improvment.
3:08 pm from my understanding, all hd4800 serious are dx11 compatible... and the hd4800 line is ray tracing compatible at ray tracings frame cap.
and if tim sweeney's predictions come true, it will likely not happen at all.
that will ultimately increase the library of dx11 games, real full dx11 games incompatible with dx9.
but il be buggered if i will lie down and die because of big buisness gazza great article.
opengl can go screw backwards compatibility, look what it's done to (competent) web designers who are stuck dealing with internet explorer.
opengl 2.1 is in ~1999.
for the first time, microsoft’s api did more than just copy from sgi.
and those who do can do most of it on direct3d 9 as well.
and yet a reversal of fortunes was still possible.
unreasonable and becomes power hungry.....
this has already occurred for inventor running on vista, so i do not know how far the other products are.
all the bad news about directx, opengl, and drm makes me wonder if these companies want us to pirate the hell out of everything.
is this due to particular software optimizations or just speed deficiency of ogl?
dx10 is alot more strict in terms of what the drivers should do and thats good.
in part due  to the success of the quake engine, solid support for opengl became important  enough to motivate makers of 3d cards to provide complete drivers.
i just hope this can be remedied before microsoft becomes....
6:07 pm great article- very interesting reading.
in this modern  david-versus-goliath battle, the “little guy” won a precious ally  in one of the most famous game developers–-mr.
what really should be done is a port/implementation of dx11 in open source.."
last month, khronos was to have announced opengl 3, a major revision of the api that’s supposed to catch up with microsoft, which was also scheduled to launch its next-gen directx 11 api.
or is my logic simply flawed here?
i always assumed that ogl simply couldn’t due to obsoleteness.
if someone chose to compete with microsoft, they could.
opengl’s development was also handicapped by bitter disputes among its proponents.
but no one seems willing.
instead,  each company promoted its own agenda.
and the evolution of opengl)
since the arb—the group in charge of ratifying the  api’s development—included many different, competing companies, it  was hard to reach agreement on the features to be added to the api.
i'm under impression that ogl 3.0 is in ~2003 while dx10 is ~2007.
conclusion given the prevalence of directx nowadays, we tend to forget that 10 years  ago an all-out war was being waged between microsoft and silicon graphics in  the field of 3d apis.
but things didn’t really go as planned.
at this rate "next generation" consoles might actually become the next generation consoles!
so, for several years, direct3d’s capabilities were beyond the  curve, with an interface that many programmers found a lot more confusing than  opengl’s.
sgi, whose main source of revenue was the sale of expensive 3d workstations, was in a bad position, having failed to foresee that the explosion of 3d cards for gamers would prompt ati and nvidia to move into the professional market with prices so low (due to economies of scale) that sgi couldn’t keep up.
instead, each company promoted its own agenda.
not simply for, but because it still give away the idea that pc gaming cannot be considered serious.....