there's a table with a book in the center.
vm's were used initially in the 1960's to emulate time shared operating systems, but these days we use them to run software which was written for foreign operating systems, or more commonly, an entire operating system.
the developers of winex were going to release their installshield, directx  and directdraw enhancements to wine "every so often".
wabi is fast and does a good job for what it does, although i've heard it said that wabi for solaris is more stable than linux.
a google search should turn up alot of information on this problem.
back then, text adventures were self contained executables on a disk or  casette.
although you may not be able to play yourfavorite fps  under linux (half-life plays great under winex)
you'll see this on isa  cards only.
e_atan2.o: 00000000 t __ieee754_atan2  e_atanh.o: 00000000 t __ieee754_atanh 00000000 r half 00000010 r limit 00000018  r ln2_2 ... when using gcc, you refer to these libraries by shaving off the  strings "lib", ".a" and all version numbers.
the original sci games were dos  based, but sierra eventually started releasing win32 sci based games.
although some games may work with wine, you'll probably get the most success with winex: its directx support is constantly improving.
svgalib is a graphics library that lets you draw graphics on the console.
you can play adventure yourself (actually, a  descendent); it comes with "bsd games" on most linux distros.
as a last note, the only systematic linux video card benchmarking effort i'm aware of was done, unfortunately, in march 2001, between a radeon 32 ddr and a geforce 2.
if you haven't compiled the kernel yourself, there is an overwhelmingly good chance that your system is set up to load sound drivers as modules.
/usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.1 (0x40a50000) libxext.so.6 =>
this file will have almost everything there is to know about your x  system.
because their linux guy quit the company, reel deal slots is their first, and so far, last release for linux.
rather than trusting programmers to write totally bug free, cooperative programs that access hardware, linux simply disallowed it.
you can also run wine without windows.
exult is written in c++ using sdl, so it will compile on any platform that can compile sdl programs.
frankly, there's enough games for me, although it would be really nice to have some of the bleeding edge games and classics like half-life and carmageddon.
there are two types of bad things: random and repeatable.
the degree to which they use graphics varies widely.
if you want to start putting dynamic libraries in /home/joecool/privatelibs, you'd add this directory to /etc/ld.so.conf.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libxext.so.6 (0x40a52000) libx11.so.6 =>
however, they're really incomplete, and effectively, unusable.
which video card should i buy?
what does this have to do with  files not being found?
there seems to be a deficiency of commercial  rpgs for linux.
it also features some enhancements over  the original versions of the ultima vii engine.
strace tells you what system calls are being made, with what arguments, and what their return values are.
often  a game will have many patches (myth2) and some games are unplayable without  them (heretic2).
many fps games  allow people to write their own non-commercial datafile.
the only one i can think of is hopkins fbi (which happens to be my favorite game for linux).
it only supports serial and parallel devices.
if you have a pentium4 or an athlonxp, you  could compile you own version specifically for your processor.
unreal  engine currently, it's not all cross-platform goodness.
underworld adventures also provides a bunch of tools for you to display the level maps, tools for examining uw1 conversation scripts and more.
the types of games usually take a long  time to complete and require a lot of brainpower.
you'll need to purchase a copy  of ultima 7 to play.
but the radeon's drivers were open source,
wine , which bears the gnuish acronym "wine is not an emulator" is a non-commercial implementation of the win32 api.
every once in awhile you'll see some sicko (said with respect) write a game  in xlib.
this means that there are different builds of mesa depending on what kind of video card you have.
it has support from nvidia (nforce2/3 based motherboards come with openal ms  windows libraries for the on-board audio), apple has added openal to their  audio framework for osx and it can also be found powering the epic games
the developers of winex were going to release their installshield, directx and directdraw enhancements to wine "every so often".
now that linux is beginning to mature, this question isn't as important as it used to be.
a "real computer" provides an operating system many things,  including a cpu, i/o channels, memory, a bios to provide low level access to  motherboard
the project uses sdl and is released  under the modified bsd license.
here is how you can get the call stack at barf-time: sometimes distros set up their os so that core files (which are mainly useful to programmers) aren't generated.
= 33 it was looking for mind.dat in only one directory.
it  should contain some.desktop files, each corresponding to an entry you'll see in  gdm's session menu, e.ggnome.desktop, enlightenment.destop.
it suffers nevertheless from some limitations: it does not support directx or directdraw, while vmware has "limited" support for directx.
nvidia's party line was they license some of their gl code from  another company, and is thus non-releasable.
jzip is very  portable; it compiles on all unices, os/2, atari st and dos.
this allowed them to write game  data files in a cross platform manner, since only the engine itself, the  z-machine, would be platform dependent.
i don't think this application has a homepage.
the system shock engine was optimized for sophistication, while doom's engine was optimized for throwing lots of monsters at you; a completely different appoach.
beyond the 9200, you need to use ati's binary only  proprietary drivers, available in rpm format from ati's website.
this was a good time for linux.
peter jay salzman copyright © 2003, 2004 peter jay salzman, frï¿½dï¿½ric delanoy 2004-11-13 v.1.0.6 abstract the same questions get asked repeatedly on linux related mailing lists and news groups.
but again, the driver issue makes this information unusable for us.
ultima i was released in 1987 and was the game that launched 9 (depending on how you want to count them) very popular sequels, finishing with ultima ix: ascension.
and that's pretty much where we are right now.
this is a sound card specific issue, and beyond the scope of this howto.
if your game allows for saved games, then sending the author a copy of the saved game is useful because it helps the tech reproduce whatever is going wrong.
this means that when you get opengl from sgi,  if you want any kind of hardware acceleration at all, it must be opengl written  and compiled specifically for some graphics card.
we'll run through the different gaming libraries you'll see under linux.
if you want to  reboot but the `o' key doesn't work, try using halt.
definitions: video card and 3d terminology we'll cover video card and 3d graphics terminology.
a team of people developed exult   which is an open source interpreter that will run both parts of ultima 7 and  their addon disks.
xt-pic aic7xxx 12: 2457456 0 xt-pic ps/2 mouse 14: 556955 0 xt-pic ide0 nmi: 0 0 loc: 24186046 24186026 err: 1353
nothing will ever replace walking into a dark, crowded and noisy  arcade gallery, popping a quarter into your favorite machine and playing an old  fashioned game of space invaders.
anisotropic (meaning 'from any direction') samples from more than 8 pixels.
the t&l is the process of translating all the 3d world information  (position, distance, and light sources) into the 2d image that is actually  displayed on screen.
it's painful the first time you do it, but once you do it  correctly, it becomes very easy down the right, especially if you keep all your  old .config files and make use of things like "make oldconfig".
a good example would be heavy gear iii or flight gear.
the last argument to strace is the program we're inspecting, here, "ls".
on ms windows, when the geforce beat out its main competing radeon, the review claimed that the radeon generally had better visuals.
it makes some different design decisions  regarding separation of data and methods of accessing the video card like  relying on root access rather than creating the kernel infrastructure for  secure access.
you play a character, sometimes more than one, characterized by traits (eg strength, dexterity), skills (eg explosives, basket weaving, mechanics) and properties (levels, cash).
it is a set of c libraries which comprise the lowest level programming  interface for xfree86.
as root, change to the  "/usr/share/xsessions" directory and take a look at its contents.
when an operating system wants to write to a hard drive, it communicates through a device driver that interfaces directly with the hardware device memory.
this is where strace shines.
in  either case, sims strive for realism.
in addition, there isn't an evaluation copy available, although  you get a 30 day money back guarantee.
this document is a stepping stone to get the most common problems resolved and to give people the knowledge to begin thinking intelligently about what is going on with their games.
a few seconds later, hit alt-sysrq-u. this will attempt to remount all your  mounted filesystems as read-only).
using scottfree and any of the scott adams data files which can be downloaded from scott's website  you can enjoy these classics.
as of june 2003, expect to pay $89.99 without printed docs and $99.99 with  printed docs.
see the dri user guide.
their website is very good, and chock full  of any kind of information about scumm and playing these games under scummvm.
this shouldn't be a surprise since glide2 and glide3 support different video cards and different versions of xfree86.
they have also more  functionality than the publicly available tarball: the latter is an older  version which lacks some of the newest features, like support for copy  protected programs.
loading & massaging...
if certain keys on your keyboard don't work, be creative.
3dfx was  getting ready to release a new voodoo v featuring 4 gpu's which would've  trounced the ati and nvidia offerings, as well as a new card code named  "rampage" which reportedly would've put them firmly back as the king  of the hill.
trilinear filtering always uses mip  mapping.
the developers have no plans on extending exult to  interpret the other ultimas since the engines changed so radically between  releases.
and again like the rush, it wasn't popular.
e_atan2.o: 00000000 t __ieee754_atan2 e_atanh.o:
you  won't be disappointed with this service.
when a particular graphics task isn't able to be hardware accelerated by the video card, it's software rendered; the task is done by your computer's cpu instead.
this section has url's that should be mentioned but didn't have a separate section within the howto, so i list them here as a kind of appendix.
static libraries usually end with.a followed by a  version number, like: /usr/lib/libsdl.a /usr/lib/libm.a the .a files are really an archive of a bunch of .o
they  include things like text entry boxes, pulldown menus, slider bars, radio  buttons and much more.
needless to say, this only applies if your game crashes reproducably at a certain point.
it's used for a number of purposes, like making adjacent textures  blend smoothly and making textures viewed from an angle (think of looking at a  billboard from an extreme angle) look realistic.
note that if you use a journalling filesystem like ext3, reiserfs or xfs, hitting the power switch isn't all that bad.
his games were available for atari,  apple 2, commodore, sorcerer, ti, and cpm.
wine does not provide the dos api, so you can't use it to run dos  applications.
linux gaming news linux meta gaming site for german speaking folk.
this should clear up many problems,  including consoles hosed by an svgalib or ncurses based game.
first of all, it's probably not the game, it's probably your setup.
i hate howto's that include the license; it's a tree killer.
if the game is not located in your $path, give its  full path name.
between losing the benchmark wars to the geforce and radeon,  their lateness with new cards and high prices, 3dfx lost its market share and  didn't have the funds to stay into business.
when you use a voodoo iii, iv or v under xfree86 4.x, you want to use a  version of mesa (seesection 3.4) which was compiled to use glide3 as a backend  to ensure hardware accelerated opengl on your system.
it's possible to recover from this gracefully.
strace tells you what system calls are being  made, with what arguments, and what their return values are.
it makes some different design decisions regarding separation of data and methods of accessing the video card like relying on root access rather than creating the kernel infrastructure for secure access.
don't bother  with the simple search.
at its lowest level, it provides  a platform independent (as much as that is possible in c++) way of dealing with  display, sound, input, networking, files, threading and such.
suppose i want to watch the stateofmind demo because i can't ever seem to  get enough of it.
wine wine , which bears the gnuish acronym  "wine is not an emulator" is a non-commercial implementation of the  win32 api.
the canonical rpg on linux is rogue (the ncurses library started life as a  screen handling routine for rogue!)
opengl provides a powerful, complete and generic feature set for 2d and 3d graphics operations.
if you can't, ssh in  from a another machine.
gcc will then `place a memo  inside the executable' that says to look at the files/usr/lib/libsdl.so and  /lib/libm.so.3 whenever an sdl or math function is used.
win4lin cannot use an existing windows installation the way wine can.
then log out and log back in as the non-root user.
more important than fps is having a constant fps for small and large  windows.
nvidia uses a convenient combined driver architecture; their driver will support the tnt 2 all the way up to the geforce 5900.
despite the authors being a bit surly, their effort with the faq is very good.
it's poorly supported by wine (section 10.5.1), barely supported by  vmware (section 10.5.5) and unsupported by win4lin (section 10.5.4).
commercial game companies like loki release patches for their games.
see section 4.2  for details.
check the game's website for patches whether you have a problem running the game or not; there may be an update for a security problem that you may not even be aware of.
anti aliasing anti aliasing is the smoothing of jagged edges along a rendered curve or  polygon.
about the games themselves.
agi: adventure gaming interface (sierra) 11.3.
depending on the version of directx you're talking about, directx support  in winex (section 10.5.3) ranges from well supported to "kind of"  supported.
here's  a summary for the x86 architecture (see the documentation for other  architectures).
the text characters could look  like gibberish.
trilinear filtering is capable of producing  fine visuals, but it only samples from a square area which in some cases is not  the ideal method.
sdl is an example of what all graphics libraries should strive for.
they released the voodoo rush in april 1996.
wabi was originally created by sco unix a long time ago and then was purchased by caldera sometime in mid year 2001.
it provides all the services that a real computer would provide.
there are many graphical applications and games that use svgalib likezgv (a console graphical image viewer),prboom and hhexen.
gcc will then `place a memo inside the executable' that says to look at the files/usr/lib/libsdl.so and /lib/libm.so.3 whenever an sdl or math function is used.
it was  another success, but 3dfx began to lose ground to nvidia, which released their  tnt 2.
and  it felt good, because 3dfx open sourced their drivers.
scott adams adventures (adventure international) 11.6.
the newer sierra graphical adventure games (we're talking about the late 80's here) used an interpreter named sci.
these days sims and strats are nearly  indistinguishable, but a long time ago, sims were real time while strats were  turn based.
he was the lead programmer for loki software (he now codes for blizzard software), which used sdl in all of its games except for quake3.
the first adventure game was adventure (actually "advent",  written on a pdp-1 in 1972).
/usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.1 (0x409f1000) libxext.so.6 =>
if something is already accessing your card, other applications won't be able to.
if hardware acceleration is working, the fps for glxgears should be nearly independent of window size.
if you don't understand the first response you  see (or if it doesn't work), then try one of the other many replies.
since glide2 accesses the video card directly, glide2 applications will either need to be run by root or be setuid root.
later on, the sophisticated graphical adventures had your character roaming around the screen, and you could even use a mouse, but the interface remained purely text.
the underworld adventures project  is an effort to port the 1992 classic, ultima underworld: the stygian abyss, to modern operating systems like linux, macos x, and windows.
it's actually a meta-library, meaning that not only is it a graphics library which hides the details of xlib programming, it provides an easy interface for sound, music and event handling.
however, there have  been numerous reports about serious problems with the live!
however, that changed under x 4.x with dri (direct rendering infrastructure .
most games don't need the  low-level interface that xlib provides.
if the magic sysrq key sequence doesn't shut your system down gracefully, your kernel has crashed hard and you'll need to use the reset or power button to recover.
the compiler will try to optimise the resulting binary, giving some increase in performance.
when it wants to access a hard drive, give it some memory to write to.
as you can see, this gives us slighly different results.
the people atwinehq are writing their own set of libraries called  libwine which implements the win32 api with no microsoft code at all.
for commercial games, this option is more fruitful than sending a core  file or call stack since commercial games can't be recompiled to include  debugging information.
your 3d system is misconfigured (more likely)
text adventures became popularized by scott adams (section 11.5) and reached their height of popularity in the late 80's with infocom (section 11.4) which are also playable under linux.
you'll see this on isa cards only.
you can find what these standard system directories are
however, so many people use usenet, it almost doesn't matter.
it's a mistake to say  something like "directx is like opengl" or "directx is like  sdl", as is commonly said in directx tutorials.
note if your keyboard doesn't have asysrq key, use the printscreen key: hit alt-sysrq-s. this will attempt to sync your mounted filesystems so that changes to files get flushed to disk.
there are two types of libraries, static and dynamic.
it holds valuable clues for the programmer to the nature of the crash -- what caused it and what the program was doing when it happened.
if there are enough questions (or even protests) i'll add more basic information to this document.
for instance, while nwn does not itself depend onlibnvidia-tls.so , the nvidia supplied libgl on my system does.
it was the first hardware accelerated  card, but only rendered 3d; it had to be piggybacked with a 2d video card.
one method i've come up with is typing a command at the prompt and using characters on the screen with mouse cut/paste.
trilinear filtering is a high quality bilinear filter which uses the four closest pixels in the second most suitable mip map to produce smoother transitions between mip map levels.
wabi does not do dos itself, but it looks like it can use a dos emulator as a backend for running dos programs.
tnt drivers claim they do, but i've read that these drivers still use trilinear filtering when actually rendering an image to the screen.
accelerated functions on 3dfx's voodoo i, ii and iii cards, under xfree86 3.x.
the show-stopper is the fact that vmware has limited  directx support while win4lin has none.
starting with pentium class processors and including athlon, k6-2 and other cpus, there are memory type range registers (mtrr) which control how the processor accesses ranges of memory locations.
let's use strace to find out where the program was looking for the data file.
the voodoo iv and v rendered in full 32bpp color, had great aa support (section 7.4.3), featured a 2nd gpu, more memory, and was arguably the king of of video cards.
in the example above, we can see that nwmain wants libmss.so.6, and the linker cannot find it.
when objects are rendered into a 2d frame buffer, the rendering engine removes hidden surfaces by using the z buffer.
the code base has forked  and merged numerous times.
any graphics programming in x ultimately makes use of  the xlib library.
while some games are written in xlib, like the doom editor yadex, xlib  itself is not a serious game writing library.
btw,  let me say that compiling your own kernel is the first step towards proficiency  with linux.
if you're a game  writer, please consider using cross platform libraries and stay away from  directx. a company named realtechvr started an open source project, directx port,   which, like wine, provides a direct3d  emulation layer that implements direct3d calls.
suppose the library libmp3.so.2 is in /usr/local/include but your new game "kill-metallica" can't find it.
the  implementation tries to use hardware acceleration for various graphics  operations whenever available, which depends on what videocard you have in you  computer.
the lock can also be a "soft lock", meaning that the kernel is still functioning in some capacity.
gaming can be a tough pursuit; it requires knowledge from an incredibly vast range of topics from compilers to libraries to system administration to networking to xfree86 administration ...
cd to/usr/games/nwn, or wherever you installed it and take a look at  the files.
point sampling texture filtering point sampling is rare these days, but if you run a game with 'software  rendering' (which you'd need to do if you run a 3d accelerated game without a  3d accelerated board) you're likely to see it used.
while it's not officially certified (that would take more money than an open source project has), it's an almost fully compliant opengl implementation conforming to the arb specifications.
like vmware (section 10.5.5)
they don't necessarily have to be violent, likexscavenger, a clone of the old 8-bit game lode runner.
not only did we have the best video cards, but the drivers were all open source.
the system  shock engine was optimized for sophistication, while doom's engine was  optimized for throwing lots of monsters at you; a completely different appoach.
a program that is allowed to directly write to hardware  can crash the system in any number of ways.
russian dmitry samoyloff  is the maintainer of  the russian translation.
openal  aims to be for sound what opengl is  for graphics.
© “the ict & security company.”™, ictsc ltd copyright & trademark's terms and conditions privacy policy.
the xterm from which you run  glxgears will display "x frames in y seconds =
currently, it's not all cross-platform goodness.
i can't find a working homepage for this application.
the number of sampled pixels and which sampled pixels it uses  depends on the viewing angle of the surface relative to your screen.
write(2, "can\'t open data  file \'mind.dat\'."..., )
the project was focused on the  beos platform, but is now focused on macos and linux.
this is a direct consequence  of a bug in the linux kernel.
these days we have midi emulators like timidity and libraries like sdl which don't require hardware midi support.
apple 8-bit all the 8-bit apple ][ emulators require a copy of the original rom, for  whichever system you want to emulate, in a file.
it's poorly supported by wine (section 10.5.1), barely supported by vmware (section 10.5.5) and unsupported by win4lin (section 10.5.4).
when a computer locks, it can  be a "hard lock", meaning the kernel has completely stopped  functioning.
but your  process table will be a ghost town, and all that extra cpu will go straight to  your game.
any game-supplied copy of a library  such as openal or sdl is likely to be compiled for the lowest common  denominator, probably i486 or i686.
this allowed them to write game data files in a cross platform manner, since only the engine itself, the z-machine, would be platform dependent.
while you need the original game files to play sshp, it should work with the system shock demo, which is freely available.
a more relevent issue is speakers, but even here the difference isn't huge.
if the page is not in a language you can understand, there are many translation sites which will convert the text into whatever language you like, including http://www.freetranslation.com and http://translation.lycos.com.
graphical console games written using the frame buffer suffer from the same deficiencies of the svga library: not all hardware is supported and the code will only run on linux.
but at high resolutions, the performance hit may be enormous.
you  won't normally see an fsck for the partitions that use the journalling  filesystem.
because  win4lin concentrates on these operating systems, reports say that it's faster  and does a better job at running games under these operating system than  vmware.
underworld adventures also provides a bunch of tools for you to display the  level maps, tools for examining uw1 conversation scripts and more.
as computer graphics became easier and more powerful, text adventures gave rise to graphic adventures.
whereas opengl is open  source, lower level and compiles under a multitude of operating systems, d3d is  proprietary, higher level and only compiles on windows.
first, check your gdm.conf (usually in /etc/x11/gdm or /etc/gdm) file for a  line that says begins "sessiondesktopdir=blah".
a few notes: first, the soundblaster awe howto is very out of date.
it's painful the first time you do it, but once you do it correctly, it becomes very easy down the right, especially if you keep all your old .config files and make use of things like "make oldconfig".
however, if you have a creative  soundblaster or audigy sound card (with an emu10x chip), and you use alsa sound  drivers, you can get openal libraries fromhttp://www.lost.org.uk that provide  hardware acceleration and decent surround support.
this could be something real like a fighter jet or something imaginary like a mechanized warrior combat unit.
pixels are rectangular objects, so drawing an angled line or curve  with them results in a 'stair step' effect, also called the 'jaggies'.
the demise of 3dfx was quite sudden and a slap in the face to the open  source community.
if your goal is to run win95/98/me applications on linux, without usb and on the x86 architecture, win4lin's cost and focus on win95 type os's make it a better choice than vmware.
as a last note, the only systematic linux video card benchmarking effort  i'm aware of was done, unfortunately, in march 2001, between a radeon 32 ddr  and a geforce 2.
i think wabi will run under linux on all architectures (can  someone verify this?)
libm.so.6 => /lib/libm.so.6 (0x40027000) libpthread.so.0
he'll still support ja2 but don't expect patches or updates.
every aspect of your computer plays a role in gaming.
if you have a linux/windows dual boot, consider either the radeon 9800 or  the geforce 5900.
also, voodoo cards need the 3dfx.o kernel module and a /dev/3dfx device file (major 107, minor 0) for non-root hardware acceleration.
at high levels, you might get a magic sword or a  kick-butt assault rifle.
look  at the contents of ls_log.
for example,  maybe you have an mp3 player that's paused?
another nice little trick is for games that use openal for their sound  output (e.g. unreal based games: ut, postal, rune, etc.).
smart engines calculate what portions of objects will be obscured by objects above them and simply not render the portions that you won't see anyhow.
as far  as i can see, the developers really do listen to the subscriber polls.
you can use wine `with windows', which means that wine uses libraries that actually come with microsoft windows itself.
/usr/lib/libstdc++.so.5 (0x40b30000) libgcc_s.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgcc_s.so.1 (0x40be7000) as you can see, this gives us slighly different results.
", o_rdonly|o_nonblock|0x18000)
you can use the mouse to cut and paste the word "halt".
role playing game (aka rpg) anyone who has played games like dungeons & dragons or call of cthulhu  knows exactly what an rpg is.
this improves a game's visuals, but can also dramatically degrade performance.
something is already accessing your sound card
applications that use libggi directly include heroes, ultrapoint, quake,  and berlin.
these isa pnp cards are well supported by both oss and alsa.
i'm not entirely sure of the quality of these open source drivers, however, soldier of fortune i and heavy metal still have opaque texture problems under first generation radeons.
on the other hand, a musician would have a very different concept of what "best sound card" would mean.
saved games if your game allows for saved games, then sending the author a copy of the  saved game is useful because it helps the tech reproduce whatever is going  wrong.
the reason why it's not an emulator is subtle and not of much  interest to most non computer scientists, so we'll call it an emulator here (it  really does run-time translation of calls to the win32 api to posix/x11 calls).
ldd shows all the libraries a dynamic executable relies on, and shows you where they are.
please do send comments and suggestions  for this howto.
even better, it was their first combined 2d/3d card, meaning that it  freed up a valuable pci slot (most pc's only had a couple of pci slots back  then) but the rush wasn't as popular.
it should've been a more powerful card, with a 50mhz gpu and 8mb of ram.
you'll know this worked if you hear the computer beep after a few seconds (this is bios saying "i'm ok" during a power on cycle).
enoent (no such  file) write(2, "error:", 6error:)
you may even see your hands or weapon at the bottom of the screen.
you'll need to purchase a copy of ultima 7 to play.
for dynamic situations, like games, doing aa in hardware can be crucial.
a prime example of this is loki software's online  faqs located athttp://faqs.lokigames.com.
i have no idea how  this translates to linux.
generally, they simulate some kind of scenario.
/usr/lib/libstdc++.so.5 (0x40ad1000)  libgcc_s.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgcc_s.so.1 (0x40b88000) libasound.so.2 =>
on the other hand, you can ask for help and the developers are  very good about getting around to your answer; their vigilance is quite  impressive.
otherwise, all you'll get is  software rendering.
as of  today, the 256mb version comes in at a whopping $350, however, the 128mb  version is more reasonable.
from ld_library_path export  ld_library_path=./lib:./miles:$ld_library_path ./nwmain
there are 5 things that can go wrong with your sound system: shared interrupt something's already accessing the sound card you're using the wrong driver
the open group finally opened up motif's license for open source operating systems, but it was too little too late.
the tnt/tnt2 driver is based on reverse-engineering of the obfuscated source code release of the x 3.3 drivers by nvidia.
it is licensed lgpl and the specs can be obtained for free from the openal website.
this is opposed to the x environment which has all sorts of gui things like xterms.
think of it as a coat of paint for the polygons.
you might also try a virtual machine like win4lin or vmware instead of an emulator.
the types of games usually take a long time to complete and require a lot of brainpower.
xt-pic aic7xxx 12: 2457456 0 xt-pic ps/2  mouse 14: 556955 0 xt-pic ide0 nmi: 0 0 loc: 24186046 24186026 err: 1353
a google search should turn up alot  of information on this problem.
being a  subscriber of transgaming gives three major benefits: subscribers can download convenient packaged versions of winex in deb, rpm  or tar.gz format whenever they want, including updates.
that is, code gets linked into the executable at run time, as opposed to compile time.
this was 3dfx in its heyday.
your change doesn't actually make it into/etc/ld.so.cache until you run ldconfig ; once it's run, ld.so will begin to look for libraries in your private directory.
the console was hosed with a  quasi-graphics screen.
on paper, and in the windows benchmarks, the radeon 9800 trounces the  ill-conceived geforce 5800 and slightly edges out the geforce 5900.
even lightweight wms, like twm, rob your cpu of clock cycles (and in twm's case, even full screen games will have a frame around the window).
if hardware acceleration is not possible for a specific task, opengl  falls back on software rendering.
except  for a few details, a program written in sdl will compile under linux, ms  windows, beos, macos, macos x, solaris, irix, freebsd, qnx and osf.
and again like the rush,  it wasn't popular.
the most striking part of sdl is that it's a cross platform library.
there are monthly polls where subscribed users can take votes on what they want winex developers to work on.
some sims have little or no strategy.
they simply put you in a cockpit to  give you the thrill of piloting a plane.
said that wabi for solaris is more stable than linux.
scott adams is, arguably, the father of interactive fiction.
lï¿½szlï¿½ daczi , the hungarian ldp coordinator, announced that a hungarian translation was produced by szilard ivan, and is available at http://tldp.fsf.hu/howto/linux-gamers-howto-hu.
once upon a time, a company in san jose, california named 3dfx interactive was king of the gaming video card market.
it approximates the gaps between textures by sampling the color of the four closest (above, below, left and right) texels.
at the time, ati had  their rage series and nvidia had their riva 128, but the voodoo i blew them all  away.
text adventure (aka interactive fiction) once upon a time, when apple ][, commodore, and atari ruled the world, text  adventures were the game of choice of `intelligent folk'.
graphical console games written using the  frame buffer suffer from the same deficiencies of the svga library: not all  hardware is supported and the code will only run on linux.
see  the kernel howto for details.
strace ./mind.i86_linux.glibc2.1 2> ./stateofmind_log pulling out vim and searching for all occurrences of mind.dat, i find the  following lines: open("/usr/share/mind.dat",o_rdonly) =
if the game is not located in your $path, give its full path name.
give the command: strace -o ./ls_log /bin/ls
since the open sound  system's (oss) deprecation in favour of alsa, all linux distributions i've seen  now ship with alsa support as default, with oss support actually being supplied  via alsa's compatability modules.
since aa  is cpu intensive, it's more desirable to perform it in hardware, but if we're  talking about semi-static applications, like the gimp, this really isn't an  issue.
$@ this script sets up some environment variables, then launches the game binary with whatever command line options we added.
if the following lines aren't present in your xf86config-4 file, put them  in: section "dri" mode 0666 endsection
they  are still copyrighted by apple, and you can only use them legally if you  actually own one of these computers.
by the way, loki now has a utility that searches for loki software on your hard drive and automatically updates them.
most commercial linux games will be dynamically linked against various lgpl libraries, such as openal or sdl.
a copy is kept athttp://www.xfree86.org/4.0/dri.html.
but 3dfx reigned supreme, and nobody could touch them.
every once in awhile you'll see some sicko (said with respect) write a game in xlib.
as of version 3.1, the directx 8 support is nearly complete, but this may not be the case with older directx versions (are consequently older games).
the death of commercial interactive fiction more or less coincided with the bankruptcy of infocom.
it's defined and maintained by the architectural revision board (arb), an organization which include representatives from sgi, ibm, dec, and microsoft.
the king of video cards  worked with linux developers.
rpg's generally have a quest with a well defined ending.
if you're getting like 1 fps, then your system isn't using hardware 3d  acceleration.
latest versions and translations the latest version can be found at  http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/lgh/lg-howto or  http://www.dirac.org/linux/writing, but this is my own personal working copy.
they've ignored all my attempts at finding out more information, so i have to conclude that mp entertainment is in the same status as tribsoft.
the developers take wine (see section 10.5.1)  and add directx / directdraw support.
graphical adventures are, at heart, text adventures on steroids.
vertex data doesn't have to be encoded/decoded via glx.
other previously closed engines opened up, many  engines are playable via emulators, many commercial fps games were released for  linux and there are quite a number of fps engines which started life as open  source projects.
it shines  when viewing alphanumeric characters at an angle.
exult is written in c++ using sdl, so it will compile on any  platform that can compile sdl programs.
we used the open() system call to open "." with various  arguments, and the return value of the call is4.
graphical adventures graphical adventures are, at heart, text adventures on steroids.
it's a common misconception that x means graphics and console means no graphics.
ebgames  no longer officially sells linux software.
to use it, kill x if it's already running and from a console, type: x -probeonly 2> x.out
second, the awe 64 and awe 64 gold can play 64 voices simultaneously, but this is done in software.
your best bet is to compile your kernel.
presumably, ati doesn't want to  release drivers to keep their trade secrets, well, a secret.
if you do this correctly, then in principle, there's no way for the poor application to know whether it's really accessing hardware or tricked by being given resources which simulate hardware.
they have also more functionality than the publicly available tarball: the latter is an older version which lacks some of the newest features, like support for copy protected programs.
in addition to run-time translation of the win32 api to posix/x11 (it runs  windows applications on linux), wine also does compile-time tranlation of the  win32 api to posix/x11 (it compiles windows application source code on linux).
/usr/lib/libglcore.so.1 (0x40378000) libnvidia-tls.so.1 =>
there are many completely open source widget sets which are more complete and much nicer looking than motif, including lesstif, a totally free motif clone.
copy any of the desktop files to " doom3.desktop" and open the new file in your favourite text editor.
the original sci games were dos based, but sierra eventually started releasing win32 sci based games.
if you compile your own games, your biggest problem with libraries will  either be thatgcc can't find a static library or perhaps the library  doesn't exist on your system.
directinput gives support for gaming input devices such as joysticks.
however, if you must have usb support or run linux on a platform other than x86, vmware is your only option.
trilinear filtering samples eight pixels  and interpolates them before rendering.
ati started to release a tremendous number of versions of each video card,  and keeping up with them and their terminology started to become very  difficult.
if the magic sysrq key sequence doesn't shut your system down  gracefully, your kernel has crashed hard and you'll need to use the reset or  power button to recover.
isa  cards can't share interrupts.
if this is the case, as root, look at the group owner of the sound card usingls -l /dev/dsp; it'll probably be audio.
vm's were used initially in the 1960's to emulate time shared operating  systems, but these days we use them to run software which was written for  foreign operating systems, or more commonly, an entire operating system.
the first thing you should try is to hit control-alt-backspace which kills x. if you gain control of your system, the kernel wasn't really locked in the first place.
for example, you're managing a city and a fire erupts somewhere.
what does this have to do with files not being found?
linux gamers would either keep their open source voodoos, get an open source radeon or a closed source geforce.
netscape has a nice graphical "point and click" newsreader too.
oh, you'll want to run them as  root since you'll be asking for information from processes that may be owned by  root.
the voodoo banshee was released in september 1998 as a combined 2d/3d card, like the rush.
you won't be disappointed with this service.
i'd also appreciate either a copy of whatever it is you're doing or a spinach, garlic, mushroom, feta cheese and artichoke heart pizza.
the -o option sends strace's output to a file; here, ls_log.
and it felt good, because 3dfx open sourced their drivers.
these instructions are for gdm 2.4 or greater.
the canonical rpg on linux is rogue (the ncurses library started life as a screen handling routine for rogue!)
there are some real classics that were written for dos like carmageddon, redneck rampage and tomb raider.
it has support from nvidia (nforce2/3 based motherboards come with openal ms windows libraries for the on-board audio), apple has added openal to their audio framework for osx and it can also be found powering the epic games unreal engine
some rpg's are quite complicated and great feats of programming.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libx11.so.6 (0x40a01000) libdl.so.2 => /lib/libdl.so.2 (0x40acd000) libstdc++.so.5 =>
that is, through the eyes of the character who's doing all the shooting.
most games don't need the low-level interface that xlib provides.
there is one other thing to consider though: the majority of games are actually launched by a "wrapper", a shell script that performs some magic prior to launching the game.
if you have your heart set to buy the best card for linux, you'll want to go with the geforce 5900.
some isa cards are plug-n-play, like the creative awe-64, and the linux  kernel has come a long way in auto configuring them.
this allowed daryll strauss to port glide2 to linux which enabled  xfree86 3.x users to use voodoo i, ii and iii cards under linux.
in the case of nwn, the wrapper is callednwn.
motif used to be the king of widget sets in the unix world, but it was very expensive to license.
you also see an  oven, refrigerator and a door leading east.
this fact alone makes both win4lin and vmware unsuitable for most hardcore gaming purposes.
your normally nice black screen could look like a  quasi-graphics screen.
if the sound card works when you're root but not any other user, you probably have a permissions problem.
note if your keyboard doesn't have asysrq key, use the printscreen key: hit alt-sysrq-s. this will attempt to sync your mounted filesystems so that  changes to files get flushed to disk.
we were getting our first  tastes of real commercial gaming.
some are considerably complex, and  there's often a fine line between sims and strats (section 2.6).
+set r_gldriver libgr.so.1 #exec ut #lsdldoom -server 2 #exec  tribes2 exec /usr/bin/enlightenment you'll usually see a window or desktop manager being executed from this  file (gnome or kde).
a few seconds later, use alt-sysrq-b to reboot the system.
while linux is known for stability, these things do happen, especiallly for gaming which entails highly synchronized hardware events which occur very fast, even to a computer.
wabi is fast and does a good job for what it does, although i've heard it
don't forget to browse the cd your game came on for helpful tips and advice.
a program can only use the special hardware accelerated features of these  cards by using the glide2 library in one of two ways: directly written using glide2 (myth ii, descent iii) indirectly using mesa built with a glide2 backend to simulate opengl (rune,  unreal tournament) 3dfx opened up the specifications and source code to the open source
the best tool to use here is lsof, which shows which processes are accessing a file.
the interface is a bit funky, but usable.
newsgroups if you don't know what netnews (usenet) is, then this is definitely worth  30 minutes of your time to learn about.
sdl  is a library by sam lantiga (graduate of  ucd, yeah!).
because of the ati linux  driver woes, linux users cannot use ms windows based benchmarks or card stats.
like sarien, freesci has many  graphics targets including sdl, xlib and ggi, so this program can compile and  run under an incredible number of platforms.
on a technical note, this has a number of virtues.
this is when pixels make, what should be a smooth curve or line, jagged.
although playing an emulated game is sometimes not quite as fun as playing it on the native machine, and getting some of the emulators to work well can be a difficult task, they're here, and there's alot of them!
for open source games there's the readme files that come with the game.
strats can be further divided into two classes: real time and turn based.
if you have good bandwidth, ask the author if he would like the core file that his program dumped.
developers have reported that svgalib works on the radeon 7500, radeon qd (64mb ddr model) but has problems on the radeon ve.
while the insanely popular ultima series, written by richard garriot (aka  lord british) for origin, was not the first rpg, it popularized and propelled  the rpg genre into mainstream.
emulation and virtual machines linux gets ragged on a lot because we don't have the wealth of games that  other platforms have.
r ln2_2 ... when using gcc, you refer to these libraries by shaving off the strings "lib", ".a" and all version numbers.
directsetup this api provides a way to install directx from within an application to  simplify game installation.
it must be the flash of the double barreled shotgun!
it is an excellently written  document that gives you step by step information on how to get dri set up  correctly on your machine.
ultima 7 (origin, electronic arts) ultima 7 is actually 2 games: part i (the black gate) and part ii (serpent  island) which uses a slightly enhanced version of the black gate's engine.
frankly, i've  had many cards and i can't tell the difference between any of them for gaming.
they include things like text entry boxes, pulldown menus, slider bars, radio buttons and much more.
it was another success, but 3dfx began to lose ground to nvidia, which released their tnt 2.
it only runs on x86 architectures.
the older sierra dos graphical adventure games used a scripting language named agi (adventure gaming interface).
these 8 numbers  will tell you which modeline your x uses.
the numbers on the left are the assigned irq's and the strings to the right indicate what device was assigned that irq.
tnt drivers claim they do, but i've read that these drivers still  use trilinear filtering when actually rendering an image to the screen.
bilinear filtering is a computationally cheap but low quality texture filtering.
most windows users were switching to nvidia, and despite the fact that the  nvidia drivers were proprietary, even linux users began to jump onto the nvidia  bandwagon.
the only video card that can use both glide2 (under xfree86 3.x) and glide3 (under xfree86 4.x) is the voodoo iii.
inside the bag is a some garlic and a cheese sandwich.
we have a long and twisted history with fps games which started when id software open sourced code for doom.
now that linux is beginning to mature, this question isn't as important as  it used to be.
once upon a time, when apple ][, commodore, and atari ruled the world, text adventures were the game of choice of `intelligent folk'.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libglu.so.1 (0x40103000) libmss.so.6 => ./miles/
motif used to be the king of widget sets in the unix world,  but it was very expensive to license.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libglu.so.1  (0x40103000) libmss.so.6 => ./miles/
kegs boots all apple ii variants, and supports all of the apple ]['s graphics modes.
/usr/lib/./libasound.so.2 (0x40b90000) ldd shows all the libraries a dynamic executable relies on, and shows you  where they are.
on a technical note,  this has a number of virtues.
one of the most popular z-machine interpreters is frotz .
even though it was written to  share the card between applications, i've found that esd (the enlightenment  sound daemon) sometimes doesn't work correctly.
kill all non-essential processes (you'll have to do this as root) by using the startup scripts on your system.
so it makes some sense to talk about howgcc andld.so go about finding libraries in the first place.
compared with agi games, sci adventures have better music support, a  more complex engine and loads of bells and whistles.
there were slated to release europai universalis, majesty and unfinished business.
in the example above, we can see that nwmain wants libmss.so.6, and the  linker cannot find it.
system shock (electronic arts, origin) system shock is a classic first person shooter/adventure from 1994, which  puts it as a contemporary of doom.
not once,  not twice, but many times over.
this archive used to be at http://www.deja.com, but  was bought by google.
the commercial oss drivers are good when you're  having trouble getting your sound card to work by free methods.
the end user (you) can download the source code for free.
d3d first appeared in directx 2, released in 1996.
if anyone has more information on this company or the author of hopkins fbi, please contact me.
but if you're going to give it a try, you're more likely to have success with vmware.
dosemu dosemu  is the canonical dos emulator on  linux.
by the way, loki now has a utility that searches for loki software on your  hard drive and automatically updates them.
however, all ati cards beyond the radeon 9200 also require a  proprietary driver that will "taint" your kernel as well.
if you're in the market to buy a sound card, get something that will take you a second to configure.
see the homepage for gcc for more information this atthe gcc site.
when the texture is far away a smaller version of the texture (mip map) is used.
the most regrettable option is a reboot.
on the other hand, you can ask for help and the developers are very good about getting around to your answer; their vigilance is quite impressive.
first person shooter (aka fps) what light through yonder window breaks?
libdl.so.2 => /lib/libdl.so.2
if you're a musician, you might want to check out the linux audio quality howto.
websites and resources 12.2.
however, if the problem is repeatable "it  happens when i press the left arrow key twice", then you're in business.
the voodoo iv and  v rendered in full 32bpp color, had great aa support (section 7.4.3), featured  a 2nd gpu, more memory, and was arguably the king of of video cards.
these cards are extremely  cheap and trivial to get working under linux.
and it was also a shame.
loki ported games to linux, mostly using the sdl library.
very useful when a google group search yields a page in german which looks useful and my wife (who reads german well) isn't around.
let's take a look at that now: $ less nwn #!/bin/sh #
the demise of 3dfx was quite sudden and a slap in the face to the open source community.
they stopped selling linux games and distributions at around the same time loki software declared bankruptcy, which is a shame because they had the lowest prices on linux games i've ever seen.
mike phillips (formerly of loki software) mentioned that sending in  saved games to loki is definitely a good thing.
want the console to display (which is normally set by bios).
voodoo cards voodoo card hardware acceleration only takes place only at 16bpp color and  fails silently when starting x in another color depth.
but if you're going to  give it a try, you're more likely to have success with vmware.
the nwn library directories have been prepended to the search path, so now the linker can find libmss.so.6 in the "./miles" directory, and also finds the local copy of libsdl first, no longer using the system copy.
you'll see: (ii) xxxxxx:
the  idea was that 2d rendering was handled by a high quality 2d video card (matrox  was immensely popular at the time)
these are a set of tools you can use to obtain that information.
the x86 architecture isn't required, but is recommended since it allows actual x86 binary execution as well as direct dll usage).
suppose the library libmp3.so.2 is in  /usr/local/include but your new game "kill-metallica" can't find it.
ggi  is a project which aims to implement  a graphics abstraction layer in lower level code, put graphics hardware support  into a common codebase, and bring higher stability and portability to graphics  applications.
the engine refers  to the actual game itself (doom, quake, heretic2) and plays out the maps and  bad guys outlined by the datafile (doom2.wad, pak0.pak, etc).
this presents a problem for companies like transgaming ( section 10.5.3) and prompted a fork of wine called rewind (section 10.5.2).
it's crucial that you know the difference between the various markers  you'll see in probeonly output: (--) probed (**) from config file
for the paranoid, it's possible  to restrict dri to only a few non-root users.
wine has  never been too good at implementing directx, although a number of games are  known to work under wine.
it's a clearing house of information that contains well written articles on all aspects of game programming (not necessarily linux specific), links to important game programming resources, interviews, reviews, polls and lots of other stuff.
you won't normally see an fsck for the partitions that use the journalling filesystem.
direct3d (d3d) direct3d, like opengl, provides a 3d graphics api.
worse  still, the voodoo v's 2nd gpu was unused by the linux driver (and to this day,  the voodoo v is functionally equivalent to the single gpu voodoo iv on linux).
often, companies release their engines to the open source  community so we can hack and improve them.
judging from their screenshots, this is quite a powerful library.
when you compile a program, by default,gcc uses dynamic libraries, but you can makegcc use static libraries instead by using the -static switch.
many sci based games (games written in sci0) can be played using freesci, available athttp://freesci.linuxgames.com.
however, if you have a creative soundblaster or audigy sound card (with an emu10x chip), and you use alsa sound drivers, you can get openal libraries fromhttp://www.lost.org.uk that provide hardware acceleration and decent surround support.
what to do when a file or library isn't being found (better living  through strace)
scummvm is rock solid, and allows you to purchase scumm based lucas arts games,  copy the data files to your hard drive and play them under linux.
try copying the line to your shell and seeing what happens when you re-run ldd.
there were pci and agp versions (it was the first agp video card).
f.... mp3blaster root 1282 f....
they were slated to release hopkins fbi ii and a few other titles, but it's been a few years since the announcements with no sign that the games are coming.
if this didn't work after a few seconds, you'll definitely want to  reboot the system using the following instructions.
none of  the games which use glide2 will work with glide3.
if this didn't work after a few seconds, you'll definitely want to reboot the system using the following instructions.
the later versions even supported limited sound and graphics!
dri gets the x server out of the way so the 3d driver (mesa or opengl) can talk directly to the hardware.
it is a set of c libraries which comprise the lowest level programming interface for xfree86.
no code gets inserted at run time; the code is completely self-contained.
don't discount them; they're very cheap (like 10 or 20 bucks), support bleeding edge sound cards and take a lot of guesswork out of the configuring process.
sdl (section 3.10) and clanlib (section 3.15) applications  can display on libggi but often the native drivers for these libraries are  faster, however it's a good way to get sdl, clanlib, and svgalib applications  to run where they would not before.
here is how you can get the call stack at barf-time: sometimes distros set up their os so that core files (which are mainly  useful to programmers) aren't generated.
it was a  separate api from directx, but was integrated with directx 8.
graphics data isn't sent over a socket to the x server.
you can use the  mouse to cut and paste the word "halt".
and amd motherboards that use the 686b southbridge.
this allows us to run graphical things in console, like allowing us to choose any font we want the console to display (which is normally set by bios).
however, if the problem is repeatable "it happens when i press the left arrow key twice", then you're in business.
you can also run wine without  windows.
however, it's possible to give a program all the hardware resources it needs.
generally, they simulate  some kind of scenario.
jzip  is another very popular z-machine  interpreter that will run v1-v5 and v8 z-machine data files.
you can play ultima vii under linux with  exult (section 11.7).
=> /lib/libc.so.6 (0x401ff000) /lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0x40000000) libglcore.so.1 => /usr/lib/libglcore.so.1 (0x40319000) libnvidia-tls.so.1 => /usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.1 (0x409f1000) libxext.so.6 =>
all the 8-bit apple ][ emulators require a copy of the original rom, for whichever system you want to emulate, in a file.
more camp thanliberace .
every object has a stacking order, like a deck of cards.
if you search hard enough, you can find file copies of the roms for the apple ][, ][+, ][e, ][c and //gs.
simulation (aka sims) simulations strive to immerse the player behind the controls of something  they normally wouldn't have access to.
in other words, your graphics card isn't 3d accelerating graphics.
this is a way of  adding to the linkers search path.
milking performance from your system for all it's worth
my personal recommendation is any card which has the es1370 or es1371 chip,  which uses the es1370 and es1371 sound drivers on linux.
it's informally called the "dust  buster" because of noise its fan makes.
these are companies that used to release games for linux but for whatever reasons aren't actively involved in linux games anymore.
for example, i added the users p and wellspring to group audio on my system: audio:x:29:p,wellspring don't forget to use grpconv if you use shadow passwords (which  should be the case on most recent distributions) in order to maintain a  consistent group configuration.
the most recent stable version can be found at http://www.tldp.org.
you'll have something like 10 processes  running.
this is legal only if you own a copy of windows which isn't currently being used on a computer.
most modern 3d accelerated video cards can do trilinear filtering in hardware with no performance hit.
you will never see non hardware accelerated fsaa.
the program can simulate your opponent.
this is important for people  who use usb joysticks.
glide2 is a low level graphics api and driver that accesses 3d hardware
scummvm is rock solid, and allows you to purchase scumm based lucas arts games, copy the data files to your hard drive and play them under linux.
it holds valuable clues for the  programmer to the nature of the crash -- what caused it and what the program  was doing when it happened.
ultima 7 (origin, electronic arts) 11.8.
the first adventure game was adventure (actually "advent", written on a pdp-1 in 1972).
it'll tell you things like screen and window resolution, color depth, window gravity state (which gives a hint to the window manager about where to place new windows), backing store usage and more.
each interpreter has its own set of strengths, and you can find links to them on the home pages for frotz and jzip.
they released the voodoo rush  in april 1996.
you'll know this worked if you  hear the computer beep after a few seconds (this is bios saying "i'm  ok" during a power on cycle).
therefore, winex will now be based on rewind (section 10.5.2).
first of all, you should try an emulator.
even though it was written to share the card between applications, i've found that esd (the enlightenment sound daemon) sometimes doesn't work correctly.
check outhttp://updates.lokigames.com .
but here's a brief outline using the canonical example of what strace looks like.
you can even run another linux under linux; useful is you want to test another distro for instance.
so when xwininfo asks you to click on the window you want the information on, click on your background.
non-subscribers can browse the forums, but only subscribers can  post (and therefore, ask for support).
you can see i have an irq conflict  between the soundcard (soundblaster) and the network card (eth0).
dri allows x clients to  write 3d rendering information directly to the video card in a safe and  cooperative manner.
(0x40acd000) libstdc++.so.5 =>
we had a card that was almost neck-to-neck with nvidia, our drivers were open source, and in december 1999, id software gave us a huge gift: they open sourced the quake i codebase.
for  linux, the newest voodoo's could only accelerate at 16 and 24 bit color.
you can among others use it to run a ms windows os and launch your favourite game there.
these games can be played usingsarienon>  , an open source interpreter for agi games.
the implementation tries to use hardware acceleration for various graphics operations whenever available, which depends on what videocard you have in you computer.
even  lightweight wms, like twm, rob your cpu of clock cycles (and in twm's case,  even full screen games will have a frame around the window).
the `manual' can take on a few forms.
unfortunately, glide2 is also a dead issue.
the people atwinehq are writing their own set of libraries called libwine which implements the win32 api with no microsoft code at all.
in addition, the faq keeps a fairly large database of linux games.
trilinear filtering always uses mip mapping.
it was a separate api from directx, but was integrated with directx 8.
scumm engine (lucasarts)
turn based  strats are more like chess---the computer takes a turn and then the player  takes a turn.
from ld_library_path export ld_library_path=./lib:./miles:$ld_library_path ./nwmain
fwiw, i've been able to finish many of the games that are listed as 90% done with no problems.
what is a widget set?
you can get the latest cvs from their sourceforge page at .
more violent than quake.
not counting the rogue variants, there's also a deficiency of  open source rpgs too.
all modern 3d  accelerated video cards can do bilinear filtering in hardware with no  performance hit.
their website is very good, and chock full of any kind of information about scumm and playing these games under scummvm.
the downside is that you'll have to play the game as root.
i assume a working knowledge of linux, so i use some topics like runlevels and modules without defining them.
if the game segfaults every time you run it, or is incredibly  slow, a saved game file won't be of much help.
if you're looking at a console, the system should print the devices which were flushed.
even when ati open sourced its  video card driver, they played the "we'll make linux developers write our  drivers for us" game.
there are reports that the rampage's technology (which was sold to  nvidia) went into the geforce 5900.
if you have a linux/windows dual boot, consider either the radeon 9800 or the geforce 5900.
on the other  hand, a musician would have a very different concept of what "best sound  card" would mean.
the nwn library  directories have been prepended to the search path, so now the linker can find libmss.so.6 in the "./miles" directory, and also finds the local copy  of libsdl first, no longer using the system copy.
secondly, svgalib is video card dependent-if your video card isn't supported by svgalib, you're out of luck.
btw, let me say that compiling your own kernel is the first step towards proficiency with linux.
running glxgears will show some gears turning.
if you want to create a derivative work or publish this howto for  commercial purposes, i would appreciate it if you contact me first.
basically, it turns many smaller separate writes to the video card into a single write (a burst).
this is a direct consequence of a bug in the linux kernel.
this is opposed to the x  environment which has all sorts of gui things like xterms.
card reviews claim that it has some serious  heat, noise, and dust issues.
a more advanced way of fixing this would be to go into bios and assign  irq's to specific slots.
ggi  is a project which aims to implement a graphics abstraction layer in lower level code, put graphics hardware support into a common codebase, and bring higher stability and portability to graphics applications.
$ export ld_library_path=./lib:./miles:$ld_library_path $ ldd nwmain linux-gate.so.1 => (0xffffe000) libm.so.6
at the prompt, type "reset".
text  adventures became popularized by scott adams (section 11.5) and reached their  height of popularity in the late 80's with infocom (section 11.4) which are  also playable under linux.
for example, if my problem was that quake iii crashed  everytime lucy jumps, i would enter "linux quake3 crash lucy jumps"  in the "find messages with all of the words" textbox.
all modern 3d accelerated video cards can do bilinear filtering in hardware with no performance hit.
z-machine went through a number of  revisions during the lifetime of infocom, and two further revisions (v7 and v8  created by graham nelson) after the infocom's demise.
this basically means that versions of wine that  are released past the date of the re-licensing can no longer be used by winex.
about libraries on linux a common problem you'll see in gaming is a library file not being found.
mp3blaster after issuing this command, mp3blaster was killed with sigkill.
type "ldd nwmain" and you'll see: $ ldd nwmain linux-gate.so.1 => (0xffffe000)
i happen to be a fan of this library and of graphical console games in general; they are extremely fast, fullscreen and compelling.
nvidia  uses a convenient combined driver architecture; their driver will support the  tnt 2 all the way up to the geforce 5900.
opengl provides a powerful, complete and generic feature set for 2d and 3d  graphics operations.
this was mostly a problem for things like  xdoom or lxdoom using musserv.
sci: script interpreter or sierra creative interpreter (sierra) the newer sierra graphical adventure games (we're talking about the late  80's here) used an interpreter named sci.
in mid 2002, parts of wine were re-licensed under the lgpl so that it could only be used for non-commercial puposes.
linuxgames.com has a nice loki timeline athttp://www.linuxgames.com/articles/lokitimeline tribsoft released jagged alliance 2, an excellent rpg/strat which claimed 2+ weeks of my life.
anisotropic texture filtering anisotropic filtering is the best but most cpu intensive of the three  common texture filtering methods.
a virtual machine is the  environment which tricks applications into believing they're running on a real  computer.
in my `kernel module programming guide' (due to be released to ldp soon), i outline everything you may want to know about strace.
cd to/usr/games/nwn, or wherever you installed it and take a look at the files.
documentation copyright © 2001, 2002
have everything under the sun compiled as a module and try to load them all.
unlike glide2, glide3 is not an api used for game programming.
so when xwininfo asks you to click on the window you want the  information on, click on your background.
it's also much cheaper than vmware.
there are only two ways to configure your card: support must be compiled directly into the kernel you must have the correct driver loaded into memory you can find out which driver your sound card is using by doing  "lsmod" or looking at the output of "dmesg".
turn based strats are more like chess---the computer takes a turn and then the player takes a turn.
game x is misconfigured (less likely)
look at the contents of ls_log.
meta gaming websites these are some resources for linux gamers no matter what kind of game you  enjoy to play.
this is why a game can easily take out a windows system but should not  take down a linux system.
/usr/lib/libgl.so.1 (0x4009b000) libglu.so.1 =>
i can't find a  working homepage for this application.
there's a good framebuffer howto available from ldp.
if you're going to game under x, it's crucial that you know a bit about x.
of course we can't cover every bad thing that happens, but i'll outline some items of common sense.
a permissions problem the first thing to do is to figure out if you have an irq conflict.
mip mapping can be used regardless of filtering method (section 7.4.6).
note that if you use a journalling filesystem like ext3, reiserfs or xfs,  hitting the power switch isn't all that bad.
it uses opengl for  3d graphics, sdl for platform specific tasks and is released under the gnu gpl.
however,  3dfx's late release of the voodoo iv and v coupled with the fact that the  geforce could be had for half the price meant that 3dfx was sinking fast.
game reviewers agree that this game has the features of quake with a story-line more compelling than half-life.
as far linux users are  concerned, all three cards are completely identical (although the awe 64 gold  has gold plated connectors, which are better for sound quality than the more  common steel connectors).
try copying the line to your shell and  seeing what happens when you re-run ldd.
wabi wabi is a commercial win16 emulator.
x 4.0 does this automatically for you.
/lib/libm.so.6 (0x40027000) libpthread.so.0
is an extremely popular pci sound card these days.
personally, i prefer the free oss drivers, but many people swear by alsa.
the most recent version of win4lin as of june 2003 is 5.0.
i still remember my friend gabe rosa emailing me with just  "look at /." and seeing the news.
if hardware acceleration is working, the fps for glxgears should be  nearly independent of window size.
$ export ld_library_path=./lib:./miles:$ld_library_path $ ldd nwmain  linux-gate.so.1 => (0xffffe000) libm.so.6
first, you pretty  much blow up everything you see.
sarien was written in sdl, so it should run on any platform that can compile sdl programs.
the same thing is true for opengl clones, like mesa.
kegs boots all apple ii  variants, and supports all of the apple ]['s graphics modes.
because of the nature of the vm, the foreign os can't tell the difference  between operating in a vm or in a "real" machine.
in these games, you point at an object (say, a book) and can choose from a pull-down list of functions.
and it has infinite variants like zangband and nethack (which has many variants itself).
/usr/x11r6/lib/libglu.so.1 (0x40103000) libmss.so.6 => not found libsdl-1.2.so.0 => /usr/lib/libsdl-1.2.so.0 (0x40178000) libc.so.6
many problems can be fixed easily if you know your way aroundxf86config (or xf86config-4).
for the paranoid, it's possible to restrict dri to only a few non-root users.
these games can be played usingsarienon> , an open source interpreter for agi games.
linux publishing doesn't sell directly to the public, but provides professional game publishing to authors of publishing.
this means that when you get opengl from sgi, if you want any kind of hardware acceleration at all, it must be opengl written and compiled specifically for some graphics card.
each build uses a different library as a backend renderer.
(most people  use xfree86 4.x).
to find out what libraries a game uses, we can use the "ldd"  command.
it's used for a number of purposes, like making adjacent textures blend smoothly and making textures viewed from an angle (think of looking at a billboard from an extreme angle) look realistic.
because of the nature of the vm, the foreign os can't tell the difference between operating in a vm or in a "real" machine.
nvidia came back with fists swinging, and this was all too  much for 3dfx.
when objects are  rendered into a 2d frame buffer, the rendering engine removes hidden surfaces  by using the z buffer.
the program responsible for linking code "on the  fly" is called/etc/ld.so, and the dynamic libraries themselves  usually end with.so with a version number, like: /usr/lib/libsdl.so /lib/libm.so.3 when using gcc, you refer to these libraries by shaving off the  stringslib, .so and all version numbers.
your sound card is  represented by/dev/dsp.
z-machine went through a number of revisions during the lifetime of infocom, and two further revisions (v7 and v8 created by graham nelson) after the infocom's demise.
if the sound card works when you're root but not any other user, you  probably have a permissions problem.
there are  sdl extensions written by various people to do things like handle any graphics  format you care to mention, play mpegs, display truetype fonts, sprite handling  and just about everything under the sun.
read the friendly manual.
directdraw is like the graphical component of sdl, but the direct video card access is done by dri rather than sdl.
if there are enough questions (or even  protests) i'll add more basic information to this document.
a texture is a 2d image (usually a bitmap) covering the polygons of a 3d world.
his company, adventure  international, released a number of much loved games between 1978 and 1984  before folding.
in the oven you  see a brown paper bag.
in april 1999, the voodoo iii was released.
this should let input characters echo again.
a compatibility page is maintained at the scummvm website.
if the following lines aren't present in your xf86config-4 file, put them in: section "dri" mode 0666 endsection
there are several common texture filtering techniques including point-sampling, bilinear, trilinear and anisotropic filtering.
remember to ask first,  because core files can get very, very big.
registered in england.
you'll see something  like: #0 printf (format=0x80484a4 "z is %d.\n") at printf.c:30 #1  0x8048431 in display (z=5) at try1.c:11 #2 0x8048406 in main () at try1.c:6 it may be quite long, but use your mouse to cut and paste this information  into a file.
/usr/lib/libstdc++.so.5 (0x40ad1000) libgcc_s.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgcc_s.so.1 (0x40b88000) libasound.so.2 => /usr/lib/./libasound.so.2 (0x40b90000)
the  interpreter reads data files and provides the gaming interface.
you can find what these standard  system directories are
it's not an understatement to say that xlib is long winded, arcane and complicated.
there are many graphical applications and games that use svgalib likezgv (a  console graphical image viewer),prboom and hhexen.
this is a way of adding to the linkers search path.
most modern 3d accelerated video cards can do  trilinear filtering in hardware with no performance hit.
and since 3dfx is now a defunct company, it's a sure bet that no more work will be done on glide2 and no more games will be written using glide2.
at the gdm login screen,  you should now see "doom iii" as an option in "sessions".
to find out whether you have a conflict, do acat /proc/interrupts .
their current proprietary drivers are below par.
at some point, your character becomes powerful enough that you can `go for it' and try to complete the quest.
getting dosemu to work well is not easy,  but unfortunately, for dos games it's the best avenue.
it is an excellently written document that gives you step by step information on how to get dri set up correctly on your machine.
for these examples, bioware's neverwinter  nights  will be used.
not counting the rogue variants, there's also a deficiency of open source rpgs too.
do note that they don't archive private newsgroups, like loki  software's news server.
dri gets the x server out of the way so the 3d driver (mesa or opengl) can  talk directly to the hardware.
let's use strace to find out where the program was looking for the data  file.
z buffering a z buffer is a portion of ram which represents the distance between the  viewer (you) and each pixel of an object.
however, with bigger and better games on the horizon, it was only a matter of  time before the voodoos would no longer be a viable graphics card for modern  gaming.
back then, text adventures were self contained executables on a disk or casette.
hosed consoles sometimes a game will exit abnormally and your console will get `hosed'.
and since 3dfx is now a defunct company, it's a sure bet that  no more work will be done on glide2 and no more games will be written using  glide2.
# fuser -vk /dev/dsp user pid access command /dev/dsp root 1225
a more advanced way of fixing this would be to go into bios and assign irq's to specific slots.
if you log directly into x using gdm, then things are a little different.
but if i did have this conflict, neither my  network nor my sound would work well (or at all!).
there are 3 canonical parts to opengl:
however, it's a great diagnostic tool also.
the t&l is the process of translating all the 3d world information (position, distance, and light sources) into the 2d image that is actually displayed on screen.
so if you don't see your sound card's driver with  lsmod, your card probably isn't configured yet.
what is a virtual machine?
strategy (aka strats)
as of version 3.1, the directx 8 support is nearly  complete, but this may not be the case with older directx versions (are  consequently older games).
when diagnosing why things aren't being found, it's your best ally, and is even faster than looking at source code.
they wrote many graphical adventures using scumm, like their famous monkey island series (all three).
it shines when viewing alphanumeric characters at an angle.
since sound is  crucial for me, i always compile sound into my kernels.
underworld adventures provides an impressive graphics system which uses the original game files, so you'll need the original game disk to play.
at high levels, you might get a magic sword or a kick-butt assault rifle.
ati has a very long history of dropping support for hardware as fast as they can get away with it.
the svgalib based apple2 and x based xapple2 can emulate any apple ][  variant except for the //gs.
in contrast to dynamic libraries which provide code while the application runs, static libraries contain code which gets linked (inserted) into the program while it's being compiled.
as you can imagine, this is extremely cpu intensive.
a program can only use the special hardware accelerated features of these cards by using the glide2 library in one of two ways: directly written using glide2 (myth ii, descent iii) indirectly using mesa built with a glide2 backend to simulate opengl (rune, unreal tournament) 3dfx opened up the specifications and source code to the open source community.
when you think of dos, don't think of things like procom plus
however, since it's commercial you do  get tech support.
people were still using voodoo's, but they were essentially out of the  game at this point.
it's almost certain that whatever problem you have with linux, gaming  related or not, has already been asked about and answered on usenet.
sdl (section 3.10) and clanlib (section 3.15) applications can display on libggi but often the native drivers for these libraries are faster, however it's a good way to get sdl, clanlib, and svgalib applications to run where they would not before.
aa can be done either by the application itself (as with the gimp or the xfree86 font system) or by hardware, if your video card supports it.
trilinear filtering eliminates the banding effect that appears between adjacent mip map levels.
jzip  is another very popular z-machine interpreter that will run v1-v5 and v8 z-machine data files.
a texture is a  2d image (usually a bitmap) covering the polygons of a 3d world.
it started as a joint project between loki software and creative labs, setting out to be a vendor neutral and cross platform api for audio - the audio equivalent of opengl (section 3.3).
it runs under x at any color depth, and  supports changeable memory sizes, joysticks, and sound.
distributed subject to the open software license, ver 1.1 if you have ideas, corrections or questions relating to this howto, please email me.
don't forget the game's website.
there was talk about wabi 3.0 which would've done win32 emulation, but afaik, this project was shelved indefinitely.
like the voodoo i, the voodoo ii was a 3d only card, and piggy backed with a 2d video card.
your game is not at  fault.
this is awkward for modern day use, since a game like warcraft which everyone knows as a strat, would be a sim by definition.
enoent (no such file) write(2, "error:", 6error:)
there is a program called glxgears which comes with the "mesademos" package.
when you picked up an item, the background would be redrawn without the item appearing.
yes, that's a single dash; so much for standards.
the library  doesn't exist on your system.
however, there may be times when  you'll want to play around with mode timings, like for weird hardware or if  want to tweak your display.
heavyweight wms, like enlightenment, or full-blown desktop  environments like gnome or kde, may produce a noticeable slow down.
and amd  motherboards that use the 686b southbridge.
other previously closed engines opened up, many engines are playable via emulators, many commercial fps games were released for linux and there are quite a number of fps engines which started life as open source projects.
gtk is the canonical widget set on linux, but there are many others like fltk (a small c++ widget set), xaw, qt (the widget set of kde), and motif (the widget set used by netscape).
but here's a brief outline using  the canonical example of what strace looks like.
inside  the bag is a some garlic and a cheese sandwich.
kill all non-essential processes (you'll have to do this as root) by using  the startup scripts on your system.
it's lgpl'd and provides joystick and opengl support as well.
let's take a look at that now: $ less nwn #!/bin/sh # this script runs neverwinter nights from the  current directory export sdl_mouse_relative=0 export sdl_video_x11_dgamouse=0 #
in turn, it  motivates me to write more and add to this document.
not a big  deal when you're trying to run wordperfect or an old database application.
aa can be done either by the application itself (as with the gimp or the  xfree86 font system) or by hardware, if your video card supports it.
on paper, and in the windows benchmarks, the radeon 9800 trounces the ill-conceived geforce 5800 and slightly edges out the geforce 5900.
a good example  would be heavy gear iii or flight gear.
the program responsible for linking code "on the fly" is called/etc/ld.so, and the dynamic libraries themselves usually end with.so with a version number, like: /usr/lib/libsdl.so /lib/libm.so.3 when using gcc, you refer to these libraries by shaving off the stringslib, .so and all version numbers.
the copies ofopenal.so distributed with games often do not support alsa, so making the game use a copy compiled yourself will allow you to use alsa natively.
there were many versions of sci since  sierra was constantly improving its engine.
sometimes you'll see error messages that indicate a file wasn't found.
the program can simulate your opponent(s).
this method works for libraries too.
as you play, the character  becomes more powerful and the game adjusts itself accordingly, so instead of  fighting orcs, at high levels you start fighting black dragons.
first, svgalib executables need to be run by root or be setuid root, however, the library releases root status immediately after the executable begins to run.
point sampling is rare these days, but if you run a game with 'software rendering' (which you'd need to do if you run a 3d accelerated game without a 3d accelerated board) you're likely to see it used.
with these types of cards, you need to pass  the correct irq and memory access, "i/o port", to the driver.
that sometimes works when your console is very badly  hosed.
directshow directshow provides support for movie files like avi and mpg.
alternatively, some isa cards can be set to use a specific irq using jumpers on the card itself.
like sarien, freesci has many graphics targets including sdl, xlib and ggi, so this program can compile and run under an incredible number of platforms.
by receiving feedback on this howto (even if i don't have the time to answer), you make me feel like i'm doing something useful.
if you can ssh in, reboot or halt the system.
system shock (electronic arts, origin) 12.
it's  an absolute show stopper for gaming.
however, the original data files are  kept proprietary.
a way around this was to  create the kernel 3dfx module.
here's an example of some information i gleaned from my output: i'm running at 16 bpp color: (**) tdfx(0): depth 16, (--) framebuffer bpp 16 x has detected what my videocard chipset and videoram are: (--) chipset 3dfx voodoo5 found (--)
without their help, there would be more typos and mistakes than  you could shake a stick at: michael mcdonnell 1.3.
it's reported that a voodoo iii using glide2 will outperform a voodoo iii using glide3.
strategy games have their roots in old avalon type board games like panzer leader and old war strategy games published by ssi.
nvidia came back with fists swinging, and this was all too much for 3dfx.
the commands deallocvt and openvt will work for most of the other problems  you'll have.deallocvt n kills terminal n entirely, so that alt-fn  doesn't even work anymore.openvt -c
see /usr/src/linux/documentation/mtrr.txt for details.
authorship and copyright this document is copyright (c) 2001-2002 peter jay salzman, ; 2003-2004 peter jay salzman and  frï¿½dï¿½ric delanoy.
this project is  much less far along than libggi itself, but promises to combine dri-level  speeds and the stability and security unix users expect.
right now, i'm listening to an mp3 (not a metallica mp3, of course...) with mp3blaster.
first, you pretty much blow up everything you see.
second, the action takes place in first  person.
directshow provides support for movie files like avi and mpg.
as you play, the character becomes more powerful and the game adjusts itself accordingly, so instead of fighting orcs, at high levels you start fighting black dragons.
moreover,vmware has only limited support for directx, and you might not be able to play recent games.
withgcc -print-search-dirs ld.so looks to a binary hash contained in a file named  /etc/ld.so.cache for a list of directories that contain available dynamic  libraries.
often a game will have many patches (myth2) and some games are unplayable without them (heretic2).
please do send comments and suggestions for this howto.
the 3d rendering information doesn't even have to be hardware accelerated.
note that since this file was written, xfree86 has been patched to automatically detect your video ram base address and size and set up the mtrrs.
a permissions problem 8.2.1.
more important than fps is having a constant fps for small and large windows.
a way around this was to create the kernel 3dfx module.
i happen to be a fan of this  library and of graphical console games in general; they are extremely fast,  fullscreen and compelling.
if for some reason you're using x 3.3, follow the instructions given by  mtrr.txt (see section 5.1) to set up your mtrrs.
while linux is known for stability, these things  do happen, especiallly for gaming which entails highly synchronized hardware  events which occur very fast, even to a computer.
if you want to learn more about core files, i have a great gdb tutorial athttp://www.dirac.org/linux.
there are two approaches to this.
gcc will then `bolt on' code from/usr/lib/sdl.a and /usr/lib/libm.a whenever it sees a math function during the compilation process.
see the kernel howto for details.
the project uses sdl and is released under the modified bsd license.
the tnt 2 outperformed the voodoo ii, and accelerated 3d graphics at full 32 bit color, while the voodoo's were stuck at 16 bit color.
(==) default setting (++) from command line (!!) notice (ii) informational (ww) warning (ee) error (??)
that's the way distros do things.
for open  source games, you can help the author by giving a corefile or stack trace.
not once, not twice, but many times over.
at some point, your character becomes powerful enough  that you can `go for it' and try to complete the quest.
directx is a collection of proprietary multimedia api's, first developed by  microsoft in 1995, for its various windows os's.
since sound is crucial for me, i always compile sound into my kernels.
since glide2 accesses the video card directly, glide2 applications will  either need to be run by root or be setuid root.
alan cox wrote scottfree, a scott adams adventure game file interpreter for  unix.
this should let input  characters echo again.
on paper, it's simply the more impressive card.
your decision should be based on what will be the easiest to configure.
the geforce  will be stronger on linux.
now for  the bad sides.
sometimes, certain keys of the keyboard won't respond.
the idea was that 2d rendering was handled by a high quality 2d video card (matrox was immensely popular at the time)
agi: adventure gaming interface (sierra) the older sierra dos graphical adventure games used a scripting language  named agi (adventure gaming interface).
so if your number is, say, about 20 fps slower than a comparable machine, chances are that glxgears is falling back on software rendering.
the second column is there because i have 2 cpu's in this machine; if you have one cpu (called up, or uniprocessor), you'll have only 1 cpu column.
unless  you plan on compiling your games from source code, you'll mainly be interested  in dynamic libraries.
gcc looks for libraries in the ``standard system directories'' plus any directories you specify with the-l option.
first person shooters are characterized by two things.
it started out life as a snapshot of the  last version of wine which was completely licensed under the mit/x11 license.
there's a good  framebuffer howto available from ldp.
suppose i want to watch the stateofmind demo because i can't ever seem to get enough of it.
naturally you can add a .desktop file for each game you have installed 5.
some are considerably complex, and there's often a fine line between sims and strats (section 2.6).
fortunately, we have more emulators than you can  shake a stick at.
the latest version can be found at http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/lgh/lg-howto or http://www.dirac.org/linux/writing, but this is my own personal working copy.
for commercial games, this option is more fruitful than sending a core file or call stack since commercial games can't be recompiled to include debugging information.
i have no idea how this translates to linux.
fsaa usually involves drawing a magnified version of the entire screen in a separate framebuffer, performing aa on the entire image and rescaling it back to the normal resolution.
aa is used in a number of situations.
winex is released by a company called transgaming .
i used to be a fan of the creative soundblaster awe 32, awe 64 and awe 64  gold soundcards.
but again, the driver issue makes this  information unusable for us.
the file could be a library: % ./exult ./exult: error while loading shared library: libsdl-1.2.so.0: cannot load shared object file: no such file or directory or it could be some kind of data file, like a wad or map file: % qf-client-sdl ip address 192.168.0.2:27001 udp initialize error: w_loadwadfile: couldn't load gfx.wad suppose gfx.wad is already on my system, but couldn't be found because it isn't in the right directory.
when a computer "locks", also called "hung", the keyboard and mouse become completely unresponsive.
making nwn use your system copy is easy.
if you're looking at a console, the system will print the devices which were remounted.
see the xfree86 video timings howto  for more information.
computer based board games simulate some kind of board game you'd play on a  table top with friends, like monopoly, mille bourne, chess or checkers.
no code gets inserted at run time; the code  is completely self-contained.
os independent window event (mouse, keyboard, etc.) handler.
clanlib builds a generic game development framework, giving you easy handling of resources, network object replication, graphical user interfaces (gui) with theme support, game scripting and more.
nvidia's latest offering is the geforce 5900, based on the nv35 chipset.
as root, change to the "/usr/share/xsessions" directory and take a look at its contents.
look for updates and patches
see section 4.2 for details.
it supported resolutions up to  1024x768.
although arcade games had their heydey in the 80's, they are nonetheless very popular.
that sometimes works when your console is very badly hosed.
the canonical example would be the so-called `hi-res adventures' like the  wizard and the princess.
see the xfree86 video timings howto for more information.
the developers have no plans on extending exult to interpret the other ultimas since the engines changed so radically between releases.
however, this  sort of thing clearly should be done in hardware wherever possible.
multimedia api's are more  centralized on windows than they are on linux.
their effort is above and beyond the call of duty: frï¿½dï¿½ric delanoy, moritz muehlenhoff, mike phillips, ioan rogers i would also like to thank the following people for sending in comments and corrections.
it's an absolute show stopper for gaming.
if hardware acceleration is not possible for a specific task, opengl falls back on software rendering.
personally, i prefer the free oss drivers, but  many people swear by alsa.
some  examples of games written with sci are leisure suit larry 1 (vga), leisure suit  larry 2-7, space quest 3-6, king's quest 4-6, quest for glory 1-4 and many  others.
comment out the lines containing the wm or desktop manager with a pound sign (#) and place your game on a new line with any command line arguments you want to pass.
a program that is allowed to directly write to hardware can crash the system in any number of ways.
in addition, there isn't an evaluation copy available, although you get a 30 day money back guarantee.
frankly, i've had many cards and i can't tell the difference between any of them for gaming.
comment out the lines containing the wm or desktop manager  with a pound sign (#) and place your game on a new line with any command line  arguments you want to pass.
game reviewers agree that this game has the  features of quake with a story-line more compelling than half-life.
in this sense, wine is a windows-to-linux porting utility.
later on, the sophisticated graphical adventures had  your character roaming around the screen, and you could even use a mouse, but  the interface remained purely text.
directinput directinput gives support for gaming input devices such as joysticks.
however, its engine is much more feature  rich than the original doom: for example, system shock had 3d sprites, free  look and a facility to have objects on top of each other, giving the illusion  of a full 3d map, like quake.
linux gets ragged on a lot because we don't have the wealth of games that other platforms have.
often, companies release their engines to the open source community so we can hack and improve them.
every post made to usenet gets archived at google's database at http://groups.google.com.
so if your number is, say, about 20 fps slower than  a comparable machine, chances are that glxgears is falling back on
note that vmware supports up to 2 usb devices.
it also features some enhancements over the original versions of the ultima vii engine.
dynamic libraries dynamic libraries, also called a "shared library", provide object  code for an application while it's running.
my web browser  of choice, opera (available athttp://www.opera.com) allows you to use the right  mouse button to select a portion of text and left click the selection to  translate it into another language.
each interpreter has its own set of strengths, and you can  find links to them on the home pages for frotz and jzip.
there is such a vast number of these things that it's  nearly impossible to enumerate them all, but they include clones of asteroids,  space invaders, pac-man, missile command and galaxian.
think of it as  a coat of paint for the polygons.
now for the bad sides.
it's very complete and is one of my favorite sites.
jzip is very portable; it compiles on all unices, os/2, atari st and dos.
you play a character, sometimes more than one,  characterized by traits (eg strength, dexterity), skills (eg explosives, basket  weaving, mechanics) and properties (levels, cash).
if you can, an orderly shutdown is  preferable; use "halt" or "shutdown".
this often indicates misbehaving or faulty hardware.
although playing an emulated game is sometimes not quite as  fun as playing it on the native machine, and getting some of the emulators to  work well can be a difficult task, they're here, and there's alot of them!
what light through yonder window breaks?
it's actually a meta-library, meaning that not only is it a  graphics library which hides the details of xlib programming, it provides an  easy interface for sound, music and event handling.
by the word "best" i mean best for gaming.
for example, if my problem was that quake iii crashed everytime lucy jumps, i would enter "linux quake3 crash lucy jumps" in the "find messages with all of the words" textbox.
the components of  directx are: directdraw directdraw gives direct access to video memory, like dri, so 2d graphics  can be blitted directly to the video card.
some isa cards are plug-n-play, like the creative awe-64, and the linux kernel has come a long way in auto configuring them.
rewind  was started by eric pouech (a wine developer) and ove kï¿½ven (a winex developer) in response towine's license change).
there are 5 things that can go wrong with your sound system: shared interrupt misconfigured driver something's already accessing the sound card you're using the wrong driver
thanks goes out to these people for extensive comments, corrections, and diffs.
now, run the game and do whatever you did to crash the program and dump a core again.
this api provides a way to install directx from within an application to simplify game installation.
there are certainly graphics on the console-we will discuss the two most common ways to achieve this.
(most people use xfree86 4.x).
you can also specify which news server to use using the $nntp environment variable or with the file /etc/nntpserver.
trilinear filtering is capable of producing fine visuals, but it only samples from a square area which in some cases is not the ideal method.
it uses the virtual machine approach to running windows applications, so you'll get a big window from which you can boot windows and run all kinds of windows applications.
in the worst case scenario, hit the reset or power switch.
wine has never been too good at implementing directx, although a number of games are known to work under wine.
as far linux users are concerned, all three cards are completely identical (although the awe 64 gold has gold plated connectors, which are better for sound quality than the more common steel connectors).
write(2, "can\'t open data file \'mind.dat\'."..., )
nvidia's party line was they license some of their gl code from another company, and is thus non-releasable.
directplay gives support for simplified networking for multiplayer gaming.
however, if you must have usb support or run  linux on a platform other than x86, vmware is your only option.
there are monthly polls where subscribed users can take votes on what they  want winex developers to work on.
anti aliasing is the smoothing of jagged edges along a rendered curve or polygon.
this room appears to be a kitchen.
unfortunately, it can take alot of effort to get dosemu to work, and of jan 2002, the sound code is somewhat broken.
on one hand, they use the most godawful, horrible, confusing, wasteful, moronic format i've ever seen and i hope to god i never see a forum with a format as bad as transgaming's.
there are many completely open source widget sets which are more complete and  much nicer looking than motif, including lesstif, a totally free motif clone.
then in april 2000, 3dfx was attacked on a different front: ati started  releasing their first generation radeons.
remember to ask first, because core files can get very, very big.
when it wants to set an irq, give it some bogus instructions that lets it think  it set an irq.
it provides support for a few cards which are not well supported  by dri like the ati rage pro family, s3 virge (although anyone using this for  gaming is, well, nuts), and an open source tnt/tnt2 driver (which is very  incomplete).
aa uses cpu intensive filtering to smooth out these jagged edges.
wabi is a commercial win16 emulator.
for example,  you're managing a city and a fire erupts somewhere.
anyone who has played games like dungeons & dragons or call of cthulhu knows exactly what an rpg is.
card, logic and board games computer based card games simulate a card game like poker or solitaire.
his company, adventure international, released a number of much loved games between 1978 and 1984 before folding.
neither the  module nor the device file are used under xfree86 4.x.
now, run the game and  do whatever you did to crash the program and dump a core again.
it's claimed that these drivers are piss poor; a friend of mine claims his geforce 4400 outperforms his radeon 9700 pro.
if your game came from a  distro make sure there's not an update rpm/deb for the game.
if direct rendering is  disabled, then your x configuration is definitely faulty.
accessing the device file.
i'm not much for card/gambling games, but this game is impressive!
the geforce will be stronger on linux.
you can among others use it to run a ms windows os  and launch your favourite game there.
so many linux users  stuck by them.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libxext.so.6 (0x409f3000) libx11.so.6 =>
email the author and tell him: the game's name any error message that appears on the screen when the game crashes.
wouldn't it be  helpful to know where these programs looked for the missing files?
in addition to run-time translation of the win32 api to posix/x11 (it runs windows applications on linux), wine also does compile-time tranlation of the win32 api to posix/x11 (it compiles windows application source code on linux).
memory type range registers starting with pentium class processors and including athlon, k6-2 and other  cpus, there are memory type range registers (mtrr) which control how the  processor accesses ranges of memory locations.
3dfx removed the multi-texturing unit  from the rush, and it was outperformed by the voodoo i.
if you don't have a  driver loaded, you need to figure out what's been compiled into your kernel.
for instance, they can vote for things like "improve support for copy protected programs", "better installshield support" or "improve directx 8.0 support".
frotz is gpl, runs all versions of z-machine and will compile on most versions of unix.
hardware acceleration isn't working at all
don't short change yourself; read them.
registered address: 26 cleveland street, upperthorpe, sheffield, s6 3jb.
however, they're  really incomplete, and effectively, unusable.
this will give me a chance to give you the most recent version.
for that, you should look at dosemu (section 10.3.1).
/ http://www.dirac.org/p.
there's another benefit of these scripts: they are easily edited to allow you to provide your own copy of a library.
frame buffers are consoles implemented by a graphics mode rather than a  bios text mode.
the version at sourceforge is bleeding edge but guaranteed to be not broken, however it may have glitches, like unfinished paragraphs.
just like opengl, mesa makes use of hardware acceleration whenever possible.
once i had to kill quake iii in a  hurry, so i performed actl-alt-backspace.
ati has a very long history of dropping support for hardware as fast as  they can get away with it.
when bad things happen to good people of course we can't cover every bad thing that happens, but i'll outline  some items of common sense.
although winex is commercial, they have  an interesting business model.
direct3d, like opengl, provides a 3d graphics api.
it's almost certain that whatever problem you have with linux, gaming related or not, has already been asked about and answered on usenet.
note that if you pass this test, your system is capable of direct  rendering.
it supports the undocumented portion of the 6502 instruction set which some games rely on.apple2 is currently being maintained by michael deutschmann and seems to be developed at a slow but constant pace.
kudos to the scummvm team.
i used to be a fan of the creative soundblaster awe 32, awe 64 and awe 64 gold soundcards.
if you search hard enough, you  can find file copies of the roms for the apple ][, ][+, ][e, ][c and //gs.
gcc will then `bolt on' code from/usr/lib/sdl.a and /usr/lib/libm.a whenever it  sees a math function during the compilation process.
computer based card games simulate a card game like poker or solitaire.
utah-glx is the precursor to dri.
it's very difficult to diagnose or fix random problems that you don't have any control over when they happen or not.
when i talk about 'performance hits', keep in mind that the performance hit  depends on what resolution you're running at.
it approximates the gaps between textures by sampling the color of  the four closest (above, below, left and right) texels.
although you may not be able to play yourfavorite fps under linux (half-life plays great under winex)
so to use  these two libraries, you would passgcc the -lsdl -lm options.
the developers take wine (see section 10.5.1) and add directx / directdraw support.
ultima i was released in 1987 and was the game  that launched 9 (depending on how you want to count them) very popular sequels,  finishing with ultima ix: ascension.
smart engines calculate what portions of objects will be obscured by  objects above them and simply not render the portions that you won't see  anyhow.
the "x window user howto", and especially "man xf86config" arerequired reading.
between losing the benchmark wars to the geforce and radeon, their lateness with new cards and high prices, 3dfx lost its market share and didn't have the funds to stay into business.
mip mapping reduces  memory bandwidth requirements since the images are in hardware, but it also  offers better quality in the rendered image.
a few seconds later, hit alt-sysrq-u. this will attempt to remount all your mounted filesystems as read-only).
getting information about your 3d system glxinfo gives lots of useful information about opengl like whether  direct rendering enabled, the currently installed versions of glx and mesa,  vendor/renderer strings, the gl library files being used and more.
sarien also has numerous enhancements not found in the original games, like a  quake style pull-down console, picture and dictionary viewer, enhanced sound  and support for agds, a russian agi clone.
for example, you can type "ps ax", and you're sure  to have an `h', `a', `l' and a `t' somewhere on the screen.
permission is  granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the  open software license, version 1.1, except for the provisions i list in the  next paragraph.
kegs is an apple ii emulator written by kent dickey  which was originally written for hp-ux, but improved and customized for linux.
they have an extremely high "information to space" ratio.
it runs under x at any color depth, and supports changeable memory sizes, joysticks, and sound.
if you have x 4.0 (x 3.
the death of commercial interactive fiction more or  less coincided with the bankruptcy of infocom.
you can  compare your system to the list of benchmarks below.
the show-stopper is the fact that vmware has limited directx support while win4lin has none.
unless you plan on compiling your games from source code, you'll mainly be interested in dynamic libraries.
in the oven you see a brown paper bag.
however, since the birth of transgaming, parts of wine have been re-licensed under the more restrictive gnu lgpl license (section 10.5.1).
most applications that use svgalib can be run on x or any other libggi backend by using a wrapper library which re-implements svgalib (section 3.12) using libggi.
why simulate text mode in a graphical environment?
if for some reason you're using x 3.3, follow the instructions given by mtrr.txt (see section 5.1) to set up your mtrrs.
strace ./mind.i86_linux.glibc2.1 2> ./stateofmind_log pulling out vim and searching for all occurrences of mind.dat, i find the following lines: open("/usr/share/mind.dat",o_rdonly) =
since the open sound system's (oss) deprecation in favour of alsa, all linux distributions i've seen now ship with alsa support as default, with oss support actually being supplied via alsa's compatability modules.
definitions: types of games not everyone knows the different types of games that are out there, so in  an effort to form a common language that we can all use, i'll run through each  game type and provide a very brief history.
here is what my .xinitrc looks like: #quake3
if you're going to game under x, it's crucial that you know a bit about
error:can't open data file 'mind.dat'.
a z buffer is a portion of ram which represents the distance between the viewer (you) and each pixel of an object.
if you have  success using dosemu, i would like to hear from you.
you can use thenm to see what functions a static library contains: % nm /usr/lib/libm.a ...
running quake iii and quitting normally fixed the problem.
it's informally called the "dust buster" because of noise its fan makes.
what is sdl (simple directmedia layer)?
see the man pages for lsof and fuser; they're very useful.
any graphics programming in x ultimately makes use of the xlib library.
support as of june 2002, svgalib support radeon cards is shaky.
actually, i cooked this example up because i wanted to show you  what an irq conflict looks like.
once upon a time, a company in san jose, california named 3dfx interactive  was king of the gaming video card market.
while you need the original game files to play  sshp, it should work with the system shock demo, which is freely available.
current status (1 march 2004) nvidia's latest offering is the geforce 5900, based on the nv35 chipset.
it's claimed  that these drivers are piss poor; a friend of mine claims his geforce 4400  outperforms his radeon 9700 pro.
you can play adventure yourself (actually, a descendent); it comes with "bsd games" on most linux distros.
it might be useful for  playing older win16 games, but there are three problems: you must have a licensed copy of windows 3.1/3.11 or wfw 3.11.
so procede to step 2.
the open group finally opened up motif's  license for open source operating systems, but it was too little too late.
error:can't open  data file 'mind.dat'.
it must be the flash of the double  barreled shotgun!
despite the faster 100mhz core, the banshee was outperformed by the voodoo ii because its multi-texturing unit was removed, like with the rush.
infocom adventures (infocom, activision) 11.5.
these days sims and strats are nearly indistinguishable, but a long time ago, sims were real time while strats were turn based.
multimedia api's are more centralized on windows than they are on linux.
dumb engines draw far  objects first and close objects last, obscuring objects below them in the z  buffer.
they wrote many graphical  adventures using scumm, like their famous monkey island series (all three).
if you don't understand the first response you see (or if it doesn't work), then try one of the other many replies.
like text adventures, fps fit the engine/datafile format.
for complicated textures this is a huge savings in processor work.
if you're getting like 1 fps, then your system isn't using hardware 3d acceleration.
but life was  still good for linux.
3dfx was getting ready to release a new voodoo v featuring 4 gpu's which would've trounced the ati and nvidia offerings, as well as a new card code named "rampage" which reportedly would've put them firmly back as the king of the hill.
id software's open sourced the doom  codebase and ported quake i to linux (december 1996).
you should definitely ask before sending a save game  file because they tend to be long, but gaming companies usually have lots of  bandwidth.
playing games in x without a window manager when playing a game under x, you should consider starting x without a  window manager (wm).
side scrollers are similar to fps but you view your character as a 2d figure who runs around various screens shooting at things or performing tasks.
to find out what libraries a game uses, we can use the "ldd" command.
loki is no longer in business, but  creative and the open source community have kept the project alive.
aa uses cpu  intensive filtering to smooth out these jagged edges.
it was the 2nd worst day for linux  gaming (the 1st being the demise of loki).
the advanced search is at http://groups.google.com/advanced_group_search.
gamers want high quality sound for our games with the least amount of tinkering.
there are hundreds, even thousands of non-commercial doom datafiles that you can download for free off the net.
perhaps an application is already accessing your soundcard.
these days there's usually a data file and an interpreter.
wine has come a long way, and is capable of emulating many important programs,  which is great news for linux users who want this sort of stuff.
but you can still use strace with them!
you can compare your system to the list of benchmarks below.
the interpreter reads data files and provides the gaming interface.
for instance, when you magnify a picture, you'll notice lines that were once smooth become jagged (try it with the gimp).
because of this, there are lots of libraries like sdl (section 3.10 ) for 2d graphics, opengl (section 3.3) for 3d graphics and widget sets ( section 3.9) for widgets within windows which hide the details of different  aspects of xlib programming.
quite impressive for such an old game!
fsaa: full screen anti-aliasing fsaa usually involves drawing a magnified version of the entire screen in a  separate framebuffer, performing aa on the entire image and rescaling it back  to the normal resolution.
very quickly, a core file (aka core dump) is a file that holds the "state" of the program at the moment it crashes.
my web browser of choice, opera (available athttp://www.opera.com) allows you to use the right mouse button to select a portion of text and left click the selection to translate it into another language.
most applications that use svgalib can be run on x or any other  libggi backend by using a wrapper library which re-implements svgalib (section  3.12) using libggi.
if he says yes, then send it.
take the time to read and understand what each field means.
these cards include the older ensoniq es1370 and newer creative pci-128.
it's defined and maintained by the architectural revision board (arb), an  organization which include representatives from sgi, ibm, dec, and microsoft.
note that since this  file was written, xfree86 has been patched to automatically detect your video  ram base address and size and set up the mtrrs.
this is important for people who use usb joysticks.
the radeons  were their first 3d accelerated card that gamers took any real serious interest  in.
in these games, you  point at an object (say, a book) and can choose from a pull-down list of  functions.
log into another system and ssh into the hung system.
the commands deallocvt and openvt will work for most of the other problems you'll have.deallocvt n kills terminal n entirely, so that alt-fn doesn't even work anymore.openvt -c
so to use these two libraries, you would passgcc the -lsdl -lm options.
3dfx removed the multi-texturing unit from the rush, and it was outperformed by the voodoo i.
however, the file is generated from a text file/etc/ld.so.conf which you can  edit.
this means that there are different builds of mesa depending on  what kind of video card you have.
3dfx's voodoo iv, its direct competitor, was about a year late which is very bad when you're competing for a bleeding edge market.
it uses opengl for 3d graphics, sdl for platform specific tasks and is released under the gnu gpl.
they worked with linux developers, open sourced all their drivers and were hailed as the great hope for linux gaming.
life was simple: you purchased a voodoo.
it's hard to imagine a better website on the subject.
this fact alone makes both win4lin and  vmware unsuitable for most hardcore gaming purposes.
loki is no longer in business, but creative and the open source community have kept the project alive.
here is what my  .xinitrc looks like: #quake3
directplay directplay gives support for simplified networking for multiplayer gaming.
we'll cover video card and 3d graphics terminology.
if you have good bandwidth, ask the author if he would like the core file  that his program dumped.
you'll want to get something with a separate sub-woofer; this  does make a difference at a cost of extra power and connector wires.
light lantern with match.
and at the (gdb) prompt, type "backtrace".
logging out and back in don't always work, but there are a few things that  might: if you don't see any character on the screen as you type in, your terminal  settings may be wrong.
on the linux platform, we have heretic 2 and heavy metal fakk2.
the game's author has probably seen people  with your exact same problem many times over and might put information specific  to that game on the website.
websites and resources 12.1.
for instance, i can browse loki software's news server with tin -g  news.lokigames.com.
not everyone knows the different types of games that are out there, so in an effort to form a common language that we can all use, i'll run through each game type and provide a very brief history.
directdraw is like the graphical  component of sdl, but the direct video card access is done by dri rather than  sdl.
if you're  looking at a console, the system should print the devices which were flushed.
3dfx's voodoo iv, its  direct competitor, was about a year late which is very bad when you're  competing for a bleeding edge market.
kind of like object oriented adventuring.
mip mapping reduces memory bandwidth requirements since the images are in hardware, but it also offers better quality in the rendered image.
the tnt/tnt2 driver is based on reverse-engineering of the  obfuscated source code release of the x 3.3 drivers by nvidia.
(==) default setting (++) from command  line (!!) notice (ii) informational (ww) warning (ee) error (??)
output on my system is: $ cat /proc/interrupts cpu0 cpu1 0: 24185341 0
sam had an ulterior motive for writing such a cool library.
clearly, mind.dat isn't in/usr/share.
you'll want to get something with a separate sub-woofer; this does make a difference at a cost of extra power and connector wires.
although their drivers are closed  source, as a company, nvidia has been supportive and good to linux users.
sometimes a game will exit abnormally and your console will get `hosed'.
wine does not provide the dos api, so you can't use it to run dos applications.
if you absolutely only want open source drivers on your system, the radeon 9200 is the best card you can buy.
there seems to be a deficiency of commercial rpgs for linux.
like vmware, you're required to have a licensed copy of win95 or win98.
rather than trusting programmers to  write totally bug free, cooperative programs that access hardware, linux simply  disallowed it.
the  numbers on the left are the assigned irq's and the strings to the right  indicate what device was assigned that irq.
locked system when a computer "locks", also called "hung", the  keyboard and mouse become completely unresponsive.
probeonly one of the best diagnostic tools and sources of information about your x  system isprobeonly output.
dumb engines draw far objects first and close objects last, obscuring objects below them in the z buffer.
now if your goal is to run win95 type os games under linux, win4lin almost seems better than vmware.
this allowed daryll strauss to port glide2 to linux which enabled xfree86 3.x users to use voodoo i, ii and iii cards under linux.
infocom adventures (infocom, activision) the z-machine is a well documented  virtual machine designed by  infocom to run their interactive fiction games.
when playing games from binary, your library woes  will be either be thatld.so can't find the library or
i've had expensive altec lansing speakers perform only slightly better than  el-cheapo speakers.
unfortunately, it can take alot of effort to get  dosemu to work, and of jan 2002, the sound code is somewhat broken.
there aren't many graphical adventures written natively for linux.
for linux, the newest voodoo's could only accelerate at 16 and 24 bit color.
once upon a time, soundcards without onboard midi chips (most  pci sound cards) didn't do midi.
being a subscriber of transgaming gives three major benefits: subscribers can download convenient packaged versions of winex in deb, rpm or tar.gz format whenever they want, including updates.
this howto is mainly of interest to musicians who want professional or semi professional sound cards for the recording and making of music on a computer.
for this howto, we'll assume that you're more of a gamer than a studio recording engineer.
moreover, a game writer who uses libraries like  opengl, ggi or sdl will write a game which will trivially compile on windows,  linux and a multitude of other os's.
however, the file is generated from a text file/etc/ld.so.conf which you can edit.
the commercial oss drivers are good when you're having trouble getting your sound card to work by free methods.
it's not very cheap (about 300$ for the workstation version), but you can get a 30 day evaluation copy.
some rpg's are quite complicated  and great feats of programming.
you might also try a virtual machine like win4lin or vmware instead of an  emulator.
the copies ofopenal.so distributed with games  often do not support alsa, so making the game use a copy compiled yourself will  allow you to use alsa natively.
this was mostly a problem for things like xdoom or lxdoom using musserv.
if you have your heart set to buy the best card  for linux, you'll want to go with the geforce 5900.
for example, if you have a voodoo i, ii or iii card under xfree86 3.x, you'd use mesa+glide2 (written by david bucciarelli) which is the mesa implementation of opengl that uses glide2 as a backend to render for graphical operations.
use it, and you'll be a much happier  person.
ati's has worked with linux developers for their radeons up to and including the radeon 9200, which have 2d and 3d support in xfree86.
it uses the virtual machine approach  to running windows applications, so you'll get a big window from which you can  boot windows and run all kinds of windows applications.
other sources of information xdpyinfo gives cool stuff, like x version and loaded extensions  (invaluable when trying to see what's missing, like glx, dri, xfree86-vidmode,  etc.).
you'll find this option under "kernel hacking |  kernel debugging | magic sysrq key" in whatever kernel config menu you  like to use.
pretty impressive, eh?
getting info about your setup: xwininfo xwininfo tells you all sorts of information about x windows.
but 3d information (see glide2,section 3.1)  would be passed to the voodoo i and rendered, using the voodoo's fast hardware  to perform the necessary graphics calculations.
if you don't have a driver loaded, you need to figure out what's been compiled into your kernel.
if  you already have a card and it works well, that's good enough.
if you do this correctly, then in principle, there's no way for  the poor application to know whether it's really accessing hardware or tricked  by being given resources which simulate hardware.
although some games may work with  wine, you'll probably get the most success with winex: its directx support is  constantly improving.
not only did we have the best video cards, but  the drivers were all open source.
don't discount  them; they're very cheap (like 10 or 20 bucks), support bleeding edge sound  cards and take a lot of guesswork out of the configuring process.
one of the  directories listed as options should be "/usr/share/xsessions", and  is the directory which will be used in this example.
when you use a voodoo iii, iv or v under xfree86 4.x, you want to use a version of mesa (seesection 3.4) which was compiled to use glide3 as a backend to ensure hardware accelerated opengl on your system.
the console is the dark non-graphical screen you look at when your computer first boots up (and you don't havexdm or gdm running).
if you already have a card and it works well, that's good enough.
for open source games, you can help the author by giving a corefile or stack trace.
sdl is an example of what all graphics  libraries should strive for.
you get what you pay for with speakers, but don't expect a  huge difference.
more nudity than hustler.
clanlib builds a  generic game development framework, giving you easy handling of resources,  network object replication, graphical user interfaces (gui) with theme support,  game scripting and more.
tdfx(0): videoram: 32768 kbyte mapping 65536 kbyte xvidtune is your friend when your x screen is shifted a little bit too far to the right, or if the vertical length is too small to fit on your monitor.
=> /lib/libpthread.so.0 (0x40049000) libgl.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgl.so.1 (0x4009b000) libglu.so.1 =>
strategy games have their roots in old avalon type board games like panzer  leader and old war strategy games published by ssi.
trilinear texture filtering trilinear filtering is a high quality bilinear filter which uses the four  closest pixels in the second most suitable mip map to produce smoother  transitions between mip map levels.
underworld adventures provides an impressive graphics system which uses the  original game files, so you'll need the original game disk to play.
the developers have done a  fantastic job of documenting and faqing their application.
(object) files archived  together, similar to a tar file.
opengl is a high level graphics programming api originally developed by sgi, and it became an industry standard for 2d and 3d graphics programming.
i prefer console tools more, so i use tin, but slrn is also popular.
then where is the right directory?
dri allows x clients to write 3d rendering information directly to the video card in a safe and cooperative manner.
a more accurate statement would be something like "directx is like dri, opengl and sdl combined".
fwiw, i've been  able to finish many of the games that are listed as 90% done with no problems.
va linux, the largest linux server vendor, put nvidia into their machines.
unlike vmware, win4lin  only does windows 95/98/me, but this turns out to be better for gamers.
fortunately, we have more emulators than you can shake a stick at.
much of the funkyness like kernel modules for non-root access of video boards is, thankfully, gone.
on paper,  it's simply the more impressive card.
when a computer locks, it can be a "hard lock", meaning the kernel has completely stopped functioning.
the answer was very difficult last year, but here's my take on it these days: all geforce cards require a proprietary driver which will "taint" your kernel.
any game-supplied copy of a library such as openal or sdl is likely to be compiled for the lowest common denominator, probably i486 or i686.
widgets are objects that make up a gui application's interface.
it was the first hardware accelerated card, but only rendered 3d; it had to be piggybacked with a 2d video card.
if you want to create a derivative work or publish this howto for commercial purposes, i would appreciate it if you contact me first.
libggi applications run on svgalib, fb, and x servers among  others.
even better, it was their first combined 2d/3d card, meaning that it freed up a valuable pci slot (most pc's only had a couple of pci slots back then) but the rush wasn't as popular.
you're still supposed to shutdown in an orderly manner, but the filesystem integrity will be maintained.
$@ this script sets up some environment variables, then launches the game  binary with whatever command line options we added.
there's no recovery from this kind of lock other than pressing the reset or power button.
they *may* work with kde, but i  cannot say for certain.
however, this sort of thing clearly should be done in hardware wherever possible.
i'd also appreciate  either a copy of whatever it is you're doing or a spinach, garlic, mushroom,  feta cheese and artichoke heart pizza.
he was the lead  programmer for loki software (he now codes for blizzard software), which used  sdl in all of its games except for quake3.
yet game companies persist using directx  and therefore limit their audience to windows users only.
they have  an extremely high "information to space" ratio.
creative  never released a linux driver for these cards (and they never released  programming information to linux developers), so linux users cannot use the  extra 32 channels on the awe 64 and awe 64 gold.
there are three downsides to svgalib.
finding out what libraries a game depends on most commercial linux games will be dynamically linked against various lgpl  libraries, such as openal or sdl.
texture filtering is the fundamental feature required to present sweet 3d graphics.
your sound card should work.
as of february 2002, i've been following their cvs, and this project is undergoing constant development.
and it has infinite variants like zangband  and nethack (which has many variants itself).
glide2 is a low level graphics api and driver that accesses 3d hardware accelerated functions on 3dfx's voodoo i, ii and iii cards, under xfree86 3.x.
for instance, at a low resolution  you may get only a very slight hit by using trilinear filtering instead of  bilinear filtering.
for open  source games there's the readme files that come with the game.
win4lin  is a commercial product by netraverse.
the engine refers to the actual game itself (doom, quake, heretic2) and plays out the maps and bad guys outlined by the datafile (doom2.wad, pak0.pak, etc).
but the radeon's drivers were open source, so many linux users stuck by them.
vmware is a virtual machine that runs multiple operating systems simultaneously on a standard pc: supported oses include microsoft ones, linux, novell netware and freebsd.
when a particular graphics task isn't able to be hardware accelerated  by the video card, it's software rendered; the task is done by your computer's  cpu instead.
in ultima ii, you destroy the evil sorceress minax.
you can also specify which news server to use using the  $nntp environment variable or with the file /etc/nntpserver.
xdpyinfo gives cool stuff, like x version and loaded extensions (invaluable when trying to see what's missing, like glx, dri, xfree86-vidmode, etc.).
the exult team has also been hard at work creating a map editor, exult  studio, and a script compiler that will let users create their own rpg in the  ultima style.
non-subscribers can browse the forums, but only subscribers can post (and therefore, ask for support).
loki's death in january 2002 was the biggest setback linux has ever had in its attempt to capture the general desktop market.
mip mapping mip mapping is a technique where several scaled copies of the same texture  are stored in the video card memory to represent the texture at different  distances.
this excellently done page has many nice links for interactive fiction fans.
wine has come a long way, and is capable of emulating many important programs, which is great news for linux users who want this sort of stuff.
this will  give me a chance to give you the most recent version.
configuration is also a bit funky; this emulator would benefit from an svga or x based configuration tool.
so if you don't see your sound card's driver with lsmod, your card probably isn't configured yet.
see the man  pages for lsof and fuser; they're very useful.
running a game without a wm or de depends on how you access x. if you usually log in to a virtual console and start x with "startx" try the following: modify ~/.xinitrc, which tells x what to run upon starting.
as  a last note, you can't look up information in source code of commercial games  from lokisoft or tribsoft.
the creative soundblaster live!
it'll give you: the hsync/vsync range specified in your xf86config file the 4 horizontal and 4 vertical numbers which defines your videomode (the  1st horizontal/vertical numbers gives the screen resolution).
compared with agi games, sci adventures have better music support, a more complex engine and loads of bells and whistles.
first, check your gdm.conf (usually in /etc/x11/gdm or /etc/gdm) file for a line that says begins "sessiondesktopdir=blah".
there were a number of voodoo iii's, ranging from a 143mhz core speed to 183mhz.
because of the ati linux driver woes, linux users cannot use ms windows based benchmarks or card stats.
at the time, ati had their rage series and nvidia had their riva 128, but the voodoo i blew them all away.
also, i'm not aware of any card that uses anisotropic texture  filtering.
permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the open software license, version 1.1, except for the provisions i list in the next paragraph.
mike phillips (formerly of loki software) mentioned that sending in saved games to loki is definitely a good thing.
gamers want high  quality sound for our games with the least amount of tinkering.
you can even run another linux under  linux; useful is you want to test another distro for instance.
the output of x goes to stderr, so we have to redirect stderr with "2>" to a file named x.out.
, mips based systems and sh3/4 based pocket pc's.
you can use thenm to see what functions  a static library contains: % nm /usr/lib/libm.a ...
many sci based games (games written in sci0) can be played using freesci,  available athttp://freesci.linuxgames.com.
running a game  without a wm or de depends on how you access x. if you usually log in to a  virtual console and start x with "startx" try the following: modify ~/.xinitrc, which tells x what to run upon starting.
in return, as  wine maturation improved, the winex developers were going to take the new  versions of wine and use them for winex.
they're kind of mysterious and have funny names, so we'll go over libraries on linux for a bit.
you can see i have an irq conflict between the soundcard (soundblaster) and the network card (eth0).
at first, things were still simple.
your libraries can still be wrong.
it supports the undocumented portion of the 6502  instruction set which some games rely on.apple2 is currently being maintained  by michael deutschmann and seems  to be developed at a slow but constant pace.
this is why a game can easily take out a windows system but should not take down a linux system.
there aren't many  graphical adventures written natively for linux.
yet game companies persist using directx and therefore limit their audience to windows users only.
ati started to release a tremendous number of versions of each video card, and keeping up with them and their terminology started to become very difficult.
the second column is there because i have 2 cpu's in this machine; if you  have one cpu (called up, or uniprocessor), you'll have only 1 cpu column.
sometimes, a card is hardwired to use a certain irq.
ultima underworld: the stygian abyss (origin, blue sky productions) the underworld adventures project  is  an effort to port the 1992 classic, ultima underworld: the stygian abyss, to  modern operating systems like linux, macos x, and windows.
unlike xlib (section 3.8), sdl is very  suited for game programming.
the last  argument to strace is the program we're inspecting, here, "ls".
clanlib is a medium level development kit.
this file contains a list of directories that you wantld.so to search for dynamic libraries.
kegs kegs is an apple ii emulator written by kent dickey  which was originally written for hp-ux, but  improved and customized for linux.
but your process table will be a ghost town, and all that extra cpu will go straight to your game.
the "x window user howto", and especially "man xf86config"  arerequired reading.
you should definitely ask before sending a save game file because they tend to be long, but gaming companies usually have lots of bandwidth.
if you can't ssh into the system, you'll need to use the "magic sysrq  key" which is documented in/usr/src/linux/documentation/sysrq.txt.
there is a program called glxgears which comes with the  "mesademos" package.
previously, client  applications were prohibited from writing directly to hardware, and there was a  good reason for this.
the best tool to use here is  lsof, which shows which processes are accessing a file.
xfree86 4.x provides a more centralized and self-contained approach to video.
it exists only to support dri on voodoo iii, iv and v boards under xfree86 4.x.
xt-pic timer 1: 224714 0 xt-pic keyboard 2: 0 0 xt-pic cascade 5: 2478476 0 xt-pic soundblaster 5: 325924 0 xt-pic eth0 11: 131326 0
you'll have something like 10 processes running.
if direct rendering is disabled, then your x configuration is definitely faulty.
commercial linux game resources 12.3.
so to use these two libraries, you  would passgcc the -lsdl -lm options.
this material isn't  crucial to actually getting a game working, but may help in deciding what  hardware and software options are best for you.
the radeons were their first 3d accelerated card that gamers took any real serious interest in.
static libraries usually end with.a followed by a version number, like: /usr/lib/libsdl.a /usr/lib/libm.a the .a files are really an archive of a bunch of .o
without their help, there would be more typos and mistakes than you could shake a stick at: michael mcdonnell
if you have a linux only system, the geforce 5900 is your best bet.
you get what you pay for with speakers, but don't expect a huge difference.
the current radeon 9800 barely beats out the geforce 5900 in benchmarks and  card specs, but linux users won't benefit from this because of driver issues..
wine was originally licenced under the mit/x11 license, so it could be used  for both commercial and non-commercial purposes.
on ms windows, when the geforce beat out its main competing radeon, the  review claimed that the radeon generally had better visuals.
this module (and its device file/dev/3dfx) allows glide2 graphical hardware acceleration for non-root users of non-setuid applications.
the  program can simulate your opponent(s).
they can be set in fantasy (hexen), science fiction (quake ii), present day `real world' (soldier of fortune) and many other settings.
in march 1998, 3dfx released their voodoo ii, with its 3.6gb/sec memory  bandwith, 12mb of video memory and 90mhz core.
configuration is also a bit funky; this emulator would benefit from an svga or  x based configuration tool.
the aim is to keep rewind mit/x11 based so that companies like transgaming can offer wine based products.
their effort is above and beyond the call of duty: frï¿½dï¿½ric delanoy, moritz  muehlenhoff, mike phillips, ioan  rogers i would also like to thank the following people for sending in comments and  corrections.
they simply put you in a cockpit to give you the thrill of piloting a plane.
games written in svgalib will only work on linux.
these cards are extremely cheap and trivial to get working under linux.
but at high resolutions, the performance hit may be  enormous.
the most recent version can be found at http://www.dirac.org/linux/writing.
much of the funkyness like kernel modules for non-root access of video  boards is, thankfully, gone.
what should i choose?
trilinear filtering samples eight pixels and interpolates them before rendering.
try running the game again and normally.
arcade style although arcade games had their heydey in the 80's, they are nonetheless  very popular.
however, all ati cards beyond the radeon 9200 also require a proprietary driver that will "taint" your kernel as well.
in addition, by using the higher level libraries, a game writer can develop his game on multiple platforms, even ones that don't use xfree86.
nvidia has proven that they care enough about linux to write and maintain current and very high quality drivers for linux.
however, as of 3jan01, mathieu pinard of tribsoft said that he was taking a break and tribsoft would no longer release games for awhile.
for example, i added the users p and wellspring to group audio on my system: audio:x:29:p,wellspring don't forget to use grpconv if you use shadow passwords (which should be the case on most recent distributions) in order to maintain a consistent group configuration.
if the game segfaults every time you run it, or is incredibly slow, a saved game file won't be of much help.
this file will have almost everything there is to know about your x system.
then things got even more complicated.
one day i try to run it and something bad happens: % ./mind.i86_linux.glibc2.1
don't get the geforce 5800.
your sound card is represented by/dev/dsp.
mip mapping can  be used regardless of filtering method (section 7.4.6).
pci cards are much easier to deal with than isa since you don't need to tell their drivers about which system resources (irq, dma, i/o addresses) to use.
you can use strace to determine where kill-metallica was looking for the library and make a symlink from/usr/local/include/libmp3.so.2 to wherever kill-metallica was looking for the library file.
whether you're trying to diagnose an x problem or requesting help from a mailing list or usenet newsgroup, you'll want to have as much information available as possible.
the oven door is now closed.
when you pressenter, a newline doesn't get echo'ed to the screen.
ati, together with nvidia, played king of hill.
i don't think this application has  a homepage.
id software's open sourced the doom codebase and ported quake i to linux (december 1996).
some examples of games written in agi  would be leisure suit larry i (ega), space quest i and ii, king's quest ii,  mixed-up mother goose and others.
the 3d rendering  information doesn't even have to be hardware accelerated.
as of october 2004, the most recent version of directx is 9c.
=> /lib/libm.so.6 (0x40027000)  libpthread.so.0 => /lib/libpthread.so.0 (0x40049000) libgl.so.1 =>
if it's not, then you're not getting hardware acceleration.
there's another benefit of these scripts: they are easily edited to allow  you to provide your own copy of a library.
graphics rendering has 3 players: the client application (like quake 3),  the x server and the hardware (the graphics card).
beyond the 9200, you need to use ati's binary only proprietary drivers, available in rpm format from ati's website.
developers have  reported that svgalib works on the radeon 7500, radeon qd (64mb ddr model) but  has problems on the radeon ve.
there was talk about wabi 3.0 which  would've done win32 emulation, but afaik, this project was shelved  indefinitely.
install a newsreader.
strace is a very powerful utility.
clanlib clanlib is a medium level development kit.
unlike vmware, win4lin only does windows 95/98/me, but this turns out to be better for gamers.
a widget set is a collection of related widgets that are designed to have a common interface and a consistant "feel".
i've had expensive altec lansing speakers perform only slightly better than el-cheapo speakers.
when the texture is near, a bigger one is used.
actually, i cooked this example up because i wanted to show you what an irq conflict looks like.
until this point, ati had always been an innovative (they developed their own 3d acceleration chips in 1996, about the same time as 3dfx), but sleepy graphics chipset manufacturer.
the voodoo banshee was  released in september 1998 as a combined 2d/3d card, like the rush.
the canonical example would be the so-called `hi-res adventures' like the wizard and the princess.
as far as i can see, the developers really do listen to the subscriber polls.
there is such a vast number of these things that it's nearly impossible to enumerate them all, but they include clones of asteroids, space invaders, pac-man, missile command and galaxian.
the google group search has a basic and advanced search page.
the  file could be a library: % ./exult ./exult: error while loading shared library: libsdl-1.2.so.0:  cannot load shared object file: no such file or directory or it could be some kind of data file, like a wad or map file: % qf-client-sdl ip address 192.168.0.2:27001 udp initialize error:  w_loadwadfile: couldn't load gfx.wad suppose gfx.wad is already on my system, but couldn't be found because it  isn't in the right directory.
this shouldn't be a surprise  since glide2 and glide3 support different video cards and different versions of  xfree86.
the scenario can be peaceful, like running a successful  city (simcity), or not, like illegal drug selling operation (drugwars) or an  all-out war strategy game like myth ii.
it exists  only to support dri on voodoo iii, iv and v boards under xfree86 4.x.
commercial games will have a printed manual and maybe some readme files on the cd the game came on.
is an extremely popular pci sound card  these days.
these are some resources for linux gamers no matter what kind of game you enjoy to play.
while nvidia was putting real r&d into their cards, 3dfx was simply adding more and faster ram.
i assume a working knowledge of linux, so i use some topics like runlevels  and modules without defining them.
it provides support for a few cards which are not well supported by dri like the ati rage pro family, s3 virge (although anyone using this for gaming is, well, nuts), and an open source tnt/tnt2 driver (which is very incomplete).
the scenario can be peaceful, like running a successful city (simcity), or not, like illegal drug selling operation (drugwars) or an all-out war strategy game like myth ii.
libggi applications run on svgalib, fb, and x servers among others.
the transgaming website has a few user support forums.
in nethack you  need to retrieve the amulet of yendor for your god.
the current radeon 9800 barely beats out the geforce 5900 in benchmarks and card specs, but linux users won't benefit from this because of driver issues..
you light the lantern.
despite the astounding fact that the linux gamers' faq doesn't mention the linux gamers' howto as a resource anywhere in their text, i regard the faq as a good companion to this howto.
on uni-processor machines the cpu doesn't have to change context between  xfree86 and its client to render the graphics.
arcade style games attempt to simulate the arcade games themselves.
directaudio directaudio is a combination of 2 audio api's, directsound and directmusic,  which allows direct access to the sound card for sound and music playback.
note that if you pass this test, your system is capable of direct rendering.
however, since the birth of  transgaming, parts of wine have been re-licensed under the more restrictive gnu  lgpl license (section 10.5.1).
moreover,vmware has only  limited support for directx, and you might not be able to play recent games.
it'll give you: the hsync/vsync range specified in your xf86config file the 4 horizontal and 4 vertical numbers which defines your videomode (the 1st horizontal/vertical numbers gives the screen resolution).
his games were available for atari, apple 2, commodore, sorcerer, ti, and cpm.
system shock is a classic first person shooter/adventure from 1994, which puts it as a contemporary of doom.
sarien is under development and the  developers have been very good about documenting the sarien internals if anyone  wants to get involved in hacking it.
then in april 2000, 3dfx was attacked on a different front: ati started releasing their first generation radeons.
if you want to do things like convert a record lp to digital format, then your  choice of a soundcard with a professional grade a/d converter is absolutely  crucial.
a "real computer" provides an operating system many things, including a cpu, i/o channels, memory, a bios to provide low level access to motherboard and i/o resources, etc.
the xterm from which you run glxgears will display "x frames in y seconds =
(object) files archived together, similar to a tar file.
linux definitely has no  deficiency here!
this example will  show you how to log in to doom3.
another nice little trick is for games that use openal for their sound output (e.g. unreal based games: ut, postal, rune, etc.).
even when ati open sourced its video card driver, they played the "we'll make linux developers write our drivers for us" game.
how are library files found
my personal recommendation is any card which has the es1370 or es1371 chip, which uses the es1370 and es1371 sound drivers on linux.
they are still copyrighted by apple, and you can only use them legally if you actually own one of these computers.
mip mapping is a technique where several scaled copies of the same texture are stored in the video card memory to represent the texture at different distances.
it's reported that a voodoo iii  using glide2 will outperform a voodoo iii using glide3.
you're still supposed to shutdown  in an orderly manner, but the filesystem integrity will be maintained.
this module (and its device file/dev/3dfx)  allows glide2 graphical hardware acceleration for non-root users of non-setuid  applications.
even  when an ati offering is better than the current geforce offering for windows,  the card is always trounced by geforce on linux.
in march 1998, 3dfx released their voodoo ii, with its 3.6gb/sec memory bandwith, 12mb of video memory and 90mhz core.
this is legal only if you own a  copy of windows which isn't currently being used on a computer.
next there are the `point and click adventures' which basically have no text interface at all, and often have dynamic graphics, like a cat wandering around the room while you're deciding what to do next.
ati started becoming more and more reluctant to open source drivers for their new releases, and suddenly, it wasn't clear who the "good guy" was anymore.
note that explicit modelines are no longer necessary,  since xfree 4.0.1 and up computes modetimings automatically based on your  monitor's and video card's capabilities.
there were a number of voodoo  iii's, ranging from a 143mhz core speed to 183mhz.
their radeons trounced both nvidia and 3dfx.
there are actually many other z-machine interpreters like nitfol and rezrov  (written in perl!).
winex winex is released by a company called transgaming .
this allows  us to run graphical things in console, like allowing us to choose any font we
ggi has a sister project, kgi, which is developing a kernel-level alternative to systems like the linux framebuffer and the dri.
one comment about portability: each component of directx has multiple corresponding library on linux.
their products have been neck to neck ever since, with geforce taking the lead a bit more times than the radeon.
however, there may be times when you'll want to play around with mode timings, like for weird hardware or if want to tweak your display.
it started out life as a snapshot of the last version of wine which was completely licensed under the mit/x11 license.
in nethack you need to retrieve the amulet of yendor for your god.
libraries we'll run through the different gaming libraries you'll see under linux.
02nd of march, 2012 | who am i?
it's lgpl'd and provides  joystick and opengl support as well.
your  change doesn't actually make it into/etc/ld.so.cache until you run ldconfig ; once it's run, ld.so will begin to look for libraries in your  private directory.
the compiler  will try to optimise the resulting binary, giving some increase in performance.
it started as a joint project between loki software and creative  labs, setting out to be a vendor neutral and cross platform api for audio - the  audio equivalent of opengl (section 3.3).
the console is the dark non-graphical screen you look at when your computer  first boots up (and you don't havexdm or gdm running).
pci cards can share interrupts, but certain types  of high bandwidth cards simply don't like to share, including network and sound  cards.
there is almost no support for enhancements like eax or any hardware acceleration on linux, though it does it exist in the windows implementation.
the radeon will be slightly stronger on windows.
similar to fps, but you view your character in third person and in 3d. on modern third person shooters you can usually do some really kick-butt maneuvers like jackie chan style back flips and side rolls.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libx11.so.6 (0x40a01000)
it's said that  wine has the best success when run with windows.
these days we have midi emulators like timidity  and libraries like sdl which don't require hardware midi support.
font rendering is another big application for aa.
in mid 2002, parts of wine  were re-licensed under the lgpl so that it could only be used for  non-commercial puposes.
you can read it for yourself at http://www.linuxhardware.org/features/01/03/19/0357219.shtml, but conclusion is that the geforce 2 firmly and soundly trounced the radeon 32 ddr.
for example, you can type "ps ax", and you're sure to have an `h', `a', `l' and a `t' somewhere on the screen.
as of today, the 256mb version comes in at a whopping $350, however, the 128mb version is more reasonable.
it's not very cheap (about  300$ for the workstation version), but you can get a 30 day evaluation copy.
ludvig strigeus was able to  reverse engineer the scumm format and write an interpreter for scumm based  games that compiles under linux and win32 named scummvm .
opengl is not only an api, it's also an implementation, written by sgi.
if your game came from a distro make sure there's not an update rpm/deb for the game.
applications that use libggi directly include heroes, ultrapoint, quake, and berlin.
in return, as wine maturation improved, the winex developers were going to take the new versions of wine and use them for winex.
by receiving feedback on this howto (even if i don't have the time to  answer), you make me feel like i'm doing something useful.
it's a mistake to say something like "directx is like opengl" or "directx is like sdl", as is commonly said in directx tutorials.
he recently released a new game (a linux version is not available) but since the decline of adventuring, he has pretty much kept out of the gaming industry.
trilinear filtering eliminates the banding effect that appears between  adjacent mip map levels.
there are actually many other z-machine interpreters like nitfol and rezrov (written in perl!).
each build uses a different library as a  backend renderer.
libmss.so.6 (0x40178000) libsdl-1.2.so.0  => ./lib/libsdl-1.2.so.0 (0x401ec000) libc.so.6 => /lib/libc.so.6  (0x4025e000)
there is one other thing to consider though: the majority of games are actually  launched by a "wrapper", a shell script that performs some magic  prior to launching the game.
one of the best diagnostic tools and sources of information about your x system isprobeonly output.
/usr/x11r6/lib/libx11.so.6 (0x40a60000)
these  days: all geforce cards require a proprietary driver which will "taint"  your kernel.
/lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0x40000000) libglcore.so.1 =>
now we can try to locate mind.dat and move it into /usr/share, or better, create a symbolic link.
this is  when pixels make, what should be a smooth curve or line, jagged.
the more time it takes for you mobilize the fire fighters, the more damage the fire does.
tdfx(0): videoram: 32768 kbyte  mapping 65536 kbyte 4.1.2.
the information is very detailed, and perhaps overkill for gamers.
you should see a file callednwmain; this is the actual game binary.
there is almost no support  for enhancements like eax or any hardware acceleration on linux, though it does  it exist in the windows implementation.
frotz has  spawned many forks, like a version for palmos and linux based pda's.
many problems can be  fixed easily if you know your way aroundxf86config (or xf86config-4).
you may hear disk activity.
the aim is to keep rewind mit/x11 based so that companies like transgaming can  offer wine based products.
cpu type video card x version average fps compiling mesa and dri modules yourself can increase your fps by 15 fps;  quite a performance boost!
hungarian lï¿½szlï¿½ daczi , the hungarian ldp coordinator, announced  that a hungarian translation was produced by szilard ivan, and is available at http://tldp.fsf.hu/howto/linux-gamers-howto-hu.
in contrast to dynamic libraries which provide code while the application  runs, static libraries contain code which gets linked (inserted) into the  program while it's being compiled.
mesa  is a free implementation of the opengl  api, designed and written by brian paul.
which sound card is best?
for instance, i can browse loki software's news server with tin -g news.lokigames.com.
a common problem you'll see in gaming is a library file not being found.
clearly, mind.dat isn't  in/usr/share.
since it contains binary data, you cannot modify this file directly.
remove "./lib:" from theld_library_path line, and you're good to go.
opengl is a high level graphics programming api originally developed by  sgi, and it became an industry standard for 2d and 3d graphics programming.
creative never released a linux driver for these cards (and they never released programming information to linux developers), so linux users cannot use the extra 32 channels on the awe 64 and awe 64 gold.
if my sound card is pci, the preferred way of fixing this would be to simply move one of the cards to a different slot and hope the bios sorts things out.
this archive used to be at http://www.deja.com, but was bought by google.
to use the magic sysrq key, your kernel needs to have been compiled with magic sysrq support.
however, with bigger and better games on the horizon, it was only a matter of time before the voodoos would no longer be a viable graphics card for modern gaming.
the faq and howto are complementary in this regard, and i've tried to not reproduce their content.
it is  licensed lgpl and the specs can be obtained for free from the openal website.
if you compile your own games, your biggest problem with libraries will either be thatgcc can't find a static library or perhaps the library doesn't exist on your system.
the version at sourceforge is bleeding edge but guaranteed to be not  broken, however it may have glitches, like unfinished paragraphs.
logic games usually simulate some well known logic puzzle like master mind  or the game where you have put sliding numbered tiles in order inside a box.
usually, a missing library is a crash waiting to happen.
it's a comic book on your monitor.
glxinfo gives lots of useful information about opengl like whether direct rendering enabled, the currently installed versions of glx and mesa, vendor/renderer strings, the gl library files being used and more.
you can play ultima vii under linux with exult (section 11.7).
if the  page is not in a language you can understand, there are many translation sites  which will convert the text into whatever language you like, including http://www.freetranslation.com and http://translation.lycos.com.
they worked with linux  developers, open sourced all their drivers and were hailed as the great hope  for linux gaming.
in turn, it motivates me to write more and add to this document.
opengl is the open source equivalent to direct3d, a component of directx ( section 3.14).
alan cox wrote scottfree, a scott adams adventure game file interpreter for unix.
while some games are written in xlib, like the doom editor yadex, xlib itself is not a serious game writing library.
dosemu  is the canonical dos emulator on linux.
moreover, a game writer who uses libraries like opengl, ggi or sdl will write a game which will trivially compile on windows, linux and a multitude of other os's.
not all linux distributions are supported: newest  redhat's, mandrake's and suse's are, but you're out of luck if you have an  other version and/or distribution (like debian).
the text characters could look like gibberish.
the project was focused on the beos platform, but is now focused on macos and linux.
when you think of dos, don't think of things like procom plus or other progra~1 which have short names and are in all caps.
wabi was originally created by sco unix a long time ago and then  was purchased by caldera sometime in mid year 2001.
logging out and back in don't always work, but there are a few things that might: if you don't see any character on the screen as you type in, your terminal settings may be wrong.
the answer was very difficult last year, but here's my take on it
on april 18 2001, they sold most of their assets and technology to nvidia, and in october 2002, they finally declared bankruptcy.
your game is not at fault.
however, for 5 us dollars per month, you can become a subscriber of transgaming.
gl: the opengl core calls glu: the utility calls glut:
it's a common  misconception that x means graphics and console means no graphics.
if you're  looking at a console, the system will print the devices which were remounted.
we used the open() system call to open "."
frankly, there's enough games for me, although it would  be really nice to have some of the bleeding edge games and classics like  half-life and carmageddon.
even if i don't take your suggestions, your input is graciously  received.
to use the magic sysrq key, your kernel needs to have been compiled with  magic sysrq support.
dynamic libraries, also called a "shared library", provide object code for an application while it's running.
this could be something real like a  fighter jet or something imaginary like a mechanized warrior combat unit.
direct rendering disabled where xxxxxxx depends on which video card you have.
withgcc -print-search-dirs ld.so looks to a binary hash contained in a file named /etc/ld.so.cache for a list of directories that contain available dynamic libraries.
the first step is to make your system allow unlimited coresizes: ulimit -c unlimited you will now have to recompile the program and pass the -g option to gcc (explaining this is beyond the scope of this document).
texture filtering texture filtering is the fundamental feature required to present sweet 3d  graphics.
sci: script interpreter or sierra creative interpreter (sierra) 11.4.
shared interrupt the first thing to do is to figure out if you have an irq conflict.
this excellently done page  has many nice links for interactive fiction fans.
although winex is commercial, they have an interesting business model.
graphics rendering has 3 players: the client application (like quake 3), the x server and the hardware (the graphics card).
mp entertainment released hopkins fbi, my favorite game ever released for linux.
games written in svgalib will  only work on linux.
as of june 2003, expect to pay $89.99 without printed docs and $99.99 with printed docs.
not all linux distributions are supported: newest redhat's, mandrake's and suse's are, but you're out of luck if you have an other version and/or distribution (like debian).
why isn't my sound working?
if you have a pentium4 or an athlonxp, you could compile you own version specifically for your processor.
in addition, by using the higher level  libraries, a game writer can develop his game on multiple platforms, even ones  that don't use xfree86.
glx is the x extension used by opengl programs, it is the glue between the  platform independent opengl and platform dependent x. 3.7.
i prefer console  tools more, so i use tin, but slrn is also popular.
very  quickly, a core file (aka core dump) is a file that holds the "state"  of the program at the moment it crashes.
even if i don't take your suggestions, your input is graciously received.
next there are the `point and click adventures' which basically have no  text interface at all, and often have dynamic graphics, like a cat wandering  around the room while you're deciding what to do next.
at the *very* least, the author will be interested in the call stack when the game crashed.
while the insanely popular ultima series, written by richard garriot (aka lord british) for origin, was not the first rpg, it popularized and propelled the rpg genre into mainstream.
the first step is to make your system  allow unlimited coresizes: ulimit -c unlimited you will now have to recompile the program and pass the -g option to gcc  (explaining this is beyond the scope of this document).
a few notes: first,  the soundblaster awe howto is very out of date.
this improves a game's  visuals, but can also dramatically degrade performance.
not a big deal when you're trying to run wordperfect or an old database application.
on uni-processor machines the cpu doesn't have to change context between xfree86 and its client to render the graphics.
as  of october 2004, the most recent version of directx is 9c.
i've tried to keep game specific information in this howto at a minimum.
gcc looks for libraries in the ``standard system directories'' plus  any directories you specify with the-l option.
the developers have done a fantastic job of documenting and faqing their application.
real time strats are based on the concept of you-snooze-you-lose.
there were tv-out versions.
if you want to reboot but the `o' key doesn't work, try using halt.
presumably, ati doesn't want to release drivers to keep their trade secrets, well, a secret.
for instance, at a low resolution you may get only a very slight hit by using trilinear filtering instead of bilinear filtering.
the rewards  increase correspondingly.
now we can try to locate mind.dat and move it into /usr/share, or  better, create a symbolic link.
on one hand, they  use the most godawful, horrible, confusing, wasteful, moronic format i've ever  seen and i hope to god i never see a forum with a format as bad as  transgaming's.
you'll find this option under "kernel hacking | kernel debugging | magic sysrq key" in whatever kernel config menu you like to use.
on debian, the startup scripts for  run-level 2 are located in /etc/rc2.d/. you can kill a service in an orderly  manner by sending its startup script the `stop' command: # cd /etc/rc2.d # ./ntpd stop another (radical) option is to simply put yourself in single-user mode with # telinit 1 this will even get rid of getty; your system will only be running whatever  is absolutely crucial to its operation.
depending on the version of directx you're talking about, directx support in winex (section 10.5.3) ranges from well supported to "kind of" supported.
misconfigured driver sometimes, a card is hardwired to use a certain irq.
glx is the x extension used by opengl programs, it is the glue between the platform independent opengl and platform dependent x. utah-glx is the precursor to dri.
it also "pulls in" the dependencies of the dependencies.
they're analagous to the.dll 's used by windows.
the linux game tome: http://www.happypenguin.org about the games themselves.
* users procede to step 2), look at the output of x -probeonly.
they both  share irq 5.
that's not so straight forward.
when you  compile a program, by default,gcc uses dynamic libraries, but you can  makegcc use static libraries instead by using the -static switch.
you also see an oven, refrigerator and a door leading east.
in october 1996 they released the  voodoo i, which was a phenomenal success.
| visibility | port scan | port list | anti-virus |doc's |
libdl.so.2 => /lib/libdl.so.2  (0x40b2c000) libstdc++.so.5 =>
a more accurate statement would  be something like "directx is like dri, opengl and sdl combined".
=> /lib/libpthread.so.0  (0x40049000) libgl.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgl.so.1 (0x4009b000) libglu.so.1  =>
afaik,  there are 3 options to getting a sound card configured under linux: the free  oss sound drivers that come with the linux kernel, the alsa drivers and the  commercial oss sound drivers.
they're kind of mysterious and have funny names, so we'll go over libraries on  linux for a bit.
afaik, there are 3 options to getting a sound card configured under linux: the free oss sound drivers that come with the linux kernel, the alsa drivers and the commercial oss sound drivers.
the lock can also be a "soft lock", meaning that the kernel is still  functioning in some capacity.
because of this, there are lots of libraries like sdl (section 3.10 ) for 2d graphics, opengl (section 3.3) for 3d graphics and widget sets ( section 3.9) for widgets within windows which hide the details of different aspects of xlib programming.
just like opengl, mesa makes use of hardware acceleration whenever  possible.
lucasarts wrote an engine for point and click adventures named scumm  (script creation utility for maniac mansion).
this script runs neverwinter nights from the current directory export sdl_mouse_relative=0 export sdl_video_x11_dgamouse=0 # if you do not wish to use the sdl library included in the package, remove # ./lib
your normally nice black screen could look like a quasi-graphics screen.
1108 p 6w chr 14,3 662302 /dev/dsp fuser is similar; but it lets you send a signal to any process accessing the device file.
when an operating system wants to write to  a hard drive, it communicates through a device driver that interfaces directly  with the hardware device memory.
with various arguments, and the return value of the call is4.
there's no  recovery from this kind of lock other than pressing the reset or power button.
the "dot clock" your videocard is running at.
neither the module nor the device file are used under xfree86 4.x.
the z-machine is a well documented  virtual machine designed by infocom to run their interactive fiction games.
i'm not  entirely sure of the quality of these open source drivers, however, soldier of  fortune i and heavy metal still have opaque texture problems under first  generation radeons.
the tnt 2 outperformed the voodoo ii, and accelerated 3d graphics at  full 32 bit color, while the voodoo's were stuck at 16 bit color.
in  addition, an addon disk was released to both part i (the forge of virtue) and  part ii (the silver seed).
xt-pic timer 1: 224714 0
people were still using voodoo's, but they were essentially out of the game at this point.
the canonical example would  be tomb raider.
in addition, there are versions for dos, strong-arm based  pda's, qns (holy cow!
# lsof /dev/dsp command pid user fd type device size node name mp3blaste
the data files  are the actual game itself, similar to the relationship between first person  shooters (section 2.7) and wad files.
if you're playing an open source game that you compiled, make sure you have  the newest version by checking the game's website.
linux definitely has no deficiency here!
and  actually, your "background" or "root" window is considered  a window too.
for instance, when you magnify a  picture, you'll notice lines that were once smooth become jagged (try it with  the gimp).
have everything under the sun compiled as a module  and try to load them all.
unlike xlib (section 3.8), sdl is very suited for game programming.
many of them arise because people don't know as much as they should about how things "work" on linux, at least, as far as games go.
that is, code gets linked into the  executable at run time, as opposed to compile time.
they can be set in fantasy (hexen), science fiction (quake ii), present day  `real world' (soldier of fortune) and many other settings.
it's only used for voodoo i, ii, iii boards (which are becoming outdated), under xfree86 3.x
if you're playing a game under x, don't run a window manager, and certainly don't run a desktop manager like gnome or kde.
very useful when a google group search  yields a page in german which looks useful and my wife (who reads german well)  isn't around.
hardware acceleration works only for the root user 9.2.1.
i've never owned one, so i cannot comment here.
nothing will ever replace walking into a dark, crowded and noisy arcade gallery, popping a quarter into your favorite machine and playing an old fashioned game of space invaders.
they *may* work with kde, but i cannot say for certain.
it is pitch dark and you're likely to be eaten by a grue.
it says so in the wrapper script!
this example will show you how to log in to doom3.
here's a summary for the x86 architecture (see the documentation for other architectures).
win4lin win4lin  is a commercial product by  netraverse.
if this is the case, as root, look at the  group owner of the sound card usingls -l /dev/dsp; it'll probably be  audio.
for gaming you might want to look at winex (section 10.5.3).
or other  progra~1 which have short names and are in all caps.
whereas opengl is open source, lower level and compiles under a multitude of operating systems, d3d is proprietary, higher level and only compiles on windows.
on april 18 2001, they sold most  of their assets and technology to nvidia, and in october 2002, they finally  declared bankruptcy.
many modern 3d accelerated cards have a z buffer in their video ram, which speeds things up considerably, but z buffering can also be done by the application's rendering engine.
the version at my personal web site might be broken if i'm working on the  howto.
wine was originally licenced under the mit/x11 license, so it could be used for both commercial and non-commercial purposes.
they offer reel deal slots, which is very nicely done!
these 8 numbers will tell you which modeline your x uses.
with these types of cards, you need to pass the correct irq and memory access, "i/o port", to the driver.
none of the games which use glide2 will work with glide3.
ultima 7 is actually 2 games: part i (the black gate) and part ii (serpent island) which uses a slightly enhanced version of the black gate's engine.
you should definitely have a good configuration in order to run it; they claim the minimum is a 500mhz x86 cpu with 128mb ram, but a faster processor and at least 256mb ram seem to be the bare minimum if you want reasonable performance.
you are given a scenario and can interact with the world you're placed in: you are in a room.
it also "pulls in" the dependencies of the  dependencies.
hardware acceleration problems xfree86 4.x provides a more centralized and self-contained approach to  video.
this basically means that versions of wine that are released past the date of the re-licensing can no longer be used by winex.
in addition, there are versions for dos, strong-arm based pda's, qns (holy cow!
+set r_gldriver libgr.so.1 #exec ut #lsdldoom -server 2 #exec tribes2 exec /usr/bin/enlightenment you'll usually see a window or desktop manager being executed from this file (gnome or kde).
many modern 3d accelerated cards have  a z buffer in their video ram, which speeds things up considerably, but z  buffering can also be done by the application's rendering engine.
if you have success using dosemu, i would like to hear from you.
the most recent version of win4lin  as of june 2003 is 5.0.
the first step is to figure out which one is happening.
however, there have been numerous reports about serious problems with the live!
it's crucial that you know the difference between the various markers you'll see in probeonly output: (--) probed (**) from config file
wabi does not do dos itself, but it looks like it can use a dos emulator as  a backend for running dos programs.
the later versions even  supported limited sound and graphics!
don't bother with the simple search.
as of june 2002, svgalib support radeon cards is shaky.
this speeds things up.
if something is already accessing  your card, other applications won't be able to.
it's said that wine has the best success when run with windows.
it was the 2nd worst day for linux gaming (the 1st being the demise of loki).
the svgalib based apple2 and x based xapple2 can emulate any apple ][ variant except for the //gs.
while it's not officially certified  (that would take more money than an open source project has), it's an almost  fully compliant opengl implementation conforming to the arb specifications.
x 4.0 does this automatically  for you.
worse still, the voodoo v's 2nd gpu was unused by the linux driver (and to this day, the voodoo v is functionally equivalent to the single gpu voodoo iv on linux).
they were one of the first and had, by far, the most titles (i own all of them).
there are some real  classics that were written for dos like carmageddon, redneck rampage and tomb  raider.
when playing a game under x, you should consider starting x without a window manager (wm).
you are given a  scenario and can interact with the world you're placed in: you are in a room.
and actually, your "background" or "root" window is considered a window too.
on debian, the startup scripts for run-level 2 are located in /etc/rc2.d/. you can kill a service in an orderly manner by sending its startup script the `stop' command: # cd /etc/rc2.d # ./ntpd stop another (radical) option is to simply put yourself in single-user mode with # telinit 1 this will even get rid of getty; your system will only be running whatever is absolutely crucial to its operation.
if your goal is to run win95/98/me applications on linux, without usb  and on the x86 architecture, win4lin's cost and focus on win95 type os's make  it a better choice than vmware.
getting information about your x system whether you're trying to diagnose an x problem or requesting help from a  mailing list or usenet newsgroup, you'll want to have as much information  available as possible.
alternatively, some isa cards can be set to use a specific irq  using jumpers on the card itself.
i still remember my friend gabe rosa emailing me with just "look at /." and seeing the news.
but if i did have this conflict, neither my network nor my sound would work well (or at all!).
/lib/libc.so.6 (0x401ff000) /lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0x40000000) libglcore.so.1  => /usr/lib/libglcore.so.1 (0x40319000) libnvidia-tls.so.1 =>
if it's not, then you're not getting  hardware acceleration.
this is awkward for modern day use, since a game like warcraft  which everyone knows as a strat, would be a sim by definition.
you're using the wrong driver (or no driver)
i think wabi will run under linux on all architectures (can someone verify this?)
a prime example of this is loki software's online faqs located athttp://faqs.lokigames.com.
the system shock hack project  is an attempt to update the game for modern operating systems.
secondly,  svgalib is video card dependent-if your video card isn't supported by svgalib,  you're out of luck.
ultima underworld: the stygian abyss (origin, blue sky productions) 11.7.
we had a card that was almost neck-to-neck with nvidia,  our drivers were open source, and in december 1999, id software gave us a huge  gift: they open sourced the quake i codebase.
their products have  been neck to neck ever since, with geforce taking the lead a bit more times  than the radeon.
there were many versions of sci since sierra was constantly improving its engine.
basically, it turns many smaller  separate writes to the video card into a single write (a burst).
once upon a time, soundcards without onboard midi chips (most pci sound cards) didn't do midi.
there are sdl extensions written by various people to do things like handle any graphics format you care to mention, play mpegs, display truetype fonts, sprite handling and just about everything under the sun.
some examples of games written with sci are leisure suit larry 1 (vga), leisure suit larry 2-7, space quest 3-6, king's quest 4-6, quest for glory 1-4 and many others.
but 3d information (see glide2,section 3.1) would be passed to the voodoo i and rendered, using the voodoo's fast hardware to perform the necessary graphics calculations.
the  program can simulate your opponent.
as of  february 2002, i've been following their cvs, and this project is undergoing  constant development.
for these examples, bioware's neverwinter nights  will be used.
you can also download and compile the source yourself from the mesa homepage.
if you haven't compiled the kernel yourself, there is an overwhelmingly  good chance that your system is set up to load sound drivers as modules.
we were getting our first tastes of real commercial gaming.
they don't  necessarily have to be violent, likexscavenger, a clone of the old 8-bit game  lode runner.
00000000 t __ieee754_atanh 00000000 r half 00000010 r limit 00000018
as the company that brought ctp and quake3 to linux, loki was the father of linux gaming.
the only one i can think of is  hopkins fbi (which happens to be my favorite game for linux).
# fuser -vk /dev/dsp user pid access command /dev/dsp root 1225 f....  mp3blaster root 1282 f....
back in the 80's, they were little  more than text adventures which showed a screen of static graphics.
if you have ideas, corrections or questions relating to this howto, please  email me.
if you're a game writer, please consider using cross platform libraries and stay away from directx. a company named realtechvr started an open source project, directx port,  which, like wine, provides a direct3d emulation layer that implements direct3d calls.
the reason why it's not an emulator is subtle and not of much interest to most non computer scientists, so we'll call it an emulator here (it really does run-time translation of calls to the win32 api to posix/x11 calls).
ati started becoming more and more reluctant to open source drivers for  their new releases, and suddenly, it wasn't clear who the "good guy"  was anymore.
pixels are rectangular objects, so drawing an angled line or curve with them results in a 'stair step' effect, also called the 'jaggies'.
see http://www.vmware.com for more information.
many fps games allow people to write their own non-commercial datafile.
it might be useful for playing older win16 games, but there are three problems: you must have a licensed copy of windows 3.1/3.11 or wfw 3.11.
xfree86 home page this is the canonical website for people who want to program games under linux.
once i had to kill quake iii in a hurry, so i performed actl-alt-backspace.
however, since it's commercial you do get tech support.
this file contains a list of directories that you wantld.so to  search for dynamic libraries.
sdl  is a library by sam lantiga (graduate of ucd, yeah!).
use control-alt-delete to reboot the system.
your one stop shop for buying any commercial linux game (software vendors like tribsoft and loki have online shops at their websites too).
when diagnosing why things aren't being  found, it's your best ally, and is even faster than looking at source code.
bilinear texture filtering bilinear filtering is a computationally cheap but low quality texture  filtering.
the relevant part here is  the environment variable called "ld_library_path".
they simply don't apply to us.
the components of directx are: directdraw gives direct access to video memory, like dri, so 2d graphics can be blitted directly to the video card.
you can get mesademos with debian (apt-get install mesademos) or you can hunt for the rpm on http://www.rpmfind.net.
it's reported that mesa is even faster than sgi's own opengl implementation.
but life was still good for linux.
computer based board games simulate some kind of board game you'd play on a table top with friends, like monopoly, mille bourne, chess or checkers.
even when an ati offering is better than the current geforce offering for windows, the card is always trounced by geforce on linux.
however, for 5 us  dollars per month, you can become a subscriber of transgaming.
ludvig strigeus was able to reverse engineer the scumm format and write an interpreter for scumm based games that compiles under linux and win32 named scummvm .
there are only two ways to configure your card: support must be compiled directly into the kernel you must have the correct driver loaded into memory you can find out which driver your sound card is using by doing "lsmod" or looking at the output of "dmesg".
you need to figure out why dri is disabled.
using scottfree and any of the scott adams data files which can be  downloaded from scott's website  you can enjoy  these classics.
miscellaneous problems 9.1.
second, the action takes place in first person.
lucasarts wrote an engine for point and click adventures named scumm (script creation utility for maniac mansion).
the code base has forked and merged numerous times.
in ultima ii, you destroy  the evil sorceress minax.
it's only used for voodoo i,  ii, iii boards (which are becoming outdated), under xfree86 3.x
although their drivers are closed source, as a company, nvidia has been supportive and good to linux users.
however, its engine is much more feature rich than the original doom: for example, system shock had 3d sprites, free look and a facility to have objects on top of each other, giving the illusion of a full 3d map, like quake.
check the game's website for patches whether you have a  problem running the game or not; there may be an update for a security problem  that you may not even be aware of.
when playing games from binary, your library woes will be either be thatld.so can't find the library or the library doesn't exist on your system.
the file will be full of alternative languages, so cut out everything you don't want and make the file look like this: [desktop entry] encoding=utf-8 name=doom iii comment=id's doom iii #if game is not in path, remember to put the full path here exec=/usr/games/doom3/doom3 # no icon yet, only the top three are currently used icon= type=application save the file and log out of your window manager.
the console was hosed with a quasi-graphics screen.
vmware is considerably more expensive.
sarien was written in sdl, so it should run on any platform that can  compile sdl programs.
the exult team has also been hard at work creating a map editor, exult studio, and a script compiler that will let users create their own rpg in the ultima style.
my web page is http://www.dirac.org/p and my linux pages are athttp://www.dirac.org/linux.
side scrollers side scrollers are similar to fps but you view your character as a 2d  figure who runs around various screens shooting at things or performing tasks.
sarien is under development and the developers have been very good about documenting the sarien internals if anyone wants to get involved in hacking it.
heavyweight wms, like enlightenment, or full-blown desktop environments like gnome or kde, may produce a noticeable slow down.
when the texture is far away a smaller version of the texture (mip  map) is used.
the game's author has probably seen people with your exact same problem many times over and might put information specific to that game on the website.
it supported resolutions up to 1024x768.
xwininfo tells you all sorts of information about x windows.
sarien also has numerous enhancements not found in the original games, like a quake style pull-down console, picture and dictionary viewer, enhanced sound and support for agds, a russian agi clone.
in addition, an addon disk was released to both part i (the forge of virtue) and part ii (the silver seed).
if you want a general source of information on game specific questions, the faq is a fantastic place to start with.
for instance, they can vote for things like  "improve support for copy protected programs", "better  installshield support" or "improve directx 8.0 support".
if you're playing an open source game that you compiled, make sure you have the newest version by checking the game's website.
the most important tool for you to use at this point is the `dri users guide'.
netscape has a nice  graphical "point and click" newsreader too.
wouldn't it be helpful to know where these programs looked for the missing files?
run the debugger with the core file as the 2nd argument: $ gdb coolgameexecutable core
however, 3dfx's late release of the voodoo iv and v coupled with the fact that the geforce could be had for half the price meant that 3dfx was sinking fast.
you should definitely have a good configuration in order to run  it; they claim the minimum is a 500mhz x86 cpu with 128mb ram, but a faster  processor and at least 256mb ram seem to be the bare minimum if you want  reasonable performance.
not too shabby for 3 year old technology!
if my sound card is pci, the preferred way of fixing this would be to  simply move one of the cards to a different slot and hope the bios sorts things  out.
the developers are clearly out of their minds (in a good way!).
frotz has spawned many forks, like a version for palmos and linux based pda's.
as a last note, you can't look up information in source code of commercial games from lokisoft or tribsoft.
card reviews claim that it has some serious heat, noise, and dust issues.
wabi doesn't work under 32bpp or 24bpp color.
the important difference being that since opengl is open (and  directx is closed), games written in opengl are much easier to port to and  co-develop on linux than games written using directx. 3.4.
the faq takes the opposite approach; they mainly focus on the games themselves, including game specific problems and where to get linux games in the first place.
the only video card that can use both glide2 (under xfree86 3.x) and  glide3 (under xfree86 4.x) is the voodoo iii.
running quake iii and quitting normally fixed the  problem.
you can get mesademos with debian (apt-get  install mesademos) or you can hunt for the rpm on http://www.rpmfind.net.
although he  himself was inspired by the first piece of interactive fiction, adventure,  scott brought adventuring to the masses.
there are fields for which newsgroup you want to narrow your search to.
i think this means disk copying, packaging and selling to retailers.
that is, through the eyes of the character who's doing all the  shooting.
one of the directories listed as options should be "/usr/share/xsessions", and is the directory which will be used in this example.
modern bios'es can do this.
however, the original data files are kept proprietary.
voodoo card hardware acceleration only takes place only at 16bpp color and fails silently when starting x in another color depth.
right now, i'm listening to an mp3 (not a metallica  mp3, of course...) with mp3blaster.
/usr/lib/libstdc++.so.5 (0x40b30000)  libgcc_s.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgcc_s.so.1 (0x40be7000)
a team of people developed exult  which is an open source interpreter that will run both parts of ultima 7 and their addon disks.
the most important tool for  you to use at this point is the `dri users guide'.
this room appears  to be a kitchen.
the version at my personal web site might be broken if i'm working on the howto.
when it wants to set an irq, give it some bogus instructions that lets it think it set an irq.
dosemu can run these.
a widget set is a collection of related widgets that are  designed to have a common interface and a consistant "feel".
openal  aims to be for sound what opengl is for graphics.
many people still know the archive as "deja".
anisotropic (meaning 'from any direction') samples from more  than 8 pixels.
acknowledgements thanks goes out to these people for extensive comments, corrections, and  diffs.
libdl.so.2 => /lib/libdl.so.2 (0x40b2c000) libstdc++.so.5 =>
they all use the same e-mu 8000 synthesis chip which enables them to play 32 voices simultaneously (they have 32 "channels").
cpu type video card x version average fps compiling mesa and dri modules yourself can increase your fps by 15 fps; quite a performance boost!
they all use the same e-mu 8000 synthesis chip which enables them to play 32  voices simultaneously (they have 32 "channels").
then log out and log back in as the non-root  user.
simulations strive to immerse the player behind the controls of something they normally wouldn't have access to.
directx is a collection of proprietary multimedia api's, first developed by microsoft in 1995, for its various windows os's.
this increases efficiency in writing to the video card and can speed up your graphics by 250% or more.
if you can ssh in,  reboot or halt the system.
the data files are the actual game itself, similar to the relationship between first person shooters (section 2.7) and wad files.
i have no information about svgalib and the geforce cards.
some examples of games written in agi would be leisure suit larry i (ega), space quest i and ii, king's quest ii, mixed-up mother goose and others.
naturally you can add a .desktop file for each game you have installed
there are reports that the rampage's technology (which was sold to nvidia) went into the geforce 5900.
rewind rewind  was started by eric pouech (a  wine developer) and ove kï¿½ven (a winex developer) in  response towine's license change).
third person shooters similar to fps, but you view your character in third person and in 3d. on  modern third person shooters you can usually do some really kick-butt maneuvers  like jackie chan style back flips and side rolls.
if you do not wish to use the sdl library included in the package, remove #  ./lib
while nvidia was putting real r&d  into their cards, 3dfx was simply adding more and faster ram.
you should hear disk activity.
the canonical example would be tomb raider.
getting dosemu to work well is not easy, but unfortunately, for dos games it's the best avenue.
despite the  faster 100mhz core, the banshee was outperformed by the voodoo ii because its  multi-texturing unit was removed, like with the rush.
run the  debugger with the core file as the 2nd argument: $ gdb coolgameexecutable core
also, i'm not aware of any card that uses anisotropic texture filtering.
first, svgalib  executables need to be run by root or be setuid root, however, the library  releases root status immediately after the executable begins to run.
since aa is cpu intensive, it's more desirable to perform it in hardware, but if we're talking about semi-static applications, like the gimp, this really isn't an issue.
d3d first appeared in  directx 2, released in 1996.
it is pitch dark and you're likely to be eaten by a  grue.
in october 1996 they released the voodoo i, which was a phenomenal success.
you can still purchase or download a demo of hopkins fbi from their website.
however, occasionally, they'll have things like code warrior or redhat linux on sale.
t&l: transform and lighting
/usr/x11r6/lib/libglu.so.1 (0x40103000) libmss.so.6 => not found  libsdl-1.2.so.0 => /usr/lib/libsdl-1.2.so.0 (0x40178000) libc.so.6
they both share irq 5.
you can read the osl athttp://opensource.org/licenses/osl-1.1.txt.
debugging: call traces and core files
to this day, you still have to purchasedoom.wad.
if you don't know what netnews (usenet) is, then this is definitely worth 30 minutes of your time to learn about.
in either case, sims strive for realism.
frotz is gpl, runs all  versions of z-machine and will compile on most versions of unix.
examples would be abuse for linux and the original duke nukem.
in my `kernel  module programming guide' (due to be released to ldp soon), i outline  everything you may want to know about strace.
these cards include  the older ensoniq es1370 and newer creative pci-128.
this increases  efficiency in writing to the video card and can speed up your graphics by 250%  or more.
he recently released a new game (a linux version is not  available) but since the decline of adventuring, he has pretty much kept out of  the gaming industry.
1108 p 6w chr 14,3 662302 /dev/dsp fuser is similar; but it lets you send a signal to any process
there are  certainly graphics on the console-we will discuss the two most common ways to  achieve this.
if you can't ssh into the system, you'll need to use the "magic sysrq key" which is documented in/usr/src/linux/documentation/sysrq.txt.
there's one of two things that can be going on.
that is, it'll run windows 16-bit applications from a windows 3.1, windows 3.11 or windows for workgroups 3.11 environment.
for example, if you have a voodoo i, ii or iii card under  xfree86 3.x, you'd use mesa+glide2 (written by david bucciarelli) which is the  mesa implementation of opengl that uses glide2 as a backend to render for  graphical operations.
pci cards are much easier to deal with than isa since you don't need  to tell their drivers about which system resources (irq, dma, i/o addresses) to  use.
a rendered scene is basically made up of polygons and lines.
now if your goal is to run win95 type os games under linux, win4lin almost  seems better than vmware.
you can hit alt-sysrq-h for a very terse help screen.
if you're in the  market to buy a sound card, get something that will take you a second to  configure.
logic games usually simulate some well known logic puzzle like master mind or the game where you have put sliding numbered tiles in order inside a box.
although he himself was inspired by the first piece of interactive fiction, adventure, scott brought adventuring to the masses.
a database of all known computer games.
getting info about your setup: xvidtune xvidtune is your friend when your x screen is shifted a little bit too far  to the right, or if the vertical length is too small to fit on your monitor.
=> /lib/libm.so.6 (0x40027000) libpthread.so.0 => /lib/libpthread.so.0 (0x40049000) libgl.so.1 => /usr/lib/libgl.so.1 (0x4009b000) libglu.so.1 =>
for example, maybe you have an mp3 player that's paused?
then, as root, add your non-root user to the audio group in /etc/group.
to use it, kill x if it's already running and  from a console, type: x -probeonly 2> x.out
however, so many people use usenet, it almost doesn't  matter.
except for a few details, a program written in sdl will compile under linux, ms windows, beos, macos, macos x, solaris, irix, freebsd, qnx and osf.
pci cards can share interrupts, but certain types of high bandwidth cards simply don't like to share, including network and sound cards.
however, it's possible to give a program all the hardware resources it  needs.
there are hundreds,  even thousands of non-commercial doom datafiles that you can download for free  off the net.
one method i've come up  with is typing a command at the prompt and using characters on the screen with  mouse cut/paste.
for gaming you might want to look at winex (section  10.5.3).
the output of x goes to  stderr, so we have to redirect stderr with "2>" to a file named x.out.
until this point, ati had always been  an innovative (they developed their own 3d acceleration chips in 1996, about  the same time as 3dfx), but sleepy graphics chipset manufacturer.
a virtual machine is the environment which tricks applications into believing they're running on a real computer.
isa cards can't share interrupts.
wabi is awfully expensive for what it does.
these are a set of tools you can use to obtain
also, even if you just add extra libraries to your system, you must update ld.so.cache to reflect the presence of the new libraries.
there are a few definitions of a hosed console.
va linux, the largest linux server vendor, put nvidia into their  machines.
at low levels you might get some gold pieces as a  reward for winning a battle.
direct rendering enabled or (ii) xxxxxx:
at the gdm login screen, you should now see "doom iii" as an option in "sessions".
note that explicit modelines are no longer necessary, since xfree 4.0.1 and up computes modetimings automatically based on your monitor's and video card's capabilities.
linux gamers would either keep their  open source voodoos, get an open source radeon or a closed source geforce.
the first thing you should try is to hit control-alt-backspace which kills  x. if you gain control of your system, the kernel wasn't really locked in the  first place.
, mips based systems and sh3/4 based  pocket pc's.
this project is much less far along than libggi itself, but promises to combine dri-level speeds and the stability and security unix users expect.
when you pressenter, a newline doesn't get  echo'ed to the screen.
you can use wine `with windows', which means that wine uses libraries that  actually come with microsoft windows itself.
frame buffers are consoles implemented by a graphics mode rather than a bios text mode.
second, the awe 64 and awe 64  gold can play 64 voices simultaneously, but this is done in software.
nvidia has proven that they care enough about linux to write and maintain  current and very high quality drivers for linux.
the number of sampled pixels and which sampled pixels it uses depends on the viewing angle of the surface relative to your screen.
for this howto, we'll assume that you're more of a gamer than a studio  recording engineer.
third, svgalib is linux only.
one comment about portability: each component of directx has multiple  corresponding library on linux.
it's very  difficult to diagnose or fix random problems that you don't have any control  over when they happen or not.
the rewards increase correspondingly.
however, that changed under x 4.x with dri (direct rendering  infrastructure .
google group search every post made to usenet gets archived at google's database at  http://groups.google.com.
this allows all non-root users to use dri.
it's not an understatement to say that xlib is long winded, arcane and  complicated.
it should contain some.desktop files, each corresponding to an entry you'll see in gdm's session menu, e.ggnome.desktop, enlightenment.destop.
here is a typical line: open(".
most windows users were switching to nvidia, and despite the fact that the nvidia drivers were proprietary, even linux users began to jump onto the nvidia bandwagon.
oh, you'll want to run them as root since you'll be asking for information from processes that may be owned by root.
commercial games  will have a printed manual and maybe some readme files on the cd the game came  on.
the important difference being that since opengl is open (and directx is closed), games written in opengl are much easier to port to and co-develop on linux than games written using directx. mesa  is a free implementation of the opengl api, designed and written by brian paul.
thanks to james barton for reminding me to add this to the howto.
vmware vmware is a virtual machine that runs multiple operating systems  simultaneously on a standard pc: supported oses include microsoft ones, linux,  novell netware and freebsd.
it's well supported by linux with high quality but proprietary drivers.
if you can't, ssh in from a another machine.
this is generally not something you'll do for commercial games.
also, voodoo cards need the 3dfx.o kernel module and a /dev/3dfx device  file (major 107, minor 0) for non-root hardware acceleration.
directaudio is a combination of 2 audio api's, directsound and directmusic, which allows direct access to the sound card for sound and music playback.
the relevant part here is the environment variable called "ld_library_path".
at low levels you might get some gold pieces as a reward for winning a battle.
the degree  to which they use graphics varies widely.
it'll tell you things like screen and  window resolution, color depth, window gravity state (which gives a hint to the  window manager about where to place new windows), backing store usage and more.
we have a long and twisted history with fps games which  started when id software open sourced code for doom.
ati's has worked with linux developers for their radeons up to and  including the radeon 9200, which have 2d and 3d support in xfree86.
the x86 architecture  isn't required, but is recommended since it allows actual x86 binary execution  as well as direct dll usage).
ggi has a sister project, kgi, which is developing a kernel-level  alternative to systems like the linux framebuffer and the dri.
xt-pic keyboard 2: 0 0 xt-pic cascade 5: 2478476 0 xt-pic soundblaster 5:  325924 0 xt-pic eth0 11: 131326 0
it suffers nevertheless from some limitations: it does not support directx or directdraw, while vmware has  "limited" support for directx.
also, even if you just add extra libraries to your system, you must update  ld.so.cache to reflect the presence of the new libraries.
use it, and you'll be a much happier person.
that's  the way distros do things.
that is, it'll run windows 16-bit  applications from a windows 3.1, windows 3.11 or windows for workgroups 3.11  environment.
back in the 80's, they were little more than text adventures which showed a screen of static graphics.
do note that they don't archive private newsgroups, like loki software's news server.
you can use strace to determine where kill-metallica was looking for the  library and make a symlink from/usr/local/include/libmp3.so.2 to wherever  kill-metallica was looking for the library file.
if you can, an orderly shutdown is preferable; use "halt" or "shutdown".
what causes the crash and whether it's a repeatable crash or not.
at the *very* least, the author will be interested in the call stack when  the game crashed.
if you absolutely only want open source drivers on your system, the radeon  9200 is the best card you can buy.
because win4lin concentrates on these operating systems, reports say that it's faster and does a better job at running games under these operating system than vmware.
the system shock hack project  is an attempt to update  the game for modern operating systems.
dmitry samoyloff  is the maintainer of the russian translation.
this document is copyright (c) 2001-2002 peter jay salzman, ; 2003-2004 peter jay salzman and frï¿½dï¿½ric delanoy.
scott adams adventures (adventure international) scott adams is, arguably, the father of interactive fiction.
it should've been a more powerful card, with a 50mhz gpu and 8mb  of ram.
the king of video cards worked with linux developers.
you'll see something like: #0 printf (format=0x80484a4 "z is %d.\n") at printf.c:30 #1 0x8048431 in display (z=5) at try1.c:11 #2 0x8048406 in main () at try1.c:6 it may be quite long, but use your mouse to cut and paste this information into a file.
this should clear up many problems, including consoles hosed by an svgalib or ncurses based game.
when you  picked up an item, the background would be redrawn without the item appearing.
just as with anything else on linux, you need to know a little more about what's going on behind the scenes with your system to be able to keep your games healthy or to diagnose and fix them when they're not.
arcade style games attempt to simulate the  arcade games themselves.
if you want to learn more about core files, i have  a great gdb tutorial athttp://www.dirac.org/linux.
gtk is  the canonical widget set on linux, but there are many others like fltk (a small  c++ widget set), xaw, qt (the widget set of kde), and motif (the widget set  used by netscape).
type "ldd nwmain" and you'll see: $ ldd nwmain linux-gate.so.1 => (0xffffe000) libm.so.6
this material isn't crucial to actually getting a game working, but may help in deciding what hardware and software options are best for you.
anisotropic filtering is the best but most cpu intensive of the three common texture filtering methods.
like the voodoo i, the voodoo ii was a  3d only card, and piggy backed with a 2d video card.
the  file will be full of alternative languages, so cut out everything you don't  want and make the file look like this: [desktop entry] encoding=utf-8 name=doom iii comment=id's doom iii #if  game is not in path, remember to put the full path here  exec=/usr/games/doom3/doom3 # no icon yet, only the top three are currently  used icon= type=application save the file and log out of your window manager.
it's a demanding topic, but this fact is shadowed by the primary goal of gaming: to have fun and blow off some steam.
otherwise, all you'll get is software rendering.
thanks to james barton for reminding me to  add this to the howto.
you can get the latest  cvs from their sourceforge page at .
when i talk about 'performance hits', keep in mind that the performance hit depends on what resolution you're running at.
as computer graphics became easier and more powerful, text adventures gave  rise to graphic adventures.
you can read it for yourself at http://www.linuxhardware.org/features/01/03/19/0357219.shtml, but conclusion is  that the geforce 2 firmly and soundly trounced the radeon 32 ddr.
there are several common  texture filtering techniques including point-sampling, bilinear, trilinear and  anisotropic filtering.
previously, client applications were prohibited from writing directly to hardware, and there was a good reason for this.
my web page is http://www.dirac.org/p and my linux  pages are athttp://www.dirac.org/linux.
then nvidia released the geforce 256 in october 1999.
if you want to do things like convert a record lp to digital format, then your choice of a soundcard with a professional grade a/d converter is absolutely crucial.
the more time it takes for  you mobilize the fire fighters, the more damage the fire does.
the ati linux drivers have been plagued by extremely poor performance.
needless to say, this only applies if your game crashes reproducably at a  certain point.
at its lowest level, it provides a platform independent (as much as that is possible in c++) way of dealing with display, sound, input, networking, files, threading and such.
libmss.so.6 (0x40178000) libsdl-1.2.so.0 => ./lib/libsdl-1.2.so.0 (0x401ec000) libc.so.6 => /lib/libc.so.6 (0x4025e000) /lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0x40000000) libglcore.so.1 => /usr/lib/libglcore.so.1 (0x40378000) libnvidia-tls.so.1 => /usr/lib/libnvidia-tls.so.1 (0x40a50000) libxext.so.6 =>