simply cut the device in two and  mount one half on each shoulder, but that isn’t the state of hardware at  present.
and then ugv why not let that rumba do some modeling?
this was convenient, but requires self hosting web solutions.
users occasionally throw events into the  machine and off it goes in a new direction, but there is no stopping.
silverlight is a powerful ui technology, but it is destined to be supplanted by html5.
the prescience of alduous huxley’s
although you pick up recursive control  rendering with xml 3d, you lose out when it comes to moving through a scene in  the usual avatar game sense.
“the fact is, there are few political, social, and especially  personal problems that arise because of insufficient information.
in  wpf it was always interesting to put a video element over the scene model, but  i doubt that will work here in xna.
homogenous geographic data density works best with hard zoom level switches.
this is added to the xna rendering pipeline to combine a surface texture with the color relief imagery, where it can then be applied to a simplified spherical model.
mapproxy promises a way to proxy in the planet data as epsg:3857 tiles for leaflet consumption, but openlayers offers a simpler path.
the release sdk is rumored to be available the first part of 2012.
in a point layer scenario at some level there is a switch from heat map to cluster icons, and then to individual pushpins.
i’m choosing to keep this  simple.
the learning curve south of the  border is not insignificant, but beauty awaits.
in contrast, enter xna through alice’s drawingsurface, and the machine whirs on and on.
(nice to know that the security folks can wander around mirror land looking under tables and behind curtains.)
ever since the 2000 wms specification  there were hopes for a service distribution of census tiger/line.
it’s currently an either/or proposition for the mobile branch of xna/sl.
element("title"); lyr0.name =
put this here and that there, slyly kicking an answer into existence.
researchers are also adapting kinect technology for mobile as illustrated byomnitouch. . . .
you will need to manually create the aspnetdb database on a sql azure instance and then provide a connection string to this new sql azure in the web role.
text = "rotate east"; break; } case  "rotate-west": {
changing the source  image for a texture2d shader requires dropping the whole model, changing the  image source, and finally reloading the scene model and pipeline once again.
here’s an example of a restaurant in boston with a series of arrow connected panoramas for virtual exploration of the interior.
my local grocery store has a nice interior directory that is easily captured in autocad by tracing over the image: as an alternative example of a more typical dwg source, the university of alaska has kindly published their floor plans on the internet.
fig 3 – kinect to silverlight architecture full moon rising but first, instead of the mundane, let’s look at something a bit extraterrestrial, a more fitting client for such “extraordinary” ui talents.
lampcolor = float3(1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f); static const float
all, except sql azure, currently include built in scaling and replication.
the collapsed layer control icon never opened for iphone or kindle fire.
navigate(new uri("http://107.22.247.211/nasaneo/"), "_blank"); break; } case "rotate-east": {
there are 6 kids in the car pool.
the footprint polygon with itsmouseleftbuttonup event leads to anavigationservice that moves to the desired floor plan page.
finally, jpl  thoughtfully shares a couple ofwms services and some imagery of the other  planets: http://onmars.jpl.nasa.gov/wms.cgi?version=1.1.1&request=getcapabilities http://onmoon.jpl.nasa.gov/wms.cgi?version=1.1.1&request=getcapabilities this type of data wants to be 3d
now simply loop through the return set with multiple calls to bing route in 25 node chunks.
information is good, right?
l.browser.touch }); map.addcontrol(layerscontrol); fig 5 – leaflet l.control.
swipe algorithmic commands case "swipetoleft": { orbity += microsoft.
nasa neo conveniently publishes 45 categories and 129 layers of a variety of global data collected on a regular basis.
pico projector in a phone ought to handle this trick in the handheld world.
the very technology that makes geo foss possible is also making it, of all things, mundane.
think of 3d voxel  space manipulation of subsurface geology, or thumb and forefinger vector3  twisting of lidar objects, and you get an idea where this could go.
"orbit  left"; break; } case "swipetoright": { orbity -=  microsoft.
in visual studio add a new project from the silverlight templates.
in this project i used a socket service running on a separate thread.
at first i thought this would be as easy as starting up safe software’s fme, but xaml is not in their writers list, perhaps soon.
proliferating conspiracy theories only corroborate neil postman’s  shuffled deck analogy, that a disintegrating information context conditions  perception to credulity.
“the first interoperability program testbed (web mapping testbed) appeared in 1999.”
wfs and wcs have already passed their respective moments of glorious novelty.
i tried both approaches.
server to fix this problem: open references under businessapplication1.web and click on the above two assemblies.
39.05779345,-104.84322060 39.05772368,-104.84321926 39.05770910,-104.84302480 39.05771014,-104.84290947 39.05772159,-104.84277536 39.05776116,-104.84277804 39.05776429,-104.84243204 39.05833809,-104.84248434 39.05833288,-104.84283303 39.05836204,-104.84284510 39.05835996,-104.84313880 39.05832872,-104.84313880 39.05832663,-104.84340836 39.05825478,-104.84340568 39.05825374,-104.84354113 39.05821000,-104.84353979 39.05820792,-104.84369670 39.05779137,-104.84367792 39.05779345,-104.84322060
first a look ahead to silverlight 5 due in 2011: silverlight firestarter video some very interesting pre-release demos showcasing mesh graphics running at gpu speeds.
value -= 1.0; tbmessage.
onterra systems has added some other refinements to the service with the help of bing maps silverlight control.
specularintensity = 0.05f; static const float specularpower = 10.0f; . .
as a technophile, i tend to look forward to the next version of whatever with anticipation.
the collapsed layer control icon never opened for iphone or  kindle fire.
text = "rotate east"; break; } case "rotate-west": {
since the first time i saw leaflet i’ve been intrigued with its  elegance and the potential for abstracting away some of the issues surrounding  web apps targeted at mobile and touch clients.
geofoss has progressed a long way from naive amazement over ogc wms connections.
the result is often a beautiful rendering of the earth displaying real  satellite data at a global level.
web mapping adds an element of exploration, with zoom and pan flight  through these abstract spaces, that mirrors movement in our physical world.
ever since the 2000 wms specification there were hopes for a service distribution of census tiger/line.
at middle levels i’d use a caching tile builder with vectors again at higher zoom levels at the bottom of the pyramid.
anytime you run across register references you know this is getting closer to hardware.
private void createcapabilities111(xdocument document) {
it also has examples  of basic mouse and arrow key camera control.
to a mapmaker everything is a map andterra incognita has long since vanished.
wms("http://tigerweb.geo.census.gov/arcgis/services/tigerwms/mapserver/wmsserver", { layers: 'census tracts', format: 'image/png', transparent: true, attribution: tigerattribution })
it’s not that web browsers wouldn’t benefit by moving beyond the venerable mouse/keyboard events.
mysql and sql server have quite the feature curve to follow as postgis forges ahead.
users occasionally throw events into the machine and off it goes in a new direction, but there is no stopping.
although oracle is trying hard to break java, it is still a popular  platform among foss projects.
we have bing maps local introducing restaurant photoscapes.
is the idea of foss and its larger www parent, a trend that eventually  extinguishes bureaucracy or does the ancient ground of bureaucratic  organization trump connection?
notice the camera is evidently held by a vampire.
it doesn’t guarantee “the absolute best” route, but a route that is “good enough” and in the vast majority of cases will in fact be the best, just not guaranteed.
microsoft’s wcf is a nice framework especially since it leverages the same c# language, ide, and debugging capabilities across all tiers of a solution.
notice tools for all three tiers are available from the same vendor i.e. microsoft visual studio.
the genuine “ terra incognita” of information technology, and consequently web  mapping, is the tectonic plate of culture.
or, slice, dice, and  merge withmapproxy.
there ought to be lots of global epidemiology data that  can be transformed to a color density map for display as a relief bump map.
the html5 trend is underlined by news flashes from the concurrentmicrosoft build conference.
heat maps can be dynamic tile source or a more generalized caching tile pyramid.
since my original king soopers image is a store directory an obvious addition is making the plan view into a store directory finder.
so next on the agenda is  moving 3d lidar online.
consequences are unintended, because they are unknowable.
cartographers relish pointing out this quandary to web developers and other mere mortals.
rather than the clean, spare look popular today,tigerweb viewer seems to be a throwback to an earlier internet.
map tiling engines line up like yogurt brands at whole  foods.
just prior to exiting stage left, silverlight, along with all plugins, shares a last aria.
have all suddenly become base features in mobile browsing.
this is an illustration of the utility of web service chains.
this density calculation would be used for the switch rather than a simpler zoom level switch.
time is measured out in the proximate range of 1/20th to 1/60th a second per frame.
eventually mobile will close the loop on interior retail space, providing both consumer location as well as local asset views.
but of course by the mid 2000s internet mapping began changing radically with the popularity of google maps, gps, bing maps, open street maps, and now ubiquitous mobile devices.
var bingaerialwithlabels =
once read, the command can then be translated into appropriate actions  for our map controller.
some perspective: the gis nervous system grows connections around the world faster than a three year old’s brain.
i’ve worked with all kinds of permutations of 3 tier web mapping, some easier to use than others.
does obsessive gaming, for example, reduce higher value opportunities for learning, productivity, and human relations?
i still recall the wonder of downloading sol katz utilities from blm’s ftp.
silverlight 5 took the xna route to 3d instead of the wpf 3d xaml route.
i imagine that a straight static file system source could be a bit faster, but it is nice to have indexed quadkey access and all data residing in a single repository.
first points are collected from the user.
bim potentially becomes one massively connected network of hyperlinks with a top level 3d model that mimics the real world.
in a typical small to medium scale scenario there will almost always be a data source residing in a spatial database, with some type of service in the middle relaying queries from a browser client ui to the database and back.
doubtless a few stray stalinist atduke and  zuccotti park are taking notes on new media and the social web.
in this project i used a socket  service running on a separate thread.
shrinking a kinect doesn’t work too well as stereoscopic imagery  needs a degree of separation in a newtonian world.
not until the end of 2011 was this belatedly realized astigerweb.
really, how many connections are there in the world wide web.
it is likely that you will need to open this port in your local firewall.
element("wmt_ms_capabilities").element("capability")  .element("request").element("getmap").element("dcptype")
the electronic age, in its current  internet iteration, is undoubtedly creating similarly profound dislocations,  whose consequences are not at all apparent at present.
port +  "/moonviewer/mars.html"), "_blank"); break; } case  "nasaneo": { earthrb.ischecked = true;  system.
evgeny’s passing point about "cyber captivity" underlines  a growing problem of lost opportunity.
then throw in global map and imagery resources from bing, with geocode, routing, and search services, along with the azure cloud platform for scalability and it’s no wonder microsoft is a hit with the enterprise.
it strikes me as  one of those outmoded freudian landscapes so popular in the 50’s, the raw  power of xna boiling beneath xaml’s super-ego.
it features all the necessary models, and shaders for earth, complete with terrain, multi altitude atmosphere clouds, and lighting.
this simple divide and conquer achieves a simple work around to the waypoint limitation.
however, a few months ago i sat down with all the microsoft offerings and worked out an example usingsql server + wcf +bing maps silverlight control.
there are other approaches that may be better with final release of silverlight 5.
the rwandan genocide, less than 10 years ago, was incited by incredulous claims aired to a credulous public in creepy goebbels fashion.
i leave that for the gisciers and nbimsers to decide.
fig 7 – lower manhattan posted in bing maps, ows | comments off fig 1 – lro color shaded relief map of moon – silverlight 5 xna with kinect interface silverlight 5 was released after a short delay, at the end of last week.
as a demonstration, it was sufficient to simply add this snippet to a map control.
seeding all levels of a deep pyramid requires some time, perhaps too much time.
silverlight 5 and wp7 implementations are a  subset of the full xna game framework available to desktop and xbox developers.
the command repertoire is minimal including four  compass direction swipes, and two circular gestures for zooming, circle  clockwise zoom in, and circle counter clockwise zoom out.
with over 900 attendees, the small world of foss seems all of a sudden  crowded, jostling through accelerating growth.
i still recall the wonder of downloading sol katz utilities from  blm’s ftp.
byzantine bureaucracy has been around since  … well the byzantine empire, and given human nature is likely enduring.
sampler2d cloudsampler : register(s0); static const float3 ambientcolor = float3(0.5f, 0.75f, 1.0f); static const float3
if you have 64-bit windows, we suggest that you install both the 32-bit and  64-bit runtime.
nasa has been very busy collecting large amounts of fascinating data on our nearby planetary neighbors.
do we doubt that the venerable licensed surveyor will eventually have one of thesegatewingx100 thing-a-ma-bobs in his truck.
if you are hesitant  to go through all of this install trouble, here is a video link that will give  you an idea of the results.
(string)element1.element("title"); lyr1.name =
enduring histories on facebook, subject to examination by iranian  intelligence for hardly promising ends, should be unsettling to all but the  grimmest of marxist utopians.
"orbit up"; break; } case "swipedown": { orbitx -= microsoft.
step 2: once gesture recognition for these 6 commands is available, step 2 is handing commands off to a silverlight client.
progress – yes, no, maybe? postman’s critique asserts that technology is in the vanguard of illusory “progress.”
thus time enters mirror land in frames per second.
here  is a clickonce installer for gestureviewer modified to work with the  silverlight socket service:http://107.22.247.211/moonkinect/ recall that this is a beta sdk, so in addition to a kinect prerequisite,  there are some additional runtime installs required:
lyr0.title = (string)element.
these are activated by voice: ‘vector twist’, ‘vector zoom’, and ‘vector off.’
frames are clicking by apace.
there are somexslt files for svg to xaml, but instead i took the quick and dirty route of translating svg text to xaml text in my own translator giving me some more control.
time may be chunky in  mirror land, but with immediate mode xna it does move, clicking through the  present moment one frame at a time.
the default attribution for bing gets quite lengthy, especially when  displaying aerial vendor meta data.
no comments » web mapping has generally been a 3 tier proposition.
entering points can be accomplished several ways, with a click approach, from manually entered addresses, or even more easily from an excel spreadsheet of addresses.
here is a clickonce installer for gestureviewer modified to work with the silverlight socket service:http://107.22.247.211/moonkinect/ recall that this is a beta sdk, so in addition to a kinect prerequisite, there are some additional runtime installs required:
descendants("layer")) { wmslayer lyr1 =
location of assets is a major part of the drive to efficiency and covers a lot of ground from inventory, to medical equipment, to people.
alice steps into the drawingsurface  confronting a very different world indeed.
“our inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our  attention from serious things.
first run an optimization on all of the stops using routeoptimizer service.
convergence into the 3d mirror land will be less painful for those of us developing in the microsoft framework.
while bing maps silverlight control and xaml echoed work i’d done a decade back with svg, just more so.
census by the mid 90’s open gis consortium  (ogc) was actively working on opengis standards.
without a message indicating which is at fault we are reduced to trial and error.
map tiling engines line up like yogurt brands at whole foods.
from their charts on the grounds that its location was too uncertain.”
heat maps are a great way to show density at higher levels in the pyramid.
this is new territory for postgis and elevates araster datatype to the same level asgeometry.
one data set that was recently released byasu , stitches together a comprehensive lunar relief map with beautiful color shading.
xna intersects hollywood.
html5 is nice and i’m happy to see the rebirth of svg, but then again, the world moves apace, and i look forward to some genuine 3d adventures in the next generation mirror land.
$.ajax({ type: "get", url: getinfourl, datatype: "xml", success: getfeatureinfo }); fig 6 – leaflet popup panel with the results of tigerweb wms getfeatureinfo request some caveats tigerweb 1)
"states": censusstates, "counties": censuscounties, "tracts": censustracts, "blockgroups": censusblockgrps, "blocks": censusblocks, "lakes": censusarealhydrography, "rivers streams": censuslinearhydrography, "localroads": censuslocalroads, "secondaryroads": censussecondaryroads, "primaryroads": censusprimaryroads, "nexrad": nexrad }; var layerscontrol =
experiments showed icon max limit for bing silverlight map control at 3000-5000 per viewport.
it’s nice to have  touch events and thegeolocation api.
fig 4 – leaflet census tiger wms with bing maps aerial with labels style
we want to encourage os.”
silverlight 5  xna with kinect interface silverlight 5 was released after a short delay, at the end of last week.
our  community is also wont to add controls affording endless tinkering with the  form, as if one more contribution to universal“choice fatigue” will  add value.
beta was released into the wild at mix 11 a couple of weeks  ago.
although you pick up recursive control rendering with xml 3d, you lose out when it comes to moving through a scene in the usual avatar game sense.
– steven sinofsky couchdb/geocouch was present although “eventually consistent”  nosql seems less pressing.
the reason kinect isn’t part of the sensor event farmyard may be just a lack of portability and an ‘i’ prefix.
interior spaces are a predictable part of mirror land and we are already seeing minor extensions.
wpf 3d provided a convenient raymeshgeometry3dhittestresult.
performance isn’t as good as a static tile pyramid, but it isn’t bad and simplifies life immensely.
here is the listing of available commands: public void socketcommand(string current) { switch (command) { // kinect voice commands case "mercury-on": { mercuryrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "venus-on": { venusrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "earth-on": { earthrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "moon-on": { moonrb.ischecked = true; break;} case "mars-on": { marsrb.ischecked = true; break;} case "marsrelief-on": { marsreliefrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "jupiter-on": { jupiterrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "saturn-on": { saturnrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "uranus-on": { uranusrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "neptune-on": { neptunerb.ischecked = true; break; } case "pluto-on": { plutorb.ischecked = true; break; } case "callisto-on": { callistorb.ischecked = true; break; } case "io-on": { iorb.ischecked = true;break;} case "europa-on": {europarb.ischecked = true; break;} case "ganymede-on": { ganymederb.ischecked = true; break;} case "cassini-on": { cassinirb.ischecked = true; break; } case "dione-on": { dionerb.ischecked = true; break; } case "enceladus-on": { enceladusrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "iapetus-on": { iapetusrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "tethys-on": { tethysrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "moon-2d": { moonrb.ischecked = true;
"bingroads": bingroad, "bingaerial": bingaerial, "bingaerialwithlabels": bingaerialwithlabels }; var overlaymaps = {
“if i wasn’t real,” alice said – half-laughing through her tears, it all seemed so ridiculous – “i shouldn’t be able to cry.”
there is more complete information on the project here: http://dataconnector.codeplex.com/documentation after all the experimental approaches my conclusion is that even with the powerful clr performance of silverlight bing maps control, most scenarios still call for a hybrid approach: raster performance tile pyramids for large extent or dense data resources, and vectors for better user interaction at lower levels in the pyramid.
to a mapmaker everything is a map andterra incognita has  long since vanished.
svg is hauntingly similar to xaml (especially haunting to w3c), and writing a simple svg to xaml translator in c# was easier than any other approach i could think of.
researchers are also adapting kinect technology for  mobile as illustrated byomnitouch. . . .
only immediate mode allowed.
the html5 trend is underlined by news flashes from the  concurrentmicrosoft build conference.
in the meantime boundaries were available for internet and ftp download in esri shp and e00 formats.
no comments » some convergence stuff has been passing by my window recently.
minor modifications could use traffic optimization, available in bing, just as well.
from a mapping perspective the fun begins with this solar wind sample.
competing web maps have driven resolution down to the region of diminishing returns.
supporting other export formats such as xaml, svg, and kml might best be served by using ageometrycollection in the sql table with translation on the query response.
the usefulness here is the full asp .net authentication and profile capability.
and you can play with a version online here:dataconnectorui when working on the project, i was starting out in wcf with some reservations.
no comments »« older entries gis in xml is proudly powered by wordpress entries (rss) and comments (rss).
however, bump maps for depicting terrain relief are still  a must have.
gbf dime was notable for the tell  tale zigzag streets in urban areas.
theordnance survey was  represented at a plenary session, “we have to learn to embrace open  source.
voice commands are  pretty much a freebie, so i’ve added a few to the mix.
the future specter of osgeo web maps delineating the boundaries ofinyenzi (cockroach in kinyarwandan), does little to encourage optimism.
for example: http://tigerweb.geo.census.gov/arcgis/services/tigerwms/mapserver/wmsserver?service=wms&version=1.1.1&request=getfeatureinfo&layers=counties&srs=epsg:4326&bbox=-122.5,37.75,-122.25,38.0&width=1000&height=1000&query_layers=counties&info_format=text/xml&x=100&y=100     jquery makes xmlhttprequest communication easy, but tigerweb wms doesn’t expose an openclientaccesspolicy.xml, so a self hosted proxy is required.
this proxy service simply provides the samegetfeatureinfo result to the client while avoiding cross-domain issues.
—neil postman, technopoly (1992) whither web mapping?
for development, non-profit, and education uses, this is just a matter of registering for abing key.
the first task is to read the neo getcapabilities xml and produce the treeview control to manage such a wealth of data.
the experience that plug-ins provide today is not a good match with metro  style browsing and the modern html5 web.”
these calculations are impossible to quantify and really revolve  around deeper questions of spiritual significance,sub specie aeternitatis .
—neil postman, technopoly (1992) i recently spent a few hours re-reading some old books on the shelf.
south of the border lies a lush xna jungle with drums throbbing in the night.
with highly dynamic data, tiles can be built on the fly but with consequent loss of performance as well as loading on the server that affects scaling.
unwarranted credulity paves the way to tyranny as recent  history has shown all too tragically.
“in another moment alice was through the glass, and had  jumped lightly down into the looking-glass room” fig 1 – nasa neo average land surface temperature [day] (1  month) (note: this link requires sl5 rc )
what is the optimal route for picking up all kids and delivering them to the playing field on time?
the result using this tool is an image that  encodes relative elevation of the moon’s surface.
"orbit  up"; break; } case "swipedown": { orbitx -=  microsoft.
a useful tool for generating bump or normal imagery from color  relief isssbump generator v5.3 .
in other words, will steve coast’s  imaginative ideas now fall under the rubric,“all your base are belong  to us,” and frank’s enduring legacy recede into the patent  portfolio of“do no evil?”
then go to properties “copy local” which must be set to true.
in order to find buildings easily, i added some geocode service calls for an address finder.
and now for the recipe this is helpful and works fine in a local dev fabric.
does the proliferation of web maps, for instance, alter the  injustice ofatanas entchev’s incarceration for the so called  “crime“of immigration?
posted in gis, postgis |
bit  obsession is now woven into western economic fabric with the assumption of  continuous progress.
the novelty of all this data free to use from the usgs was still fresh and amazing.
the models are apparently produced in autocad 3ds and are probably difficult to build.
posted in uncategorized |
what tidal wave of  changing perceptual process is yet to be hailed from the yardarm?
layers for a user layer control panel: var basemaps = {
web maps contribute more information faster, so web mapping is on the side of the good, the true, and the beautiful.
again generalizing this would involve keeping these xaml floor plans in a sql azure building table for reference as needed.
adding an ogc wfs service would be the ideal, but wfs always has problems with potentially very large result sets, so i’m not sure this is practical on a public ogc service.
this is one of those algorithms that take some liberties to find a solution in real time i.e. time we can live with.
this the new face  of foss?
thanks to companies  likeqcoherent, some of it is available as wms/wfs.
ambientintensity = 0.1f; static const float  diffuseintensity = 1.2f; static const float specularintensity = 0.05f; static  const float
step 3: the silverlight client listens on port 4530, reading command strings that show up.
next i know we’ve all seen jack dangermond’s “instrumented universe” prophecies, but another angle is remote dashboarding.
power scaling hooks the icon size for the pin to zoomlevel.
instead of large  swipe gestures, finger level manipulation should be possible.
using a typical mainmap.
this is not a stitched pano or photosynth  interior, but a full blown 3d model.
here is an overview of the pipeline from aaron oneal’s mix talk: fig 2 – rendering pipline from aaron oneal’s  mix 11 presentation
if you are hesitant to go through all of this install trouble, here is a video link that will give you an idea of the results.
it’s nice to have touch events and thegeolocation api.
however, tigerweb wms service is a wide open door for standards based javascript libraries.
so the question at hand revolves around the smaller microcosm of mapping in  the internet era.
id=;password=;trusted_connection=false;encrypt=true;" providername="system.
merging these two worlds causes a bit of schizophrenia.
this was actually a better choice when deploying to azure, since i didn’t have to work out a blob storage option for the tiles in addition to the already available sql azure.
beta and xna may 2nd, 2011
when the floorplan is initialized a request is made to a sql server table with this directory item information used to populate alistbox.
sociologically, this all leads to a breakup of previous generations of “knowledge monopolies” and a hyper-sensitivity to initial conditions, (the old ray bradbury crushed butterfly scenario at the root of chaos theory).
default openlayers  isn’t especially pretty, but it takes less than 20 lines of js to get a  zoomable viewer with landing locations.
work shop topics include such things as:“open
eventually xml 3d representations also boil down to a rendering  pipeline, but the core difference is that xna is immediate mode while xml 3d is  kind of stuck with retained mode.
information volume and velocity apparently grow exponentially over time loosely tracking the famous moore’s law time curve.
about the same time frank warmerdam started gdal  and the gfoss engines started.
voice commands are pretty much a freebie, so i’ve added a few to the mix.
fig 2 – tigerweb viewer based on esri silverlight api tigerweb viewer seems oddly designed.
the application of numeracy to every conceivable problem like this elevates modeling to mythic proportions.
both sl5 and wp7 will soon have merged silverlight xna capabilities.
“you won’t make yourself a bit realler by crying,” tweedledee remarked: “there’s nothing to cry about.”
i might also note there are bugs in paradise, but after all this is beta.
gbf dime was notable for the tell tale zigzag streets in urban areas.
in contrast, enter xna through alice’s drawingsurface,  and the machine whirs on and on.
naturally the concept ofinformation leaks into the soft sciences as well.
—neil postman, technopoly (1992) summary these may all be rather marginally luddite issues.
eventually dynamic tile building on the server effects performance (at the server not the client).
attribute(xlink + "href").value; if (getmapurl.
"orbit right"; break; } case "swipeup": { orbitx += microsoft.
is the idea of foss and its larger www parent, a trend that eventually extinguishes bureaucracy or does the ancient ground of bureaucratic organization trump connection?
low – for vector poly feature counts  300 per viewport, i’d use a dynamic tile builder at the top of the pyramid.
“when a technology becomes mythic, it is always dangerous because it is then accepted as it is, and is therefore not easily susceptible to modification or control.”
this proxy service simply provides the  samegetfeatureinfo result to the client while avoiding cross-domain  issues.
"orbit  down"; break; } //kinect gesture template commands case  "circle": { if (scene.
ok, maybe i exaggerate, after all, “during the first three years, your child’s brain establishes about  1,000 trillion nerve connections!”
populating this is a matter of reading through the layer elements of the returned xml and adding layers to a collection which is then bound to the tree view’s itemssource property.
it  features all the necessary models, and shaders for earth, complete with  terrain, multi altitude atmosphere clouds, and lighting.
first, the published azure service is a web role not a vm, which means there is no local sql server accessible for attaching a default aspnetdb.
"orbit down"; break; } //kinect gesture template commands case "circle": { if (scene.
fig 1 – sample leaflet interface to the us census bureau’s new tigerweb wms service with bing maps background ref: http://silverlight.onterrasys.com/mapsavvyleaflet/ us bureau of the census – some background 1990
"header"; foreach (xelement element1 in element.
navigate(new  uri("http://107.22.247.211/nasaneo/"), "_blank"); break; }  case "rotate-east": {
does it lead to anything but a bureaucratic illusion of some control over chaos?
fig 7 – jupiter moon io posted in future, gis, kinect, silverlight, xna 3d | comments off fig 1 – web mapping utopia, location uncertain “not surprisingly, in a culture in which information was becoming standardized and repeatable, mapmakers began to exclude “paradise” from their charts on the grounds that its location was too uncertain.”
for those wishing to get an idea of what xna is all about this webcafe model in babylon is a good start.
the proprietary and private nature of many interior spaces is likely to leave much out of public mapping.
at any rate, with sl5 beta, silverlight and 3d xna now coexist.
the javascript platform is a growth industry with the help of backend tools likenode.js, html5 websockets, and asynchronous webworkers.
.bing) in which every component fitted into the model is linked to additional data for specification, design, material, history, approval chains, warranties, and on and on.
although gis (real, virtual, or otherwise) is slowly reaching deeper into mirror land, we are still a long way from nbims sanctioned “real” webbim with gis analysis.
finally, jpl thoughtfully shares a couple ofwms services and some imagery of the other planets: http://onmars.jpl.nasa.gov/wms.cgi?version=1.1.1&request=getcapabilities http://onmoon.jpl.nasa.gov/wms.cgi?version=1.1.1&request=getcapabilities this type of data wants to be 3d
youtube video demonstration of kinect gestures voice commands using the kinect are very simple to add so this version adds  a few.
"rotate off";  break; } case "reset": {
the beta  kinect sdk gives us device drivers and apis in managed code.
well it could be worse, see diy tsa scanner.
maps take all of  these streams into a symbolic spatial representation, which filters for  location.
then one is just swimming in a sea of communication and no longer encounters persons at all.”
before committing to national standards, certifications, and governance taxonomies perhaps we need to just play with this a bit.
element("wmt_ms_capabilities").element("capability")  .element("layer").descendants("layer"))
itemssource = layers; } once the tree is populated, onselecteditemchanged events provide  the trigger for a getmap request to nasa neo returning a new png image.
the upheaval is met with a kind of assumed optimism, an  unquestioned utopian view of progress around the benefits of modern technology.
our web mapping subset of technology is embedded  in thisinformation ramp up, and we are still grappling with the  confusion ofinformation and knowledge, resulting from an accelerating  information glut.
xaml’s retained mode graphics lacks a sense of  time’s flow.
anyone with some experience usingfme transformers  has some idea of what this looks like on the desktop.
maps are all entangled with mathematical models,  ellipsoids, surfaces, and transforms, but are we guilty of mythically inflating  the power of maps to communicate something of the good, the true and the  beautiful?
raster st_transform(raster rast, integer srid, double precision scalex, double precision scaley , text algorithm=
nothing like the cusp of the moment here, and  certainly no need for the nuance of dedekind’s cut.
“the first interoperability program testbed (web mapping testbed)  appeared in 1999.”
nonetheless, as incomprehensible problems mount, as the concept of progress fades, as meaning itself becomes suspect, the technopolist stands firm in believing that what the world needs is yet more information.”
it’s quite  the opportunity to have an international convergence of gis developers handily  just a bus ride up the highway.
for  symmetry sake xbox should have silverlight as apparently announcedhere.
unwarranted credulity paves the way to tyranny as recent history has shown all too tragically.
do interactive maps add seriously to comprehension or just to entertainment, as simply a novelty?
this polyline is turned into a polygon xaml snippet added to a textbox suitable for cut/paste as a map link in my web bim experiment.
the route service could be compromised with many large count waypoint requests.
to state the obvious, face to face renders location aware apps irrelevant and leaves artificial intelligence firmly anchored in the creepy category.
new l.map('mapdiv', { center: new l.latlng(39.748, -104.981),  zoom: 8, layers:
the leaflet api provides a convenient l.tilelayer.
—henry david thoreau, walden (1854), p. 42 another pillar of cyber utopian thought is the inevitability of improved  community with improved connectivity.
bim has more recently appeared on the gis radar with a flurry of discussion applying gis methods to bim.
no comments » foss4g 2011 september 17th, 2011 fig1 –  map of every class c network on the internet 2005
text = "zoomout"; break; } } } possible extensions after posting this code, i added an experimental stretch vector control for zooming and 2 axis twisting of planets.
the future specter of osgeo web maps delineating the  boundaries ofinyenzi (cockroach in kinyarwandan), does little to  encourage optimism.
now implementations proliferate helter skelter.
3d webgl made an appearance with webglearth, while nasa world wind still has an occasional adherent.
summary even though kinect browser control is not prime time material yet, it is a  lot of experimental fun!
how about  crowd sourced byzantia?
layers doesn’t work consistently in the mobile  browsers i tested.
this  wouldn’t be a problem except that mobile devices don’t have the  screen space for extra panels.
no more recursive controls beyond  this border.
just prior to exiting stage left, silverlight, along with all plugins,  shares a last aria.
thekinect sdk, which roughly corresponds  to our visual and auditory cortex, amplifies and simplifies a flood of raw  sensory input to extract bits of “actionable meaning.”
tags: xna 3d posted in gis, silverlight, wpf3d, x3d, xml, xna 3d | no comments » bim or building information modeling isn’t exactly news.
in addition, i was thinking about planeprojections for stacking multiple floors so i added some slider binding controls for planeprojection attributes, just for experimentation in a debug panel.
now implementations  proliferate helter skelter.
specularpower = 10.0f; . .
bing(bingkey, "aerialwithlabels", { maxzoom: 21, attribution: bingattribution }); fig 3 – leaflet census tiger wms with bing maps road style tiger/line 2010 accuracy has been upgraded substantially, but you can occasionally see some discrepancies against bing aerial.
the trick assemblies are: system.
the approach for using kinect for this experimental map interface is to use  the gestureviewer code from kinect toolbox to capture some primitive commands  arising from sensory input.
ever needed a raster reprojection?
since i like silverlight better it’s probably time to dump the plain jane asp .net in favor of the silverlight navigation version.
who’d of ever thought?fcc.gov opens their kimono in a big way with data transparency and os apis.
how about crowd sourced byzantia?
"http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"; getmapurl = getmap.
it’s also noteworthy that this gives vendors a chance to purchase more ad opportunities.
//wms 1.1.1  xelement getmap =
as browser market fragmentation and mobile devices force adoption of standards based technologies, proprietary plugins are just not making the transition, at least for public facing web apps.
doesn’t it seem peculiar, for example, to attach any meaning whatsoever to charts of kindergartener’sdibels scores, let alone median dibels scores charted on national school district polygons.
bing tilelayers can mask other features if directly added to the map layer set.
new observablecollection (); foreach (xelement element in document.
sf1 data joined to tiger polygons would be a more useful service.
this model has over 60,000 faces, but i can still walk through exploring the environment without any difficulty and all i’m using is an older nvidia motherboard gpu.
anyone remember the irritation of clippy?
in other words, the switch from vector to raster tile can be coded to zoomlevel regardless of where the client has panned in the extent of the data.
however, retail incentives will be a driving force extending ad opportunities into personal scale mapping.
then one is just swimming in a sea of communication and no  longer encounters persons at all.”
it  would be nice for a web browsing xbox tv console.
problem 1 however, publish to azure and you will immediately face a couple of problems.
changing the source image for a texture2d shader requires dropping the whole model, changing the image source, and finally reloading the scene model and pipeline once again.
likely not, and in fact, may contribute to the irony of an ice database assigning the entchev family a spatial attribute coinciding with some “community education center” in newark, nj.
one limitation of bing routing is that the maximum number of waypoint stops is 25.
add some mobile camera apps, and augmented reality will combine product databases, individualized coupon links, nutritional content, etc to the shelf in front of you.
alice steps into the drawingsurface confronting a very different world indeed.
after all, with 30cm commonly available, is 15cm that much more compelling?
onterra systems has been involved with fleet management for some time now and recently introduced a routeoptimization service.
here is my analysis of feature count ranges and optimal architecture: 1.
one of the more elegant available tools isleafletjs .
here is the listing of available commands: public void socketcommand(string current) { switch (command) {
this is beta still, and requires a few pieces.
the experience that plug-ins provide today is not a good match with metro style browsing and the modern html5 web.”
census the 1990 census line data made a revolutionary leap from gbf-dime format to tiger,topologically integrated geographic encoding and referencing, and also adopted cd-rom media distribution.
adding a bing maps layer with leaflet is possible usinghttps://gist.github.com/1221998.
removing the intersect(bounds) clause seemed to get things working without noticeable problems: if (zoom = coverage.zoommin )
silverlight 5 due out in 2011 promises to have silverlight integration of photosynthe controls as well as 3d. instead of a store directory the uaa example includes a simple room finder which moves to the corresponding floor and zooms to the room selected.
there is a lot of public lidar data out there as well.
some project extensions: lots of ideas, little time or money, but silverlight 5 will make possible a lot of very interesting web apps.
who wants to be lost in a mall, or are we lost without our malls?
in the meantime  boundaries were available for internet and ftp download in esri shp and e00  formats.
and another recent bing maps introduction, mall maps.
this is a “lightweight” js map library that works well with  jquery and abstracts away some of the complexity of supporting a fragmenting  mobile browser world.
i believe the issues i ran into are on a bug list and could be resolved by next release.
computing mobility adds terrestrial location to all business and social enterprise – tweets to facebook, fleet tracking to risk analysis are increasingly tethered to spatial attributes.
the age of typography, ushered into western culture by gutenberg, had  profound and enduring effects on history and culture, affecting everything  – from the reformation and the rise of democratic nationalism to our  educational bureaucracy and even common definitions of truth and knowledge.
the line features of the 1990 tiger were based on the older 1980 gbf-dime  enhanced with usgs 1:100,000 dlg features.
my interest is less in definition and more an observation that buildings too are a part of the rapidly growing “mirror land” we call web maps.
they are but improved means to an unimproved  end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at.”
cartographers relish pointing out this  quandary to web developers and other mere mortals.
thekinect sdk, which roughly corresponds to our visual and auditory cortex, amplifies and simplifies a flood of raw sensory input to extract bits of “actionable meaning.”
that the impact of technology shapes deep  things in a culture with unimagined side effects.
in addition, it also afforded opportunity to try out a few different approaches for transferring spatial query results to the ui client.
nearestneighbor, double precision maxerr=0.125); algorithm options are: ‘nearestneighbor’,  ‘bilinear’, ‘cubic’, ‘cubicspline’, and  ‘lanczos.’
cursor movement and click using posture detection and hand tracking  is also feasible, but fine movement is still a challenge.
another avenue of investigation would be some  type of pointer intersection using a ray to indicate planet surface locations  for events.
in addition to our asu moon usgs has published a set of imagery for mars, venus, mercury, as well as some saturn and jupiter moons.
the tigerweb wms furnishes images for  all the tiger boundary and line features.
however, until recently, mirror land has been all about maps and the wide outside world.
here is an overview of the pipeline from aaron oneal’s mix talk: so now that we have xna it’s time to take a spin.
does obsessive gaming, for example, reduce higher value  opportunities for learning, productivity, and human relations?
the difficulty for an xna novice like myself is understanding the hlsl  files and coming to terms with the rendering pipeline.
our community is also wont to add controls affording endless tinkering with the form, as if one more contribution to universal“choice fatigue” will add value.
shrinking a kinect doesn’t work too well as stereoscopic imagery needs a degree of separation in a newtonian world.
it would be nice for a web browsing xbox tv console.
naturally the  concept ofinformation leaks into the soft sciences as well.
this bare bones censustest project took only a few hours over the weekend  to write using leaflet.
4) leaflet l.control.
but what about mapping?
about the same time frank warmerdam started gdal and the gfoss engines started.
above is silverlight xaml with the beauty of recursive hierarchies and below is all xna with its rendering pipeline plumbing.
[the promised advent of nearmode (50cm range) offers some tantalizing visions of 3d voxel uis.
i could walk among the current luminaries of osgeo, arnulf christl, paul ramsey, frank warmerdam, simone giannecchini, and so on and on, and trade a handshake with the hard working front range folks, peter batty,brian timoney (way to go brian!), and matt kruzemark too.
this ui uses both bing geocoding as well as bing route services.
for in fact facebook is faceless, not anonymous, but prone to carefully crafted pseudonymous identities.
note that the public sample here is also limited to 25 stops.
i would have preferred the elegance of leaflet.js, but epsg:4326 isn’t supported in l.tilelayer.
xna is closer to the gpu with the time tested graphics rendering pipeline familiar to direct3d/opengl developers, but not so familiar to xaml developers.
we are now swapping out the old asp .net
the publish process then brings us to this: and this: that in turn allows the alonzo λ magic: webcontext.
users can choose whether to optimize for time or distance.
lampcolor = float3(1.0f, 1.0f,  1.0f); static const float
anything is believable because the next card is  experienced as random.
their concourse will linger long into the late evening of2021.
however, in a hybrid case this should rarely happen since the bottom levels of the pyramid are handled dynamically as vectors.
my attempts at using planeprojection as a multi floor stack were thwarted by lack of control over camera position.
the very technology that makes geo foss possible  is also making it, of all things, mundane.
often stop points are coming from a sharepoint list, a contact address book, an excel spreadsheet, or a database without benefit of sort ordering based on route optimization.
fig 3 – kinect to silverlight architecture full moon rising but first, instead of the mundane, let’s look at something a bit  extraterrestrial, a more fitting client for such “extraordinary” ui  talents.
and on the roadmap mapalgebra raster on raster!
that an ever growing amount of this information flood is geospatial is indisputable.
likely not, and in fact, may contribute to  the irony of an ice database assigning the entchev family a spatial attribute  coinciding with some “community education center” in newark, nj.
in a different vein, the next release of postgis will push raster analysis right into sql.
microsoft is the only vendor out there with the breadth to give developers an integrated solution across the whole spectrum from ui graphics, to customizable services, to sql spatial tables.
it even illustrates the  use of a normal (bump) map for 3d effects on the surface without needing a  tessellated surface terrain model.
the principle of information is popping up all over, from claude shannon’sinformation theory to hawking-berkenstein’s black hole solution which surprisingly showed that the totalinformation content of a black hole is proportional to the planck square surface area of its event horizon (as opposed to a cubic volume relation).
this ui is only one of many that could be used.
just this year we hear ofosm’s steve coast sidling into microsoft, followed a little later bygdal’s frank warmerdam beaming up into the google mother ship.
thesol katz award this year went to java topology suite’s  well  deserving martin davis.
a useful tool for generating bump or normal imagery from color relief isssbump generator v5.3 .
would an aging modernity mourn the loss of  “kafkaesque” as an adjective?
new l.map('mapdiv', { center: new l.latlng(39.748, -104.981), zoom: 8, layers:
however, an ancient client with old hardware performance will not match performance of newer machines.
that an ever growing amount of this information flood is  geospatial is indisputable.
there will be a whole new level of interesting possibilities with 3d in the browser as apparent in the rosso demos above.
…a cry that was no more than a breath: “the horror!
if you want to know, just fire up routeoptimizer and give it a whirl.
i also added a quick wms 2d viewer html using openlayers against the jpl  wms servers to take a look at lunar landing sites.
new  observablecollection (); foreach (xelement element in  document.
value = 0.0; orbitx = 0; orbity = 0; tbmessage.
as gestures are detected they are pushed  out to local port 4530 on a tcp socket service.
the command repertoire is minimal including four compass direction swipes, and two circular gestures for zooming, circle clockwise zoom in, and circle counter clockwise zoom out.
the more general method would be to create a sql table of buildings that includes a geography column of the footprint suitable for geography stintersects queries.
in between events, the  machine is silent.
turning this off and deferring to the bing  maps logo frees up more screen space which is at a premium on mobile devices.
although oracle is trying hard to break java, it is still a popular platform among foss projects.
in between events, the machine is silent.
so why not use the tigerweb for an experimental look at some more recent web tools?tigerweb viewer ui is based on the esri silverlight apis.
web mapping adds an element of exploration, with zoom and pan flight through these abstract spaces, that mirrors movement in our physical world.
sql spatial was similar to much of my earlier work with postgis.
wms object that  transforms a wms endpoint into a slippy tile map.
there is an undocumented label service that might be useful.
layers(basemaps, overlaymaps, { collapsed: !
linda loman and the parent car pool: anyone out there with kids in sports has probably run into this traveling salesman problem.
fig 4 – asu lro color shaded relief map of moon
for in fact facebook is faceless, not anonymous, but prone to  carefully crafted pseudonymous identities.
the border  lies at the  element:  north of the border lies xml and recursive hierarchies, a largely language  world populated with “semantics” and “ontologies.”
but then that means it’s still fun, right?
two hand vector  controlling for 3d scenes is also promising and integrates very well with sl5  xna immediate mode graphics.
there are other approaches that  may be better with final release of silverlight 5.
the tigerweb wms furnishes images for all the tiger boundary and line features.
you’ve gotta love that late afternoon shadow affect.
there is an  undocumented label service that might be useful.
fig 4 – leaflet census tiger wms with bing maps aerial with labels  style
some caveats: tile pyramids are of course most efficient when the data is relatively static.
bim models are virtual worlds, ‘mirror lands’ of a single building or campus.
instead of simple zoom levels, the switch between tile and vector is based on density calculations.
even though technically possible, and simple to implement in silverlight, such distractions do nothing to make the ui endearing.
the upheaval is met with a kind of assumed optimism, an unquestioned utopian view of progress around the benefits of modern technology.
for all its impact on life, our beloved internet encompasses the equivalent of what, a few cubic centimeters of a single infant’s anatomy.
so now that we have xna it’s time to take a spin.
unfortunately, kinect and the web aren’t exactly ideal  partners.
nonetheless,  as incomprehensible problems mount, as the concept of progress fades, as  meaning itself becomes suspect, the technopolist stands firm in believing that  what the world needs is yet more information.”
microsoft includes some rich sample code as part of the kinect sdk download.
this is the year of wps, web processing service, and the hope of constructing webs of analysis chains from disparate nodes.
fig 5 – nasa  neo albedo (1 month) with population density bump map overlay (note: this link  requires sl5 rc)
unusual matrice animations with rotating panels and creepy crawling boundary selectors seem a bit out of place in the modern web.
tile pyramids don’t have to be static and dataconnector has examples of both static and dynamic tile sources.
"reset view"; break; } //kinect
unlike rural cultures, modern western culture is much more about inside than outside.
xaml touches the academic world.
however, i spent an afternoon on this and can save you some time.
– bim is a sub-internet on the scale of a single building with an interface that has much in common with web mapping.
; bing maps unlike google maps, microsoft bing allows  licensed access to tile servers.
the moonviewer control experiment is relatively primitive.
nearestneighbor, double precision maxerr=0.125); algorithm options are: ‘nearestneighbor’, ‘bilinear’, ‘cubic’, ‘cubicspline’, and ‘lanczos.’
fig 5 – leaflet l.control.
starting out in 2d, here is an approach: get a building floorplan, add it to a bing maps interface, and then do something simple with it.
information volume and  velocity apparently grow exponentially over time loosely tracking the famous moore’s law time curve.
time is measured out in the proximate range of 1/20th to  1/60th a second per frame.
it has been the bane of many computer science students leading to more than a few minor tragedies, as well as arthur miller’s great american tragedy.
you can see where these primitive experiments are going: move from a bing map to a map of interior spaces and now simple locators can reach into asset databases where we have information about all our stuff.
the novelty of all this data free to use from the usgs was  still fresh and amazing.
solar wind illustrates generating a tessellated  sphere model with applied textures for various layers.
simplification is the heart of search.
future mobile devices could potentially take advantage of the human body’s bi-lateral symmetry.
apparently, sl5 xna can make a compelling interactive museum, refinery, nuclear facility, or walmart browser.
in both scenarios the key is getting the dwg into something that can readily be used in a web map application.
from a silverlight xaml perspective, mirror land is largely a static  machine with infrequent events triggered by users.
wfs and wcs have already passed their respective moments of  glorious novelty.
nasa has been very busy collecting large amounts of fascinating data  on our nearby planetary neighbors.
frames  are clicking by apace.
value = 0.0; tbmessage.
element("title"); lyr0.name  = "header"; foreach (xelement element1 in  element.
no comments » i was privileged to spend a few days at foss4g in denver.
the meteoric rise of facebook exemplifies  this confusion.
kinect for windows language pack, version 0.9
i checked carefully and it casts no shadow!
perhaps 3d point clouds will someday help, but you can see  the potential for navigable high risk complex facility modeling.
interesting howclaude shannon seems to crop up in a lot of acronyms these days: bim, gis, nbims, ict, even it?
source geospatial software powering department of defense installation and environment business systems,” or catch this, “the national geospatial-intelligence agency oss challenge.
neil  postman’stechnopoly triggered some reflection on the present  state of web mapping.
bing tilelayers  can mask other features if directly added to the map layer set.
here we are not concerned with “the what” of a map but a small preliminary question, “whether to map at all?”
open geospatial and foss are just a small part of this minor universe, but it’s easy to forget that even ten years ago this all hardly existed.
technically known as an np-complete problem, computational time escalates quickly and tragically as the number of stops increase.
even  though technically possible, and simple to implement in silverlight, such  distractions do nothing to make the ui endearing.
but  not until marshall mcluhan were the typographic origins of these effects  popularly visible, and only in retrospect.
computing mobility adds terrestrial location to all  business and social enterprise – tweets to facebook, fleet tracking to  risk analysis are increasingly tethered to spatial attributes.
populating this is a matter of reading through the layer  elements of the returned xml and adding layers to a collection which is then  bound to the tree view’s itemssource property.
the meteoric rise of facebook exemplifies this confusion.
you could use binding, but i needed to add some events solistboxitems are added in code behind.
finally the resulting route is plotted in the silverlight map ui.
the other planets and moons have somewhat less data available, but still benefit from the xna treatment.
waypoint limit work around: an interesting side note to routeoptimization service is the ability to extend the number of waypoints.
so i hasten to add this disclaimer, i’m not really a web bimer or even a bing bimer, but i am looking forward to the extension of mirror land to the interior spaces i generally occupy.
i was privileged to spend a few days at foss4g in denver.
xna involves tessellated models, rendering pipelines, vertex shaders, pixel shaders, and a high level shading language, hlsl, accompanied by the usual linear algebra suspects.
one simplification that makes this much easier is to ignore routing momentarily and use a shortest distance algorithm to make a first route optimization pass.
i guess i tend to think of it as a part of aec, starting back in the early generations of cad, as a way to manage a facility in the aftermath of design and construction.
each  release anticipated a new implementation for discovery.
bing route service does not attempt to reorder waypoints for optimal routing.
perhaps a broader issue often encountered is waypoint or stop order.
proliferating conspiracy theories only corroborate neil postman’s shuffled deck analogy, that a disintegrating information context conditions perception to credulity.
no more recursive controls beyond this border.
element("wmt_ms_capabilities").element("capability") .element("layer").descendants("layer")) {
the microsoft option has only been possible in the last year or so with the introduction of sql server 2008 and bing maps silverlight map control.
as a wcf service, routeoptimization can take latitude, longitude point sets from any source and return the ordered points for display in any web ui.
bing(bingkey,  "aerialwithlabels", { maxzoom: 21, attribution: bingattribution }); fig 3 – leaflet census tiger wms with bing maps road style tiger/line 2010 accuracy has been upgraded substantially, but you can  occasionally see some discrepancies against bing aerial.
this is beta still, and requires a few  pieces.
ref:52north.org and geoserver
the principle of information is popping up all over, from claude  shannon’sinformation theory to hawking-berkenstein’s black  hole solution which surprisingly showed that the totalinformation content of a black hole is proportional to the planck square surface area of  its event horizon (as opposed to a cubic volume relation).
or, slice, dice, and merge withmapproxy.
you may have to download some additional software as well as the kinect sdk: directx latest version: runtime for microsoft  directx® 9
since  the original cloud model is not real cloud coverage, it is usually not an asset  to nasa neo data.
similar things can be done with svg, and will be as html5 increases its reach, and probably even in kml for the googler minded.
however, with the ability to order waypoints with an outside service this limit has a work around.
putting together my own middle tier service using wcf was largely experimental.
these calculations are impossible to quantify and really revolve around deeper questions of spiritual significance,sub specie aeternitatis .
the core technology of our  current cultural turnover is electronics and the key utility is “ information,” its storage and flow.
the new frontier of web mapping is interior spaces, “webbim,” “bing bim” ( sorry, i just couldn’t resist the impulse).
so i’ve brushed off code from a previous post,nasa neo 3d xna, and adapted it for planetary data, minus the population bump map.
the best way to get  started is to borrow from the experts.
“for the web to move  forward and for consumers to get the most out of touch-first browsing, the  metro style browser in windows 8 is as html5-only as possible, and plug-in  free.
do vast itune libraries subtract from the net benefit of personal mastery of a musical instrument?
i added the store items along with aisles and shelf polygon id to a table accessed through a wcf query.
even though census data releases are a year or so after the actual census, it was several more years before the census bureau started investigating alternative wms services for distributing data.
after all, look at the way mobile touch, voice, inertia, gyro, accelerometer, gps . . .
the spotlight now shifts abruptly to a new diva, mobile html5.
unintended messages ripple across unknowable communities, and histories, whether wanted or unwanted, retain regrettably long tails.
naturally web maps can be quitebeautiful, whatever that means subjectively.
doubtless a few stray stalinist atduke and zuccotti park are taking notes on new media and the social web.
//wms 1.1.1 xelement getmap =
once this  leaflet bing extension javascript is referenced into a page, adding bing map  styles is simply a matter of adding l.tilelayer.
the application of numeracy to every conceivable problem  like this elevates modeling to mythic proportions.
the silverlight 5 beta version of babylon uses silverlight to set some options and sl5 drawingsurface to host scenes.
microsoft includes some rich sample code as part of the kinect sdk  download.
however, this brings us to problem 2 it turns out that there are a couple of assemblies that are missing from azure’s os but required for our silverlight membership businessapplication.
route segments between waypoints are optimized, but waypoints themselves are up to the user.
the memorable phrase  “embrace, extend, extinguish” comes to mind.
and then in the google world art projects explore museums.
at least they are not introduced with full fledged coverage.
however, as these apis have not been compiled for use with silverlight runtime, a silverlight client will by necessity be one step further removed.
port + "/moonviewer/moon.html"), "_blank"); break; } case "mars-2d": { marsrb.ischecked = true; uri uri = application.
hopefully the momentum will continue forward to include demographic  data.
“technology solved the problem of information scarcity, the  disadvantages of which were obvious.
“the great communication that we have today can lead to complete  depersonalization.
each node adds a piece toward a final solution.
microsoft’s restriction to 25 waypoints is probably a scaling throttle to prevent service users from sending in hundreds and possibly thousands of waypoints for a single route.
fig 7 – lower manhattan posted in bing maps, ows | comments off extraterrestrial map kinections fig 1 – lro color shaded relief map of moon –
in a state of information  overload, the key to riches is meaningful information reduction.
visual studio 2010 adds a cloud toolkit with template ready services (not to be confused with “shovel ready”).
for dense point sources a heat map raster overview would be best at the top of the pyramid.
this way rural area of interest can gain the benefit of vectors higher in the pyramid than would be useful in urban areas.
once silverlight 5 is released there will be a continuous xna api across  microsoft’s entire spectrum: windows 7 desktops, windows 7 phones, xbox  game consoles, and now the browser.
i wrote a proxy wcf service to grab the image and then write it to png even if the source is jpeg.
unusual matrice animations with rotating panels and creepy  crawling boundary selectors seem a bit out of place in the modern web.
for speech: • microsoft speech platform  runtime, version 10.2 – select 32-bit if you are running 32-bit windows.
wp7 developers will need to wait until the future wp7 mango release before merging xna and silverlight into a single app.
—henry david thoreau, walden (1854), p. 42 another pillar of cyber utopian thought is the inevitability of improved community with improved connectivity.
real human relationships have deeper currents than high velocity information or spatial attribution.
i had hoped to show a stack of floor plans at an oblique view with an animation for the selected floor plan sliding it out of the stack and rotating to planar view.
the stuff in this case is not roads, addresses, and shops, but smaller stuff, human scale stuff that we use in our everyday consumer and corporate lives.
alternate uis of course uis may multiply.
] fig 2 – a not so subtle fashion statement omnitouch for the present, experimenting with kinect control of a silverlight web app  requires a relatively static configuration and a three-step process: the kinect  out there, beyond the stage lights, and the web app over here, close at hand,  with a software piece in the middle.
time may be chunky in mirror land, but with immediate mode xna it does move, clicking through the present moment one frame at a time.
copy webrole1 webrole.cs to businessapplication1.web and correct namespace step 3 cloudservice1 roles right click to add role in solution – businessapplication.
visible; }; webcontext.
fig 5 – part of normal map from asu moon color relief imagery the result is seen in the moonviewer client with the added benefit of  immediate mode gpu rendering that allows smooth rotation and zoom.
this is not a stitched pano or photosynth interior, but a full blown 3d model.
xna involves tessellated models, rendering pipelines, vertex shaders, pixel  shaders, and a high level shading language, hlsl, accompanied by the usual  linear algebra suspects.
text =  "rotate west"; break; } case "rotate-off": {  rotationspeedslider.
the treeview control comes from the silverlight toolkit project.
in wpf it was always interesting to put a video element over the scene model, but i doubt that will work here in xna.
of course mathematicians and purists cringe at the idea, however, that is ordinarily what engineering is all about, getting an approximate solution in less than the time constraint of a useable solution.
step 3 – do something simple with the floorplans some useful utilities included nesting my floorplan xaml inside a  which is coded to implement some normal pan and zoom functions: pan with left mouse, double click zoom in, and mouse wheel zoom +/-.
xaml’s retained mode graphics lacks a sense of time’s flow.
wpf has had 3d mesh capability for a few years, but sl5 will add the same camera level control in 3d scene graphs to spice up delivery in the browser.
first i wrote a small webapp that allows me to zoom bing maps aerial to a desired building and draw a polyline around its footprint.
in an intermediate situation with data that changes slowly, static tiles are still an option using a pre-seeding batch process run at some scheduled interval.
in a different vein, the next release of postgis will push raster analysis  right into sql.
you may have to download some additional software as well as the kinect sdk: finally, we are making use of port 4530 for the socket service.
please report to lost and found.
azure sql server scaling is still awaiting the release offederation at some point in the future.
but it gave no warnings about the danger of information glut, the disadvantages of which were not seen so clearly, the long range result – information chaos.”
however, the real goal is playing with interior plans and i left the data connector feature for a future enhancement.
.element("http").element("get").element("onlineresource");  xnamespace xlink =
yes, there are tropical white sands by an azure sea, but the heart of darkness  presses in on the mind.
fig 4 –  solar wind sl5 xna sample this is my starting point.
.element("http").element("get").element("onlineresource"); xnamespace xlink =
but not until marshall mcluhan were the typographic origins of these effects popularly visible, and only in retrospect.
the static example is a little different from other approaches i’ve used, such as geowebcache, since it drops tiles into sql server as they are created rather than using a file system pyramid.
layers doesn’t work consistently in the mobile browsers i tested.
no comments » we owe alonzo church for this one: webcontext.
it’s nice to have an alpha channel for some types of  visualization.
since gestureviewer toolbox includes a learning template based gesture module, you can capture just about any gesture desired.
"rotate off"; break; } case "reset": {
the border lies at the  element:  north of the border lies xml and recursive hierarchies, a largely language world populated with “semantics” and “ontologies.”
the answer is obvious, get a building plan and start trying a few things.
the first task  is to read the neo getcapabilities xml and produce the treeview control to  manage such a wealth of data.
our web mapping subset of technology is embedded in thisinformation ramp up, and we are still grappling with the confusion ofinformation and knowledge, resulting from an accelerating information glut.
taking the longer view, however, can be  a useful exercise.
the difficulty for an xna novice like myself is understanding the hlsl files and coming to terms with the rendering pipeline.
eventually i’ll have a chance to revisit this in sl5 with its full 3d scene graph support.
this is where route optimization comes in handy.
new wmslayer(); lyr1.title =
naturally web maps can be quitebeautiful, whatever  that means subjectively.
nasa neo conveniently publishes 45 categories and 129  layers of a variety of global data collected on a regular basis.
the rwandan genocide, less than 10 years  ago, was incited by incredulous claims aired to a credulous public in creepy goebbels fashion.
evgeny’s passing point about "cyber captivity" underlines a growing problem of lost opportunity.
among many new features is the long anticipated 3d capability.
since the first time i saw leaflet i’ve been intrigued with its elegance and the potential for abstracting away some of the issues surrounding web apps targeted at mobile and touch clients.
http://tigerweb.geo.census.gov/arcgis/rest/services/labels/mapserver/export 2) wms getfeatureinfo requests can provide information from the  polygon stack, but the lack of a cross-domain policy file on thetigerweb  wms server means that a pass through proxy service needs to be hosted on  the same server as the leaflet web app.
sol sadly died before seeing his legacy, but what a  legacy.
no comments » silverlight 5 beta was released into the wild at mix 11 a couple of weeks ago.
posted in bing maps, cad, future, silverlight |
but google glommed on to the real deal.
for symmetry sake xbox should have silverlight as apparently announcedhere.
using power scaling at pushpin levels allows higher density pins to show higher in the pyramid without as much clutter.
fme does have an svg writer.
once read, the command can then be translated into appropriate actions for our map controller.
enduring histories on facebook, subject to examination by iranian intelligence for hardly promising ends, should be unsettling to all but the grimmest of marxist utopians.
bim is after all about buildings, and buildings have been cad turf all these many years.
above is  silverlight xaml with the beauty of recursive hierarchies and below is all xna  with its rendering pipeline plumbing.
text = "zoomin"; break; } case "circle2": { scene.
however, tigerweb wms service is a wide open door for standards  based javascript libraries.
simplification  is the heart of search.
the map control side of gesture commands could also benefit from  someeasing function animations.
since i’m fond ofbing silverlight map control, the goal is dwg to xaml.
i had kept the dwg limited to simple closed polylines and text, separated by layer names.
very high – for very high feature counts at low zoomlevels near the top of the pyramid i’d just turn off the layer.
summary census bureau’s new tigerweb is a great step forward for users of tiger data.
could this really be yet another reincarnation of ted nelson’s epicxanadu project, the quixotic precursor of today’s internet?
instead of large swipe gestures, finger level manipulation should be possible.
some perspective: the gis nervous system grows connections around the world faster than a  three year old’s brain.
admittedly this is crude  relative to our world.
sampler2d cloudsampler : register(s0); static const float3 ambientcolor  = float3(0.5f, 0.75f, 1.0f); static const float3
here is the result: step 2 – embed xaml into a bing map control interface
sorry, only a higher plane optimization can do that.
taking the longer view, however, can be a useful exercise.
adding  an ogc wfs service would be the ideal, but wfs always has problems with  potentially very large result sets, so i’m not sure this is practical on  a public ogc service.
this bare bones censustest project took only a few hours over the weekend to write using leaflet.
it won’t be too long until we see these devices in every corner of rooms supplementing the omnipresent security cameras with 3d views.
census by the mid 90’s open gis consortium (ogc) was actively working on opengis standards.
i’ve only run it on fairly small tables 2000 records.
so then 3d viewing, but how do you get a 3d image into the model in the first place?
this is a big step for mirror land.
would an aging modernity mourn the loss of “kafkaesque” as an adjective?
when this happens i know to start looking at the assembly dlls.
this is the year of wps, web processing service, and the hope of  constructing webs of analysis chains from disparate nodes.
is a view link visible or is it not?
the electronic age, in its current internet iteration, is undoubtedly creating similarly profound dislocations, whose consequences are not at all apparent at present.
—benedict xvi “light of the world” p59 ray kurzweil’s anticipation of the coming singularity includes  human/non-human relationships via digital intermediaries, a thought with  somewhat disturbing implications.
leaflet the bing javascript  extension seemed to run into a problem with intersect at this line: if  (zoom = coverage.zoommin &&  coverage.bbox.intersects(bounds)) removing the intersect(bounds) clause seemed to get things working without  noticeable problems: if (zoom = coverage.zoommin )
bit obsession is now woven into western economic fabric with the assumption of continuous progress.
the javascript platform is a growth industry with  the help of backend tools likenode.js, html5 websockets, and asynchronous  webworkers.
it’s quite the opportunity to have an international convergence of gis developers handily just a bus ride up the highway.
the age of typography, ushered into western culture by gutenberg, had profound and enduring effects on history and culture, affecting everything – from the reformation and the rise of democratic nationalism to our educational bureaucracy and even common definitions of truth and knowledge.
port +  "/moonviewer/moon.html"), "_blank"); break; } case  "mars-2d": { marsrb.ischecked = true; uri uri =  application.
the obvious direction is a poor man’s 3d modeler.
it even illustrates the use of a normal (bump) map for 3d effects on the surface without needing a tessellated surface terrain model.
web mapping is one more filtering approach reducing information along the axis of spatial proximity.
or uav add a bit of uav and we can move mirror land from the 30cm (1 foot) resolution capture soon to be added to bing maps (seeblaise aguera y arcas comments) to hmmm what looks like sub centimeter.
what kind of global cultural,  economic, and political earthquakes have been set in motion?
kind of exciting to think about.
using mouse and arrow keys allows the camera/avatar to move through the virtual environment colliding with walls etc.
ref:52north.org and geoserver  ext fig2 – example of fme workbench processing chain
doesn’t it seem  peculiar, for example, to attach any meaning whatsoever to charts of  kindergartener’sdibels scores, let alone median dibels scores charted on  national school district polygons.
there are of course fairly complex algorithms involved and computational scientists have been at some pains to circumscribe the limits of the problem.
{ if  (element.descendants("layer").count() > 0) { wmslayer lyr0 = new  wmslayer();
adding a bing maps  layer with leaflet is possible usinghttps://gist.github.com/1221998.
if that can be worked out the logical next step is  grabbing dem data from usgs for generating ground level terrain models.
xna is closer to the gpu with the time tested graphics  rendering pipeline familiar to direct3d/opengl developers, but not so familiar  to xaml developers.
wms("http://tigerweb.geo.census.gov/arcgis/services/tigerwms/mapserver/wmsserver",  { layers: 'census tracts', format: 'image/png', transparent: true, attribution:  tigerattribution })
so the question at hand revolves around the smaller microcosm of mapping in the internet era.
l.browser.touch });  map.addcontrol(layerscontrol);
i will need to replace the cloud pixel image with something  benign to take advantage of the proper lighting setup for daytime.
now we can add a diagnosticmonitor and trace logging to the webrole.cs step 5 open businessapplication1.web web.config, add connection string pointed at sql azure aspnetdb and a set of applicationservices:          .database.windows.net;database=aspnetdb;user
two hand vector controlling for 3d scenes is also promising and integrates very well with sl5 xna immediate mode graphics.
the ideas are percolating in every corner, but it strikes me in an odd way that this world has changed irrevocably.
i’m choosing to keep this simple.
unfortunately, kinect and the web aren’t exactly ideal partners.
as a technophile, i tend to look forward to the next  version of whatever with anticipation.
admittedly this is crude relative to our world.
mirror land is still caught in 2-3d. the upcoming silverlight 5 release will boost things toward the 3-4d. multi-verse theories aside (now here’s a taxonomy to ponder – the tegmark cosmological taxonomy of universes), in the 3-4d range full webbim can hit the streets.
in spite of a few minor issues leaflet is one of the best javascript map apis i’ve used.
1.2f; static const float
web (optional remove webrole1 from roles and remove webrole project since it is no longer needed) step 4 add a diagnosticsconnectionstring property to the roles/businessapplication1.web role that points to the azure blob storage.
with the  release of an officialmicrosoft kinect beta sdk for windows, things get even  more interesting.
in other words, will steve coast’s imaginative ideas now fall under the rubric,“all your base are belong to us,” and frank’s enduring legacy recede into the patent portfolio of“do no evil?”
however, there doesn’t seem to  be a wms layer for labels like those on the tigerweb viewer.
on the floor at foss4g 2011
cloud web role with a silverlight businessapplication1.web step 1 add reference assemblies windowsazure diagnostic, serviceruntime, and storageclient to businessapplication1.web step 2
(fast forward to 2010 and linda loman jumps in the van with biff )
from a silverlight xaml perspective, mirror land is largely a static machine with infrequent events triggered by users.
anytime you run across register references you know  this is getting closer to hardware.
as the internet continued  ramping up, ogc released the opengis web map server (wms) specification in  2000.
(string)element1.element("title"); lyr1.name = (string)element1.element("name"); lyr0.sublayers.add(lyr1); } layers.
apparently, sl5 xna can make a compelling interactive museum, refinery,  nuclear facility, or walmart browser.
value = 0.0; orbitx = 0;  orbity = 0; tbmessage.
the ideas  are percolating in every corner, but it strikes me in an odd way that this  world has changed irrevocably.
for one thing too many points clutter a map, while their simplicity means that more point vectors can be rendered before affecting ui performance.
since those early days of fm, cad has expanded into the current bim trend with building lifecycle management that is swallowing up larger swathes of surrounding environments.
this is a “lightweight” js map library that works well with jquery and abstracts away some of the complexity of supporting a fragmenting mobile browser world.
summary: this small exercise will likely irk true nbimsers who will not see much “real” bim in a few floor plans.
—benedict xvi “light of the world” p59 ray kurzweil’s anticipation of the coming singularity includes human/non-human relationships via digital intermediaries, a thought with somewhat disturbing implications.
] fig 2 – a not so subtle fashion statement omnitouch for the present, experimenting with kinect control of a silverlight web app requires a relatively static configuration and a three-step process: the kinect out there, beyond the stage lights, and the web app over here, close at hand, with a software piece in the middle.
next step can’t miss the augmented reality angle.
a xaml canvas containing the floor plans would be stored in a blob column for easy query and import to the ui.
for example: http://tigerweb.geo.census.gov/arcgis/services/tigerwms/mapserver/wmsserver?service=wms&version=1.1.1&request=getfeatureinfo&layers=counties&srs=epsg:4326&bbox=-122.5,37.75,-122.25,38.0&width=1000&height=1000&query_layers=counties&info_format=text/xml&x=100&y=100       jquery makes xmlhttprequest communication easy, but tigerweb wms  doesn’t expose an openclientaccesspolicy.xml, so a self hosted  proxy is required.
in xna it seems getting a point on the  earth to trigger a location event requires some manner of collision or  ray.intersects(plane).
the  census bureau will need to continue evolving to meet the challenges of these  rapid changes.
swipe  algorithmic commands case "swipetoleft": { orbity +=  microsoft.
“the world has never before been confronted with information glut and has hardly had time to reflect on its consequences.”
byzantine bureaucracy has been around since … well the byzantine empire, and given human nature is likely enduring.
turning this off and deferring to the bing maps logo frees up more screen space which is at a premium on mobile devices.
in addition there are a couple of very helpful blog posts bydavid catuhe and a codeplex project, kinect toolbox.
aaron oneal has been very kind to post some nicesamples including a game engine called babylon written by david catuhe.
as bim grows the isolated bim models start to aggregate and bump up against the floor of web mapping, the big ‘mirror land’.
likely others understand this functional proof apparatus, but for me it’s a mechanical thing.
and naturally, lip reading ought to boost the karaoke crowd (could  help lip synching pop singers and politicians as well).
sociologically, this all leads to a breakup of previous generations of  “knowledge monopolies” and a hyper-sensitivity to initial  conditions, (the old ray bradbury crushed butterfly scenario at the root of  chaos theory).
“when a technology becomes mythic, it is always dangerous because  it is then accepted as it is, and is therefore not easily susceptible to  modification or control.”
who’d of ever  thought?fcc.gov opens their kimono in a big way with data transparency and os  apis.
put the instrument controls right on the floor in front of us and abstract the sensored world one step further into the mirror.
3) there are some odd behaviors on amazon kindle fire, possibly due to the  silk web browser’s ec2 caching.
i believe the  issues i ran into are on a bug list and could be resolved by next release.
sol sadly died before seeing his legacy, but what a legacy.
3d webgl made an appearance with webglearth, while nasa world wind still  has an occasional adherent.
"orbit left"; break; } case "swipetoright": {
silverlight 5 and wp7 implementations are a subset of the full xna game framework available to desktop and xbox developers.
wp7 developers will need to wait until the future wp7 mango release before  merging xna and silverlight into a single app.
using the kinect sdk beta download kinect sdk beta 2: http://www.kinectforwindows.org/download/ be sure to look at the system requirements and the installation instructions further down the page.
i am seeing some sanity in the wp7 spanning xna and silverlight in the same mobile device.
in a state of information overload, the key to riches is meaningful information reduction.
fig 5 – part of normal map from asu moon color relief imagery the result is seen in the moonviewer client with the added benefit of immediate mode gpu rendering that allows smooth rotation and zoom.
“our inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things.
one data set that was recently released byasu , stitches together a comprehensive lunar relief map with beautiful color  shading.
the models are apparently produced in autocad 3ds and are probably  difficult to build.
as browser market  fragmentation and mobile devices force adoption of standards based  technologies, proprietary plugins are just not making the transition, at least  for public facing web apps.
silverlight provides animated fades and flips to which most of us are already unconsciously accustomed.
this postgis raster functions page gives some flavor for the raster functions soon to be available when 2.0 releases.
youtube video demonstration of kinect gestures voice commands using the kinect are very simple to add so this version adds a few.
the merger of tv and internet holds promise for both whole body and nearmode kinect interfaces.
knowledge of location across an intermediary network matters little to human relationships and adding non-human intelligence to the mix is only disturbing.
i’m tempted to believe that ‘information’ was cleverly inserted to avoid the embarrassing eventuality of an unadorned “building model.”
each release anticipated a new implementation for discovery.
using mouse and arrow keys  allows the camera/avatar to move through the virtual environment colliding with  walls etc.
the default attribution for bing gets quite lengthy, especially when displaying aerial vendor meta data.
“real” bim moves up the dimension chain from 2d to 3d and on to 4 – 5d, adding time and cost along the way.
i checked carefully and it casts no  shadow!
microsoft’s full range single vendor package is obviously a powerful incentive in the enterprise world.
so i’ve brushed off code from a  previous post,nasa neo 3d xna, and adapted it for planetary data, minus the  population bump map.
one way this can be accomplished is by looking at a set of connected nodes and determining segment intersects.
obviously the turnaround on publish to azure is not incredibly fast.
that the impact of technology shapes deep things in a culture with unimagined side effects.
the ability to link many services into a solution chain is one of the dreams come true of web development and one reason why web applications continue to supersede the desktop world.
fig 3 – babylon sl5 asynchronous scene  loading with navigation by david catuhe (note: this link requires sl5 beta)
i’m old enough to remember when there were “cad maps” and “real gis”, and then “web maps” and “real gis.”
this is my starting point.
it distributes the cpu load out to the clients harnessing all their resources.
progress – yes, no, maybe? postman’s critique asserts that technology is in the vanguard of  illusory “progress.”
the resulting project is available on codeplex: dataconnector
itemssource = layers; } once the tree is populated, onselecteditemchanged events provide the trigger for a getmap request to nasa neo returning a new png image.
thesol katz award this year went to java topology suite’s well deserving martin davis.
that way heavy equipment operators can get nice aerobic workouts too.
position += zoominvector * 5; } tbmessage.
but it gave no warnings about the danger  of information glut, the disadvantages of which were not seen so clearly, the  long range result – information chaos.”
summary census bureau’s new tigerweb is a great step forward for users of  tiger data.
real human relationships have deeper currents  than high velocity information or spatial attribution.
the older wpf 3d xaml aligns better with x3d, the iso sanctioned xml 3d  graphics standard, while xna aligns with the competing webgl javascript wrapper  for opengl.
finally amouseleftbuttonup event illustrates opening a shelf photo view which is overlaid with a sample link geometry to a crest product website.
kinect 2.0 and nearmode will offer additional granularity.
http://tigerweb.geo.census.gov/arcgis/rest/services/labels/mapserver/export 2) wms getfeatureinfo requests can provide information from the polygon stack, but the lack of a cross-domain policy file on thetigerweb wms server means that a pass through proxy service needs to be hosted on the same server as the leaflet web app.
source geospatial  software powering department of defense installation and environment business  systems,” or catch this, “the national  geospatial-intelligence agency oss challenge.
in the early 90′s i wrote a few tiger translation programs for autocad users and users of a popular (now defunct) desktop gis package called atlas*gis.
uri uri = application.
this model has  over 60,000 faces, but i can still walk through exploring the environment  without any difficulty and all i’m using is an older nvidia motherboard  gpu.
however, traffic optimization requires a different license and a bit more money.
assumptions of all goodness by cyber utopians are not at all justified as remarked by evgeny morozov inthe internet in society: empowering and censoring citizen?
since  gestureviewer toolbox includes a learning template based gesture module, you  can capture just about any gesture desired.
geofoss has progressed a long way from naive amazement over ogc wms  connections.
the best way to get started is to borrow from the experts.
summary even though kinect browser control is not prime time material yet, it is a lot of experimental fun!
and naturally, lip reading ought to boost the karaoke crowd (could help lip synching pop singers and politicians as well).
think of 3d voxel space manipulation of subsurface geology, or thumb and forefinger vector3 twisting of lidar objects, and you get an idea where this could go.
step 3: the silverlight client listens on port 4530, reading command strings that  show up.
“the great communication that we have today can lead to complete depersonalization.
studies in the educational community have repeatedly shown, for instance, that the presence of a real teacher is overwhelmingly more effective than video or online classes.
"states": censusstates,  "counties": censuscounties, "tracts": censustracts,  "blockgroups": censusblockgrps, "blocks": censusblocks,  "lakes": censusarealhydrography, "rivers streams":  censuslinearhydrography, "localroads": censuslocalroads,  "secondaryroads": censussecondaryroads, "primaryroads":  censusprimaryroads, "nexrad": nexrad }; var layerscontrol =
“the world has never before been confronted with information glut  and has hardly had time to reflect on its consequences.”
the census bureau will need to continue evolving to meet the challenges of these rapid changes.
now on to azure: first create a storage account and a hosted service.
wcf turned out to be less daunting than i had anticipated.
web maps  contribute more information faster, so web mapping is on the side of the good,  the true, and the beautiful.
it is  likely that you will need to open this port in your local firewall.
well thanks to some links fromgene roe , and interesting open source driver activity around the kinect, here are some possibilities.
element("wmt_ms_capabilities").element("capability") .element("request").element("getmap").element("dcptype")
as you can see this is not exactly user friendly installation, but the reward is seeing kinect control of a mapping environment.
foss4g halls are still filled with independent consultants and academics, but a significant corporate representation is evident by this apparent oxymoron, a presentation by esri, “open source gis solutions.”
as gestures are detected they are pushed out to local port 4530 on a tcp socket service.
navigate(new uri(uri.
no comments » taking an arbitrary list of addresses and finding an optimized route has been a pretty common problem ever since traveling salesmen.
cool, streetside inside!
on the enterprise side, behind locked bim doors, silverlight with its rich authentication framework, but more limited mobile reach, will play a part in proprietary asset management which is a big part of fm, bm, bim …..
although of relatively recent origins, bim has already spawned its own bureaucratic industry with the likes ofnbims replete with committees, charters, and governance capable of seriously publishing paragraphs like this:“nbim standards will merge data interoperability standards, content values and taxonomies, and process definitions to create standards which define “business views” of information needed to accomplish a particular set of functions as well as the information exchange standards between stakeholders.”
the merger of tv and internet holds promise for both whole body and  nearmode kinect interfaces.
each node adds a  piece toward a final solution.
nothing like the cusp of the moment here, and certainly no need for the nuance of dedekind’s cut.
the moonviewer control experiment is relatively  primitive.
do vast itune  libraries subtract from the net benefit of personal mastery of a musical  instrument?
backstage the enterprise awaits with a bouquet of roses.
as you can see this is not exactly user friendly installation, but the  reward is seeing kinect control of a mapping environment.
assumptions of all goodness by cyber utopians are not at all justified as  remarked by evgeny morozov inthe internet in society: empowering and censoring  citizen?
cursor movement and click using posture detection and hand tracking is also feasible, but fine movement is still a challenge.
it uses newer html5 technologies available in a-grade  browsers, but includes fall back for older browsers.
ambientintensity = 0.1f; static const float diffuseintensity =
perhaps a more convenient ui is the bing map gallery version found at bing maps explore: bing map explore route savvy.
what kind of global cultural, economic, and political earthquakes have been set in motion?
step 2: once gesture recognition for these 6 commands is available, step 2 is  handing commands off to a silverlight client.
only earth, moon, mars, ganymede, and io have data affording bump map relief.
in addition it makes use of the simplified routeoptimization service to make the route ui shown above.
but who embraces whom?
unintended side effects  are just that, unintended.
the line features of the 1990 tiger were based on the older 1980 gbf-dime enhanced with usgs 1:100,000 dlg features.
perhaps 3d point clouds will someday help, but you can see the potential for navigable high risk complex facility modeling.
especially interesting is the use of bump maps to show a population density image as 3d. my simple project is to extend this solar wind sample slightly by adding layers fromnasa neo.
i have to admit that it is really nice to have integrated tools across the whole span.
attribute(xlink + "href").value; if  (getmapurl.
dealing with arcs and blocks was more than i wanted, so i took an alternative path.
the bump map approach to displaying variable geographic density as relief  is a useful concept.
—neil postman, technopoly (1992) what is a map but a modeling technology, a symbolic abstraction of space to visualize a formulaic concept?
silverlight has an advantage for web distribution.
it also has examples of basic mouse and arrow key camera control.
in the meantime the essential element of spatially hyperlinked data is already here for the curious to play with.
after all, our technology is here to serve a consumer driven culture and so is mirror land.
in addition there are a couple of very helpful blog posts bydavid  catuhe and a codeplex project, kinect toolbox.
the goal then is to leverage the resourceful templates of asp .net authentication, modify this to a silverlight version (which implies a bing map control is in the future, along with some nifty transition graphics), and finally deploy to azure.
azure provides a lot of cloud for the money.
open standards it wasn’t that long ago that ogc standards were brand new.
however, there are some limitations to bing routing service , and even bing could not prevent willy loman’s tragic demise.
text =  "zoomin"; break; } case "circle2": { scene.
microsoft provides sql scripts adapted for providing this to sql azure: http://code.msdn.microsoft.com/kb2006191 running these scripts in your azure db will create the following membership database and tables:
fig3 – internet map by  chris harrison posted in gis, postgis | no comments » alice in mirrorland – silverlight 5
here is the result: now on to more typical sources, dwg files which are outside of my control.
more information faster is not necessarily a net positive in another sense.
sql azure is in its own separate instance.
using your own service provides more options in architecting a web map solution.
i also added a quick wms 2d viewer html using openlayers against the jpl wms servers to take a look at lunar landing sites.
anything is believable because the next card is experienced as random.
open geospatial and foss are just a small part of this minor universe, but  it’s easy to forget that even ten years ago this all hardly existed.
c/c++ takes away wins in the popular performance shootout.
with the release of an officialmicrosoft kinect beta sdk for windows, things get even more interesting.
[censusstates, censuscounties, censustracts, censusblockgrps, censusblocks] }); leaflet also provides a simple l.control.
twitter, as well, champions brevity while fragmenting communication across a ghostly crowd of undisclosed persons.
said alice, and began to cry.
hybrid web mapping: here are some of the tradeoffs involved between vector and raster tiles.
"bingroads": bingroad,  "bingaerial": bingaerial, "bingaerialwithlabels":  bingaerialwithlabels };
the treeview control comes from the silverlight  toolkit project.
summary: onterra systems route optimization service supplements the already valuable bing services by both optimizing input stop orders and extending the waypoint limitation.
“technology solved the problem of information scarcity, the disadvantages of which were obvious.
the result using this tool is an image that encodes relative elevation of the moon’s surface.
a fascination with xml maps leaflet and census tigerweb january 16th, 2012 fig 1 – sample leaflet interface to the us census bureau’s  new tigerweb wms service with bing maps background ref: http://silverlight.onterrasys.com/mapsavvyleaflet/ us bureau of the census – some background 1990 census the 1990 census line data made a  revolutionary leap from gbf-dime format to tiger,topologically integrated  geographic encoding and referencing, and also adopted cd-rom media  distribution.
next on the list is exploring collision.
it’s not that web browsers wouldn’t benefit by moving  beyond the venerable mouse/keyboard events.
knowledge of location across an intermediary  network matters little to human relationships and adding non-human intelligence  to the mix is only disturbing.
– steven sinofsky couchdb/geocouch was present although “eventually consistent” nosql seems less pressing.
really, how many connections are  there in the world wide web.
one perspective is to look at a bim model as a massively detailed bill of material (bimbom .
visible; }; summary: well it works, maybe not as easily as one would expect for a cloud template.
adding the suggested optioncollapsed: !l.browser.touch keeps the layer control open instead of closing when untouched.
they are but improved means to an unimproved end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at.”
i wrote  a proxy wcf service to grab the image and then write it to png even if the  source is jpeg.
mouse over text labeling helps identify features as well.
the memorable phrase “embrace, extend, extinguish” comes to mind.
debug cycles will take five to ten minutes so this elimination process is tedious.
in the web mapping community  proliferating means can easily be confused with progress.
wps moves analytic workflows into open standards and onto the web.
such bureaucracies know little of agile.
the result is often a beautiful rendering of the earth displaying real satellite data at a global level.
the silverlight business application is the one with membership.
leaflet seems to have problems with tilelayer ordering.
future mobile devices could potentially take advantage  of the human body’s bi-lateral symmetry.
consequences are unintended, because they are  unknowable.
the returned points are now ordered and can be given to the bing route service in the 3rd step of a service chain.
twitter, as well, champions brevity while fragmenting  communication across a ghostly crowd of undisclosed persons.
sqlclient" />                                           now we can publish our updated silverlight web role to azure.
conclusion: a hybrid zoom level based approach is the best general architecture for silverlight web maps where large data sets are involved.
the approach for using kinect for this experimental map interface is to use the gestureviewer code from kinect toolbox to capture some primitive commands arising from sensory input.
here, for example are a couple of posts with interesting discussion:spatialsustain, geoexpressions, and vector one.
perhaps this is just another turf battle arising in the cad versus gis wars.
tiger was useful for its linear data, but was more often used  for the boundary polygons that could be tied to census population demographic  data.
only earth, moon, mars, ganymede, and io have  data affording bump map relief.
text = "zoomout"; break; } } } possible extensions after posting this code, i added an experimental stretch vector control  for zooming and 2 axis twisting of planets.
does it lead to anything but a bureaucratic  illusion of some control over chaos?
the learning curve south of the border is not insignificant, but beauty awaits.
fig 6 – openlayer wms viewer showing lunar landing sites now that the viewer is in place it’s time to take a test drive.
maps are all entangled with mathematical models, ellipsoids, surfaces, and transforms, but are we guilty of mythically inflating the power of maps to communicate something of the good, the true and the beautiful?
yes, there are tropical white sands by an azure sea, but the heart of darkness presses in on the mind.
collapsed; }; the λ calculus “goes to” lambda expressions now in c#, turning mere programmers into logicians.
assuming growth continues, will success reduce the camaraderie of community  as a motivation?
bing javascript the bing javascript extension seemed to run into a problem with intersect at this line: if (zoom = coverage.zoommin && coverage.bbox.intersects(bounds))
do interactive maps add seriously to comprehension or just to  entertainment, as simply a novelty?
but, what does a “flat” byzantine bureaucracy look like?
it  sounds like an expensive operation but surprisingly this re-instantiation seems  to take less time than receiving the getmap request from the wms service.
route savvy is primarily a service to which any number of uis can connect and silverlight happens to be a nice way to create useful uis.
however, there doesn’t seem to be a wms layer for labels like those on the tigerweb viewer.
+= zoomoutvector * 5; tbmessage.
theordnance survey was represented at a plenary session, “we have to learn to embrace open source.
no child is better off for the graph  (unless distant employment potential as an educational bureaucrat is considered  relevant), and, “no child left behind” slogans to the contrary, the overthrow of typography based education proceeds apace in a confusing melee of  winners and losers.
unintended side effects are just that, unintended.
as the internet continued ramping up, ogc released the opengis web map server (wms) specification in 2000.
simply cut the device in two and mount one half on each shoulder, but that isn’t the state of hardware at present.
web mapping is one more filtering approach reducing  information along the axis of spatial proximity.
especially interesting is the use of bump  maps to show a population density image as 3d. my simple project is to extend this solar wind sample slightly by adding  layers fromnasa neo.
the beta kinect sdk gives us device drivers and apis in managed code.
layers tigerweb wms getfeatureinfo is available for queries.
we share in the bounty of alonzo’s intellect in some remote fashion.
cassinirb.ischecked = true; break; } case "dione-on": {  dionerb.ischecked = true; break; } case "enceladus-on": {  enceladusrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "iapetus-on": {
// kinect  voice commands case "mercury-on": { mercuryrb.ischecked = true;  break; } case "venus-on": { venusrb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "earth-on": { earthrb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "moon-on": { moonrb.ischecked = true; break;} case  "mars-on": { marsrb.ischecked = true; break;} case  "marsrelief-on": { marsreliefrb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "jupiter-on": { jupiterrb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "saturn-on": { saturnrb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "uranus-on": { uranusrb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "neptune-on": { neptunerb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "pluto-on": { plutorb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "callisto-on": { callistorb.ischecked = true; break; } case  "io-on": { iorb.ischecked = true;break;} case "europa-on":  {europarb.ischecked = true; break;} case "ganymede-on": {  ganymederb.ischecked = true; break;} case "cassini-on": {
mathhelper.toradians(15); tbmessage.
whether gis analysis reaches into web mapped interiors is an open question.
the older wpf 3d xaml aligns better with x3d, the iso sanctioned xml 3d graphics standard, while xna aligns with the competing webgl javascript wrapper for opengl.
some project extensions: i need to revisit lighting which resides in the cloud shader hlsl.
to state the obvious, face to face renders location aware apps irrelevant and  leaves artificial intelligence firmly anchored in the creepy category.
performance isn’t as  good as a static tile pyramid, but it isn’t bad and simplifies life  immensely.
this wouldn’t be a problem except that mobile devices don’t have the screen space for extra panels.
to use this work-around, you’ll need a licensed version.
foss4g halls are still filled  with independent consultants and academics, but a significant corporate  representation is evident by this apparent oxymoron, a presentation by esri, “open source gis solutions.”
$.ajax({ type: "get", url: getinfourl, datatype:  "xml", success: getfeatureinfo });
another avenue of investigation would be some type of pointer intersection using a ray to indicate planet surface locations for events.
route definition can be set for round trip, one way to a known end destination, or one way to whichever end is the most efficient.
this is added to the  xna rendering pipeline to combine a surface texture with the color relief  imagery, where it can then be applied to a simplified spherical model.
have all suddenly become  base features in mobile browsing.
layers for a user layer control  panel: var basemaps = {
however where data is relatively heterogeneous geographically it might be nice to arrange switching according to density.
mysql  and sql server have quite the feature curve to follow as postgis forges ahead.
just this year we hear ofosm’s steve coast sidling into  microsoft, followed a little later bygdal’s frank warmerdam beaming up  into the google mother ship.
3) there are some odd behaviors on amazon kindle fire, possibly due to the silk web browser’s ec2 caching.
what tidal wave of changing perceptual process is yet to be hailed from the yardarm?
batch tile loading also has limitations for very dense resources that require tiling down deep in a pyramid where the number of tiles grows very large.
after all, look at the way mobile  touch, voice, inertia, gyro, accelerometer, gps . . .
hybrid architectures switch between the two depending on the client’s position in the resource pyramid.
“the fact is, there are few political, social, and especially personal problems that arise because of insufficient information.
this example silverlight ui is a three step process of service chaining.
the corporate penalty, of course, is the loss of  personal intellectual property.
substring(0, getmapurl.
leaflet is open source bsd-licensed with an active contributing community  and available ongithub.
once all of the wms and bing l.tilelayers are instantiated, a new l.map with the desired l.tilelayer set is declared this way: map =
unfortunately they are numerous.
here is a graphic view of some hybrid architectural options: data distribution geographically: another consideration is the distribution of data in the resource.
solar wind illustrates generating a tessellated sphere model with applied textures for various layers.
leaflet is open source bsd-licensed with an active contributing community and available ongithub.
for development, non-profit, and education  uses, this is just a matter of registering for abing key.
no kidding, “taxonomies”?
notice the  camera is evidently held by a vampire.
this was actually fairly easy with the dxf capture of my local grocery store.
there probably isn’t much reason to show very dense resources until the user moves in to an area of interest.
please note, even though routeoptimizer will help linda loman’s car pool run smoothly, it won’t prevent the death of a salesman.
point layers: points have a slightly different twist.
these in turn are handed to the routeoptimizer service.
once all of the wms and bing l.tilelayers are instantiated, a new l.map  with the desired l.tilelayer set is declared this way: map =
using the kinect sdk beta download kinect sdk beta 2: http://www.kinectforwindows.org/download/ be sure to look at the system requirements and the installation  instructions further down the page.
by recursively re–ordering nodes to eliminate segment intersects, the computer quickly turns the above node set into this: the nodes are first ordered with the simplified assumption of straight line segment connectors, and only after a re-ordering is the usual bing route service triggered to get actual routes between nodes.
scheme +  "://" + uri.
but i doubt that kinect will ever incorporate millimeter or back scatter sensors into the commercial versions.
having available a heat map overview, for example, could provide a quick viewport density calculation based on a pixel sum of the heat map intersecting with the user’s viewport.
aec generates floorplans by the boatload and there are even some available on line, but lacking dwg files the next possibility is using cad as a capture tool.
studies in the  educational community have repeatedly shown, for instance, that the presence of  a real teacher is overwhelmingly more effective than video or online classes.
i could walk among the current luminaries of osgeo, arnulf christl, paul ramsey, frank warmerdam, simone giannecchini, and  so on and on, and trade a handshake with the hard working front range folks,  peter batty,brian timoney (way to go brian!), and matt kruzemark too.
the genuine “ terra incognita” of information technology, and consequently web mapping, is the tectonic plate of culture.
rather than the clean, spare  look popular today,tigerweb viewer seems to be a throwback to an  earlier internet.
the reason kinect isn’t part of the  sensor event farmyard may be just a lack of portability and an ‘i’  prefix.
when an assembly is missing publish will continue cycling between initializing and stop without ever giving a reason for the endless loop.
it’s not obvious how far these interior space additions will go in the future, but these seem to be trial balloons floated for generating feedback on interior extensions to the web map mirror world.
however, for the middle tier i had generally used something from the ogc world such as geoserver.
loggedout += (se, ev) => { link2.visibility =
wms object that transforms a wms endpoint into a slippy tile map.
these are activated by voice:  ‘vector twist’, ‘vector zoom’, and ‘vector  off.’
mapproxy  promises a way to proxy in the planet data as epsg:3857 tiles for leaflet  consumption, but openlayers offers a simpler path.
fig 7 – jupiter moon io posted in future, gis, kinect, silverlight, xna 3d | comments off paradise lost october 26th, 2011 fig 1 – web mapping utopia, location uncertain “not surprisingly, in a culture in which information was becoming  standardized and repeatable, mapmakers began to exclude “paradise”
between sql azure, blob storage, and hosted services, both web and worker roles, there are a lot of very useful resources.
one template that is interesting is the asp .net template combined with an azure hosted web role service.
finally, we are making use of port 4530 for the socket service.
with over 900 attendees, the small world of foss seems all of a sudden crowded, jostling through accelerating growth.
although relatively new to the game, microsoft’s full court offense puts some pressure on traditional gis vendors, especially in the web distribution side of the equation.
it’s currently an  either/or proposition for the mobile branch of xna/sl.
tiger was useful for its linear data, but was more often used for the boundary polygons that could be tied to census population demographic data.
eventually xml 3d representations also boil down to a rendering pipeline, but the core difference is that xna is immediate mode while xml 3d is kind of stuck with retained mode.
ok, maybe i exaggerate, after all, “during the first three years, your child’s brain establishes about 1,000 trillion nerve connections!”
the core technology of our current cultural turnover is electronics and the key utility is “ information,” its storage and flow.
we spend many more hours inside the cube than out, so a mirror land where we live is certainly a plausible extension, whether we call it cad, gis, bim, fm, or bingbim matters little.
after the first blink most  users will inevitably recall early internet flashing text and powerpoint decks  filled with animated gifs.
[censusstates, censuscounties, censustracts, censusblockgrps,  censusblocks] }); leaflet also provides a simple l.control.
aaron oneal has been very kind to post  some nicesamples including a game engine called babylon written by david catuhe.
the silverlight 5 beta version of babylon uses silverlight to set some  options and sl5 drawingsurface to host scenes.
for all its impact on life, our beloved internet  encompasses the equivalent of what, a few cubic centimeters of a single  infant’s anatomy.
this the new face of foss?
does the proliferation of web maps, for instance, alter the injustice ofatanas entchev’s incarceration for the so called “crime“of immigration?
anyone with some experience usingfme transformers has some idea of what this looks like on the desktop.
it strikes me as one of those outmoded freudian landscapes so popular in the 50’s, the raw power of xna boiling beneath xaml’s super-ego.
more information faster is even better!
viewchangeend event would then let the ui send a wcf query to the table, retrieving footprints falling into the current viewport as a user navigates in map space.
bing includes some valuable routing services like routing with waypoints, traffic optimization, optimization of time or distance, or even walking routes versus driving versus major routes.
silverlight is a powerful ui  technology, but it is destined to be supplanted by html5.
in addition to our asu moon usgs has published a set of imagery for mars,  venus, mercury, as well as some saturn and jupiter moons.
lots of ideas, little time or money, but silverlight 5 will make possible a  lot of very interesting web apps.
zoomoutvector * 5; tbmessage.
but of course by the mid  2000s internet mapping began changing radically with the popularity of google  maps, gps, bing maps, open street maps, and now ubiquitous mobile devices.
“for the web to move forward and for consumers to get the most out of touch-first browsing, the metro style browser in windows 8 is as html5-only as possible, and plug-in free.
too bad there isn’t more time to play, but here are a few items of note to the spatial world.
next, i fell back to the venerable dxf text export with some c# code to turn it into xaml.
the map control side of gesture commands could also benefit from someeasing function animations.
it sounds like an expensive operation but surprisingly this re-instantiation seems to take less time than receiving the getmap request from the wms service.
silverlight 5 took the xna route to 3d instead of  the wpf 3d xaml route.
—neil postman, technopoly (1992) what is a map but a modeling technology, a symbolic abstraction of space to  visualize a formulaic concept?
no child is better off for the graph (unless distant employment potential as an educational bureaucrat is considered relevant), and, “no child left behind” slogans to the contrary, the overthrow of typography based education proceeds apace in a confusing melee of winners and losers.
; bing maps unlike google maps, microsoft bing allows licensed access to tile servers.
"rotate west"; break; } case "rotate-off": { rotationspeedslider.
maps take all of these streams into a symbolic spatial representation, which filters for location.
in the web mapping community proliferating means can easily be confused with progress.
if (element.descendants("layer").count() > 0) { wmslayer lyr0 = new wmslayer(); lyr0.title = (string)element.
i’m not sure what the upper limit is on performance here.
even though census data releases are a year or so after the actual  census, it was several more years before the census bureau started  investigating alternative wms services for distributing data.
the spotlight now shifts abruptly to a new diva, mobile  html5.
now using vs2010 publish the brand new asp .net web role to the new azure account.
"orbit  right"; break; } case "swipeup": { orbitx
this postgis raster functions  page gives some flavor for the raster functions soon to be available when 2.0  releases.
substring(0,  getmapurl.
however, bump maps for depicting terrain relief are still a must have.
wow what if the moon really looked like this!
helpful links: silverlight 5 beta: http://www.silverlight.net/getstarted/silverlight-5-beta/ runtime: http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=213904 silverlight 5 features: http://i1.silverlight.net/content/downloads/silverlight_5_beta_features.pdf?cdn_id=1 “silverlight 5 now has built-in xna 3d graphics api” xna: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/aa937791.aspx overview nasa neo: http://localhost/nasa-neo/publish.htm babylon scenes: michel rousseau, courtesy of bewise.fr babylon engine: david catuhe / microsoft france / dpe summary:“i am real!”
indexof("?")); observablecollection layers =
"http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"; getmapurl =  getmap.
their concourse  will linger long into the late evening of2021.
an example might be parcel data densities that vary across urban and rural areas.
it’s nice to have an alpha channel for some types of visualization.
this is probably not a notable issue for individual users, but it is a problem for enterprise use with large numbers of stops to calculate.
if you need simple authentication, profile, and registration built on the asp .net model it is all here.
iapetusrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "tethys-on": {  tethysrb.ischecked = true; break; } case "moon-2d": {  moonrb.ischecked = true;
wps moves analytic  workflows into open standards and onto the web.
(see even the slightly jaded can catch some excitement at foss4g.)
in spite of a few minor issues  leaflet is one of the best javascript map
it is also worth noting that with silverlight the client hardware affects performance.
fig 6 – leaflet popup panel with the results of tigerweb wms  getfeatureinfo request some caveats tigerweb 1)
so what’s a newbie web bimmer to do?
however, as these  apis have not been compiled for use with silverlight runtime, a silverlight  client will by necessity be one step further removed.
(string)element1.element("name"); lyr0.sublayers.add(lyr1); }  layers.
kinect devices continue to generate a lot of hacking interest.
unintended messages ripple across  unknowable communities, and histories, whether wanted or unwanted, retain  regrettably long tails.
mouse events connect directory entries to position polygons in the store shelves.
not until the  end of 2011 was this belatedly realized astigerweb.
port + "/moonviewer/mars.html"), "_blank"); break; } case "nasaneo": { earthrb.ischecked = true; system.
clicks are also associated with camera icons to connect to some sample photosynthes and panoramas of store interior.
assuming growth continues, will success reduce the camaraderie of community as a motivation?
even building models ushered in withsketchup are all about exteriors.
the other planets and moons have somewhat less data available, but still  benefit from the xna treatment.
if addresses are listed rather than latitude longitude points, then bing geocode service is called to arrive at the necessary list of latitude, longitude points.
default openlayers isn’t especially pretty, but it takes less than 20 lines of js to get a zoomable viewer with landing locations.
once silverlight 5 is released there will be a continuous xna api across microsoft’s entire spectrum: windows 7 desktops, windows 7 phones, xbox game consoles, and now the browser.
neil postman’stechnopoly triggered some reflection on the present state of web mapping.
hopefully the momentum will continue forward to include demographic data.
this is simple to implement.
[the promised advent of nearmode (50cm range) offers some tantalizing  visions of 3d voxel uis.
once this leaflet bing extension javascript is referenced into a page, adding bing map styles is simply a matter of adding l.tilelayer.
the corporate penalty, of course, is the loss of personal intellectual property.
step 1 – model a building cad is the place to start for buildings.
high – for zoomlevels with high feature counts and large poly node counts, i’d start with pre-seeded static tile at low zoomlevels at the top of the pyramid, perhaps dynamic tiles in the middle pyramid, and vectors at the bottom.
this means that a publish to azure will also copy these two missing assemblies from your local vs2010 environment up to azure and publish will eventually run as expected.
numerous workshops dealt with javascript map frameworks openlayers, mapquery ,geoext, leaflet.
i might also note there  are bugs in paradise, but after all this is beta.
after the first blink most users will inevitably recall early internet flashing text and powerpoint decks filled with animated gifs.
it uses newer html5 technologies available in a-grade browsers, but includes fall back for older browsers.
among many new features is the long  anticipated 3d capability.
in the early 90′s i wrote a few tiger translation programs  for autocad users and users of a popular (now defunct) desktop gis package  called atlas*gis.