the sister boat - that travelled from kiel to oslo the same time - had a dramatic fire and all the passengers was evacuated, and the ferry we travelled by grounded two days after our trip.
it was in  my mind to write the stuff offline and then uploading it, but there wasn't any  very important news - and the weather was fine.
we had a nice trip back to oslo.
i will not bother you with very outdated news - only  the fresh new stuff - plus the noteworthly things noname didn't broadcast.
i'm going to a  birthday party this eve, so there will not be any updates tonight.
the week was filled up with sun,  sun and sun.
after some abortive tries, we found a strange and big hotel.
if you have  any contests you would like us to list, pleasee-mail joshua the contest details.
[saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] saw on blue's  that there's a new version ofglhexen, kodak's opengl-powered version of hexen,  as well as a new version of hisdoomgl port of the doom source code.
it's not quake 1 nor quake 2, but does nod it's head in the direction of the online dm version of both those products (and apparently pissing off both parties at the same time).
the test version of this multiplayer-only game is available as an update to the 1.06 version noname mentionedlast week, or as a full 30mb installer from scratch.
note that this version is available as a win32 client and server, in addition to a linux client.
we spent the night in a _warm_ hotel in lugano.
his father and himself made wines (what else to do?), and of course we tasted and buyed the great-tasting wine (henri gross).
look to the next id product to give you the "brand new" gameplay  and world.
misc sputter [thursday 22 july 1999 - 21:36 cet - cosmo] much of my  mail just went to nowhere the last weeks due the server problems, but here's a  short round up of the most important things i _got_ mail about.
[saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] peter told me that gt interactive has updated theirunreal tournament level of  the week page.
when on the subject, i can tell you that id software's graeme "zaphod" devine has made a.plan update: 1.07 is out there.
we  spent the night in a _warm_ hotel in lugano.
my  apologies for this obvious error.
also note that i will be on a small vacation
but i'm only using a few minutes, you  little untitled guy.
the big complication we've faced porting unreal tournament is that our c++ code needed lots of modifications for gnu c++, but since that's the playstation's compiler too, our code should be linux-friendly all along.
he kept the  site alive while i was away, although he messed up the news-archiveing stuff  and was on a little vacation himself.
then, we said  goodbye to our dear friends and travelling-buddies, heading forward to  lühneburg in germany.
anyway, i will send you  some stuff (software, maby hardware) for the work, and i hope you will continue  to help me out with the news!
but mr. lucky and his crew did (almost) just fine and was in  hamburg after a short hour on die deutsche autobahn.
the test version  of this multiplayer-only game is available as an update to the 1.06 version  noname mentionedlast week, or as a full 30mb installer from scratch.
i have had two wonderful weeks in france and a bunch of other  cool countries in europe.
ut level of the week
user created art will show up as either all black or black and white or as other funky looking combos... basically totally wrong.
tim sweeney on platforms [saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] my buddy martin onunreal nation fired off a mail to tim sweeney wondering what platforms epics next project would support, both when it comes to graphical api's and os's.
we spent the night there and was on the color festival ferry at 10 am.
and just kick my balls for the archiveing-thing,  it is i that should make a news-updating script soon.
i will not bother you with very outdated news - only the fresh new stuff - plus the noteworthly things noname didn't broadcast.
update: anyway, i'll not accomplish this post today, simply because  i do not have the time, and most of the news are outdated anyway...
the next day we drove to alsace, spending some nights at a really nice guy named behrnard in a small town called geubersville.
so i just downloaded winamp and played some music...
i can't promise linux, but it would be pretty easy i think.
nels bruckner, the tribes project manager, sent in this explanation of a bug discovered in the latest release - which swoops on cards based on a chip powered by 3dfx toblue: arg!
there was a bit trouble with some insurance-stuff, but the light  was fine after ½-hour with a funny cheap price.
when my tnt2 ultra arrives in a week or so, i will update the screenshots section with more shots from various 3d games.
after some abortive tries, we found a strange and big  hotel.
d3d clearly has better quality drivers on the pc, and opengl is the api of choice for portability to non-pc platforms.
so i just downloaded winamp and  played some music...
when i was going to update some days later, the thinkpad  went boom-bang for the first time since april - i think it is some ram-related  problems.
that wasn't that weird anymore when we found out that the whole port was moved higher up in the mountains because the biggest, fake lake was made in the bottom!
also take a look at thequake2 screenshots page, with 6 screenshots taken with a ati rage fury 128 in 1024x768 by jarle kaste.
here's what tim had to say: our next engine will support standard, multi-hardware api's only, no proprietary api's.
quake 3 is arcade deathmatch, nothing more and nothing less.
important mails should be resent.
they are also giving away the  new version of the intensor chair, details ontheir contests page.
we bathed, ate, watched some  dvd's, went on bowling, mini-golf, a big theme park and tons of more.
and the  weather was constantly around 40¤c. after a  wonderful week, we went into italy, with some pretty impressive bridges and  tunnels.
user created art will show up as either  all black or black and white or as other funky looking combos... basically  totally wrong.
and now, here's the  "almost": a big semitrailer did a rather spanish turn and sqashed our  backlight...
and now, here's the "almost": a big semitrailer did a rather spanish turn and sqashed our backlight...
but norwegians still knows the art of tunnel and bridge-making!
my apologies for this obvious error.
we spent the night in a nice hotel in a weird town with very  simular houses.
[saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] saw on blue's that there's a new version ofglhexen, kodak's opengl-powered version of hexen, as well as a new version of hisdoomgl port of the doom source code.
http/1.0 200 ok date: tue, 14 feb 2012  19:46:13 gmt server: microsoft-iis/6.0 showing: 19 july - 25 july 1999 small updates [saturday 24 july 1999 - 14:48 cet - cosmo] i have  tweaked all the pages with better font sizes, updated links and text - so  everything should be a bit better now.
anyway, i will send you some stuff (software, maby hardware) for the work, and i hope you will continue to help me out with the news!
funny, huh? we drove, drove and  drove - finally we reached our main goal: a nice (and expensive) villa outside  grimaud, which isn't far away from st. tropez.
we spent the night on a old and cosy hotel, before we used the car some hours, arriving in a town near the port-town hirtshals.
(pending arrival of a development system).
in addition to myself of course, my nearest family (my dad, mom and little brother), and some close frieds (ragnar bø - the mandatum chief monkey, his wife and two daughters) fired up our audis and took the ferry from oslo to kiel.
[saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] blue mentions that 3dfx has the windows nt version of the recently released new  win9x drivers for the voodoo3. tribes 1.6 3dfx
bye for now - it's time for washing clothes (my mom, not me, you stoopid), looking at my new dvd's on my little cinema, testing my new parfume-set, mowing the grass, and - you know.
routine, my friend, routine...
the next day we drove to alsace, spending some nights at a  really nice guy named behrnard in a small town called geubersville.
look to the next id product to give you the "brand new" gameplay and world.
the week was filled up with sun, sun and sun.
i get a bunch of feedback from people wanting this product to be more like  quake 1 or quake 2, while others look for us to innovate and make something  brand new.
i guess you used tons of time (even if it  went wrong) with the news-archiveing -
and a  faster server too (a new server is here, but not set up first).
but that's life): -----
there's a lot in the test which is very temporary, so while we've taken great pride in putting out very solid test releases, we're still working hard on the final product and very much appreciate your feedback (q3feedback@idsoftware.com) in getting this product right for you - the players -
quake 3 arena will keep basically with what you've seen and read about up until now and it's now time to put this one to bed.
but that's  life): -----
we did a  little shopping and went to the zoo before we (and the cars) took the  night-train to basel, and drove stright through switzerland.
and a faster server too (a new server is here, but not set up first).
check the news archive and quake3 test section onblue's news if you want more tips and tweaks for improving your performance, and grab the files fromthe official q3test site.
thedrivers  section is also updated with the latest driver database from driverzone.
tim sweeney on platforms [saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] my buddy martin onunreal nation fired off a mail to tim sweeney wondering what  platforms epics next project would support, both when it comes to graphical  api's and os's.
the new  version fixes some cheating bugs, hopefully fixes some server problems, and  should generally play much better than the previous releases.
my sweet compaq palmtop didn't want to surf at all, i will try to fix  it in the next days.
bug [friday 23 july 1999 - 23:44 cet - cosmo] i don't know if noname mentioned the release of the tribes 1.6 patch last week - anyway - here's a link tothe downloads page on tribesplayers.com.
we spent the night in a nice hotel in a weird town with very simular houses.
but i'm only using a few minutes, you little untitled guy.
so the only bold statement i'll make is that we won't be supporting glide and other proprietary api's in the long-term future.
i had a ibm thinkpad with a 9600 modem, but being on the net with a  cellular phone, calling from france to norway - is _very_ expensive.
in addition to myself of course, my nearest family (my  dad, mom and little brother), and some close frieds (ragnar bø - the mandatum chief monkey, his wife and two daughters) fired up our audis and took  the ferry from oslo to kiel.
european avp 1.1 patch
the sister boat - that travelled from kiel to oslo  the same time - had a dramatic fire and all the passengers was evacuated, and  the ferry we travelled by grounded two days after our trip.
thedrivers section is also updated with the latest driver database from driverzone.
we will develop the next engine on at least two platforms simultaneously.
[saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] blue mentions that 3dfx has the windows nt version of the recently released new win9x drivers for the voodoo3. tribes 1.6 3dfx
check it out for more  information and screenshots.
we spent the night on a old and cosy hotel, before  we used the car some hours, arriving in a town near the port-town hirtshals.
i can't  promise linux, but it would be pretty easy i think.
quake 3 arena will keep basically with what you've seen and read  about up until now and it's now time to put this one to bed.
agn has posted a review of trophy bass 3d.
important  mails should be resent.
i will upload some pictures when i get the time,  promise ;)
all trademarks used are properties of their respective owners.
[saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] yesterday,avault posted the european version of the aliens vs. predator version 1.1 patch, that, along with other tweaks and improvements, adds the long awaited in-game save function.
the specific problem is with user created art (reticles, skins, etc.) and voodoo configurations with more than one tmu.
people seem to be liking the opengl support though!
it was in my mind to write the stuff offline and then uploading it, but there wasn't any very important news - and the weather was fine.
well, i have one person to thank spesifically: noname.
i guess you used tons of time (even if it went wrong) with the news-archiveing -
we let an obvious one slip through in the 1.6 patch of tribes.
so the only bold statement i'll make is  that we won't be supporting glide and other proprietary api's in the long-term  future.
funny, huh? we drove, drove and drove - finally we reached our main goal: a nice (and expensive) villa outside grimaud, which isn't far away from st. tropez.
five-seven  days the next week on my cabin - but summer is summer, ya know... also note that my mailserver was down from monday to yesterday.
there's  a lot in the test which is very temporary, so while we've taken great pride in  putting out very solid test releases, we're still working hard on the final  product and very much appreciate your feedback (q3feedback@idsoftware.com) in  getting this product right for you - the players -
we bathed, ate, watched some dvd's, went on bowling, mini-golf, a big theme park and tons of more.
he kept the site alive while i was away, although he messed up the news-archiveing stuff and was on a little vacation himself.
his father  and himself made wines (what else to do?), and of course we tasted and buyed  the great-tasting wine (henri gross).
we have the problem fixed, we will get the patch up asap.
also note that i will be on a small vacation five-seven days the next week on my cabin - but summer is summer, ya know... also note that my mailserver was down from monday to yesterday.
affiliates random review quote: http/1.0 200 ok date: tue, 14 feb 2012 19:46:13 gmt server: microsoft-iis/6.0 small updates [saturday 24 july 1999 - 14:48 cet - cosmo] i have tweaked all the pages with better font sizes, updated links and text - so everything should be a bit better now.
and the pool was used diligently.
noname may have  mentioned some of the items before, but this is a nice abridge of news anyway:
the current chief is entitled dm-tempest.
and the weather was constantly around 40¤c. after a wonderful week, we went into italy, with some pretty impressive bridges and tunnels.
check the news archive and quake3 test section onblue's news if you  want more tips and tweaks for improving your performance, and grab the files  fromthe official q3test site.
there was a bit trouble with some insurance-stuff, but the light was fine after ½-hour with a funny cheap price.
[saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] peter told me that gt interactive has updated theirunreal tournament level of the week page.
the big complication we've  faced porting unreal tournament is that our c++ code needed lots of  modifications for gnu c++, but since that's the playstation's compiler too, our  code should be linux-friendly all along.
we did a little shopping and went to the zoo before we (and the cars) took the night-train to basel, and drove stright through switzerland.
i have had two wonderful weeks in france and a bunch of other cool countries in europe.
:) quake3 test 1.07 released [thursday 22 july 1999 - 21:54 cet - cosmo] yet another update to the quake3arena test is up on the net.
note that this  version is available as a win32 client and server, in addition to a linux  client.
d3d  clearly has better quality drivers on the pc, and opengl is the api of choice  for portability to non-pc platforms.
the  specific problem is with user created art (reticles, skins, etc.) and voodoo  configurations with more than one tmu.
the new version fixes some cheating bugs, hopefully fixes some server problems, and should generally play much better than the previous releases.
bye  for now - it's time for washing clothes (my mom, not me, you stoopid), looking  at my new dvd's on my little cinema, testing my new parfume-set, mowing the  grass, and - you know.
nels bruckner, the  tribes project manager, sent in this explanation of a bug discovered in the  latest release - which swoops on cards based on a chip powered by 3dfx toblue: arg!
people seem to be liking the opengl  support though!
when my tnt2 ultra arrives in a week or so, i will update the  screenshots section with more shots from various 3d games.
new voodoo3 drivers for nt
at least pc and playstation2 (pending arrival of a development system).
when on the subject, i can tell you that id software's graeme  "zaphod" devine has made a.plan update: 1.07 is out there.
i'm going to a birthday party this eve, so there will not be any updates tonight.
for those who feel like taking a part in my life, almost like the truman show (ehh), read the story below (i know it becaume awfully big -
bug [friday 23 july 1999 - 23:44 cet - cosmo] i don't  know if noname mentioned the release of the tribes 1.6 patch last week - anyway  - here's a link tothe downloads page on tribesplayers.com.
back from the ehh... past [thursday 22 july 1999 - 20:43 cet - cosmo] the king is back!
i get a bunch of feedback from people wanting this product to be more like quake 1 or quake 2, while others look for us to innovate and make something brand new.
then, we said goodbye to our dear friends and travelling-buddies, heading forward to lühneburg in germany.
here's what tim had to say: our next engine will support standard, multi-hardware api's only, no  proprietary api's.
that wasn't that weird anymore when we found out that the whole  port was moved higher up in the mountains because the biggest, fake lake was  made in the bottom!
i will upload some pictures when i get the time, promise ;)
and just kick my balls for the archiveing-thing, it is i that should make a news-updating script soon.
please try and find cheat exploits and report them to us!
also, keep in mind that this is a test, and not the final product.
for those who feel like taking a part in my life, almost like the truman  show (ehh), read the story below (i know it becaume awfully big -
noname may have mentioned some of the items before, but this is a nice abridge of news anyway:
most likely, we will support both direct3d and opengl.
copyright © 1998-2000 axel sjøstedt.
[saturday 24 july 1999 - 13:05 cet - cosmo] yesterday,avault posted the european version of the aliens vs. predator version  1.1 patch, that, along with other tweaks and improvements, adds the long  awaited in-game save function.
i had a ibm thinkpad with a 9600 modem, but being on the net with a cellular phone, calling from france to norway - is _very_ expensive.
but mr. lucky and his crew did (almost) just fine and was in hamburg after a short hour on die deutsche autobahn.
my sweet compaq palmtop didn't want to surf at all, i will try to fix it in the next days.
also take a look at thequake2  screenshots page, with 6 screenshots taken with a ati rage fury 128 in 1024x768  by jarle kaste.
when i was going to update some days later, the thinkpad went boom-bang for the first time since april - i think it is some ram-related problems.
it's  not quake 1 nor quake 2, but does nod it's head in the direction of the online  dm version of both those products (and apparently pissing off both parties at  the same time).
check it out for more information and screenshots.
misc sputter [thursday 22 july 1999 - 21:36 cet - cosmo] much of my mail just went to nowhere the last weeks due the server problems, but here's a short round up of the most important things i _got_ mail about.