back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4010c download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring perceptive pixel jeff han - perceptive pixel see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
many of these new programmers have pursued cuda development without any prior exposure to opengl or experience with graphics programming, ...
research topics include: computer  vision, ray tracing, quantum chemistry, vlsi, shadow mapping and much more.
and even in optimal circumstances, there are  always vertexes which destroy the locality.
...read more advances in a variety of fields ranging from cellular phone design to mri coil  design necessitate the use of high accuracy electromagnetic computational  methods such as finite difference time domain (fdtd) to analyze complex new  products.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1404
high fidelity techniques such as fdtd generally yield highly accurate  results at the cost of increased computation time.
...read more milabra is a visual recognition company that focuses  on improving online advertising performance through the analysis and active  utilization of commercially relevant visual data.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4005b download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring jedox ag kristian raue - jedox ag see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
hemisphere is the leading provider of enterprise visual product communication,  collaboration and publishing solutions that optimize mission critical business  processes such as sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and customer support for  leading ...
shared memory and an optimized looping method are employed  to avoid memory communication bottlenecks.
we deliver these advances in image and  video search on a web server platform that can be used by our customers to  solve image and video search applications.
right hemisphere is a privately held, venture-funded corporation based in  silicon valley and auckland, new zealand.
...read more the emerging companies summit is a unique forum for startup companies to showcase innovative applications that leverage the gpu to solve visual and compute-intensive problems.
flv pdf nexus: a powerful ide for gpu computing on windows sebastien  domine  unleash your productivity with nexus, nvidia's new development  environment for gpu computing and graphics applications that use cuda c,  opencl, directcompute, direct3d, or opengl.
our r ...read more gpus have been used in many different domains with great success.
cooliris has reached 12 million  installs of the product, with tens of thousands downloading everyday.
these circuits require a  particular attention in the organization of data in memory and of communication  between on-board memory and main memory.
in this talk, i will introduce the open-source pycuda toolkit, which assists in this task in a number of ways: convenient, high-level interface pycuda binds all functionality in nvidia cuda to a convenient interface in the high-level scripting language python.
with its innovative express connect platform, nextio offers the unique ability to virtualize i/o technology on any server, operating system, hypervisor and storage architecture.
it will include a range of seed activities from extreme sports and gaming to gentle self-paced sightseeing excursions, episodic adventures, face-to-face socializing and play, and support for vibrant and viable communities.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1452  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 gpu ventures, for the entrepreneur jeff herbst, laurent gil  during this panel, we will discuss how viewdle and  nvidia have been working together and bring a product to market.
for more information please visit www.righthemisphere.com.
d'fusion is the leading marketable technology that injects a brand or product representation into a live video stream in real time; the interactive experience is not confined by the physical space of the screen or the display.
we''ll discuss basic opengl operations, simple drawing, image/video display and cuda / opengl interoperability concepts for rendering data generated from cuda programs.
read more join our panel of  leading industry experts as they discuss some of the most exciting and  disruptive current and future applications to be built on top of gpus.
upcoming implementations of the eit include olap and data  warehouse style applications for telco and financial services industries.
gtc on-demand gpu technology conference (gtc) is comprised of year-round international conferences, workshops and online events.
this talk is intended to provide an introduction to opengl graphics programming specifically oriented towards the non-graphics cuda programmer.
startup presentation alex santo, amit srivastava  dux soft pvt.
resource  management and error checking are automatic.
read more the session examines collaboration between inspur and bgp in oil seismic data processing prestack time migration and the three-dimensional random noise attenuation algorithm.
read more moderated by jon peddie (president, jon peddie research)
pycuda and gpu metaprogramming were crucial in  achieving this level of performance.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1053 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf
icido''s virtual reality solutions are used throughout the entire product development process from design to manufacturing.
tv and documentary production companies enhance their storytelling and viewer experiences far beyond the traditional narrow viewpoint of a single camera.
the company''s first product is a new multimedia discovery and indexing platform that combines gpu and cloud computing to give standard commercial search systems the ability to "discover" the content of "unsearchable" (aka, un-indexed and/or untagged by people) images, audio and video, and return the results just as it would text.
after announcing autodesk cloud globally in september, autodesk launched cadren, a web portal and desig ...
the opening address includes an overview of nvidia's gpu ecosystem develo ...
in this session we will hear from dr. wei ge at the chinese academy of science, professor amitabh varshney at the university of maryland, and adjunct assistant professor stan tomov at the university of tennessee - knoxville.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1001
the art of performance
this has significant impacts to the lattice qcd, as well as the physics of the strong interaction.
experienced system integrators will find flexibility and the right balance between design, efficiency and performance with supermicros open standards based hpc building block solutions®.
o  virtualization solutions for today''s dynamic data center in a variety of  industries including enterprise, telecommunications, high performance  computing, digital media and financial services.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2035
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2056
visuvi inc. is a privately held company based in  redwood city, ca and is managed by a seasoned executive team consisting of  christopher boone, president and ceo, alexander valenica, chief scientist and  co-founder, florian brody, vp marketing and yuri drozd, vp product management.
hear about whats next in gpu computing, and preview disruptive technologies and exciting demonstrations from across industries.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2268 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 the evolution of gpus for general purpose computing ian buck - nvidia learn how the gpu evolved from its humble beginning as a "vga accelerator" to become a massively parallel general purpose accelerator for heterogeneous computing systems.
the cluster will use mpi, the shared-memory system  threads and locks, and gpu a data-parallel programming model like cuda.
a  demonstration of the image identification technology can be seen at http://www.iqengines.com/wb/update.php    back keywords:  general  interest, gtc 2009 - id 2047    total immersion startup presentation bruno uzzan  founded in 1999 by bruno uzzan and valentin lefevre, total
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4005a download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring rocketick uri tal - rocketick see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
...read more through our state-of-the-art software platforms, gamebryo lightspeed and gamebryo, emergent game technologies helps developers fulfill their maximum creative potential by giving them the power to endlessly - and efficiently - iterate development.
noted imc clients include mercedes-benz, nike, national geographic, nbc sports, the nba, red bull, adidas, armani and the emmys telecast.
this has significant impacts to the lattice qcd, as well as the  physics of the strong interaction.
my thesis is that the  only way to program such diverse set of systems is to raise the level of  abstraction and build domain-specific programming models that are able to  automatically map applications to different types of platforms.
we are inspired by the brain''s vision system - how the brain represents images and how the brain recognizes objects.
the empulse indexing technology (eit) is a framework for  analyzing and searching large data sets on gpgpus.
raising capital in difficult environments heather gates massoudi.
shared memory and an optimized looping method are employed to avoid memory communication bottlenecks.
the session analysises application characteristics and combined gpu computing features focusing on migration optimization methods, which targets the applications to optimize them, which has led to substantial performance improvement.
we focus on creating products that make discovering and enjoying  the web more exciting, efficient, and personal.
the company brings to the market the cumulative experience of experts in simulation, parallel computing and computer architecture.
the talk will describe key challenges and algorithmic strategies involved in achieving high computational performance on gpus, discuss methods for effectively using multiple gpus in low-latency calculations that drive interactive visualizations, and will also include some examples of how these performance increases ultimately enable better science.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2214 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf cuda centers of excellence super-session i hanspeter pfister, jeffrey vetter - harvard university, georgia tech and ornl come hear about the groundbreaking research taking place at the cuda centers of excellence, an elite group of world-renown research universities that are pushing the frontier of massively parallel computing using cuda.
find this session at 5 minutes into the video.
nexus also includes state of the art graphics debugging features and convenient api state inspection.
headquartered in palo alto, california, the  cooliris team consists of seasoned executives, engineers and entrepreneurs from  companies like apple, ebay, electronic arts, google, microsoft, paypal and  youtube.
for this reason, using the gpu to perform these  calculations is very tempting.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2021  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 nextio inc.
samsung research indicates that it will be difficult to overcome a few major barriers to attaining and exceeding data transfer speeds in excess of 10gbps with the single-ended technology that is used today.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4002c download: wmv pdf emerging companies summit panel: gpus for computer vision jon peddie - jon peddie research moderated by jon peddie (president, jon peddie research)
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1145 streaming: watch now download: flv next-generation graphics dram: challenges and opportunities jimmy chung gddr5 is the most up-to-date graphics memory technology today, offering an impressive bandwidth of between 4 and 7gbps.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2058  streaming: watch now nvidia.com
with  over half of the internet graphical in nature, and with over 8 billion photos  and 500 million videos uploaded per month to social media in the united states  alone, visual media is the most important and fastest growing component of the  internet.
...read more acceleware provides software  solutions to harness the parallel processing capabilities of multi-core  gpus/cpus for the electronic design and oil & gas industries.
ltd. has  been founded to design, integrate and deliver an innovative mix of productivity  and performance based products and solutions, for enterprises working with  floating point computations or rich media technologies, ...
this talk will focus on significant milestones in gpu hardware architecture and software programming models, covering several key concepts that demonstrate why advances in gpu parallel processing performance and power efficiency will continue to outpace cpus.
read more dux  soft pvt. ltd. has been founded to design, integrate and deliver an innovative  mix of productivity and performance based products and solutions, for  enterprises working with floating point computations or rich media  technologies, and in the process establish itself as a leader in the high  productivity computing, digital media solutions, artificial intelligence based  storage & workflow integration market.
our experience as traders, strategists, researchers  and technologists at major financial institutions spans all major asset classes  and products.
once the opportunity became obvious, the challenge was how to best evolve a general purpose programming model to preserve the gpu's architectural advantage.
by replacing fixed components of a traditional ray  tracer with user-specified programs, optix is able to implement a rich array of  rendering and non-rendering algorithms while still maintaining high  performance.
this talk is intended to provide an introduction to opengl  graphics programming specifically oriented towards the non-graphics cuda  programmer.
this ceo on stage session features empulse gmbh - covering the field of databases & data mining.
total immersion brings to market sophisticated yet practical applications of industry protocols and standards, including the most advanced proprietary recognition, tracking and rendering available from any source.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 -  id 1147  streaming: watch now download:
working with  nvidia''s technical team, viewdle was able to harness the power of the gpu, and  bring advanced photo and video analysis to the consumer desktop.
in this presentation, we describe how to use the hmpp (heterogeneous manycore parallel programming) api, one of the directive-based approaches, to program heterogeneous compute nodes.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4007c download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring otoy jules urbach - otoy see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1055 watch now cn download: mp4 cn pdf emerging companies summit: ceo on stage featuring mirriad mark popkiewicz - mirriad see the hottest new technologies from startups that are transforming computing.
this ceo on stage session features elemental technologies - covering the field of video processing.
this ceo on stage session features universal robotics - covering the field of machine learning & artificial intelligence.
while streamlining it deployment, simplifying administration and reducing costs.
read more to understand the nature of the strong interaction in the subatomic regime is a grand challenge in science.
we deliver these advances in image and video search on a web server platform that can be used by our customers to solve image and video search applications.
i discuss a number of applications where we have applied gpgpu techiques with cuda to analyzing images and data in the laboratory, including swimming bacteria, diffusing colloids, and optical tomography, and phase-separating liquid-gas colloidal mixtures onboard the international space station.
plus a sneak peak at the future of gpu acceleration!
this discussion will be from the  point of view of the entrepreneur who would like to work with nvidia and will  include real examples and demos of viewdle''s soon to launch software.
read more with the fast increasing complexity of integrated circuits, logic simulation based design verification has become the bottleneck of todays design flows of integrated circuits (ics).
todays high performance computing solutions are under ever increasing demands from scientific, engineering and business applications to run 24x7x365 at peak performance processing massive amounts of data across distributed networks.
streaming: watch now download: flv visual innovation in the classroom sean obrien 3d models are transforming primary education.
read more gddr5 is the most up-to-date graphics memory technology today, offering an impressive bandwidth of between 4 and 7gbps.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1425 download: wmv fireside chat with jen-hsun huang and jon peddie jen-hsun huang
streaming: watch now download: mp4 pdf
however, demand continues for the development of finer and finer graphics to be used in games as well as professional design applications.
viewers can  plunge themselves into live 360-degree streaming video on location or full  motion prerecorded video/webisodes.
the  latest version is available for the pc, mac, and linux platforms, and can be  downloaded at www.cooliris.com.
however, starting from the action of qcd, it is very computationally demanding to extract physical observables in qcd, which always requires the state-of-the-art supercomputers.
in a lively and fast-paced exchange, the "emerging companies summit - ceo on stage" sessions feature ceos from three startups ...
with nvidia gpu technology, hpc scales to new levels of performance within existing infrastructure and budgetary constraints.
imagine a favorite animated character sitting in the next chair, or a static product suddenly "come to life"- that's total immersion's augmented reality.
xulu's content will showcase the beginnings of an expanding universe with both real-world and fantasy-world elements.
this is excellent opportunity for existing and future  customers and developers to come together to share their questions and comments  on how to make cuda debugger better and how to take cuda debugging into every  developer tool.
read more nvidia embraces emerging technology and those who dedicate their research to growth in visual and parallel computing.
because upwards of 80% of all non-text content on the internet is unsearchable, the kaam technology offers organizations the ability to generate income from huge volumes of formerly unmonetized media.
they also allow for faster and easier global collaboration and communication, ensure better visibility and visualization of early stage products.
cuda-gdb is also a platform to built custom debuggers so if you  plan to build a cuda debugger this session will provide the details on building  your very own cuda debugger.
milabra''s image intelligence platform and commercial decisioning framework is fast, accurate and easy to use.
whether it''s on a school bus, in an office building, down an alley, or deep behind the lines in a military theater, immersive videos protect people, manage assets and ensure safety.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1020 cuda student workshop the cuda student workshop is a platform for college students to present their cuda programming-enabled application results.
optitex specialty is cloth.
upcoming implementations of the eit include olap and data warehouse style applications for telco and financial services industries.
unity is the fastest growing platform with at least one new unity  game appearing for iphone on a daily basis.
streaming: watch now download: mp4 gpu metaprogramming using pycuda: methods & applications andreas kloeckner writing reliable gpu codes that achieve peak performance in the face of changing requirements and hardware platforms can be a challenging task.
our experience as traders, strategists, researchers and technologists at major financial institutions spans all major asset classes and products.
the unity tools have been hailed as revolutionary  for enabling high quality results in an easily accessible development  environment.
back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2038  streaming: watch now download: flv hpc project startup presentation pierre fiorini  hpc  project, under the wild systems brand, provides application-in-a-box solutions  for demanding users who require intensive computational power.
the research community  first identified the gpu as a computing platform and shown the promise to solve  many of the world's compute intensive problems, many orders of magnitude faster  the conventional cpus.
our core products include cooliris (formerly piclens), which transforms your browser into an interactive, full-screen "cinematic" experience for web media, and coolpreviews, which lets you preview links instantly.
the company is  dedicated to package turnkey products, providing outstanding computing  performance in a desktop form factor for interactive use of complex dataset.
having introduced the toolkit, i will show how pycuda has supported a number of applications in computational science: first, we have successfully used pycuda in a high-performance discontinuous galerkin finite element (dg-fem) solver.
the term dg-fem describes a family of high-order accurate numerical methods for systems of partial differential equations that model real-world processes such as electromagnetic scattering or fluid flow.
milabra uses advanced neural  networks to identify the commercially valuable visual aspects of images, video  and graphics, uses predictive analysis to synthesize the data collected, and  provides partners with actionable data to advertising performance online.
in the face of increasing upward pressures on power consumption, green gddr5 and low power mobile ddr2 (or lpddr2) provide outstanding performance at exceptionally low power levels, for a greater return on investment in designing desktop and mobile devices, respectively.
to solve qcd is a grand challenge among all sciences.
these professors will provide commentary on the work of the students and hold discussions on how to effectively leverage the gpu in a variety of scientific research.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2052 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 xulu entertainment startup presentation joe santos, nanci solomon xulu is developing a new type of interactive experience based on massively distributed physics simulation that delivers unprecedented realism in a virtual world.
in addition to providing a revolutionary development platform to independent creative teams, multiverse also works closely with leading brands to translate their ideas into engaging online consumer experiences back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2027 streaming: watch now download: flv milabra startup presentation samuel cox milabra is a visual recognition company that focuses on improving online advertising performance through the analysis and active utilization of commercially relevant visual data.
our customers include top-tier  banks, broker/dealers, asset managers and hedge funds around the world.
they abstract the programming of low-level parallelism details while preserving code assets against the evolution of processor architectures.
memory vendors will have to closely  examine a variety of factors including differential technology, and
...read more nextio,  inc. is the leader in next-generation i/o virtualization solutions for today''s  dynamic data center in a variety of industries including enterprise,  telecommunications, high performance computing, digital media and financial  services.
now cn mp4 cn optimization methods using gpus in oil seismic data processingand case analysis zhang qing - inspur
capable of supporting up close and personal social interactions, alongside full  high-end gaming and sporting experiences, the system provides open api's and a  suite of tools that allow both professional and novice users alike to  contribute a broad range of highest quality content.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4008c download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring optitex yoram burg - optitex usa inc. see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in 1993 and has served since its inception as president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors.
express connect delivers unprecedented rack-level scalability, with i/o and server resources that can be scaled independently for 50-70% savings in capital, power, and cooling.
however, demand continues for the development of finer  and finer graphics to be used in games as well as professional design  applications.
all presentations all presentations keynotes
cuda-gdb is nvidia''s very first native gpu debugger that lets you debug cuda applications on the linux platforms.
back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2035  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 affine systems startup presentation michael sullivan  affine systems is an online video advertising company that can target  advertisements against specific videos across all the top online video web  sites.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1056 streaming: watch now watch now cn download: mp4 mp4 cn emerging companies summit wrap up jeff herbst - nvidia back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1057 gpu acceleration of large scale business intelligence and analytics ren wu - hp labs gpus have been used in many different domains with great success.
in this session we will hear from professor hanspeter pfister of harvard university and professor jeff vetter of georgia tech and oak ridge national laboratory.
gmbh see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
at the forefront of dux''s solutions is a unique digital workflow tool called swivel which manages pipelines, rendering and assets and extends to provide digital mining capabilities for new media enterprises.
back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2039  streaming: watch now download:
the opening address includes an overview of nvidia''s gpu ecosystem development activities and an interaction on stage with selected companies building groundbreaking applications on top of the gpu platform.
a demonstration of the image identification technology can be seen at http://www.iqengines.com/wb/update.php back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2047 total immersion startup presentation bruno uzzan founded in 1999 by bruno uzzan and valentin lefevre, total immersion is based in france and maintains a u. ...
total immersion brings to market sophisticated yet practical applications of  industry protocols and standards, including the most advanced proprietary  recognition, tracking and rendering available from any source.
a dynamic gpu memory allocator is also introduced to efficiently manage gpu memory resources.
the iray rendering mode will be  available in the next versions of mental ray (3.8) and realityserver (2.4).
in the laboratory, however, many experimental applications have large quantities of data; so large, in fact, that moving the data to a remote cluster may take longer than analyzing it once it arrives.
this talk will cover digital 3d entertainment from the theater to the home.
these include  normals, smooth skin, collision detection, finite elements and more.
with gpus and cpus on a co-processing 1u server, data centers can achieve greater system manageability and a uniform building block for deployment.
founded in 2008, the company was formed by a team of experienced entrepreneurs, industry veterans and scientists from the best visual recognition programs in the country.
the company fuses neuroscience with proven advertising, psychology and grapic theory.
back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1080  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 debugging tools for cuda satish salian  explore the  ease of debugging heterogeneous applications using the integrated cpu and gpu  debugging environment of cuda-gdb.
having introduced the toolkit, i will show how pycuda has supported a  number of applications in computational science: first, we have successfully  used pycuda in a high-performance discontinuous galerkin finite element  (dg-fem) solver.
the current economic situation poses unique challenges for start-ups seeking to raise critical funds to grow their businesses.
among its many applications, imc''s  immersive video is utilized by major consumer product brands to increase  customer loyalty, website interest, and viral campaigns.
in this presentation, the two  leading-edge companies will take a close look at market-ready, state-of-the-art  notebook technology for high performance computing applications with case study  information that focuses on real-world applications.
again, code generation and empirical  optimization as provided by pycuda provide the basis for the approach that may  make gpu performance possible even in situations where manual development is  not economical.
we will present a live demo plug-in inside autodesk's maya application, and discuss the implementation.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2043  streaming: watch  now download: flv mp4 naturalmotion limited startup  presentation torsten reil  naturalmotion ltd. is a leading entertainment  software company with offices in oxford (england) and san francisco  (california).
the company produces the widely-adopted animation technologies euphoria,morpheme and endorphin, used across the game and movie industries by companies such as rockstar games, lucasarts, disney and bioware as well as in the development of backbreaker, the company's first in-house game.
read more *founded in 2008, after years of  experience in supercomputing and visualizations *privately owned
...read more quantum  chromodynamics (qcd) is the quantum field theory of the strong interaction,  describing the interactions of the quarks and gluons making up hadrons (e.g.,  proton, neutron, and pion).
topics will cover both visual and high performance computing, including rendering, video processing, scientific computing, cloud computing, and more.
in this session, find out how adobe photoshop, after  effects and adobe premiere pro get a distinct performance boost when handling  large files or creating motion graphics and visual effects.
the technique for parallel computing with matlab has made great progress no ...
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1405 future directions in gpu computing bill dally, sean varah, simon hayhurst, steve perlman join our panel of leading industry experts as they discuss some of the most exciting and disruptive current and future applications to be built on top of gpus.
...read more "perceptive pixel is dedicated to the research, development and deployment of multi-touch interfaces for the knowledge worker.
the  company, founded in 2006 by jeff han, has applied these novel interfaces to  applications in such areas as business intelligence, medical imaging, energy  exploration, and defense.
the industry will need to uncover a cost-efficient way to move  beyond single-ended memory chip designs.
...read more iray® is a interactive, global illumination ray-traced rendering technology  that generates photo real imagery without introducing rendering algorithm  specific artifacts, and without requiring the use of renderer specific  parameterizations.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf digital 3d entertainment gary sasaki digital 3d entertainment is suddenly catching fire.
hand-coding this type of structures could be very tedious and error-prone.
the company's products enable both novice and expert users to manipulate complex datasets through a new class of intuitive yet powerful and visually rich interface techniques.
they discussed the rise of gpus, current trends in visual and parallel computing, and the transformational changes ahead for the industry. ...
read more jen-hsun huang was joined in a fireside chat by quentin hardy, national editor at forbes magazine.
these were solved using a variety of methods and approaches.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4011b download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring total immersion - total immersion see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
this presentation will review gddr5 technology and present various ideas on how best to exceed the bellwether threshold of 10gbps.
in addition to providing a revolutionary development platform to independent creative teams, ...read more multiverse is a pioneering interactive entertainment company.
...read more empulse gmbh is  a cologne/germany based it company focussing on innovative technology and web  applications.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1080 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 debugging tools for cuda satish salian explore the ease of debugging heterogeneous applications using the integrated cpu and gpu debugging environment of cuda-gdb.
in some dynamic scenes, tens of thousands of vertexes need to have  their new position recalculated for each frame and in some cases (like physical  simulation) every sub frame.
the ecs is a great opportunity to discover new players in  the visual and high performance computing ecosystems, find great investments,  explore partnership opportunities, network/build relationships, and discuss the  future of an industry that is reshaping computing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id
again, code generation and empirical optimization as provided by pycuda provide the basis for the approach that may make gpu performance possible even in situations where manual development is not economical.
read more iq engines was founded as a collaboration of  computer neuroscientists at uc berkeley and uc davis.
panelists include flip gianos (partner, interwest), charles carmel (vp of corporate business development, cisco), nathan brookwood (principal analyst, insight64) and jeff herbst (vp of business development, nvidia).
high-end graphics memory has been an essential ingredient in designing pc cards for many years, just as mobile dram has been a part of virtually all mobile devices since they were first developed.
...read more the emerging companies  summit is a unique forum for startup companies to showcase innovative  applications that leverage the gpu to solve visual and high-performance  computing problems.
read more with the development of science and technology, more and more r&d and engineering application departments are facing challenges with large scale technical numeric computing.
streaming: watch now download: flv acceleware startup presentation michal okoniewski acceleware provides software solutions to harness the parallel processing capabilities of multi-core gpus/cpus for the electronic design and oil & gas industries.
the company also plans to deliver a software as a service (saas) offering for smaller entities late in 2010.
research has proven that only  35% of students can think in 3d, so visualization has become an important tool  in the classroom for improving engagement, comprehension and boosting test  scores. ...
for the second year in a row, nvidia ceo jen-hsun huang will  participate in a freewheeling fireside chat with leading industry analyst jon  peddie, of jon peddie research.
leveraging pci express, nextio offers true i/o virtualization for any end-point technology.
read more many applications of gpgpu marshal hundreds of gpus in large computer clusters, enabling large simulations where the ratio of calculation to actual data is large.
but one of the problems that arise from moving these calculations to the gpu is, triangular mesh topologies don''t have a predefined vertex locality, it depends on the arbitrary indexing mechanism used when the topology was created.
the company, founded in 2006 by jeff han, has applied these novel interfaces to applications in such areas as business intelligence, medical imaging, energy exploration, and defense.
in addition, rtl simulation is performed in a compiled-code scheme by translating the input hardware description language (e.g., verilog) into equivalent cuda code.
however, they may have access to a million dollar budget to spend on building a specific-purpose gpu supercomputer for their orga ...
attendees will don 3d glasses and be given a demonstration of scientific concepts being taught in today's classrooms.
the xulu platform scales  gracefully for a large number of simultaneous users with minimal reliance on  centralized servers, and harnesses the power of leading-edge gpus and cpus to  deliver ultimate online end-user experiences.
mp4 mp4 cn cadren: platform-class design solution powered by cloud tech kelvin wang - autodesk china r&d center (acrd)
our team is the first in the world to deliver any-image labelling with 100% success and near-100% accuracy.
affine uses its proprietary computer vision technology to scan all the videos on these web sites to find the best advertising opportunities for its clients.
...read more optix is the latest  and most flexible api for interactive ray tracing, taking full advantage of the  power and generality of the cuda architecture.
*develops gpu based  solutions for the israeli industry targeting general computing aspects and  visualization   back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2024   streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 multiverse  startup presentation corey bridges, rafhael cedeno  multiverse is a  pioneering interactive entertainment company.
our sophisticated neural network technology has the ability to add value to every image and visual element we see.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2264 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 cuda centers of excellence super-session iv paul calleja, satoshi matsuoka, ting-wai chiu - university of cambridge, national taiwan university, tokyo institute of technology come hear about the groundbreaking research taking place at the cuda centers of excellence, an elite group of world-renown research universities that are pushing the frontier of massively parallel computing using cuda.
...read more empulse gmbh is a cologne/germany based it company focussing on innovative technology and web applications.
acceleware solutions enable users of single-threaded applications to access multi-core processing hardware and achieve dramatic compute speed-ups.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1202
they want more effective tools to interpret vast amounts of data.
at optitex, we have been using cuda  since the initial 0.8 beta.
members of this panel have several years of experience developing  various debuggers and will share their experience building the debugger for the  cuda architecture.
our acceleration platform seamlessly integrates with applications from industry leading vendors in the electromagnetic simulation, seismic data processing, reservoir modeling industries and linear algebra solvers.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2051 visuvi, inc.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4010b download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring naturalmotion limited torsten reil - naturalmotion limited see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
due to overwhelming response and limited capacity if you are interested in attending any of the keynotes or general sessions, be sure to schedule this session into your personal calendar.
back keywords:  general interest,  gtc 2009 - id 1055  streaming: watch now download:
...read more state-of-the-art graphics processing units (gpus) contain hundreds of processing units and are able to perform trillions of floating point arithmetic operations per second.
third party and user-created entertainment, businesses, goods, and services will follow.
imc''s immersive videos provide unparalleled visual intelligence in security applications for the military, fire and police departments and state and local government agencies.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4001c download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring migenius chris blewitt - migenius see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2053 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 evolved machines startup presentation paul rhodes we are pioneering the reverse engineering of brain circuitry to build intelligent machines.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1017
affine''s core vision technology is able to recognize people, brands and products in the visual stream of a video, as well as detect inappropriate content and extract important information about the quality and content of the videos that it scans.
this breakthrough technology  immediately provides users with the ability to implement tasks that were  traditionally addressed only with massive supercomputers or that were simply  unsolvable.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2110 streaming: watch now download: mp4 parallel computing with matlab and gpus david chen - mathworks china with the development of science and technology, more and more r&d and engineering application departments are facing challenges with large scale technical numeric computing.
examples of customer and partner uses of gpus will be described along with hps extensive line of gpu enabled servers, purpose built to deliver innovation at any scale back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1075 watch now cn download: mp4 cn pdf massively parallel logic simulation with gpus yangdong steve deng - tsinghua university, institute of microelectronics with the fast increasing complexity of integrated circuits, logic simulation based design verification has become the bottleneck of todays design flows of integrated circuits (ics).
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1426
we  will demonstrate the key features of iray for end users and application  developers, including the progressive refinement of images until maximum fine  detail is reached, providing a single process which smoothly combines  interactive pre-visualization and final frame rendering.
...read more through our state-of-the-art software  platforms, gamebryo lightspeed and gamebryo, emergent game technologies helps  developers fulfill their maximum creative potential by giving them the power to  endlessly - and efficiently - iterate development.
ray tracing (13) signal processing (4) simulation (25) stereoscopic 3d (4) tools (50) tools & libraries (78) video processing (10) visualization (9) or refine by: event or conference event or conference emerging companies summit gdc gtc gtc asia gtc express gtc japan gtc singapore gtc taiwan gts israel int'l supercomputing conference siggraph siggraph asia supercomputing year year 2012 2011 2010 2009 format format keynote poster presentation tutorials webinar general interest presentation media compute api - past & future ofer rosenberg, - intel back keywords: general interest, gts israel 2011 download: pdf conference closing yury drozdov - novatte back keywords: general interest, gtc singapore 2011 download: pdf cuda research fast forward lorena barba - boston university presented by the pasi fellows, moderated by lorena barba, boston university ...read more presented by the pasi fellows, moderated by lorena barba, boston university back keywords: general interest, supercomputing 2011
nexus introduces native gpu debugging and platform-wide performance  analysis tools for both computing and graphics developers, fully integrated  into visual studio 2008.
whether it''s on a school bus, in an office  building, down an alley, or deep behind the lines in a military theater,  immersive videos protect people, manage assets and ensure safety.
streaming: watch now download: pdf gpu computing: past, present and future david luebke - nvidia back keywords: general interest, gtc express 2011 download: flv mp4 pdf gpu direct: gpu to gpu communications over infiniband
todays high performance computing solutions are under ever increasing demands from scientific, engineering and business applications to run 24x7x365 at peak perf ...
tv and documentary production companies enhance their  storytelling and viewer experiences far beyond the traditional narrow viewpoint  of a single camera.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2038
streaming: watch now download: flv dux soft pvt.
find this session at 20 minutes into the video.
read more visuvi develops targeted visual search engine solutions for a wide range of vertical applications in medicine, ecommerce and general-purpose visual search and maintains an index of images on the internet.
it is used from high-level descriptions down to gate-level to validate several aspects of the design, particularly functional correctness. ...
during the development of these parts, different problems occurred relating to vertex index locality.
for the second year in a row, nvidia ceo jen-hsun huang will participate in a freewheeling fireside chat with leading industry analyst jon peddie, of jon peddie research.
in addition  to providing a revolutionary development platform to independent creative  teams, multiverse also works closely with leading brands to translate their  ideas into engaging online consumer experiences  back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2027  streaming: watch now download: flv milabra startup presentation samuel cox  milabra is a visual  recognition company that focuses on improving online advertising performance  through the analysis and active utilization of commercially relevant visual  data.
gtc on-demand gives you archival access to the world-class education delivered at gtc, as well as the latest research and insights presented by nvidia staff at other important industry events.
research has proven that only 35% of students can think in 3d, so visualization  has become an important tool in the classroom for improving engagement,  comprehension and boosting test scores.
moreover, i present a new strategy to compute qcd nonperturbatively from the first principles, which can be improved systematically, and will eventaully lead to high precision predictions from the first principles of qcd.
our team is the first in the world  to deliver any-image labelling with 100% success and near-100% accuracy.
the xulu platform scales gracefully for a large number of simultaneous users with minimal reliance on centralized servers, and harnesses the power of leading-edge gpus and cpus to deliver ultimate online end-user experiences.
using the processing power  of nvidia's cuda architecture allows this time to be reduced by over two orders  of magnitude.
for the second year in a  row, nvidia ceo jen-hsun huang will participate in a freewheeling fireside chat  with leading industry analyst jon peddie, of jon peddie research.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2309 download: flv emerging companies summit opening address jeff herbst - nvidia
what every cuda programmer needs  to know about opengl joe stam  cuda has attracted thousands of new  developers to gpu computing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4004c download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring softkinetic michel tombroff - softkinetic see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
we will present a brief overview of the problem domain and a description of how the gpu has opened doors to uncharted research areas.
gpu speedups will be shown utilizing jacket.
...read more hpc project, under the wild systems brand, provides application-in-a-box solutions for demanding users who require intensive computational power.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 empulse gmbh startup presentation joerg bienert empulse gmbh is a cologne/germany based it company focussing on innovative technology and web applications.
this ceo on stage session features playcast media systems - covering the field of video processing.
as an established leader in high-performance quantitative financial computing, hanweck associates pioneered commercial gpu-based computing solutions for the finance industry, ...
it is hard to  find two letters that are changing the thinking and technology in so many  industries in the digital entertainment value chain.
...read more this session is an open discussion on cuda debugging tips and discussion of existing debugger features in the cuda architecture.
read more cuda has attracted thousands of new developers to gpu computing.
panelists for this session include dan'l lewin (corporate vp, microsoft), drew lanza (partner, morgenthaler), and jon peddie (president, jpr) & jeff herbst (vp of business development, nvidia).
this ceo on stage session features perceptive pixel - covering the field of imaging.
the company produces the widely-adopted animation technologies  euphoria,morpheme and endorphin, used across the game and movie industries by  companies such as rockstar games, lucasarts, disney and bioware as well as in  the development of backbreaker, the company's first in-house game.
working together with nvidia, viewdle was able to formulate a consumer  strategy and secure distribution partners.
...read more supermicro and  nvidia® recently announced a new class of servers that combines massively  parallel gpus with multi-core cpus in a single server system.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1426    raising capital in  difficult environments heather gates massoudi.
well known as the developer of google street view visual mapping,  imc''s fully immersive spherical videos allow viewers complete control to  explore environments with a simple click and scroll of the mouse.
read more cuda has attracted thousands of new developers  to gpu computing.
using the processing power of nvidia's cuda architecture allows this time to be reduced by over two orders of magnitude.
towards real world applications ivan, ufimtsev - stanford university (united states) back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id #7 download: pdf a parallel streaming framework for multi-processing-unit systems huy, vo - university of utah (united states) back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id #8 download: pdf from brook to cuda ian buck while computing with the gpu may seem like a new technology, the foundations upon what is available today have a legacy which date back to the original parallel supercomputers.
xulu's content will showcase the beginnings of an expanding universe with both  real-world and fantasy-world elements.
...read more acceleware provides software solutions to harness the parallel processing capabilities of multi-core gpus/cpus for the electronic design and oil & gas industries.
...read more unleash your  productivity with nexus, nvidia's new development environment for gpu computing  and graphics applications that use cuda c, opencl, directcompute, direct3d, or  opengl.
experimental results show that the gpu simulators significantly outperform their cpu counterparts.
many of these new programmers have pursued cuda development  without any prior exposure to opengl or experience with graphics programming,  but nonetheless could benefit from the powerful visualization capabilities gpus  also have to offer.
viewdle first came to nvidia with a technology that required massive amounts of raw compute.
noam bloch - mellanox back keywords: general interest, gts israel 2011 download: pdf gpu for industrial inspection applications gonen raveh - orbotech back keywords: general interest, gts israel 2011 download: pdf gpu@hp research dr. sagi schein - hp
read more cooliris, inc. was founded in january 2006 with a simple mantra: "think beyond the browser".
pioneering the delivery of rich interactive media to the home,  onlive will change the way that entertainment applications are created,  delivered and consumed.
in this presentation, the two leading-edge companies will take a close look at market-ready, state-of-the-art notebook technology for high performance computing applications with case study information that focuses on real-world applications.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1123 download: wmv use of high performance gpus in military/aerospace and defense applications jim berlin gpus have long been used in military/aerospace and defense applications, but with the advent of gpgpu computing the range of problems that will be solved by gpus with the cuda architecture is set to expand dramatically.
but today, with complex scenes  having millions of polygons and wanting to add physical effects --just moving  and deforming those polygons presents a growing challenge especially when  trying to ...read more rendering has been the classic challenge of 3d  graphics.
in some dynamic scenes, tens of thousands of vertexes need to have their new position recalculated for each frame and in some cases (like physical simulation) every sub frame.
streaming: watch now download: flv gass company for advanced supercomputing solutions ltd startup presentation mordechai butrashvily *founded in 2008, after years of experience in supercomputing and visualizations *privately owned *
examine these programmable components, and the flexibility they provide, through a guided tour of this exciting new engine.
...read more supermicro and nvidia® recently announced a new class of servers that combines massively parallel gpus with multi-core cpus in a single server system.
the ability to bring supercomputing to the data, in form of nvidia gpus, however, allows high-throughput analysis where results can be obtained fast enough to guide subsequent experiments.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4001a download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring mersive rob balgley - mersive see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
read more optimized gpu server designs maximize performance and efficiency for hpc applications.
read more as an established leader in high-performance quantitative financial  computing, hanweck associates pioneered commercial gpu-based computing  solutions for the finance industry, focusing tomorrow''s technology on today''s  risk management, research and trading problems.
read more nvidia embraces emerging technology and  those who dedicate their research to growth in visual and parallel computing.
this session, hosted by nvidia  chief scientist bill dally, showcases perspectives from industry luminaries on  the future of hpc and the role of the gpu.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1404  streaming:  watch now download: flv adobe creative suite 4 --  performance enhancements featuring gpu acceleration kevan o'brien  plus a  sneak peak at the future of gpu acceleration!
in this talk, i outline the salient features of qcd which are relevant to hpc, and explain how gpu can serve as a vital device for large-scale qcd simulations.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1052
this framework was developed  for the implementation of a tourism web portal, accessing up to 5 billion  travel offerings.
it will include a range of seed  activities from extreme sports and gaming to gentle self-paced sightseeing  excursions, episodic adventures, face-to-face socializing and play, and support  for vibrant and viable communities.
using cuda we are on the way to deliver an implicit cloth engine, which will work in real time for cloth meshes up to 10,000 polygons.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id  1145  streaming: watch now download: flv next-generation  graphics dram: challenges and opportunities jimmy chung  gddr5 is the  most up-to-date graphics memory technology today, offering an impressive  bandwidth of between 4 and 7gbps.
founded in 2008, the company was formed by a team of  experienced entrepreneurs, industry veterans and scientists from the best  visual recognition programs in the country.
as an added benefit, the resulting solver  turned out to be very versatile with respect to equation types, domain  dimensionality, and discretization parameters.
nim is slated to run at high resolution (4km global scale) within two years.
sean will share some of the models that secondary and college educators have built to improve learning in science, technology, engineering and math (stem).
this ceo on stage session features softkinetic - covering the field of computer vision.
this talk will present recent  successes in multi-gpu acceleration in vmd, a molecular dynamics visualization  and analysis application in which gpu computing techniques have provided  speedups ranging from 10 to over 100 times faster than commodity cpu cores.
research has proven that only 35% of students can think in 3d, so visualization has become an important tool in the classroom for improving engagement, comprehension and boosting test scores. ...
from may, also new mobile workstation enables personal mobile supercomputing.
resource management and error checking are automatic.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2034   streaming: watch now download: flv dux soft pvt.
read more see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
this interactive feedback loop can improve the quality of the science itself.
timing comparisons against an  optimized commercial fdtd code are given.
now  the most promising approach to solve qcd nonperturbatively is to discretize the  continuum space-time into a 4 dimensional lattice (i.e., lattice qcd), and to  compute physical observables with monte carlo simulation.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2080 writing code to survive the manycore revolution francois bodin - caps entreprise pushed by the pace of innovation in the gpu architecture and more generally the manycore technology, the processor landscape is moving fast.
this talk will present recent successes in multi-gpu acceleration in vmd, a molecular dynamics visualization and analysis application in which gpu computing techniques have provided speedups ranging from 10 to over 100 times faster than commodity cpu cores.
in this talk, i will provide both a perspective on how  gpu computing evolved from early published results of using gpu as a computing  platform, to the early programming models and tools, what the state of the art  is today, and extrapolate where gpu computing is going.
a versatile "platform for discovery"  with an undeniable wow factor, total immersion offers consumers a compelling  way to interact with brands in their own environment.
nexus introduces native gpu debugging and platform-wide performance analysis tools for both computing and graphics developers, fully integrated into visual studio 2008.
- - gpu technology conference 2012 san jose, california | may 14-17, 2012 - gpu technology conference asia 2011 beijing, china | december 14-15, 2011 - registration login - submission login gpu technology conference gpu technology conference 2012 may 14-17, 2012 | san jose, california - agenda - gtc sessions - topics - registration and pricing - convince your manager - lanl ahpc symposium - inpar 2012 - emerging companies summit - events and activities - travel and hotels - speaker resource center - participate - call for sessions - call for posters - gtc worldwide submissions - travel and hotels - our sponsors and exhibitors - why sponsor/exhibit?
...read more icido, pioneer and global leader of virtual reality and virtual engineering solutions support companies to make their product development process sustainable, competitive and environmentally friendly.
...read more samsung semiconductor and lenovo have teamed up to push the envelope on  notebook performance and data reliability.
our compiler framework provides in this  context the necessary alignment of data and the pipelining of their  communication for a high-performance execution.
the technique for parallel computing with matlab has made great progress not only in the development of parallel algorithm but also in the hardware support.
supermicro will provide an overview of this groundbreaking product  in this session.
janko mrsic-flogel (cto, mirriad) tom dean (research scientist, google)
the operation of gpu during simulation is orchestrated by an asynchronous parallel simulation protocol for sufficient parallelism.
now the most promising approach to solve qcd nonperturbatively is to discretize the continuum space-time into a 4 dimensional lattice (i.e., lattice qcd), and to compute physical observables with monte carlo simulation.
back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2032  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 icido gmbh startup presentation ralf heimberg   icido, pioneer and global leader of virtual reality and virtual engineering  solutions support companies to make their product development process  sustainable, competitive and environmentally friendly.
in each case the application needs  to be completely rewritten.
read more xulu is  developing a new type of interactive experience based on massively distributed  physics simulation that delivers unprecedented realism in a virtual world.
this fast evolution makes software development more complex.
- resource center - media partners - travel and hotels - what is gtc?
attendees will don 3d glasses and be given a demonstration of  scientific concepts being taught in today's classrooms.
as such, there are many facets of hardware design to consider including cpu, memory, interconnect, density, power efficiency, reliability as well as performance accelerator to maximize performance per watt, per square foot and per dollar.
wild systems solutions are supported by best-of-breed technologies representing more than 25 years of r&d in the supercomputing field.
compelling content is a key  element of a successful launch, and is needed to attract a large initial  audience that will drive demand for xulu's platform and generate early revenue.
this breakthrough technology immediately provides users with the ability to implement tasks that were traditionally addressed only with massive supercomputers or that were simply unsolvable.
scalability pycuda covers "small-scale"  and "large-scale" uses alike: it allows quick prototyping and  experimentation, but it also integrates easily into large-scale computational  software.
this panel will  attempt to assess the current state of both the public and private markets, and  will explore various strategies and options for raising capital.
mobile energy exploration film finance general interest gpu accelerated internet high performance computing imaging life sciences machine learning & artificial intelligence medical medical imaging & visualization misc molecular dynamics neuroscience physics simulation programming languages & techniques ray tracing signal processing simulation stereoscopic 3d tools tools & libraries video processing visualization computational biology
...read more discover and leverage parallelism inherent in pre-existing codes.
climate & weather modeling computer-aided engineering developer talk development tools and libraries exascale parallel programming languages & compilers stay connected speakers, sessions and discounts.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2057 perceptive pixel startup presentation jeff han "perceptive pixel is dedicated to the research, development and deployment of multi-touch interfaces for the knowledge worker.
read more logic simulation is a critical component of the digital design tool flow.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4000 download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring elemental technologies sam blackman - elemental technologies, inc. see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1017  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 research summit  fast forward with bill dally bill dally  nvidia embraces emerging  technology and those who dedicate their research to growth in visual and  parallel computing.
for more information please visit  www.righthemisphere.com.
it is our pleasure to showcase their research during the fellow fast forward.
dux serves its niche market by  bringing together innovative ideas, scalable technologies, and a  top-of-the-line team -- with over 50 years of combined experience setting up  major animation studios in india, designing and implementing successful  pipelines, and managing scalable infrastructures.
express connect delivers  unprecedented rack-level scalability, with i/o and server resources that can be  scaled independently for 50-70% savings in capital, power, and cooling.
plus you'll get a sneak peek at what's coming in the future around gpu acceleration in adobe premiere pro.
jeff herbst, nvidia's vice president of business development will lead this panel discussion, which will include leading industry experts from sutter hill ventures, citi, silicon valley bank and deloitte.
...read more unleash your productivity with nexus, nvidia's new development environment for gpu computing and graphics applications that use cuda c, opencl, directcompute, direct3d, or opengl.
this unique  configuration delivers performance at least an order of magnitude better than  traditional quad-core cpu-based servers.
flv acceleware startup presentation michal  okoniewski  acceleware provides software solutions to harness the parallel  processing capabilities of multi-core gpus/cpus for the electronic design and  oil & gas industries.
streaming: watch now gpu computing past, present and future ian buck - nvidia back keywords: general interest, supercomputing 2011
our simulation framework is based on a distributed data structure to manage simulation events.
this ceo on stage session features optitex - covering the field of physics simulation.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4011a download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring cinnafilm lance maurer - cinnafilm, inc.
acceleware solutions  enable users of single-threaded applications to access multi-core processing  hardware and achieve dramatic compute speed-ups.
read more see the hottest new technologies from startups that are transforming computing.
the implementation is available as open source in the bullet physics sdk.
our results show that gpus can bring tremendous performance advantages over cpu only approaches.
explore and learn from the best and brightest minds working in high performance computing today.
...read more learn about twenty-four hour, fast-time simulations of traffic in the national airspace system, which use gpu technology to help perform key steps in the trajectory prediction of flights.
the newly available computational power brought by gpus is enabling a new generation of scientific and engineering applications to perform calculations on "personal supercomputers" that previously required hpc clusters or that were otherwise impractical in everyday use.
easily catch hard-to-find bugs using the nexus memory inspection tools and set data breakpoints on your running application.
what every cuda programmer needs to know about opengl joe stam cuda has attracted thousands of new developers to gpu computing.
in particular, we provide insights on how gpu / cpu can be exploited in a unified manner and how code tuning issues can be minimized.
in this talk i will share some of the work we did at hp labs on using gpus as accelerator for large scale deep analytics - a relatively less explored area but full of potential.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1074
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009  - id 2057    perceptive pixel startup presentation jeff han   "perceptive pixel is dedicated to the research, development and deployment  of multi-touch interfaces for the knowledge worker.
with augmented reality,  the brand temporarily "resides" in the viewer's space.
the emerging companies summit is a unique forum for startup companies to showcase innovative applications that leverage the gpu to solve visual and compute-intensive problems.
often times, parallelism is hidden in seemingly serial programs.
once the opportunity became obvious, the challenge was  how to best evolve a general purpose programming model to preserve the gpu's  architectural advantage.
read more visuvi develops targeted visual search engine solutions for  a wide range of vertical applications in medicine, ecommerce and  general-purpose visual search and maintains an index of images on the internet.
it is an essential resource for the scientists, engineers, researchers, and developers who rely on gpus to tackle enormous computational challenges.
we describe the changes in data structures and algorithms to parallelize for cuda and opencl.
this "push-button" rendering capability can dramatically improve artist productivity in a wide variety of use cases, including architectural visualization, automotive styling and marketing, product styling, among others.
onlive, together with its mova subsidiary, lies directly at the nexus of several key trends, all of which are reshaping the way we think about and use digital media: * the shift to cloud computing, displacing the limitations, cost and complexity of local computing; * an explosion of consumer broadband connectivity, bringing fast bandwidth to the home; * unprecedented innovation, creativity and expansion within the video game market.
read more iq engines was founded as a collaboration of computer neuroscientists at uc berkeley and uc davis.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2021 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 nextio inc.
we give several canned techniques of vectorization for many common, and sometimes very difficult, use cases.
streaming: watch now download: flv onlive startup presentation steve perlman onlive is launching the world's highest performance games on demand service, instantly delivering the latest high-end titles over home broadband internet to the tv and entry-level pcs and macs.
eri rubin - optitex back keywords: general interest, gts israel 2011 download: pdf opening keynote with jen-hsun huang, nvidia jen-hsun huang - nvidia do not miss this opening keynote, featuring jen-hsun huang, ceo and co-founder of nvidia and special guests.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2052  streaming:  watch now download: flv mp4 xulu entertainment startup  presentation joe santos, nanci solomon  xulu is developing a new type of  interactive experience based on massively distributed physics simulation that  delivers unprecedented realism in a virtual world.
in this session you will learn about the capabilities of the cuda-gdb debugger with a walk through of the simplicities of being able to debug complex parallel applications.
right hemisphere integrates disparate product data readily available in cad, plm, and erp systems and automates the delivery of intelligent product information as common documents and files or directly into business applications to downstream stakeholders on a global basis.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1400  streaming: watch now download: flv pdf real time  cloth: 3d triangular mesh algorithms on the gpu eri rubin  rendering has  been the classic challenge of 3d graphics.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4004b download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring cooliris austin shoemaker - cooliris see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
hanweck associates team brings over 40 years of hands-on expertise in financial markets and technology services.
but today, with complex scenes having millions of polygons and  wanting to add physical effects --just moving and deforming those polygons  presents a growing challenge especially when trying to achieve real time  performance.
due to overwhelming response and  limited capacity if you are interested in attending any of the keynotes or  general sessions, be sure to schedule this session into your personal calendar.
the workshop will showcase the achievements of six college students, the winners of the cuda contest.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2008 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 cooliris startup presentation austin shoemaker cooliris, inc. was founded in january 2006 with a simple mantra: "think beyond the browser".
right hemisphere is the leading provider of enterprise visual product communication, collaboration and publishing solutions that optimize mission critical business processes such as sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and customer support for leading global 1000 manufacturers.
the  cost of maintaining three different versions of a program is often prohibitive,  and limits the adoption of gpus in many applications.
we are inspired by the  brain''s vision system - how the brain represents images and how the brain  recognizes objects.
towards  real world applications ivan, ufimtsev  - stanford university (united  states)     back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id #7   download: pdf a parallel streaming framework for  multi-processing-unit systems huy, vo  - university of utah (united  states)     back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id #8   download: pdf from brook to cuda ian buck  while computing  with the gpu may seem like a new technology, the foundations upon what is  available today have a legacy which date back to the original parallel  supercomputers.
read more state-of-the-art graphics processing  units (gpus) contain hundreds of processing units and are able to perform  trillions of floating point arithmetic operations per second.
for more information, please visitcooliris.
read  more unity enables console-quality games for the desktop, the web, the  iphone and the wii console.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1428 emerging companies summit opening address jeff herbst
this technology is  based upon a formal analysis of source codes enabling correct automated  transformations.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1077 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf the art of performance tuning for the cuda architecture - this birds of a feather session is an open discussion on the art of performance tuning for the cuda architecture.
plus you'll get a  sneak peek at what's coming in the future around gpu acceleration in adobe  premiere pro.   back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1405     future directions in gpu computing bill dally, sean varah, simon  hayhurst, steve perlman  join our panel of leading industry experts as they  discuss some of the most exciting and disruptive current and future  applications to be built on top of gpus.
the  company brings to the market the cumulative experience of experts in  simulation, parallel computing and computer architecture.
the session examines collaboration between inspur and bgp in oil seismic data processing prestack time migration and the three-dimensional random noise attenuation algorithm.
watch now cn mp4 cn how to build a million dollar 70
cuda-gdb is also a platform to built custom debuggers so if you plan to build a cuda debugger this session will provide the details on building your very own cuda debugger.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1146 streaming: watch now download: flv the high life for high performance brian beard, henry ramos samsung semiconductor and lenovo have teamed up to push the envelope on notebook performance and data reliability.
...read more during this panel, we will discuss how viewdle and nvidia have been working together and bring a product to market.
imc''s immersive videos provide unparalleled visual intelligence in  security applications for the military, fire and police departments and state  and local government agencies.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1451
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1084 streaming: watch now download: mp4 pdf qcd in gpu ting-wai chiu - national taiwan university to understand the nature of the strong interaction in the subatomic regime is a grand challenge in science.
the newly  available computational power brought by gpus is enabling a new generation of  scientific and engineering applications to perform calculations on  "personal supercomputers" that previously required hpc clusters or  that were otherwise impractical in everyday use.
by leveraging nvidia's new maximus configuration, we demonstrate realtime fluid simulation using smoothed particle hydrodynamics.
...read more the current economic situation poses unique challenges for start-ups seeking to raise critical funds to grow their businesses.
the empulse indexing technology (eit) is a framework for analyzing and searching large data sets on gpgpus.
for lattice qcd with  exact chiral symmetry, it often requires supercomputers (e.g., 10 racks of ibm  bluegene) to perform the simulations.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4005c download: wmv pdf fireside chat with jen-hsun huang (co-founder & ceo, nvidia) jen-hsun huang - nvidia jen-hsun huang was joined in a fireside chat by quentin hardy, national editor at forbes magazine.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2022  streaming: watch  now download: flv gass company for advanced supercomputing  solutions ltd startup presentation mordechai butrashvily  *founded in  2008, after years of experience in supercomputing and visualizations *privately owned *developing hoopoe - a cloud infrastructure and service  for gpu computing ...
flv mp4 cuda centers of excellence super-session iii charles hansen, wen-mei hwu, yangdong deng - tsinghua university, university of utah, university of illinois come hear about the groundbreaking research taking place at the cuda centers of excellence, an elite group of world-renown research universities that are pushing the frontier of massively parallel computing using cuda.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1461 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 right hemisphere startup presentation michael lynch
right hemisphere integrates disparate product data readily  available in cad, plm, and erp systems and automates the delivery of  intelligent product information as common documents and files or directly into  business applications to downstream stakeholders on a global basis.
read more *founded in 2008, after years of experience in supercomputing and visualizations *privately owned *developing hoopoe - a cloud infrastructure and service for gpu computing *providing libraries to assist developers with using gpu technologies from .net and java applications (cuda.net, jcuda, opencl.net)
flv mp4 icido gmbh startup presentation ralf heimberg icido, pioneer and global leader of virtual reality and virtual engineering solutions support companies to make their product development process sustainable, competitive and environmentally friendly.
developing hoopoe - a cloud infrastructure and service for gpu computing ...
read more as an established leader in high-performance quantitative financial computing, hanweck associates pioneered commercial gpu-based computing solutions for the finance industry, focusing tomorrow''s technology on today''s risk management, research and trading problems.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2042
they are  pushing the boundaries of innovation and demand faster product-development  cycles for more complex products.
the ecs is a great opportunity to discover new players in the gpu ecosystem, find great investments, explore partnership opportunities, network/ build relationships, and discuss the future of an industry that is reshaping computing.
this ceo on stage session features bunkspeed - covering the field of computer graphics.
this ceo on stage session features total immersion - covering the field of computer vision.
streaming: watch now download: mp4 dell solution for high density gpu infrastructure
cooliris has reached 12 million installs of the product, with tens of thousands downloading everyday.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4006 download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring scalable display technologies andrew jamison - scalable display technologies see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
with its innovative express connect platform, nextio offers the  unique ability to virtualize i/o technology on any server, operating system,  hypervisor and storage architecture.
the company also plans to deliver a software as a service (saas) offering for  smaller entities late in 2010.
this talk will cover digital 3d entertainment from  the theater to the home.
the session analysises application characteristics and combined gpu comput ...
for each example, learn how to express the code at a higher, more concise level in m by vectorizing computations.
many adobe creative suite 4 applications have enhanced features designed to take advantage of nvidia geforce and quadro gpu cards to accelerate application performance.
iray takes full advantage of the cuda programming model, allowing interactive performance on single nvidia gpus, and scaling almost linearly on multi-gpu platforms.
in this talk, i will  present the case for domain-specific programming models, and outline several  projects that we are doing at stanford as part of the pervasive parallelism  laboratory.
this session will include information on how to register for the nexus beta program.
dux serves its niche market by bringing together innovative ideas, scalable technologies, and a top-of-the-line team -- with over 50 years of combined experience setting up major animation studios in india, designing and implementing successful pipelines, and managing scalable infrastructures.
with over half of the internet graphical in nature, and with over 8 billion photos and 500 million videos uploaded per month to social media in the united states alone, visual media is the most important and fastest growing component of the internet.
...read more milabra is a visual recognition company that focuses on improving online advertising performance through the analysis and active utilization of commercially relevant visual data.
dell back keywords: general interest, gtc taiwan 2011 download: pdf easy teraflop to petascale supercomputing for everyone rob farber - irish centre for high end computing back keywords: general interest, supercomputing 2011
the session will cover an introduction and new features with matlab parallel computing toolbox as well as information on parallelizing your matlab algorithm on gpus.
along the way the audience will hear about some of the  graphics intense challenges that people are facing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4001b download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring geomerics chris doran - geomerics see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
our customers include top-tier banks, broker/dealers, asset managers and hedge funds around the world.
tuning for the cuda architecture -  this birds of a feather session is an  open discussion on the art of performance tuning for the cuda architecture.
topics will  include the state of the industry, nvidia's strategy and the future of gpu  computing, as well as other issues raised by the audience.
they will also discuss the  pc industry's decisive movement to solid state drives, and future technology  for product designers.
researchers from these top institutions will survey cutting-edge research that is advancing the state of the art in gpu computing and dozens of application fields across science and engineering.
most importantly, it accounts for the nuclear  energy inside an atom, as well as plays an important role in the evolution of  the early universe.
the emerging companies summit is a unique forum for startup companies to showcase innovative applications that leverage the gpu to solve visual and high-performance computing problems.
back keywords:  general  interest, gtc 2009 - id 2050  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 unity technologies startup presentation david helgason   unity enables console-quality games for the desktop, the web, the iphone and  the wii console.
this session presents an implementation of the fdtd method using  nvidia's cuda technology.
using cuda we are on  the way to deliver an implicit cloth engine, which will work in real time for  cloth meshes up to 10,000 polygons.
it is our goal to bring advances in biological vision models to practical image and video search, using algorithms that are hierarchical and massively parallel (fast and accurate).
read more founded in 1999 by bruno uzzan and valentin lefevre, total immersion is based in france and maintains a u.s. presence in los angeles.
capable of supporting up close and personal social interactions, alongside full high-end gaming and sporting experiences, the system provides open api's and a suite of tools that allow both professional and novice users alike to contribute a broad range of highest quality content.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2043 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 naturalmotion limited startup presentation torsten reil naturalmotion ltd. is a leading entertainment software company with offices in oxford (england) and san francisco (california).
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4007b download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring aqumin michael zeitlin - aqumin see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
read more back keywords: general interest, gtc express 2011 streaming: watch now download: mp4 pdf into a parallel new world yangdong steve deng - tsinghua university
...read more we are using gpus to run a new weather model being developed at noaa's earth system research laboratory (esrl) called the non-hydrostatic icosahedral model (nim).
many of these new programmers have pursued cuda  development without any prior exposure to opengl or experience with graphics  programming, ...
flv mp4 think data-parallel!
affine''s core vision technology is able to  recognize people, brands and products in the visual stream of a video, as well  as detect inappropriate content and extract important information about the  quality and content of the videos that it scans.
d'fusion is the  leading marketable technology that injects a brand or product representation  into a live video stream in real time; the interactive experience is not  confined by the physical space of the screen or the display.
milabra''s image intelligence platform and commercial  decisioning framework is fast, accurate and easy to use.
...read more naturalmotion ltd. is a leading entertainment  software company with offices in oxford (england) and san francisco  (california).
the research community first identified the gpu as a computing platform and shown the promise to solve many of the world's compute intensive problems, many orders of magnitude faster the conventional cpus.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2016  streaming: watch now download:
the unity tools have been hailed as revolutionary for enabling  high quality results in an easily accessible development environment. ...
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2022
we''ll discuss basic opengl operations, simple drawing, image/video  display and cuda / opengl interoperability concepts for rendering data  generated from cuda programs.
its solutions are also available  through a network of resellers worldwide total immersion designs and produces  innovative, interactive exhibits, serving diverse business segments on a global  basis, including theme parks and attractions, special events, retail, and other  digital marketing environments.
watch now cn mp4 cn accelerate innovation with hp gpu enabled servers woon-yung chung - hewlett packard company new high performance computing (hpc) customer requirements demand a shift in technology and market innovation.
many adobe creative suite 4 applications have enhanced features designed to  take advantage of nvidia geforce and quadro gpu cards to accelerate application  performance.
this session, hosted by nvidia chief scientist bill dally, showcases perspectives from industry luminaries on the future of hpc and the role of the gpu.
metaprogramming pycuda allows gpu code to be generated at run-time code, which makes many advanced programming techniques easy-such as empirical optimization, constant folding, and run-time specialization.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1428     emerging companies summit opening address jeff herbst  the  emerging companies summit is a unique forum for startup companies to showcase  innovative applications that leverage the gpu to solve visual and  high-performance computing problems.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1054
watch now cn download: mp4 cn pdf emerging companies summit: ceo on stage featuring geomagic ping fu - geomagic see the hottest new technologies from startups that are transforming computing.
the presenter also will take a close look at how gddr5 and lpddr2 work to improve performance and extend battery life, while helping to substantially reduce electricity usage worldwide.
...read more optix is the latest and most flexible api for interactive ray tracing, taking full advantage of the power and generality of the cuda architecture.
this new technology is valuable for anyone wanting to build a high-performance, ray tracing renderer (interactive or off-line), accelerate an existing ray tracing renderer, add raytrace capabilities to raster renderers, or even perform generic ray tracing functions for computation.
immersion is based in france and maintains a u. ...
flv hpc project startup presentation pierre fiorini hpc project, under the wild systems brand, provides application-in-a-box solutions for demanding users who require intensive computational power.
after announcing autodesk cloud globally in september, autodesk launched cadren, a web portal and design platform built forand bythe china design community to meet the unique demands of the chinese market.
...read more samsung semiconductor and lenovo have teamed up to push the envelope on notebook performance and data reliability.
code templates pycuda comes with  tuned and debugged code for many common operations, such as vector math and  reductions, which saves debugging and coding time.
mp4 mp4 cn desktop supercomputing in the laboratory enabling interactive physics experiments with cuda peter lu - harvard university many applications of gpgpu marshal hundreds of gpus in large computer clusters, enabling large simulations where the ratio of calculation to actual data is large.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2265 streaming: watch now download:
...read more naturalmotion ltd. is a leading entertainment software company with offices in oxford (england) and san francisco (california).
the art of debugging for the cuda architecture dave lecomber, ed hinkel, satish salian  this session is an open  discussion on cuda debugging tips and discussion of existing debugger features  in the cuda architecture.
back keywords: general interest, gtc taiwan 2011 download: pdf keynote introduction simon see - nvidia back keywords: general interest, gtc singapore 2011 latest trends in gpu computing micha feigin - sagivtech back keywords: general interest, gts israel 2011 download: pdf multi core dsps vs gpus nissim saban - texas instruments
now we know that the fundamental theory for the strong interaction is quantum chromodynamics (qcd).
recently, perceptive pixel became renowned for completely transforming the way television broadcasters including cnn, fox and abc covered the historic 2008 us presidential elections.
sean o'brien, president of navtech,  will discuss the innovative technologies being leveraged in k - 12 classrooms,  and provide a development overview of the technology used to drive these  applications.
this session will include information on how  to register for the nexus beta program.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1446 iray - cuda accelerated photorealistic rendering michael kaplan iray® is a interactive, global illumination ray-traced rendering technology that generates photo real imagery without introducing rendering algorithm specific artifacts, and without requiring the use of renderer specific parameterizations.
among its many applications, imc''s immersive video is utilized by major consumer product brands to increase customer loyalty, website interest, and viral campaigns.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2039
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2275
we are using gpus to run a new weather model being developed at noaa's earth system research laboratory (esrl) called the non-hydrostatic icosahedral model (nim).
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1425   download: wmv fireside chat with jen-hsun huang and jon peddie jen-hsun huang
then i will describe the structural advantage of using hp z800 workstations for gpu computing.
in each case the application needs to be completely rewritten.
the industry will need to uncover a cost-efficient way to move beyond single-ended memory chip designs.
founded by noted technology entrepreneur steve perlman (webtv, quicktime) and incubated within the rearden media and technology incubator, onlive spent seven years in stealth development before officially unveiling in march 2009.
developing hoopoe - a cloud infrastructure and service for gpu computing *providing libraries to assist developers with using gpu technologies from .net  and java applications (cuda.net, jcuda, opencl.net)
the use of directives to annotate serial languages (e.g. c/c++/fortran) looks very promising.
read more the cuda student workshop is a platform for college students to present their cuda programming-enabled application results.
andrew sheehan  the current economic situation poses unique challenges for  start-ups seeking to raise critical funds to grow their businesses.
...read more based in orange county, ca, kerosene and a match (kaam) is a software developer building tools that leverage the massively parallel, low cost computing power of commodity graphics processors to build ultra-high performance cloud computing platforms.
panelists include norman winarsky (vp of ventures, licensing & strategic programs, sri), savitha srinivasan (corporate venture partner, ibm), rob enderle (analyst, enderle group) and jeff herbst (vp of business development, nvidia).
these circuits require a particular attention in the organization of data in memory and of communication between on-board memory and main memory.
code templates pycuda comes with tuned and debugged code for many common operations, such as vector math and reductions, which saves debugging and coding time.
the opening address includes an overview of nvidia's gpu ecosystem development activities and an interaction on stage with selected companies building groundbreaking applications on top of the gpu platform.
...read more gpu computing is one of the biggest  topics of discussion in the hpc industry today.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1010
back keywords:  general  interest, gtc 2009 - id 1461  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 right hemisphere startup presentation michael lynch  right
xulu is leveraging more than 100 man-years effort in a prior related project that included the development of the first generation of the technology, virtual destinations, and multi-player games.
for this reason, using the gpu to perform these calculations is very tempting.
the twqcd collaboration in taiwan is the first lattice qcd group around the world to use a gpu cluster (with 120 gpus) to perform large-scale unquenched simulations of lattice qcd with the optimal domain-wall fermions, attaining 14 teraflops (sustained) at a price of $200,000.
...read more immersive media corp. (imc) is the world leader in the technology and production of full motion, high-resolution, 360-degree video experiences for websites.
...read more modern internet routers must meet two conflicting objectives, high performance and good programmability, to satisfy the ever-increasing bandwidth requirements under fast changing network protocols.
get important updates about gtc 2012.
kaam licenses its technology to enterprises, government agencies and other organizations with large scale networks housing enormous amounts of rich media.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4004a download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring playcast media systems natan peterfreund - playcast media systems see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
at the end they integrate customers, partners and other departments in the product lifecycle early.
the  talk will describe key challenges and algorithmic strategies involved in  achieving high computational performance on gpus, discuss methods for  effectively using multiple gpus in low-latency calculations that drive  interactive visualizations, and will also include some examples of how these  performance increases ultimately enable better science.
milabra decodes that meaning and turns these visual liabilities into visible revenue.
...read more processors and computing systems are becoming very  heterogenous.
milabra uses advanced neural networks to identify the commercially valuable visual aspects of images, video and graphics, uses predictive analysis to synthesize the data collected, and provides partners with actionable data to advertising performance online.
the emerging companies summit ceo on stage is a lively and fast-paced program that provides invited ceos an opportunity to present their companies, products and strate ...
streaming: watch now download:
in this session, you will learn to use the powerful  nexus debugger to set breakpoints and step through your cuda c kernels or hlsl  shader source code.
...read more hpc project, under the wild systems brand, provides application-in-a-box  solutions for demanding users who require intensive computational power.
nexus also includes state of the art graphics debugging features and  convenient api state inspection.
experimental results proved that the new gpu architecture could meet stringent qos requirements, but maintain a high processing throughput.
it is our pleasure to showcase their  research during the fellow fast forward.
the ecs is a great opportunity to discover new players in the visual and high performance computing ecosystems, find great investments, explore partnership opportunities, network/build relationships, and discuss the future of an industry that is reshaping computing.
so, the memory industry is considering how it is going to move beyond gddr5 levels in a couple of years to reach bandwidths of more than 10gbps.
most recently,  perceptive pixel was awarded the 2009 national design award from the  smithsonian in the inaugurual category of interaction design.
sean o'brien, president of navtech, will discuss the innovative technologies being leveraged in k - 12 classrooms, and provide a development overview of the technology used to drive these applications.
read more the emerging companies summit is a unique forum for startup companies to showcase innovative applications that leverage the gpu to solve visual and compute-intensive problems.
read more gddr5 is the most  up-to-date graphics memory technology today, offering an impressive bandwidth  of between 4 and 7gbps.
so, the memory industry is considering how it is going to move  beyond gddr5 levels in a couple of years to reach bandwidths of more than  10gbps.
this is due obfuscation via indexing or looping wherein the parallelism is seemingly non-existent.
imagine writing a program that runs on a cluster, a shared-memory  multi-core processor, and a many-core gpu.
hps converged infrastructure strategy combined with gpus, a disruptive technology, effectively address hpc customers thirst for speed and performance at lower power, cooling and foot print costs.
we believe that these minds lead the future in our industry and we are proud to  support the 2009-2010 nvidia fellows.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1452
visualize your application's workloads and performance characteristics across the cpu, gpu, and operating system, and then dig deeper using the nexus profilers.
these techniques are used to detect inherent parallelism in applications that could then be optimized to take advantage of the latest chipset architecture.
second, i will discuss a recent effort seeking to automate the writing of high-performance gpu code for a large class of computational kernels that includes many of those needed for the numerical discretization of pdes.
...read more onlive is launching the world's highest performance games on demand service, instantly delivering the latest high-end titles over home broadband internet to the tv and entry-level pcs and macs.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2306 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 greater roi with green gddr5 and lpddr2 jimmy chung - samsung semiconductor inc.
the emerging companies summit ceo on stage is a lively and fast-paced program that provides invited ceos an opportunity to present their companies, products and strategies to a panel of investors, analysts and technology leaders, who in turn will provide insightful feedback.
by using this metadata to  target video advertising campaigns, affine is able to achieve better roi for  advertisers and more revenue for publishers.
...read more this session is an open discussion  on cuda debugging tips and discussion of existing debugger features in the cuda  architecture.
samsung research indicates that it will  be difficult to overcome a few major barriers to attaining and exceeding data  transfer speeds in excess of 10gbps with the single-ended technology that is  used today.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2053   streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 evolved machines  startup presentation paul rhodes  we are pioneering the reverse  engineering of brain circuitry to build intelligent machines.
in addition, were honored to have seven well-known professors participate in the workshop as judges.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 -  id 2020  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 immersive media startup presentaiton myles mcgovern  immersive media  corp. (imc) is the world leader in the technology and production of full  motion, high-resolution, 360-degree video experiences for websites.
flv emergent game technologies startup presentation geoff selzer   through our state-of-the-art software platforms, gamebryo lightspeed and  gamebryo, emergent game technologies helps developers fulfill their maximum  creative potential by giving them the power to endlessly - and efficiently -  iterate development.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 research summit fast forward with bill dally bill dally nvidia embraces emerging technology and those who dedicate their research to growth in visual and parallel computing. ...
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1001  streaming: watch now download: flv pdf digital 3d entertainment gary sasaki  digital 3d entertainment is suddenly catching fire.
working with nvidia''s technical team, viewdle was able to harness the power of the gpu, and bring advanced photo and video analysis to the consumer desktop.
founded by noted technology entrepreneur  steve perlman (webtv, quicktime) and incubated within the rearden media and  technology incubator, onlive spent seven years in stealth development before  officially unveiling in march 2009.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1454  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 accelerating finite difference time  domain (fdtd) simulation with cuda james stack  advances in a variety of  fields ranging from cellular phone design to mri coil design necessitate the  use of high accuracy electromagnetic computational methods such as finite  difference time domain (fdtd) to analyze complex new products.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2113 watch now cn mp4 cn building high performance computing platforms presented by lenovo zhou kai - lenovo back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2114 watch now cn mp4 cn accelerating industry applications with gpu technologies
memory vendors will have to closely examine a variety of factors including differential technology, and wide i/o schemes.
...read more writing reliable gpu codes that achieve peak performance in the face of changing requirements and hardware platforms can be a challenging task.
the company is dedicated to package turnkey products, providing outstanding computing performance in a desktop form factor for interactive use of complex dataset.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1007 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf the art of debugging for the cuda architecture dave lecomber, ed hinkel, satish salian this session is an open discussion on cuda debugging tips and discussion of existing debugger features in the cuda architecture.
this samsung presentation will provide an overview of green gddr5's and green lpddr2's power savings compared to other much less energy efficient alternatives.
this discussion will be from the point of view of the entrepreneur who would like to work with nvidia and will include real examples and demos of viewdle''s soon to launch software.
the latest in professional multi-touch interfaces jeff han - perceptive pixel back keywords: general interest, siggraph 2011 download: flv why the future of hpc will be green steve scott - nvidia
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2033  streaming:  watch now download: flv mp4 hanweck associates, llc  startup presentation gerald hanweck  as an established leader in  high-performance quantitative financial computing, hanweck associates pioneered  commercial gpu-based computing solutions for the finance industry, ...
in this work, we show how to convert a gpu into an effective packet processor through minimal changes in both hardware architecture and scheduling mechanism.
streaming: watch now watch
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2033 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 hanweck associates, llc startup presentation gerald hanweck
...read more explore the ease of  debugging heterogeneous applications using the integrated cpu and gpu debugging  environment of cuda-gdb.
the opening address includes selected demos from a few  presenting companies.
but today, with complex scenes having millions of polygons and wanting to add physical effects --just moving and deforming those polygons presents a growing challenge especially when trying to ...read more rendering has been the classic challenge of 3d graphics.
they want more effective tools to interpret  vast amounts of data.
our team has mathematical expertise in sparse coding and neural networks.
panelists: joe stam (sr.
this new technology is valuable  for anyone wanting to build a high-performance, ray tracing renderer  (interactive or off-line), accelerate an existing ray tracing renderer, add  raytrace capabilities to raster renderers, or even perform generic ray tracing  functions for computation.
however, current gpu's batched execution model cannot guarantee quality-of-service (qos) requirement.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1456 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 a large scale simulation of lattice qcd with a gpu cluster ting-wai chiu quantum chromodynamics (qcd) is the quantum field theory of the strong interaction, describing the interactions of the quarks and gluons making up hadrons (e.g., proton, neutron, and pion).
read more xulu is developing a new type of interactive experience based on massively distributed physics simulation that delivers unprecedented realism in a virtual world.
with gpus and cpus on a co-processing 1u server, data centers can  achieve greater system manageability and a uniform building block for  deployment.
tflops hpc andrew lynn - asustek computer inc not all researchers and scientists get the opportunity to build a petaflops scale general purpose hpc in their own lab.
the gpu (graphics processing unit) runs advanced applications which are transforming existing industries and creating new ones.
flv emergent game technologies startup presentation geoff selzer through our state-of-the-art software platforms, gamebryo lightspeed and gamebryo, emergent game technologies helps developers fulfill their maximum creative potential by giving them the power to endlessly - and efficiently - iterate development.
hand-coding this type of structures  could be very tedious and error-prone.
third party and user-created entertainment,  businesses, goods, and services will follow.
metaprogramming pycuda  allows gpu code to be generated at run-time code, which makes many advanced  programming techniques easy-such as empirical optimization, constant folding,  and run-time specialization.
well known as the developer of google street view visual mapping, imc''s fully immersive spherical videos allow viewers complete control to explore environments with a simple click and scroll of the mouse.
...read more explore the ease of debugging heterogeneous applications using the integrated cpu and gpu debugging environment of cuda-gdb.
pycuda and gpu metaprogramming were crucial in achieving this level of performance.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 iq engines startup presentation gerry pesavento iq engines was founded as a collaboration of computer neuroscientists at uc berkeley and uc davis.
this session presents an implementation of the fdtd method using nvidia's cuda technology.
read more unity enables console-quality games for the desktop, the web, the iphone and the wii console.
it's search engine that examines the content and patterns within an image, categorizes that information via mathematical indexing and delivers search results based on the image itself - no text or meta-tags required.
in our process we have ported (and are still working) all of our geometry calculations to the gpu.
when compared to a single cpu core.
neuroscience (3) parallel programming languages & compilers (1) physics simulation (16) pre-conference tutorials (12) programming languages & techniques (49)
pre-conference tutorials emerging companies summit presentations ai, vision, speech algorithms & numerical techniques astro gpu astronomy & astrophysics audio processing cloud computing computational finance computational fluid dynamics computational imaging computer graphics computer vision databases & data mining digital content creation (dcc) embedded & automotive embedded &
my thesis is that the only way to program such diverse set of systems is to raise the level of abstraction and build domain-specific programming models that are able to automatically map applications to different types of platforms.
...read more gpus have long been used in military/aerospace and defense applications, but with the advent of gpgpu computing the range of problems that will be solved by gpus with the cuda architecture is set to expand dramatically.
milabra decodes that meaning and turns these visual liabilities into  visible revenue.
wild systems solutions are supported by best-of-breed technologies representing  more than 25 years of r&d in the supercomputing field.
exascale (9) film (19) finance (9) general interest (149) gpu accelerated internet (4) high performance computing (97) imaging (15) keynotes (6) life sciences (35) machine learning & artificial intelligence (5) medical (9) medical imaging & visualization (28) misc (4)
by replacing fixed components of a traditional ray tracer with user-specified programs, optix is able to implement a rich array of rendering and non-rendering algorithms while still maintaining high performance.
...read more join our panel of leading industry experts as they discuss some of the most exciting and disruptive current and future applications to be built on top of gpus.
back keywords: general interest, gts israel 2011 download: pdf heterogeneous data-parallel programming satnam singh - university of birmingham ...
join our panel of leading industry experts as they discuss the latest technology advances in the usage of gpu for computer vision, they will cover facial, gesture, human motion, and biometrics recognition, augmented reality, robotic computing and more.
kaam  licenses its technology to enterprises, government agencies and other  organizations with large scale networks housing enormous amounts of rich media.
the twqcd collaboration in taiwan is the  first lattice qcd group around the world to use a gpu cluster (with 120 gpus)  to perform large-scale unquenched simulations of lattice qcd with the optimal  domain-wall fermions, attaining 14 teraflops (sustained) at a price of  $200,000.
panelists include bill tai (general partner, charles river ventures), paul weiskopf (sr. vp of corporate development, adobe), tim bajarin (president, creative strategies) and jeff herbst (vp of business development, nvidia).
read more come hear about the groundbreaking research taking place at the cuda centers of excellence, an elite group of world-renown research universities that are pushing the frontier of massively parallel computing using cuda.
topics will include the state of the industry, nvidia's strategy and the future of gpu computing, as well as other issues raised by the audience.
read more dux soft pvt. ltd. has been founded to design, integrate and deliver an innovative mix of productivity and performance based products and solutions, for enterprises working with floating point computations or rich media technologies, and in the process establish itself as a leader in the high productivity computing, digital media solutions, artificial intelligence based storage & workflow integration market.
startup presentation christopher boone visuvi develops targeted visual search engine solutions for a wide range of vertical applications in medicine, ecommerce and general-purpose visual search and maintains an index of images on the internet.
unity is the fastest growing platform with at least one new unity game appearing for iphone on a daily basis.
the high cost of serving and storing this media cannot be offset with  advertising dollars unless the contents, impact and meaning of that content is  known.
viewers can plunge themselves into live 360-degree streaming video on location or full motion prerecorded video/webisodes.
this session aims to share experiences gathered from building a powerful hpc capable of 70 tflops operation, as well as knowledge relating to life science applications in china.
we found  that these methods' algorithmic structure makes them very suitable for  execution on a gpu, often achieving speedup factors on the order of 50 when  compared to a single cpu core.
with augmented reality, the brand temporarily "resides" in the viewer's space.
scalability pycuda covers "small-scale" and "large-scale" uses alike: it allows quick prototyping and experimentation, but it also integrates easily into large-scale computational software.
recently, perceptive pixel became renowned for  completely transforming the way television broadcasters including cnn, fox and  abc covered the historic 2008 us presidential elections.
examine these programmable components, and the flexibility they  provide, through a guided tour of this exciting new engine.
*develops gpu based solutions for the israeli industry targeting general computing aspects and visualization back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2024 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 multiverse startup presentation corey bridges, rafhael cedeno multiverse is a pioneering interactive entertainment company.
at the end they integrate customers, partners and other departments  in the product lifecycle early.
our customers share a common and urgent need - the need for powerful and timely computer modeling and testing.
dux strives to provide  exceptional value and peace of mind to our customers, minimize their costs,  maximize resource utilization, and allow them to concentrate freely on their  core competencies.
the company''s first product is a new  multimedia discovery and indexing platform that combines gpu and cloud  computing to give standard commercial search systems the ability to  "discover" the content of "unsearchable" (aka, un-indexed  and/or untagged by people) images, audio and video, and return the results just  as it would text.
...read more the current economic situation poses unique challenges for start-ups  seeking to raise critical funds to grow their businesses.
imagine writing a program  that runs on a cluster, a shared-memory multi-core processor, and a many-core  gpu.
right hemisphere is the leading provider of  enterprise visual product communication, collaboration and publishing solutions  that optimize mission critical business processes such as sourcing,  manufacturing, marketing and customer support for leading global 1000  manufacturers.
despite development houses investing vast resources in the simulation task it is still far from achieving the performance demands of validating complex modern designs at gate-level.
jeff herbst, nvidia's vice president of business  development will lead this panel discussion, which will include leading  industry experts from sutter hill ventures, citi, silicon valley bank and  deloitte.
they will also discuss the pc industry's decisive movement to solid state drives, and future technology for product designers.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2020 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 immersive media startup presentaiton myles mcgovern immersive media corp. (imc) is the world leader in the technology and production of full motion, high-resolution, 360-degree video experiences for websites.
we will describe progress running on multiple gpus, report on our evaluation of two fortran gpu compilers, and give performance updates of nim using fermi.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1144
as an added benefit, the resulting solver turned out to be very versatile with respect to equation types, domain dimensionality, and discretization parameters.
this presentation will highlight work required to parallelize and run the nim.
...read more digital 3d entertainment is suddenly catching fire.
...read more nextio, inc. is the leader in next-generation i/o virtualization solutions for today''s dynamic data center in a variety of industries including enterprise, telecommunications, high performance computing, digital media and financial services.
the latest version is available for the pc, mac, and linux platforms, and can be downloaded at www.cooliris.com.
our  acceleration platform seamlessly integrates with applications from industry  leading vendors in the electromagnetic simulation, seismic data processing,  reservoir modeling industries and linear algebra solvers.
the core algorithm is presented in c code and  translated to a cuda kernel.
ltd. startup presentation alex santo, amit srivastava dux soft pvt. ltd. has been founded to design, integrate and deliver an innovative mix of productivity and performance based products and solutions, for enterprises working with floating point computations or rich media technologies, ...
streaming: watch now download: wmv mp4 introduction of nscc-tj and th-1a supercomputer xiangfei meng - national supercomputer center in tianjin this plenary session will focus on some of the large-scale applications running on tianhe 1a, the world's second fastest supercomputer. ...
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2276
icido''s virtual  engineering solutions minimize risks, reduce failure costs and decrease the use  of resources.
the company's products  enable both novice and expert users to manipulate complex datasets through a  new class of intuitive yet powerful and visually rich interface techniques.
the term dg-fem describes a family of high-order accurate  numerical methods for systems of partial differential equations that model  real-world processes such as electromagnetic scattering or fluid flow.
we will also discuss special challenges developing and running operational weather models on gpus.
the company fuses neuroscience with  proven advertising, psychology and grapic theory.
perceptive pixel is privately held and based in nyc with offices in dc and portland.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1123   download: wmv use of high performance gpus in military/aerospace  and defense applications jim berlin  gpus have long been used in  military/aerospace and defense applications, but with the advent of gpgpu  computing the range of problems that will be solved by gpus with the cuda  architecture is set to expand dramatically. ...
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 cuda centers of excellence super-session ii amitabh varshney, stan tomov, wei ge - university of tennessee, university of maryland, institute of process engineering, chinese academy of sciences come hear about the groundbreaking research taking place at the cuda centers of excellence, an elite group of world-renown research universities that are pushing the frontier of massively parallel computing using cuda.
read more cooliris,  inc. was founded in january 2006 with a simple mantra: "think beyond the  browser".
most importantly, it accounts for the nuclear energy inside an atom, as well as plays an important role in the evolution of the early universe.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4002b download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring bunkspeed philip lunn - bunkspeed see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
this ceo on stage session features naturalmotion limited - covering the field of computer graphics.
this session reviews our recent work on using gpu to accelerate logic simulation at both register-transfer level (rtl) and gate level.
in addition to providing a  revolutionary development platform to independent creative teams, ...read more multiverse is a pioneering interactive entertainment company.
however, they may have access to a million dollar budget to spend on building a specific-purpose gpu supercomputer for their organization.
...read more during this panel, we will discuss how viewdle and nvidia have been  working together and bring a product to market.
michael sullivan affine systems is an online video advertising company that can target advertisements against specific videos across all the top online video web sites.
in addition, were hon ...
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009  - id 2008  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 cooliris startup presentation austin shoemaker  cooliris, inc. was  founded in january 2006 with a simple mantra: "think beyond the  browser".
icido''s virtual reality solutions are used  throughout the entire product development process from design to manufacturing.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1048  download: wmv gpu  accelerated visualization and analysis in vmd john stone   state-of-the-art graphics processing units (gpus) contain hundreds of  processing units and are able to perform trillions of floating point arithmetic  operations per second. ...
jen-hsun h ...read more do not miss this opening keynote, featuring jen-hsun huang, ceo and co-founder of nvidia and special guests.
this ceo on stage session features cinnafilm - covering the field of film.
onlive is launching the world's highest performance games on demand service,  instantly delivering the latest high-end titles over home broadband internet to  the tv and entry-level pcs and macs.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2032
operating on standard pc devices and compatible with hd, d'fusion is highly interactive, practical, educational and entertaining.
second, i will discuss a recent  effort seeking to automate the writing of high-performance gpu code for a large  class of computational kernels that includes many of those needed for the  numerical discretization of pdes.
topics  will cover both visual and high performance computing, including rendering,  video processing, scientific computing, cloud computing, and more.
but one of the problems that arise from moving  these calculations to the gpu is, triangular mesh topologies don''t have a  predefined vertex locality, it depends on the arbitrary indexing mechanism used  when the topology was created.
mp4 mp4 cn pdf interacting with huge particle counts in autodesk maya using the gpu & maximus wil braithwaite - nvidia
we found that these methods' algorithmic structure makes them very suitable for execution on a gpu, often achieving speedup factors on the order of 50
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1202  streaming:  watch now download: mp4 gpu metaprogramming using pycuda:  methods & applications andreas kloeckner  writing reliable gpu codes  that achieve peak performance in the face of changing requirements and hardware  platforms can be a challenging task.
applications engineer, nvidia) yoram yaacovi (cto & general manager, technologies at microsoft israel, r&d center)
...read more advances in a variety of fields ranging from cellular phone design to mri coil design necessitate the use of high accuracy electromagnetic computational methods such as finite difference time domain (fdtd) to analyze complex new products.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1048 download: wmv gpu accelerated visualization and analysis in vmd john stone state-of-the-art graphics processing units (gpus) contain hundreds of processing units and are able to perform trillions of floating point arithmetic operations per second.
read more we are pioneering the reverse engineering of brain circuitry to build  intelligent machines.
such a technology happens to be particularly handy when  dealing with specialized architectures such as gpu.
considerable obstacles await.
this "push-button" rendering capability can  dramatically improve artist productivity in a wide variety of use cases,  including architectural visualization, automotive styling and marketing,  product styling, among others.
the  implementation is available as open source in the bullet physics sdk.
our goal is to make it much easier to adopt innovative new platforms.
in this session, you will learn to use the powerful nexus debugger to set breakpoints and step through your cuda c kernels or hlsl shader source code.
this ceo on stage session features icd - covering the field of mobile devices.
we describe the changes in  data structures and algorithms to parallelize for cuda and opencl.
research topics include: computer vision, ray tracing, quantum chemistry, vlsi, shadow mapping and much more.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2112
these include normals, smooth skin, collision detection, finite elements and more.
streaming: watch now watch now cn download: mp4 mp4 cn emerging companies summit: ceo on stage featuring ubitus
viewdle first came to nvidia  with a technology that required massive amounts of raw compute.
visuvi inc. is a privately held company based in redwood city, ca and is managed by a seasoned executive team consisting of christopher boone, president and ceo, alexander valenica, chief scientist and co-founder, florian brody, vp marketing and yuri drozd, vp product management.
hanweck  associates team brings over 40 years of hands-on expertise in financial markets  and technology services.
this presentation will review gddr5 technology and present various  ideas on how best to exceed the bellwether threshold of 10gbps.
...read more "perceptive pixel is dedicated to the research, development and deployment  of multi-touch interfaces for the knowledge worker.
back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1007  streaming: watch now download: flv pdf
with acceleware solutions installed, run times for data processing and simulation applications are reduced by more than 50 times.
a few recent works prove that gpus have great potential to serve as the packet processing engine for software routers.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2063 streaming: watch now watch
we focus on creating products that make discovering and enjoying the web more exciting, efficient, and personal.
this session will look at some  of the traditional and new applications for gpus in the military/aerospace  arena, together with some of the challenges involved in taking gpu technology  into the hostile real-world environments of this market.
we will demonstrate the key features of iray for end users and application developers, including the progressive refinement of images until maximum fine detail is reached, providing a single process which smoothly combines interactive pre-visualization and final frame rendering.
see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
this unique configuration delivers performance at least an order of magnitude better than traditional quad-core cpu-based servers.
hemisphere is the leading provider of enterprise visual product communication, collaboration and publishing solutions that optimize mission critical business processes such as sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and customer support for leading ...
onlive, together with its mova subsidiary,  lies directly at the nexus of several key trends, all of which are reshaping  the way we think about and use digital media: * the shift to cloud computing,  displacing the limitations, cost and complexity of local computing; * an  explosion of consumer broadband connectivity, bringing fast bandwidth to the  home; * unprecedented innovation, creativity and expansion within the video  game market.
the unity tools have been hailed as revolutionary for enabling high quality results in an easily accessible development environment. ...
...read more affine systems is an online video advertising company  that can target advertisements against specific videos across all the top  online video web sites.
gpus enabled us to improve the runtime by up to two orders of magnitude versus the previously required tens of minutes per execution.
this technology is based upon a formal analysis of source codes enabling correct automated transformations.
2011 - id 2081 streaming: watch now watch now cn download: mp4 mp4 cn gpu computing - fast path to the future of hpc tau leng - supermicro optimized gpu server designs maximize performance and efficiency for hpc applications.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1057 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf bullet: a case study in optimizing physics middleware for the gpu erwin coumans we have been porting and implementing all stages of the collision detection and rigid body dynamics pipeline onto gpu. ...
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4008b download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring icd david hayes - icd see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
the high cost of serving and storing this media cannot be offset with advertising dollars unless the contents, impact and meaning of that content is known.
...read more by leveraging nvidia's new maximus configuration, we demonstrate realtime fluid simulation using smoothed particle hydrodynamics.
perceptive pixel  is privately held and based in nyc with offices in dc and portland.
it is hard to find two letters that are changing the thinking and technology in so many industries in the digital entertainment value chain.
wesley kuo - ubitus see the hottest new technologies from startups that are transforming computing.
right hemisphere is a privately held, venture-funded corporation based in silicon valley and auckland, new zealand.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2016
industry  analyst rob enderle will moderate this marquis panel, which will include steve  perlman, founder and ceo- onlive; simon hayhurst, senior director of product  management - adobe; sean varah ceo- motiondsp; and bill dally, nvidia's chief  scientist.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2054 streaming: watch now download: flv kerosene and a match startup presentation cleve adams based in orange county, ca, kerosene and a match (kaam) is a software developer building tools that leverage the massively parallel, low cost computing power of commodity graphics processors to build ultra-high performance cloud computing platforms.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1055 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf nexus: a powerful ide for gpu computing on windows sebastien domine unleash your productivity with nexus, nvidia's new development environment for gpu computing and graphics applications that use cuda c, opencl, directcompute, direct3d, or opengl.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4003 download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring empulse gmbh michael hummel - empulse
imagine writing a program that runs on a cluster, a shared-memory multi-core processor, and a many-core gpu.
and even in optimal circumstances, there are always vertexes which destroy the locality.
dux  has also acquired a cutting edge artificial intelligence & predictive  engine algorithm which it is using to create a self-learning and self-healing  intelligent cache based storage environment.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1077  streaming: watch now download: flv pdf
during the  development of these parts, different problems occurred relating to vertex  index locality.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2111 advanced gpu computing references with hp workstations dick bland - hewlett-packard company hp and nvidia has several collaborate partnership to open new world for gpu computing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2118 watch now cn mp4 cn parallel programming with cuda fortran greg ruetsch - nvidia back keywords: general interest, supercomputing 2010 download: pdf quadro to the power of fermi scott fitzpatrick - nvidia back keywords: general interest, siggraph 2010 streaming: watch now morphing a gpu into a network processor yangdong deng - tsinghua university modern internet routers must meet two conflicting objectives, high performance and good programmability, to satisfy the ever-increasing bandwidth requirements under fast changing network protocols.
while computing with the gpu may seem like a  new technology, the foundations upon what is available today have a legacy  which date back to the original parallel supercomputers.
back keywords:  general  interest, gtc 2009 - id 1057  streaming: watch now download: flv pdf bullet: a case study in optimizing physics middleware for  the gpu erwin coumans  we have been porting and implementing all stages  of the collision detection and rigid body dynamics pipeline onto gpu.
the cost of maintaining three different versions of a program is often prohibitive, and limits the adoption of gpus in many applications.
for lattice qcd with exact chiral symmetry, it often requires supercomputers (e.g., 10 racks of ibm bluegene) to perform the simulations.
back keywords: general interest, supercomputing 2011 streaming: watch now download: pdf why use gpu ?
in this talk, i will provide both a perspective on how gpu computing evolved from early published results of using gpu as a computing platform, to the early programming models and tools, what the state of the art is today, and extrapolate where gpu computing is going.
onlive is launching the world's highest performance games on demand service, instantly delivering the latest high-end titles over home broadband internet to the tv and entry-level pcs and macs.
visuvi has patent pending technology fort
several customer cases will be provided as gpu computing platform, ranging from digital forensics, bim, medical imaging, cae, and medical imaging.
compelling content is a key element of a successful launch, and is needed to attract a large initial audience that will drive demand for xulu's platform and generate early revenue.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 gate-level simulation with gp-gpus debapriya chatterjee - university of michigan logic simulation is a critical component of the digital design tool flow.
however, starting from the action of qcd, ...
visualize your application's workloads and performance characteristics across  the cpu, gpu, and operating system, and then dig deeper using the nexus  profilers.
nextio''s any-to-any i/o connectivity boosts performance and reliability
this ceo on stage session features migenius - covering the field of cloud computing.
in a lively and fast-paced exchange, the "emerging companies summit - ceo on stage" sessions feature ceos from three startups who have 7 minutes and 30 seconds ...
...read more digital  3d entertainment is suddenly catching fire.
timing comparisons against an optimized commercial fdtd code are given.
...read more the emerging companies summit is a unique forum for startup companies to showcase innovative applications that leverage the gpu to solve visual and high-performance computing problems.
in this session  you will learn about the capabilities of the cuda-gdb debugger with a walk  through of the simplicities of being able to debug complex parallel  applications.
it is our goal to bring advances in biological vision models  to practical image and video search, using algorithms that are hierarchical and  massively parallel (fast and accurate).
many of these new programmers have pursued cuda development without any prior exposure to opengl or experience with graphics programming, but nonetheless could benefit from the powerful visualization capabilities gpus also have to offer.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 -  id 2054  streaming: watch now download: flv kerosene and a  match startup presentation cleve adams  based in orange county, ca,  kerosene and a match (kaam) is a software developer building tools that  leverage the massively parallel, low cost computing power of commodity graphics  processors to build ultra-high performance cloud computing platforms.
iray takes full advantage of the cuda  programming model, allowing interactive performance on single nvidia gpus, and  scaling almost linearly on multi-gpu platforms.
...read more gpu computing is one of the biggest topics of discussion in the hpc industry today.
members of this panel have several years of experience developing various debuggers and will share their experience building the debugger for the cuda architecture.
a versatile "platform for discovery" with an undeniable wow factor, total immersion offers consumers a compelling way to interact with brands in their own environment.
sean will share some of the models that secondary and college  educators have built to improve learning in science, technology, engineering  and math (stem).
our core products include  cooliris (formerly piclens), which transforms your browser into an interactive,  full-screen "cinematic" experience for web media, and coolpreviews,  which lets you preview links instantly.
nvidia not only provided the technical expertise, but also the business and marketing support.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 affine systems startup presentation
now cn download: mp4 cn pdf emerging companies summit: ceo on stage featuring qiyi gong yu - qiyi see the hottest new technologies from startups that are transforming computing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2034
our customers share a common and urgent need -  the need for powerful and timely computer modeling and testing.
it is used from high-level descriptions down to gate-level to validate several aspects of the design, particularly functional correctness.
we developed a gp-gpu accelerated gate-level simulator using nvidia cuda.
xulu is leveraging more than 100  man-years effort in a prior related project that included the development of  the first generation of the technology, virtual destinations, and multi-player  games.
while computing with the gpu may seem like a new technology, the foundations upon what is available today have a legacy which date back to the original parallel supercomputers.
startup presentation kenton c murphy nextio, inc. is the leader in next-generation i/o virtualization solutions for today''s dynamic data center in a variety of industries including enterprise, telecommunications, high performance computing, digital media and financial services.
in a lively and fast-paced exchange, the "emerging companies summit - ceo on stage" sessions feature ceos from three startups who have 7 minutes and 30 seconds to introduce their companies and 7 minutes and 30 seconds to interact with a panel of industry analysts, investors and technology leaders.
the unity tools have been hailed as revolutionary for enabling high quality results in an easily accessible development environment.
several of these partnerships is discussed including strategic partnering workstation project, and cuda research center.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf using gpus to run next-generation weather models mark govett - noaa earth system research laboratory
this is excellent opportunity for existing and future customers and developers to come together to share their questions and comments on how to make cuda debugger better and how to take cuda debugging into every developer tool.
the cluster will use mpi, the shared-memory system threads and locks, and gpu a data-parallel programming model like cuda.
...read more iray® is a interactive, global illumination ray-traced rendering technology that generates photo real imagery without introducing rendering algorithm specific artifacts, and without requiring the use of renderer specific parameterizations.
...read more writing reliable gpu  codes that achieve peak performance in the face of changing requirements and  hardware platforms can be a challenging task.
imagine a  favorite animated character sitting in the next chair, or a static product  suddenly "come to life"- that's total immersion's augmented reality.
pioneering the delivery of rich interactive media to the home, onlive will change the way that entertainment applications are created, delivered and consumed.
icido''s virtual engineering solutions minimize risks, reduce failure costs and decrease the use of resources.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4007a download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring rtt jeroen snepvangers - rtt see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
in this session, find out how adobe photoshop, after effects and adobe premiere pro get a distinct performance boost when handling large files or creating motion graphics and visual effects.
high fidelity techniques such as fdtd generally yield highly accurate results at the cost of increased computation time.
flv breakthroughs in  high performance computing (general session) jeffrey vetter, shawn  edwards, steve scott  gpu computing is one of the biggest topics of discussion  in the hpc industry today.
read more this plenary session will focus on some of the large-scale applications running on tianhe 1a, the world's second fastest supercomputer.
it is hard to find two letters that  are changing the thinking and technology in so many industries in the digital  entertainment value chain.
4011c low power data-intensive computing using the ion platform alex szalay - johns hopkins university back keywords: general interest, supercomputing 2009 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 pdf extending register renaming to memory renaming diamos, gregory - georgia tech (united states) back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id #1 reducing die-scrap cost through utilization of gpus lin, yen-tzu - carnegie mellon (united states) back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id #2 download: pdf dynamic warp subdivision for non-speculative runahead simt gather jiayuan, meng - university of virginia (united states) back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id #3 download: pdf interactive subdivision of smooth surfaces on gpus anjul, patney - university of california, davis (united states) back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id #4 download: pdf a high-throughput screening approach to discovering good forms of biologically-inspired visual representation nicolas, pinto - mit (united states) back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id #5 download: pdf radix sort of line primitives in cuda for real-time self-shadowing and transparency in hair erik, sintorn - chalmers university (sweden) back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id #6 download: pdf quantum chemistry on gpu:
read more 3d models are transforming primary education.
in a lively and fast-paced exchange, the "emerging companies summit - ceo on stage" sessions feature ceos from three startups who have 7 minutes and 30 seconds ...read more see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
along the way the audience will hear about some of the graphics intense challenges that people are facing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1050
select a topic select a topic all presentations ai, vision, speech (17) algorithms & numerical techniques (50) astro gpu (10) astronomy & astrophysics (9) audio processing (5) climate & weather modeling (9) cloud computing (7) computational biology (1) computational finance (3) computational fluid dynamics (36) computational imaging (19) computer graphics (65) computer vision (32) computer-aided engineering (1) databases & data mining (8) developer talk (3) development tools and libraries (1) digital content creation (dcc) (4) embedded & automotive (7) embedded & mobile (6) emerging companies summit presentations (31) energy exploration (16)
read more not all researchers and scientists get the opportunity to build a petaflops scale general purpose hpc in their own lab.
this ceo on stage session features jedox ag - covering the field of databases & data mining.
this ceo on stage session features rtt - covering the field of computer graphics.
we extend the discussion to the use of libraries that is currently one of the key elements when addressing gpu and manycores.
it offers new opportunities for collaboration among chinese designers, engineers, and other cad users.
...read more learn how the gpu evolved from its humble beginning as a "vga accelerator" to become a massively parallel general purpose accelerator for heterogeneous computing systems.
read more we are pioneering the reverse engineering of brain circuitry to build intelligent machines.
cuda-gdb is nvidia''s very first native gpu debugger  that lets you debug cuda applications on the linux platforms.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia
noted imc clients include mercedes-benz, nike, national  geographic, nbc sports, the nba, red bull, adidas, armani and the emmys  telecast.
...read more processors and computing systems are becoming very heterogenous.
our team has mathematical expertise in sparse coding and  neural networks.
topics will  include equity and debt, as well as other creative forms of financing such as  nre arrangements, etc.
in this talk, i will introduce  the open-source pycuda toolkit, which assists in this task in a number of ways:  convenient, high-level interface pycuda binds all functionality in nvidia cuda  to a convenient interface in the high-level scripting language python.
but today, with complex scenes having millions of polygons and wanting to add physical effects --just moving and deforming those polygons presents a growing challenge especially when trying to achieve real time performance.
by using this metadata to target video advertising campaigns, affine is able to achieve better roi for advertisers and more revenue for publishers.
read more this birds of a feather session is an open discussion on the art of performance tuning for the cuda architecture.
tourism and travel  industries capitalize on immersive video''s unique ability to put viewers  directly into a scene.
several real-world examples of seemingly serial code demonstrate simple, yet surprisingly effective rules for detecting potential parallelism.
streaming: watch now download: flv adobe creative suite 4 -- performance enhancements featuring gpu acceleration kevan o'brien
dux strives to provide exceptional value and peace of mind to our customers, minimize their costs, maximize resource utilization, and allow them to concentrate freely on their core competencies.
startup presentation christopher boone  visuvi develops targeted visual search engine  solutions for a wide range of vertical applications in medicine, ecommerce and  general-purpose visual search and maintains an index of images on the internet.
panelists for this session include dan''l lewin (corporate vp, microsoft), drew lanza (partner, morgenthaler), and jon peddie (president, jpr) & jeff herbst (vp of business development, nvidia).
this ceo on stage session features otoy - covering the field of cloud computing.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1144  streaming: watch now download: flv pdf integrated design that shatters 1u server  performance records don clegg  supermicro and nvidia® recently  announced a new class of servers that combines massively parallel gpus with  multi-core cpus in a single server system.
nextio''s any-to-any i/o connectivity boosts performance and reliability while  streamlining it deployment, simplifying administration and reducing costs.
startup presentation kenton c murphy  nextio, inc. is the leader in next-generation i/
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2050
molecular dynamics (16)
furthermore, the impact of the programming styl ...
for more information on this years fellows: 2009-2010 nvidia fellows, please visit http://www.nvidia.com/page/fellowship_programs.html back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1046 interactive ray tracing with the optix ray tracing engine steven parker optix is the latest and most flexible api for interactive ray tracing, taking full advantage of the power and generality of the cuda architecture.
this ceo on stage session features scalable display technologies - covering the field of imaging.
back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2051    visuvi, inc.
this session will look at some of the traditional and new applications for gpus in the military/aerospace arena, together with some of the challenges involved in taking gpu technology into the hostile real-world environments of this market.
leveraging pci express, nextio offers true  i/o virtualization for any end-point technology.
read more founded in  1999 by bruno uzzan and valentin lefevre, total immersion is based in france  and maintains a u.s. presence in los angeles.
its solutions are also available through a network of resellers worldwide total immersion designs and produces innovative, interactive exhibits, serving diverse business segments on a global basis, including theme parks and attractions, special events, retail, and other digital marketing environments.
in this session we will hear from dr. wen-mei hwu at the university of illinois at urbana - champaign, professor yangdong deng at tsinghua university and dr. charles d. hansen at the university of utah.
streaming: watch now copyright © 2012 nvidia corporation legal info | privacy policy - nvidia.com - gtc press room - gtc learning center - feedback
they also allow for faster and easier global collaboration and  communication, ensure better visibility and visualization of early stage  products.
the opening address includes selected demos from a few presenting companies.
in our process we have ported (and are  still working) all of our geometry calculations to the gpu.
panelists will include flip gianos (partner, interwest), charles carmel (vp of corporate business development, cisco), nathan brookwood (principal analyst, insight64) and jeff herbst (vp of business development, nvidia).
the invited judges include: * yangdong deng, tsinghua university * yifeng chen, peking university * youquan liu, chang'an university * xinhua lin, shanghai jiaotong university * wei ge, cas, institute of process engineering * ying liu, cas, graduate university * hu chen, south china university of technology back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1030 download: pdf emerging companies summit welcome & opening jeff herbst - nvidia
nvidia not  only provided the technical expertise, but also the business and marketing  support.
this ceo on stage session features rocketick - covering the field of high performance computing.
they discussed the rise of gpus, current trends in visual and parallel computing, and the transformational changes ahead for the industry.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2045
supermicro will provide an overview of this groundbreaking product in this session.
...read  more we have been porting and implementing all stages of the collision  detection and rigid body dynamics pipeline onto gpu.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4010a download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring useful progress sylvain ordureau - usefulprogress see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
many adobe creative suite 4 applications have enhanced features  designed to take advantage of nvidia geforce and quadro gpu cards to accelerate  application performance.
because upwards of 80% of all non-text content on the  internet is unsearchable, the kaam technology offers organizations the ability  to generate income from huge volumes of formerly unmonetized media.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2262
research has proven that only 35% of students can think in 3d, so visualization has become an important tool in the classroom for improving engagement, comprehension and boosting test scores.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc  2009 - id 1085  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 domain specific languages for programming gpus pat hanrahan  processors  and computing systems are becoming very heterogenous.
dux has also acquired a cutting edge artificial intelligence & predictive engine algorithm which it is using to create a self-learning and self-healing intelligent cache based storage environment.
read more this birds of a feather session is an open discussion on the  art of performance tuning for the cuda architecture.
building data-parallel code with m gallagher pryor - accelereyes discover and leverage parallelism inherent in pre-existing codes.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1400 streaming: watch now download: flv pdf real time cloth: 3d triangular mesh algorithms on the gpu eri rubin rendering has been the classic challenge of 3d graphics.
...read more immersive media corp. (imc) is the world leader in the technology and  production of full motion, high-resolution, 360-degree video experiences for  websites.
in addition, the online store represents a new business model and opportunities for developers and partners.
headquartered in palo alto, california, the cooliris team consists of seasoned executives, engineers and entrepreneurs from companies like apple, ebay, electronic arts, google, microsoft, paypal and youtube.
...read more high-end graphics memory has been an essential ingredient in designing pc cards for many years, just as mobile dram has been a part of virtually all mobile devices since they were first developed.
they are pushing the boundaries of innovation and demand faster product-development cycles for more complex products.
with acceleware solutions  installed, run times for data processing and simulation applications are  reduced by more than 50 times.
...read more icido, pioneer and global leader of virtual reality and virtual engineering  solutions support companies to make their product development process  sustainable, competitive and environmentally friendly.
...read more plus a sneak peak at the future of gpu  acceleration!
most recently, perceptive pixel was awarded the 2009 national design award from the smithsonian in the inaugurual category of interaction design.
we are inspired by the brain''s  vision system - how the brain represents images and how the brain recognizes  objects.
from prototype to final  product, emergent fuels creativity while reducing risk.  back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2042  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 empulse gmbh startup presentation joerg bienert  empulse gmbh is a cologne/germany based it company focussing on  innovative technology and web applications.
we leverage novel algorithms for circuit netlist partitioning and found that our experimental prototype could handle large, industrial scale designs comprised of millions of gates while delivering 13x speedup on average over a typical commercial simulator.
tourism and travel industries capitalize on immersive video''s unique ability to put viewers directly into a scene.
the iray rendering mode will be available in the next versions of mental ray (3.8) and realityserver (2.4).
as a leader in 3d design, engineering and entertainment software, autodesk is a forerunner of cloud service in the design & engineering industry.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1451  streaming: watch now download: flv visual innovation in the classroom sean obrien   3d models are transforming primary education.
zhihong wen - dell back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2115
...read more plus a sneak peak at the future of gpu acceleration!
renaming to memory renaming diamos, gregory  - georgia tech (united  states)     back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id #1     reducing die-scrap cost through utilization of gpus lin, yen-tzu   - carnegie mellon (united states)     back keywords:  general  interest, gtc 2009 - id #2  download: pdf dynamic warp subdivision  for non-speculative runahead simt gather jiayuan, meng  - university of  virginia (united states)     back keywords:  general interest, gtc  2009 - id #3  download: pdf interactive subdivision of smooth  surfaces on gpus anjul, patney  - university of california, davis (united  states)     back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id #4   download: pdf a high-throughput screening approach to discovering  good forms of biologically-inspired visual representation nicolas, pinto   - mit (united states)     back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009  - id #5  download: pdf radix sort of line primitives in cuda for  real-time self-shadowing and transparency in hair erik, sintorn  -  chalmers university (sweden)     back keywords:  general interest,  gtc 2009 - id #6  download: pdf quantum chemistry on gpu:
this work proves the potential of modern gpus to revolutionize the landscape of ic verification.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1147 streaming: watch now download: flv breakthroughs in high performance computing (general session) jeffrey vetter, shawn edwards, steve scott gpu computing is one of the biggest topics of discussion in the hpc industry today.
for  more information on this years fellows: 2009-2010 nvidia fellows, please visit  http://www.nvidia.com/page/fellowship_programs.html  back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1046    interactive ray tracing with the  optix ray tracing engine steven parker  optix is the latest and most  flexible api for interactive ray tracing, taking full advantage of the power  and generality of the cuda architecture.
our goal is to  make it much easier to adopt innovative new platforms.
- gtc learning center - gtc community - gtc press room - gtc worldwide events - registration - speakers - sponsors - marketing - press - feedback - other inquiries relive 400+ hours of innovative thinking select from hundreds of sessions.
topics will include equity and debt, as well as other creative forms of financing such as nre arrangements, etc.
...read more quantum chromodynamics (qcd) is the quantum field theory of the strong interaction, describing the interactions of the quarks and gluons making up hadrons (e.g., proton, neutron, and pion).
read more gpus have long  been used in military/aerospace and defense applications, but with the advent  of gpgpu computing the range of problems that will be solved by gpus with the  cuda architecture is set to expand dramatically.
affine uses its proprietary computer vision technology  to scan all the videos on these web sites to find the best advertising  opportunities for its clients.
in the laboratory, however, many experimental applications have large quantities of da ...
this ceo on stage session features cooliris - covering the field of computer graphics.
branching statements are eliminated in order to improve parallelism.
read more we have been porting and implementing all stages of the collision detection and rigid body dynamics pipeline onto gpu.
...read more onlive is launching the world's highest  performance games on demand service, instantly delivering the latest high-end  titles over home broadband internet to the tv and entry-level pcs and macs.
our compiler framework provides in this context the necessary alignment of data and the pipelining of their communication for a high-performance execution.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4002a download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring allegorithmic dr sébastien deguy - allegorithmic see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
furthermore, the impact of the programming style on future performance and portability of the application is difficult to forecast.
streaming: watch now download: flv pdf integrated design that shatters 1u server performance records don clegg supermicro and nvidia® recently announced a new class of servers that combines massively parallel gpus with multi-core cpus in a single server system.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2045  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 iq engines startup presentation gerry pesavento  iq engines was founded as a collaboration of computer  neuroscientists at uc berkeley and uc davis.
...read more affine systems is an online video advertising company that can target advertisements against specific videos across all the top online video web sites.
pushed by the pace of innovation in the gpu architecture and more generally the manycore technology, the processor landscape is moving fast.
this panel will attempt to assess the current state of both the public and private markets, and will explore various strategies and options for raising capital.
in this talk, i will present the case for domain-specific programming models, and outline several projects that we are doing at stanford as part of the pervasive parallelism laboratory.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1146  streaming: watch now download: flv the high life for high performance brian  beard, henry ramos  samsung semiconductor and lenovo have teamed up to push the  envelope on notebook performance and data reliability.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 unity technologies startup presentation david helgason unity enables console-quality games for the desktop, the web, the iphone and the wii console.
learn how such vectorization concisely brings the parallelism of code to the forefront and transforms programs that might have been originally difficult to run on a simt device very suitable for execution on the gpu.
hps converged infrastructure strategy combined with gpus, a disruptive technology, effectively address hpc customers thirst for speed a ...read more new high performance computing (hpc) customer requirements demand a shift in technology and market innovation.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2081 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 faster simulations of the national airspace system joseph rios - nasa learn about twenty-four hour, fast-time simulations of traffic in the national airspace system, which use gpu technology to help perform key steps in the trajectory prediction of flights.
streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 gpu ventures, for the entrepreneur jeff herbst, laurent gil during this panel, we will discuss how viewdle and nvidia have been working together and bring a product to market.
this session, hosted by nvidia chief scientist bill  dally, showcases perspectives from industry luminaries on the future of hpc and  the role of the gpu.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 1086
such a technology happens to be particularly handy when dealing with specialized architectures such as gpu.
back keywords:  general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1053  streaming: watch now download: flv pdf
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1085 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 domain specific languages for programming gpus pat hanrahan processors and computing systems are becoming very heterogenous.
operating on  standard pc devices and compatible with hd, d'fusion is highly interactive,  practical, educational and entertaining.
read more as a leader in 3d design, engineering and entertainment software, autodesk is a forerunner of cloud service in the design & engineering industry.
back keywords:  general interest,  gtc 2009 - id 2056  streaming: watch now download: flv onlive startup presentation steve perlman  onlive is launching the  world's highest performance games on demand service, instantly delivering the  latest high-end titles over home broadband internet to the tv and entry-level  pcs and macs.
easily catch hard-to-find bugs using the nexus memory  inspection tools and set data breakpoints on your running application.
branching statements are eliminated in order to  improve parallelism.
we believe that these minds lead the future in our industry and we are proud to support the 2009-2010 nvidia fellows.
working together with nvidia, viewdle was able to formulate a consumer strategy and secure distribution partners.
back keywords:   general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1446    iray - cuda accelerated  photorealistic rendering michael kaplan  iray® is a interactive,  global illumination ray-traced rendering technology that generates photo real  imagery without introducing rendering algorithm specific artifacts, and without  requiring the use of renderer specific parameterizations.
back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2116 watch now cn mp4 cn building heterogeneous cloud computing platforms presented by sugon rong dai - sugon back keywords: general interest, gtc asia 2011 - id 2117
find this session at 35 minutes into the video.
this framework was developed for the implementation of a tourism web portal, accessing up to 5 billion travel offerings.
sam cox (ceo, milabra)
industry analyst rob enderle will moderate this marquis panel, which will include steve perlman, founder and ceo- onlive; simon hayhurst, senior director of product management - adobe; sean varah ceo- motiondsp; and bill dally, nvidia's chief scientist.
the core algorithm is presented in c code and translated to a cuda kernel.
these techniques are used to detect inherent parallelism in  applications that could then be optimized to take advantage of the latest  chipset architecture.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 2058
it's search engine that examines the  content and patterns within an image, categorizes that information via  mathematical indexing and delivers search results based on the image itself -  no text or meta-tags required.
in this session we will hear from professor ting-wai chiu at national taiwan university, dr. satoshi matsuoka at tokyo tech and dr. paul calleja at the university of cambridge.
jeff herbst, peter kidder.
back keywords:  general  interest, gtc 2009 - id 1456  streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 a large scale simulation of lattice qcd with a gpu cluster ting-wai chiu  quantum chromodynamics (qcd) is the quantum field theory of the  strong interaction, describing the interactions of the quarks and gluons making  up hadrons (e.g., proton, neutron, and pion).
this session reviews our recent work on using gpu to accelerate lo ...
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 4008a download: wmv pdf emerging companies: ceo on stage featuring universal robotics david peters - universal robotics see the hottest new technologies from startups that could transform computing.
from prototype to final product, emergent fuels creativity while reducing risk.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2009 - id 1454 streaming: watch now download: flv mp4 accelerating finite difference time domain (fdtd) simulation with cuda james stack advances in a variety of fields ranging from cellular phone design to mri coil design necessitate the use of high accuracy electromagnetic computational methods such as finite difference time domain (fdtd) to analyze complex new products.
the ecs is a great opportunity to discover new players in the gpu ecosystem, find great investments, explore partnerships and customer/vendor opportunities, network/build relationships, and discuss the future of an industry that is reshaping computing.
back keywords: general interest, gtc 2010 - id 2263 streaming: watch now download:
several customer cases will be provided a ...read more hp and nvidia has several collaborate partnership to open new world for gpu computing.
at optitex, we have been using cuda since the initial 0.8 beta.
our sophisticated  neural network technology has the ability to add value to every image and  visual element we see.
...read  more based in orange county, ca, kerosene and a match (kaam) is a  software developer building tools that leverage the massively parallel, low  cost computing power of commodity graphics processors to build ultra-high  performance cloud computing platforms.
at the forefront of dux''s solutions is a unique digital  workflow tool called swivel which manages pipelines, rendering and assets and  extends to provide digital mining capabilities for new media enterprises.
back keywords: general interest, gts israel 2011 download: pdf opening keynote-gts israel jeff herbst, aaron mankovski, david kirk - nvidia back keywords: general interest, gts israel 2011 opening speech yury drozdov - novatte back keywords: general interest, gtc singapore 2011 download: pdf scalable gpu graph traversal duane merrill - university of virginia back keywords: general interest, supercomputing 2011