"being an  action game, network code timing is a big concern.
"converting direct3d to opengl was like getting teeth pulled,"  describes ben.
some have suggested to the egoboo developers that they uselua for scripting the ai functions, but there has been no significant progress on this idea.
they did borrow the quake ii model  format for game characters, however, to avoid the work of writing their own  modeling program from scratch.
while the game is nowhere near complete, egoboo's current form still has plenty of dungeon romping and monster-bashing.
the motivation for the ongoing work of egoboo has been the brothers' desire to make a modernroguelike game.
showing messages 1 through 8 of 8.
the networking challenge is typical for this type of game.
"if anyone reading this ever writes a graphic program, wrap the graphics api calls in macros!" ben points out that opengl itself was not the problem in this process: "opengl has been a pleasure to work with.
it  is possible for others to study the existing ai scripts and documentation, but  he admits it is not easy to figure out.
in terms of its design, the inspiration for its  game play draws uponnethack.
he invites others to  contribute to egoboo's development; outside submissions of any sort will  encourage the release of more official updates to the game: "it takes some effort to put a new release out.
there are still some lingering problems from the  conversion, though, such as our flaky support for particles.
the world of bishopia consists of seven  environments.
"users have been able to contribute new models, and i hope some of these start making it into the game soon.
as mentioned above, particle graphics do not rotate in the opengl  version of the game like they do in the direct3d original.
in terms of its design, the inspiration for its game play draws uponnethack.
in its simpler form, it started as a direct3d windows game aaron did as an assignment for one of his college classes.
"our main  problem is that we haven't gotten around to porting the network code from the  original directx. i think it would be a pretty straightforward job for a  competent programmer with some spare time.
figure 3 -- a little lightning before any new features can be added to egoboo's game play, ben says a couple of existing technical issues need to be addressed, particularly with its graphics.
he suggests that it might be best to start by contributing to the development of the original dungeon crawl, a more likely way to gain better technical insight into the engine's code.
in fact, ben says his brother has already  developed some of his own: "aaron always seemed to get distracted and  [would] code up new games using the egoboo engine.
be the first to post this article to del.icio.us sponsored by:
other map-making tools for egoboo are also available and in development, including egomap, which adds random level generation to the game.
(when aaron started egoboo, his graphics card only supported direct3d.) related reading linux server hacks 100 industrial-strength tips and tools byrob flickenger
another partial  feature is transparency.
this game premise might sound, well, silly, but it's silly by design.
"being an action game, network code timing is a big concern.
the egoboo graphics engine itself is not limited to dungeon crawlers.
in something like a  real-time strategy, you might not notice if your units take a half-second to  start moving.
(yes, these objects do look like the spoon/fork hybrid utensil.)
" while the character models are done in quake ii format, egoboo uses a  separate tool, developed for egoboo, calledcartman, for map generation.
the code in version 2.22 is current.
figure 2 -- a peaceful outdoor scene, unless you're a sheep to those interested in modifying the egoboo code to create an entirely  different type of game, bishop warns that the learning curve for the engine is  pretty steep.
"we are working with the quake ii model format to simplify the lives of character developers," says ben.
"converting direct3d to opengl was like getting teeth pulled," describes ben.
he had a simple real-time strategy test, as well as a bumper car game."
in something like a real-time strategy, you might not notice if your units take a half-second to start moving.
we've expanded our linux news coverage and  improved our search!
the  creators ofegoboo--brothers aaron and ben bishop--have aimed to make their game  the most accessible and cutest open source dungeon rpg.
search print subscribe to linux subscribe to newsletters linux &  unix > excerpts > egoboo:
figure 1 -- a hero in distress from the classroom to open source egoboo development began in 1999.
as is standard in dungeon adventures, game play consists of combat against monsters, spell-casting, and exploring a variety of map levels.
the original code from direct3d  was a complete mess.
"users have been able to  contribute new models, and i hope some of these start making it into the game  soon.
he had a simple real-time  strategy test, as well as a bumper car game."
in the land of bishopia, king bishop has been kidnapped by evil forces.
they also credit other open source programmers specializing in graphics for contributing the help they needed to accomplish this specific task.
the graphics exhibit a japanime style; specifically, the artistic look of nintendo'slegend of zelda series is obvious.
as far as the game's ai, its scripting is specific to egoboo.
they did borrow the quake ii model format for game characters, however, to avoid the work of writing their own modeling program from scratch.
the motivation for the ongoing work of egoboo has been the brothers' desire  to make a modernroguelike game.
to  rescue him, you must traverse dungeons in search of the "sporks of  power".
"so i think egoboo is  contributing by enlarging the pool of games." howard wen is a freelance writer who has contributed frequently to  o'reilly network and written forsalon.com, playboy.com, and wired, among others.
the creators ofegoboo--brothers aaron and ben bishop--have aimed to make their game the most accessible and cutest open source dungeon rpg.
figure 1 -- a hero in distress egoboo development began in 1999.
(when aaron  started egoboo, his graphics card only supported direct3d.) related reading 100 industrial-strength tips and tools byrob flickenger
to rescue him, you must traverse dungeons in search of the "sporks of power".
both brothers currently reside in danville, pennsylvania.
so i'd like say what would get me to do a new release: a new level, significant bug fixes (networking, particles, etc.), and a good new [development] tool.
aside from the opengl and sdl apis, the rest of the codebase is original  and was written in c by the bishop brothers.
some have suggested to the egoboo  developers that they uselua for scripting the ai functions, but there has been  no significant progress on this idea.
the graphics exhibit a japanime style;  specifically, the artistic look of nintendo'slegend of zelda series is  obvious.
" in the end, ben is proudest not of the technical achievements that he, his  brother, and various volunteers have made to egoboo, but, rather, the game's  very place within the overall open source gaming scene.
egoboo is also supposed to have a network play  feature, but it's broken in its present state.
other  map-making tools for egoboo are also available and in development, including egomap, which adds random level generation to the game.
as is standard in dungeon  adventures, game play consists of combat against monsters, spell-casting, and  exploring a variety of map levels.
"our main problem is that we haven't gotten around to porting the network code from the original directx. i think it would be a pretty straightforward job for a competent programmer with some spare time.
as mentioned above, particle graphics do not rotate in the opengl version of the game like they do in the direct3d original.
the original code from direct3d was a complete mess.
print subscribe to linux subscribe to newslettersprint subscribe to linux subscribe to newsletters
ben says this may partly be because support for the lua language in egoboo "is not 'fully baked' as of now, from what i know."
in its simpler form, it started as a  direct3d windows game aaron did as an assignment for one of his college  classes.
"if anyone reading this ever writes a graphic program, wrap  the graphics api calls in macros!"
ben eventually convinced his brother to release it as open source.
while the game is nowhere near complete,  egoboo's current form still has plenty of dungeon romping and monster-bashing.
ben, who wrote some of the ai, feels this is unfortunate because it has probably hindered further development by others who might want to help to improve it.
the code in  version 2.22 is current.
the cute way to dungeon role play by howard wen 03/13/2003
on egoboo, this is not the case," says ben.
an extra, obvious benefit is that this decision makes customizing egoboo much easier: the mod community is full of people who are familiar with creating quake ii models.
"good open source games are few and far between," he says.
the game runs under linux, windows, and mac os x. egoboo was originally developed by aaron bishop.
there are still some lingering problems from the conversion, though, such as our flaky support for particles.
egoboo is also supposed to have a network play feature, but it's broken in its present state.
they then rewrote egoboo for cross-platform portability by usingsdl and opengl.
" while the character models are done in quake ii format, egoboo uses a separate tool, developed for egoboo, calledcartman, for map generation.
another partial feature is transparency.
"good open source  games are few and far between," he says.
figure 3 -- a little lightning a much-needed fixing and polishing before any new features can be added to egoboo's game play, ben says a  couple of existing technical issues need to be addressed, particularly with its  graphics.
ben bishop, his brother, a  former computer science professor at the university of georgia, currently  maintains the game.
"so i think egoboo is contributing by enlarging the pool of games." howard wen is a freelance writer who has contributed frequently to o'reilly network and written forsalon.com, playboy.com, and wired, among others.
you choose to play as one of eight hero characters, including an elf, rogue, soldier, or wizard.
figure 2 -- a peaceful outdoor scene, unless you're a sheep to those interested in modifying the egoboo code to create an entirely different type of game, bishop warns that the learning curve for the engine is pretty steep.
if you want to get to work on the code, consider setting up your own cvs.
ben, who  wrote some of the ai, feels this is unfortunate because it has probably  hindered further development by others who might want to help to improve it.
return to the linux devcenter.
they don't rotate  properly."
fixing the particle graphics is  easy, says ben, but the network issue will be tougher to resolve.
aside from the opengl and sdl apis, the rest of the codebase is original and was written in c by the bishop brothers.
he recalls this as the biggest challenge in egoboo's  development.
ben points out that opengl itself was not the problem in this process:  "opengl has been a pleasure to work with.
the world of bishopia consists of seven environments.
while the game looks  very good in its current form, it does not have a polished feel of a commercial  game, which ben admits and wants to see improved.
egoboo features real-time action and 3d graphics.
they also credit other open source programmers specializing in graphics for  contributing the help they needed to accomplish this specific task.
he recalls this as the biggest challenge in egoboo's development.
" the egoboo project could also use contributions of character and object models for the game and definitely needs more level maps.
so i'd like say what  would get me to do a new release: a new level, significant bug fixes  (networking, particles, etc.), and a good new [development] tool.
they don't rotate properly."
if you want  to get to work on the code, consider setting up your own cvs.
search for all things linux across o'reilly!
fixing the particle graphics is easy, says ben, but the network issue will be tougher to resolve.
other  kinds of games can be built upon it.
it is possible for others to study the existing ai scripts and documentation, but he admits it is not easy to figure out.
you choose to play as one of eight hero characters, including an  elf, rogue, soldier, or wizard.
ben bishop, his brother, a former computer science professor at the university of georgia, currently maintains the game.
ben says this may partly be because  support for the lua language in egoboo "is not 'fully baked' as of now,  from what i know."
" the egoboo project could also use contributions of character and object  models for the game and definitely needs more level maps.
he invites others to contribute to egoboo's development; outside submissions of any sort will encourage the release of more official updates to the game: "it takes some effort to put a new release out.
other kinds of games can be built upon it.
in fact, ben says his brother has already developed some of his own: "aaron always seemed to get distracted and [would] code up new games using the egoboo engine.
"we are working with the quake ii model format to simplify the lives  of character developers," says ben.
while the game looks very good in its current form, it does not have a polished feel of a commercial game, which ben admits and wants to see improved.
an extra, obvious benefit is that this decision  makes customizing egoboo much easier: the mod community is full of people who  are familiar with creating quake ii models.
he suggests that it might be best to start by contributing to the  development of the original dungeon crawl, a more likely way to gain better  technical insight into the engine's code.
" in the end, ben is proudest not of the technical achievements that he, his brother, and various volunteers have made to egoboo, but, rather, the game's very place within the overall open source gaming scene.