one things for sure, you will be amazed and left breathless.
the furnishings of each room have been inspired by  traditional masai art and each one has a private balcony with views that  stretch over the vast african landscape.
8- lake manyara to nairobi onto departure • breakfast  at the lake manyara serena safari lodge.
* ---select---\nknow your travel dates?
kenya tanzania safaris at wildebeest migration!
the design was inspired by the  area’s abundant bird life: swooping curves are complemented by soft,  geometric patterns and stylish plaster moldings adorn the walls.
2- nairobi to masai mara breakfast at the nairobi serena hotel.
if you are like many of our friends, looking for an exotic vacation that  will get you close to nature and to your loved ones, then a kenya tanzania  safari is just for you.
after lunch depart via the olduvai  gorge to ngorongoro highlands and through the serengeti plains climbing to the  altitude of 8,000 feet.
get the best vacation ideas for your african safari & holiday please note that all fields followed by an asterisk must be filled in.
day 3 masai mara - a crown jewel of a kenya tanzania safari
the second thing i can tell you first hand is that combining it with a  kenya safari --a
sep oct nov dec tanzania serengeti northern g g g g g e serengeti southern g g g g vg e tarangire e e e e vg g manyara e e e e e e ngorongoro e e e e e e selous e e e e e vg top kenya safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jan feb mar apr may jun kenya amboseli/ tsavo vg vg g f f vg
then ending  it all off with a post safari beach holiday in exotic lamu, zanzibar (and even  better in nearby mozambique’s quirimbas (link mozambique safari)) will  leave yourevitalized, with a lasting sense of well being and peace.
the design was inspired by the areas abundant bird life: swooping curves are complemented by soft, geometric patterns and stylish plaster moldings adorn the walls.
* how many days do you want to spend on your african vacation?
* we strongly recommend travel insurance.
no from which city will you fly from and return to?
the first itinerary is free & it will be based on your interests & budget.
lunch at the mara serena safari lodge, after lunch afternoon game viewing drive  in the masai mara game reserve.• dinner and overnight at the mara serena  safari lodge mara serena safari lodge perched on the saddle of a hill, the  mara serena safari lodge has one of the most spectacular views imaginable  across the vast plains, forests and rivers that make up the masai mara –  one of the world’s richest wildlife sanctuaries.
1- arrive nairobi to start your kenya tanzania safari •
6- central serengeti to ngorongoro - the third jewel in the kenya  tanzania safari crown • breakfast at the serengeti serena safari  lodge, followed by morning game viewing drives in the serengeti national park.
a magnificent spectacle photo courtesy of cheli & peacock "i never knew of a morning in africa when i woke that i was not happy" ernest hemingway enter your search termssubmit search form web www.african-safari-and-travel-advisor.com your guide to the best time for your kenya tanzania safaris
the lake is renowned among ornithologists for its birds of prey and the famous tree-climbing lions that inhabit the woodland that nestles between the lake and the rift valley.
beach golf shop spas or wellness centers what type of accommodation do you want to stay in?
please check all that apply.
* what is your preferred traveling style?
(available if you fly through south africa)
the terrain is the main stage for the great wildebeest migration, an awesome spectacle involving millions of these beasts.
discover the best kenya tanzania safari & holiday deals for you!
vast herds of wildebeest and zebra wander across the mara grasslands in huge numbers during this period of the annual migrations take place, when millions of wildebeest, zebra, and gazelle traverse the landscape to feed on the rich new grass and give birth to their young.
know your travel dates?
it is luxury kenya tanzania safari at a great  price - from $2200 per person based on double occupancy.
accommodation and public areas are housed in individual thatched circular buildings and are a tribute to local architectural traditions.
what else do you want to tell us so we can give you more advice?
day 3 –masai mara - a crown jewel of a kenya tanzania safari •
morning and afternoon game viewing drives.
morning and afternoon game  drives across the plains.
a full day at the masai mara game reserve.
lunch at the serengeti serena safari lodge.
kenya tanzania safari -- is an unparalleled african safari combination!
the hotel has been designed to mirror a traditional masai village or  manyatta and all the guest rooms are located in individual domed huts grouped  in a circular manner.
new caledonia new zealand nicaragua niger nigeria niue norfolk island northern mariana islands norway oman pakistan palau panama papua new guinea paraguay peru philippines pitcairn island poland portugal puerto rico qatar reunion romania russia rwanda s. georgia and s. sandwich isls.
kenya tanzania safari -- is an unparalleled african safari  combination!
it is built of stones and boulders and is literally hidden in the vegetation of the craters rim, disappearing completely from view from the craters floor.
* ---select---\n7 days or less 8 days to 14 days 15 days to 21 days more than 21 days what are the types of things you would like to do or experience on this vacation?
top tanzania safari park game viewing guide e-excellent;  vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jan feb mar apr may jun tanzania serengeti northern f f f f vg
it is also a conservation area inhabited by the masai tribe.
a   tanzania safari by itself or with kenya as a kenya tanzania safari.
please enter month/day/year like this jan 1, 2007.
this is a spectacle that should be witnessed at least  once in a lifetime.
then ending it all off with a post safari beach holiday in exotic lamu, zanzibar (and even better in nearby mozambiques quirimbas (link mozambique safari)) will leave yourevitalized, with a lasting sense of well being and peace.
after lunch depart via the olduvai gorge to ngorongoro highlands and through the serengeti plains climbing to the altitude of 8,000 feet.
home of world famous serengeti, the annual wildebeest migration, and  legendary mount kilimanjaro, this is a safari destination that can never  disappoint.
laos latvia lebanon lesotho liberia libya liechtenstein lithuania luxembourg macao macedonia madagascar malawi malaysia maldives mali malta marshall islands martinique mauritania mauritius mayotte mexico federated states of micronesia moldova monaco mongolia monserrat morocco montenegro mozambique myanmar namibia nauru nepal netherlands netherlands antilles
• dinner and overnight  at the ngorongoro serena safari lodge ngorongoro serena safari lodge often described as the  ‘eighth’ wonder of the world, the ngorongoro crater is so spectacular  that it touches all the senses.
after having been on more than 80 african safaris, i can tell you first hand tanzania is simply dazzling.
* do you need international flights?
sep oct nov dec kenya amboseli/ tsavo e e e vg vg g samburu/ aberdere e e e g g vg masai mara e e e vg vg vg one of the best kenyatanzania safari deals we've found here is a great kenya tanzania safari.
* ---select---\nexclusive/private: just me,my friends and/or my family exclusive/very small group- max of 7 want to join a larger small group up to 16 i'd rather be in a big group
picnic lunch boxes will be served by the hippo  pool.
e serengeti southern e e e e e g tarangire g g g f f g manyara e e e f vg e ngorongoro e e e g e e selous g g p p p e top tanzania safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jul aug
dinner not included in the  safari program at the hotel •
depart for nairobi wilson airport to connect the scheduled flight  for mara serena airstrip to depart at 10h00 to arrive at 11h15.
do you want a self drive trip?
07h30 depart for isebania/sirari kenya/ tanzania  border to immigration and customs formalities and vehicle exchanges between the  kenyan and tanzania drivers.
1- arrive nairobi to start your kenya tanzania safari
free expert advice & superb deals on the best tanzania kenya  safaris, tours & flights.
07h30 depart for isebania/sirari kenya/ tanzania border to immigration and customs formalities and vehicle exchanges between the kenyan and tanzania drivers.
would you like advice on travel insurance?
7- ngorongoro crater to lake manyara •
ngorongoro serena safari lodge, close to some of the  earliest dwellings of man in olduvai gorge, has taken their cave paintings as  inspiration.
after that we offer a service where by we continue to work with you to get you the best trip for the price you want to pay.
the ngorongoro serena safari lodge is built onto the rim of this amazing natural phenomenon, a stunning plant and local creeper covered stone lodge where guests co-exist in perfect harmony with the surrounding natural environment and wildlife.
tanzania safari guides that i think will be helpful as you map out  the best time for your kenya tanzania safari!
we strongly recommend travel insurance.
* botswana kenya lesotho mozambique namibia rwanda seychelles south africa swaziland uganda victoria falls zambia zanzibar zimbabwe
it is luxury kenya tanzania safari at a great price - from $2200 per person based on double occupancy.
this is a spectacle that should be witnessed at least once in a lifetime.
* total number of persons traveling (please include youself)
no where would you like to go on this trip?
8- lake manyara to nairobi onto departure breakfast at the lake manyara serena safari lodge.
lunch, dinner and overnight at the mbuzi mawe tented camp day
depart for nairobi wilson airport to connect the scheduled flight for mara serena airstrip to depart at 10h00 to arrive at 11h15.
* when do you want to travel?
subscribe to this site discover
it is difficult to  imagine a more spectacular setting.
tonga trinidad and tobago tunisia turkey turkmenistan turks and caicos islands tuvalu u.s.
* how many of your group are 12 years old or younger?
return from kenya tanzania safari page to tanzania safari page copyright best african safaris all rights reserved.
contact us now just fill in the form below and we'll get right back  to you with free customized kenya tanzania safari ideas suited to your  interests and budget!
a magnificent  spectacle photo courtesy of cheli & peacock "i never knew of a morning in africa when i woke that i was not  happy" ernest hemingway enter your search termssubmit search  form web www.african-safari-and-travel-advisor.com your guide to the best time for your kenya tanzania safaris
the ngorongoro serena safari lodge is built onto the rim of this amazing  natural phenomenon, a stunning plant and local creeper covered stone lodge  where guests co-exist in perfect harmony with the surrounding natural  environment and wildlife.
vast herds of wildebeest and zebra wander across the  mara grasslands in huge numbers during this period of the annual migrations  take place, when millions of wildebeest, zebra, and gazelle traverse the  landscape to feed on the rich new grass and give birth to their young.
after lunch ascend and depart to lake manyara • dinner and  overnight at the lake manyara serena safari lodge lake manyara serena safari lodge lake manyara serena safari  lodge is perched on the edge of the mto wa mbu escarpment with one of the  greatest views over the great rift valley and its soda lake.
* do you want a self drive trip?
the best kenya tanzania safari & holiday deals for you!
after breakfast depart to arusha and connect the scheduled flight to nairobi jomo kenyatta international airport to connect your departure flight home.
sep oct nov dec tanzania serengeti northern g g g g g e serengeti southern g g g  g vg e tarangire e e e e vg g manyara e e e e e e ngorongoro e e  e e e e selous e e e e e vg top kenya safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very  good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jan feb mar apr may jun kenya tsavo vg vg g f f vg samburu/ aberdere e e g f f e masai mara g g g g g g top kenya safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very  good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jul aug
the other crown jewel in your kenya tanzania safari breakfast at the mbuzi mawe tented camp.
one thing’s for sure, you will be amazed and left breathless.
samburu/ aberdere e e g f f e masai mara g g g g g g top kenya safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jul aug
* where would you like to go on this trip?
* admire natural beauty explore culture view wildlife/safari do adventure sports go to good restaurants visit tourist attractions visit wine region visit apartheid sites visit big cities
tanzania safari guides that i think will be helpful as you map out the best time for your kenya tanzania safari!
a volcanic crater of over 259 square kilometers  with surrounding walls rising 609 meters above it, the crater is a natural  sanctuary for over 25,000 animals, including the black rhino.
dinner and overnight at the ngorongoro serena safari lodge ngorongoro serena safari lodge often described as the eighth wonder of the world, the ngorongoro crater is so spectacular that it touches all the senses.
then depart for the kirawira camp- western serengeti to arrive in time for lunch, after lunch continues to central serengeti to arrive late afternoon at the mbuzi mawe tented camp.
then depart for the kirawira camp- western  serengeti to arrive in time for lunch, after lunch continues to central  serengeti to arrive late afternoon at the mbuzi mawe tented camp.
the second thing i can tell you first hand is that combining it with a kenya safari --a
brunei bulgaria burkina faso burundi cambodia cameroon cape verde cayman islands central african republic chad chile china christmas island cocos islands colombia comoros congo cook islands costa rica croatia cuba cyprus czech republic denmark
upon your arrival at the nairobi jomo kenyatta international airport from south  africa, met and transferred to nairobi serena hotel.
5- central serengeti -
want to discover the best kenya tanzania safari for you?
(honeymoon, anniversary?) would you like a free cell phone to use during your trip?
the furnishings of each room have been inspired by traditional masai art and each one has a private balcony with views that stretch over the vast african landscape.
it is on this very terrain that the annual migration takes place when millions of zebra, wildebeest and gazelle cross the plains below, on their way to the rich new grasses of the serengeti.
the wildlife defines the serengeti-countless zebra,  buffalo, gazelle, wildebeest, and other species make it their home.
4- masai mara to central serengeti •
you continue to ascend to the exterior of the crater  reaching its rim and here your first glimpse of what has often been referred to  as the “eighth wonder of the world.”
the wildlife defines the serengeti-countless zebra, buffalo, gazelle, wildebeest, and other species make it their home.
free expert advice & superb deals on the best tanzania kenya safaris, tours & flights.
it is built of stones and boulders and is literally hidden in the  vegetation of the crater’s rim, disappearing completely from view from the  crater’s floor.
click here and enter them below january to march 2007 april to june 2007 july to september 2007 october to december 2007 january to march 2008 april to june 2008 july to september 2008 october to december 2008
accommodation  and public areas are housed in individual thatched circular buildings and are a  tribute to local architectural traditions.
after breakfast depart to arusha and  connect the scheduled flight to nairobi jomo kenyatta international airport to  connect your departure flight home.
the hotel has been designed to mirror a traditional masai village or manyatta and all the guest rooms are located in individual domed huts grouped in a circular manner.
morning and afternoon  game viewing drives.
no reproduction permitted without permission.
get the best vacation ideas for your african safari &  holiday please note that all fields followed by an asterisk must be  filled in.
lunch, dinner and overnight at the mara serena safari lodge.
morning and afternoon game drives across the plains.
(excluding international airfare)* what is your budget per person per day?
to do that we require a $150 usd deposit that is applied to your trip (without regard to the number in your traveling party).
find peace of mind & answers to your questions about which are the  best kenya tanzania safari for you.
overnight at the nairobi serena hotel day
minor outlying islands uganda ukraine united arab emirates united kingdom uruguay uzbekistan
total number of persons traveling (please include youself)
contact us now just fill in the form below and we'll get right back to you with free customized kenya tanzania safari ideas suited to your interests and budget!
upon your arrival at the nairobi jomo kenyatta international airport from south africa, met and transferred to nairobi serena hotel.
4- masai mara to central serengeti early morning wake up followed by breakfast.
after having been on more than 80 african safaris, i can tell you first  hand – tanzania is simply dazzling.
lunch at the mara serena safari lodge, after lunch afternoon game viewing drive in the masai mara game reserve.
when do you want to travel?
it is on this very  terrain that the annual migration takes place when millions of zebra,  wildebeest and gazelle cross the plains below, on their way to the rich new  grasses of the serengeti.
or want more personalized advice about your kenya tanzania safari?
a volcanic crater of over 259 square kilometers with surrounding walls rising 609 meters above it, the crater is a natural sanctuary for over 25,000 animals, including the black rhino.
early morning wake  up followed by breakfast.
the other crown jewel in your kenya tanzania  safari• breakfast at the mbuzi mawe tented camp.
saint kitts and nevis saint lucia saint vincent and the grenadines samoa san marino sao tome and principe saudi arabia senegal serbia seychelles sierra leone singapore slovakia slovenia solomon islands somalia south africa spain sri lanka st. helena st. pierre and miquelon sudan suriname svalbard and jan mayen islands swaziland sweden switzerland syria taiwan tajikistan tanzania thailand togo tokelau
met on arrival  and continue on morning game viewing drives in the masai mara game reserve.
the lodge glows with tranquility and peace.
dinner and overnight at the mbuzi mawe tented camp day
(available if you fly through south africa)* would you like a free cell phone to use during your trip?
it is difficult to imagine a more spectacular setting.
7- ngorongoro crater to lake manyara early breakfast at the ngorongoro serena safari lodge, then descend to the floor of the crater for an opportunity to view the delicate balance of predator and prey in the endless quest for survival.
picnic lunch boxes will be served by the hippo pool.
dinner not included in the safari program at the hotel
ngorongoro serena safari lodge, close to some of the earliest dwellings of man in olduvai gorge, has taken their cave paintings as inspiration.
* what type of accommodation do you want to stay in?
(excluding international airfare)* ---select---\n$us 100-200 euro 77-155 $us 200-300 euro 155-233 $us 300-500 euro 233-380 $us 500-1000 euro 380-777 $us 1000+ euro 777+ do you need international flights?
if you dont take your trip it is non refundable.
after lunch ascend and depart to lake manyara dinner and overnight at the lake manyara serena safari lodge lake manyara serena safari lodge lake manyara serena safari lodge is perched on the edge of the mto wa mbu escarpment with one of the greatest views over the great rift valley and its soda lake.
6- central serengeti to ngorongoro - the third jewel in the kenya tanzania safari crown breakfast at the serengeti serena safari lodge, followed by morning game viewing drives in the serengeti national park.
check all that apply.
you pay that via paypal.
sep oct nov dec kenya tsavo e e e vg vg g samburu/ aberdere e e e g g vg masai mara e e e vg vg vg one of the best kenyatanzania safari deals we've found here is a  great kenya tanzania safari.
2- nairobi to masai mara • breakfast at the nairobi  serena hotel.
• lunch, dinner and overnight at the mara serena safari lodge.
* what are the types of things you would like to do or experience on this vacation?
or want more personalized advice about your kenya tanzania  safari?
* 5 star 4 star 3 star 2 star large hotels, safari lodges small hotels,b&bs,guesthouses small safari lodges, safari camps permanent tented safari camps mobile tented safari camps what is your budget per person per day?
dinner and overnight at the mara serena safari lodge mara serena safari lodge perched on the saddle of a hill, the mara serena safari lodge has one of the most spectacular views imaginable across the vast plains, forests and rivers that make up the masai mara one of the worlds richest wildlife sanctuaries.
greece greenland grenada guadeloupe guam guatemala guinea guinea-bissau guyana haiti heard and mcdonald islands honduras hong kong hungary iceland india indonesia iran iraq ireland israel italy
ivory coast jamaica japan jordan kazakhstan kenya kiribadi north korea south korea kuwait kyrgyzstan
if you are like many of our friends, looking for an exotic vacation that will get you close to nature and to your loved ones, then a kenya tanzania safari is just for you.
you've come to the right place!
what is your preferred traveling style?
top tanzania safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jan feb mar apr may jun tanzania serengeti northern f f f f vg e serengeti southern e e e e e g tarangire g g g f f g manyara e e e f vg e ngorongoro e e e g e e selous g g p p p e top tanzania safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jul aug
you continue to ascend to the exterior of the crater reaching its rim and here your first glimpse of what has often been referred to as the eighth wonder of the world.
afghanistan albania algeria american samoa andorra angola anguilla antarctica antigua argentina armenia aruba australia austria azerbaijan bahamas bahrain bangladesh barbados belarus belgium belize benin bermuda bhutan bolivia bosnia and herzegovina botswana bouvet island brazil british indian ocean territory british virgin islands
find peace of mind & answers to your questions about which are the best kenya tanzania safari for you.
the lake is renowned among ornithologists for its birds of prey and the  famous tree-climbing lions that inhabit the woodland that nestles between the  lake and the rift valley.
home of world famous serengeti, the annual wildebeest migration, and legendary mount kilimanjaro, this is a safari destination that can never disappoint.
the terrain  is the main stage for the great wildebeest migration, an awesome spectacle  involving millions of these beasts.
met on arrival and continue on morning game viewing drives in the masai mara game reserve.
it is also a  conservation area inhabited by the masai tribe.
first name* first name* e-mail address* e-mail address* country* country* country united states canada ----------------
a tanzania safari by itself or with kenya as a kenya tanzania safari.
vanuatu vatican city venezuela vietnam us virgin islands wallis and futuna islands western sahara yemen yugoslavia (former) zaire zambia zimbabwe please enter your e mail address again - we want to make sure we have it right - 3% of our inquiries have errors* please enter your e mail address again - we want to make sure we have it right - 3% of our inquiries have errors* how many days do you want to spend on your african vacation?
early breakfast  at the ngorongoro serena safari lodge, then descend to the floor of the crater  for an opportunity to view the delicate balance of predator and prey in the  endless quest for survival.
• lunch, dinner and overnight at  the mbuzi mawe tented camp day
djibouti dominica dominican republic east timor ecuador egypt el salvador equatorial guinea eritrea estonia ethiopia falkland islands faroe islands fiji finland france french guiana french polynesia french southern territories gabon gambia georgia germany ghana gibraltar