here he discovered the 2-million-year-old remains of the nutcracker man, as well as those of prehistoric elephants and giant ostriches.
upon arrival in arusha, you will be met by our airport representative and be transferred to serena mountain village at the outskirts of arusha.
after lunch we will take a walk to a nearby waterfalls and visit the farm it self before continuing on into the ngorongoro conservation area.
facebook, skype, msn, yahoo  messenger id:mbangosafaris.
lush forest of towering fig and mahogany trees, open grassy plains, acacia woodland and cliffside scrub all attract a great variety of birds and animals.
this abundance of  prey is pursued by many predator including cheetahs, leopard, serval cats,  golden and black-backed jackals, spotted hyena and bat-eared foxes.
day 2: tarangire  national park.
we  settle into the ngorongoro wildlife lodge which is to our base for the next  three nights while we explore the crate in details.
serengeti serena lodge.
we will search for birds and mammals by taking morning and evening drives through the park.
there is of course, no guarantee that they will all be on your  doorstep, but we will endeavor to follow them as far as possible – for  sheer mammalian spectacle, there is simply no better coincidence of time and  place!
eight million years ago ngorongoro was an active volcano.
limitless grassy plains, scattered with rocky outcrops, acacia bush land and riverine forest, cover 14,673 square kilometers.
- ngorongoro crater and serengeti eco-system - 1, 500 sq km's wilderness.
we settle into the ngorongoro wildlife lodge which is to our base for the next three nights while we explore the crate in details.
day 10: lake manyara.
e-mail: info@mbangosafaris.com,  safaris@mbangosafaris.com member of: east africa natural  history society, east africa wildlife society, kenya professional safari guides association, kenya  association of tour operators, kenya tourism federation, kenya museum society and eco-tourism society of kenya .
- unlimited game viewing drives.
- large herbivores and big cats.
then there are the bustards, cranes, widowbirds, francolins and  cisticolas to be found in the grassland and an equally diverse range of forest  species!
day 12: after breakfast you will drive to the airport for our outbound flight back home.
perhaps the greater wildlife spectacle in the world, the serengeti belongs to the animals and no one else.
contact us for friendly travel advice.
overnight atserena  mountain village lodge.
vast herds of antelopes,  zebra and prides of lions share their home with hundreds of bird’s species  including the famous pink wash of flamingos across lake manyara.
we depart early this morning on our long  drive across open
we will take lunch and settle attarangire sopa lodge before exploring the park on an early evening game drive.
the ngorongoro crater is undoubtedly one of the very best areas for photography so make sure you bring plenty of film (or memory cards in this era).
in the lodge grounds and acacia woodlands we should find a plethora of barbets, finches, weavers, turacos, go-away-birds, glossy starlings and kingfishers.
upon arrival in arusha, you will be met by our  airport representative and be transferred to serena mountain village at the  outskirts of arusha.
these can be hard to see, but other game is plentiful in the form of african elephant, white-bearded wildebeest, burchells zebra, thompsons gazelle, impala, olive baboon, blue and vervet monkeys, kirks dik-dik, warthog, hippopotamus, giraffe, waterbuck and black-backed jackal.
then there are the bustards, cranes, widowbirds, francolins and cisticolas to be found in the grassland and an equally diverse range of forest species!
making an early start, we will  drive, via the olduvai gorge, back towards the crater highlands.
indeed, ngorongoro is one of the few places in africa where the  ‘big 5” (buffalo, elephant, leopard, lion and rhino) can be seen  together.
days 6 – 9: serengeti national park.
here, hundreds of thousands of greater and lesser flamingoes present a carpet of shimmering pink that stretches into the distant heat haze, whilst yellow-billed and marabou storks, african spoonbills, herons, egrets, ducks and waders decorate the shoreline.
it is home to  over 30,000 large mammals including white-bearded wildebeest, african buffalo,  burchell’s zebra, grant’s and thompson’s gazelles, african  elephant, black rhinoceros, hippopotamus, lion, spotted hyena and black-backed  jackal.
the hotel occupies a magnificent setting, perched a thousand feet above the park on the very edge of the rift valley wall, its views are stunning.
mbango safaris have experience of operating tours in east africa  & beyond.
- departure dates: every week with minimum of 2 persons throughout the year.
this is a lodge and luxury tented camps based safari, covering all aspects of general wildlife including watching both mammals and birds but with more emphasis on wildlife.
days: day 1: days 2 & 3: days 4 & 5: days 6 - 9: day 10: day 11: day 12: location: arrive arusha.
huge ground hornbills and elegant secretary birds stride across the grasslands along with kori bustards, grey crowned crane and smaller species such as temmincks coursers, wattled lapwing, rosy-breasted long claw, yellow-shouldered widowbird and capped wheatear.
the heat of the day will be free for a siesta, or to enjoy the abundant and rather tame birdlife around our tented camp which may include pied wheatear, slate-coloured boubou, and ashy wattled and superb starlings.
limitless grassy plains, scattered with rocky outcrops, acacia bush  land and riverine forest, cover 14,673 square kilometers.
all european countries  passport holders and most other nationalities require a visa for tanzania which  is obtained in advance from the nearest embassy.
lunch, dinner and overnight atngorongoro serena lodge .
inevitably this feast of wildlife will eclipse the parks birdlife, but the latter cannot be ignored.
with such a plethora of prey to choose from it is not surprising that the park  is also one of the best areas in northern tanzania for predators including  lions, leopards, the elusive wild dogs and our first opportunity to look for  the graceful cheetah.
the lodge is ideally  situated on the crater rim but at over 2,000 metres above the sea level, can be  a bit chilly at night.
we will have lunch back at the ngorongoro serena lodge and retrace  our steps through the crater highlands to lake manyara serena.
tel: 00 254 20  - 600 14 54, 221 23 54,211 24 33 / 4.
a full day of tarangire national park.
the rest of the day will be spent relaxing after your long flight with plenty  of time to explore the surrounding woodland and coffee plantations.
dinner & overnight atlake manyara serena lodge.
a full day of tarangire national  park.
the olduvai  gorge “cradle of mankind” was brought to the attention of the world  by dr. leakey.
on reaching  the top we will find one of the world’s most amazing sights before us as  we peer down at the crater floor dotted with animals, trees and lakes.
booking terms | links | photo gallery | tour  reports | news mbango safaris east africa ltd, lang'ata shopping mall,  lang'ata court road, p.o. box 8914 - 00100, nairobi, kenya.
tucked between the trees are fourteen cottages, built in traditional african styles and materials.
- luxury 4wd safari land cruiser vehicles.
overnight at serena mountain village, bed and breakfast.
overcast weather, particularly in the afternoons, may not be infrequent, but rain is unlikely except on high ground such as ngorongoro, where afternoon precipitation is a possibility.
facebook, skype, msn, yahoo messenger id:mbangosafaris.
please consult the nearest  embassy about your requirements as soon as possible before traveling.
unlike other ecological systems in africa, ngorongoro is permanently watered  and therefore able to support a resident population of animals.
packed lunch at lake manyara.
you will also need to have various vaccinations and take malaria prophylactic.
it is, though, the only way to see tanzanias unrivalled wildlife and every participant will enjoy a window seat.
the park  holds a year-round population of fringe-eared oryx, eland, giraffe, impala,  buffalo, gerenuk, lesser kudu and greater herds of elephant up to 300 strong.
here the weather can be chilly between sunset and sunrise.
day 12: after breakfast you will  drive to the airport for our outbound flight back home.
this tour is a tented camps and lodge based tanzania wildlife  safari.
we will fully explore this wonderful area on morning and evening game drives, returning to our lodge for lunch.
this abundance of prey is pursued by many predator including cheetahs, leopard, serval cats, golden and black-backed jackals, spotted hyena and bat-eared foxes.
in the  lodge grounds and acacia woodlands we should find a plethora of barbets,  finches, weavers, turacos, go-away-birds, glossy starlings and kingfishers.
during our tour we can expect most days to be dry and fairly sunny, temperatures ranging from 20- 30 c, depending on altitude.
day 3: tarangire national park.
during our tour we can expect most days to be dry and  fairly sunny, temperatures ranging from 20- 30 c, depending on altitude.
unlike other ecological systems in africa, ngorongoro is permanently watered and therefore able to support a resident population of animals.
in order to book a place on this  holiday, please call us now on 00 254 20 600 14 54, 00 254 722 524 987, 00 254  733 681 240.
here he discovered the 2-million-year-old remains of the  “nutcracker man”, as well as those of prehistoric elephants and giant  ostriches.
all european countries passport holders and most other nationalities require a visa for tanzania which is obtained in advance from the nearest embassy.
we will visit totally different areas from arusha national park with its unique wildlife and bird life as well to tarangire national park with great game viewing area, surrounded by yellow barked acacias and the red clad masais people dotted across the plains.
we will search for birds and mammals by taking morning and evening drives  through the park.
lush forest of towering fig and  mahogany trees, open grassy plains, acacia woodland and cliffside scrub all  attract a great variety of birds and animals.
as mentioned earlier, manyara is also famous for its unique tree-climbing lions.
- excellent accommondation.
you will also need to have  various vaccinations and take malaria prophylactic.
lone bushes or dead trees provide lookout perches for a variety of bee-eaters and rollers, including the beautiful carmine bee-eater, whilst above them soar martial eagles, lappet-faced, african white-backed, hooded and ruppells vultures, the latter four always on the look out for a recent kill.
we will spend the day exploring lake manyara national park which is made up of a wide variety of habitats.
the lodge is ideally situated on the crater rim but at over 2,000 metres above the sea level, can be a bit chilly at night.
overcast weather, particularly in the afternoons, may not be infrequent, but  rain is unlikely except on high ground such as ngorongoro, where afternoon  precipitation is a possibility.
we will spend the second night at tarangire sopa lodge.
inevitably this feast of wildlife will eclipse the parks’ birdlife,  but the latter cannot be ignored.
tel: 00 254 20 - 600 14 54, 221 23 54,211 24 33 / 4.
an exciting range of water birds  includes many species of ducks, geese, waders, storks and hundreds of thousands  of flamingoes.
we  will enjoyfour nights in the serengeti serena lodge in the heart of the  reserve.
in much of africa trees are the domain of the leopard,  but tarangire and manyara national parks are one of the very few places where  the lions are also fond of lazing on shaded bough, so keep your eyes up as well  as down when looking for the king of cats amongst the 550 species of birds that have been recorded here are ostrich  secretary bird, tawny and martial eagles bateleur, a variety of vultures, kori  bustard (the worlds heaviest flying birds)
tanzania or kenya coast: wrap up the wildlife safari by visiting tanzania's or kenya's beaches, world renowned for their white sand beaches.
we  will undoubtedly see more of them, but exactly which ones will depend on our  luck!
this is the time of year that the vast herds of wildebeest move into the serengeti from the masai mara to the north, in order to drop their calves and feed on the lush grass watered by the short rains of november and december.
as mentioned earlier, manyara is also famous for its  unique tree-climbing lions.
masai plains to the ngorongoro crate.
it is home to over 30,000 large mammals including white-bearded wildebeest, african buffalo, burchells zebra, grants and thompsons gazelles, african elephant, black rhinoceros, hippopotamus, lion, spotted hyena and black-backed jackal.
amongst a wealth of other  species we hope to see are impala, grant’s gazelle, eland, giraffe, and  warthog, kirk’s dik-dik, waterbuck, topi and hartebeest.
hornbill  yellow-collared lovebirds , brown and orange- bellied parrots plus many species  of kingfisher bee eater roller, hornbill, barbet, shrike weaver and finch.
lunch at ngorongoro  serena.
after lunch we will take a walk to a  nearby waterfalls and visit the farm it self before continuing on into the  ngorongoro conservation area.
in order to book a place on this holiday, please call us now on 00 254 20 600 14 54, 00 254 722 524 987, 00 254 733 681 240.
we will undoubtedly see more of them, but exactly which ones will depend on our luck!
these can be hard to see, but other game is  plentiful in the form of african elephant, white-bearded wildebeest,  burchell’s zebra, thompson’s gazelle, impala, olive baboon, blue and  vervet monkeys, kirk’s dik-dik, warthog, hippopotamus, giraffe, waterbuck  and black-backed jackal.
the park contains  nearly 40 species of large mammals, which in february, includes nearly two  million white-bearded wildebeest, 200,000 burchell’s zebra, 300,000  thompson’s gazelles and an amazing 2,000 lions.
tarangire national park.
serengeti national park.
with such a plethora of prey to choose from it is not surprising that the park is also one of the best areas in northern tanzania for predators including lions, leopards, the elusive wild dogs and our first opportunity to look for the graceful cheetah.
mountain village sits on a hilltop with lush gardens  and breathtaking views of mt. kilimanjaro and mt. meru.
indeed, ngorongoro is one of the few places in africa where the big 5 (buffalo, elephant, leopard, lion and rhino) can be seen together.
we will fully explore this wonderful area on morning and  evening game drives, returning to our lodge for lunch.
safari destinations | conservation | general info |
an exciting range of water birds includes many species of ducks, geese, waders, storks and hundreds of thousands of flamingoes.
this area is surrounded by extinct volcanoes and is an  important farming area for the people.
its cone collapsed forming a massive caldera, covering 311  square kilometers and creating one of the most scenic spectacles in all of  africa and the ‘eighth wonder of the world’.
tanzania or kenya coast: wrap up the wildlife safari by visiting tanzania's or kenya's beaches,  world renowned for their white sand beaches.
we depart early this morning on our long drive across open
with the herds come the  predators.
- ideal for families.
lunch at ngorongoro serena.
lake manyara serena hotel.
lake manyara / arusha.
the heat of the day will be free for a siesta, or to enjoy  the abundant and rather tame birdlife around our tented camp which may include  pied wheatear, slate-coloured boubou, and ashy wattled and superb starlings.
in february, however, mammal viewing is at its best.
zanzibar or lamu: combing beach and wildlife safari - end the safari with  pampering stay on nearby lamu or zanzibar island.
perhaps the greater  wildlife spectacle in the world, the serengeti belongs to the animals and no  one else.
this is the time of  year that the vast herds of wildebeest move into the serengeti from the masai  mara to the north, in order to drop their calves and feed on the lush grass  watered by the short rains of november and december.
passing by the northern end of lake manyara we ascend into the highlands to reach ngorongoro stopping at view point across the rift valley.
making an early start, we will drive, via the olduvai gorge, back towards the crater highlands.
days 6 9: serengeti national park.
- specialist naturalist safari guide.
rwanda: after exploring the legacy that karen blixen left behind, travel to rwanda to  walk in the footsteps of dian fossey and meet the gentle "gorillas in the  mist".
the hotel  occupies a magnificent setting, perched a thousand feet above the park on the  very edge of the rift valley wall, its views are stunning.
on reaching the top we will find one of the worlds most amazing sights before us as we peer down at the crater floor dotted with animals, trees and lakes.
we will enjoyfour nights in the serengeti serena lodge in the heart of the reserve.
ngorongoro serena lodge.
indeed during the dry seasons when the animals crowd the shrink king waterholes  tangangire holds the greatest concentration of wildlife outside the serengeti!
after breakfast drive to tarangire national park.
we will stop at gibb’s farm  for lunch, a beautiful eco-friendly guest house situated between lake manyara  and the ngorongoro crater, five kilometer from karatu the junction town of the  crater highlands.
booking terms | links | photo gallery | tour reports | news mbango safaris east africa ltd, lang'ata shopping mall, lang'ata court road, p.o. box 8914 - 00100, nairobi, kenya.
e-mail: info@mbangosafaris.com, safaris@mbangosafaris.com member of: east africa natural history society, east africa wildlife society, kenya professional safari guides association, kenya association of tour operators, kenya tourism federation, kenya museum society and eco-tourism society of kenya .
but, it is the huge soda lake tanzanias nakuru that is the greatest attraction.
the ngorongoro crater is  undoubtedly one of the very best areas for photography so make sure you bring  plenty of film (or memory cards in this era).
the park holds a year-round population of fringe-eared oryx, eland, giraffe, impala, buffalo, gerenuk, lesser kudu and greater herds of elephant up to 300 strong.
this tour is a tented camps and lodge based tanzania wildlife safari.
lone  bushes or dead trees provide lookout perches for a variety of bee-eaters and  rollers, including the beautiful carmine bee-eater, whilst above them soar  martial eagles, lappet-faced, african white-backed, hooded and ruppell’s  vultures, the latter four always on the look out for a recent kill.
the park contains nearly 40 species of large mammals, which in february, includes nearly two million white-bearded wildebeest, 200,000 burchells zebra, 300,000 thompsons gazelles and an amazing 2,000 lions.
alternatively, you may email us:safaris@mbangosafaris.com giving us your contacts and we will get back to you to reserve the safari for you.
lunch, dinner and overnight at ngorongoro serena lodge.
the birdlife is no less spectacular.
vast herds of antelopes, zebra and prides of lions share their home with hundreds of birds species including the famous pink wash of flamingos across lake manyara.
the olduvai gorge cradle of mankind was brought to the attention of the world by dr. leakey.
passing by the northern  end of lake manyara we ascend into the highlands to reach ngorongoro stopping  at view point across the rift valley.
this area is surrounded by extinct volcanoes and is an important farming area for the people.
over 600 meters deep and 20 kilometers across, the caldera is covered by extensive grassland, patches of forest, marshes and lakes whilst attractive motane forest clings to the rim.
in much of africa trees are the domain of the leopard, but tarangire and manyara national parks are one of the very few places where the lions are also fond of lazing on shaded bough, so keep your eyes up as well as down when looking for the king of cats amongst the 550 species of birds that have been recorded here are ostrich secretary bird, tawny and martial eagles bateleur, a variety of vultures, kori bustard (the worlds heaviest flying birds) the mighty group hornbill yellow-collared lovebirds , brown and orange- bellied parrots plus many species of kingfisher bee eater roller, hornbill, barbet, shrike weaver and finch.
safari highlight: - 12 days wildlife safari in tanzania.
with the herds come the predators.
cellphone: 00 254 - 722 524 987, 733 681 240.
but, it is the huge soda lake  – tanzania’s nakuru – that is the greatest attraction.
here,  hundreds of thousands of greater and lesser flamingoes present a carpet of  shimmering pink that stretches into the distant heat haze, whilst yellow-billed  and marabou storks, african spoonbills, herons, egrets, ducks and waders  decorate the shoreline.
the approaching the crater itself we climb up through liana covered hillsides and deep jungle-like vegetation.
there is of course, no guarantee that they will all be on your doorstep, but we will endeavor to follow them as far as possible for sheer mammalian spectacle, there is simply no better coincidence of time and place!
mbango safaris have experience of operating tours in east africa & beyond.
indeed during the dry seasons when the animals crowd the shrink king waterholes tangangire holds the greatest concentration of wildlife outside the serengeti!
this is a lodge and luxury tented camps based safari, covering all aspects  of general wildlife including watching both mammals and birds but with more  emphasis on wildlife.
the approaching the crater itself we climb up  through liana covered hillsides and deep jungle-like vegetation.
please consult the nearest embassy about your requirements as soon as possible before traveling.
we will spend the day exploring lake manyara national park  which is made up of a wide variety of habitats.
it is, though, the only way to see  tanzania’s unrivalled wildlife and every participant will enjoy a window  seat.
tucked between the  trees are fourteen cottages, built in traditional african styles and materials.
cellphone: 00 254 - 722 524 987, 733 681  240.
fax: 00 254 - 20 600 14 53, 222 93 54.
we will visit totally different areas from arusha national park with  it’s unique wildlife and bird life as well to tarangire national park with  great game viewing area, surrounded by yellow barked acacia’s and the red  clad masai’s people dotted across the plains.
how to book your place.
serena mountain village.
however perhaps the two striking and memorable species that punctuate the parks bush land are the spectacular magpie shrikes and the giant, bottle-shaped baobab trees.
here the weather can be chilly between sunset  and sunrise.
alternatively, you may email us:safaris@mbangosafaris.com   giving us your contacts and we will get back to you to reserve the safari  for you.
tarangire sopa lodge.
the rest of the day will be spent relaxing after your long flight with plenty of time to explore the surrounding woodland and coffee plantations.
ultimate east africa safari | kenya explorer safari | karibu kenya safari | wild tanzania safari discover tanzania safari.
however perhaps the two striking and memorable species that punctuate the parks  bush land are the spectacular magpie shrikes and the giant, bottle-shaped  baobab trees.
© 2004 - 2011 mbango safaris east africa ltd.
please remember that, in the game parks of tanzania, it is generally  not permitted for visitors to leave the safety of their vehicles, apart from in  our lodge grounds, meaning that we’ll spend quite a lot of time in the  comfortable 4x4 safari vehicles.
eight million years ago ngorongoro was an  active volcano.
we will stop at gibbs farm for lunch, a beautiful eco-friendly guest house situated between lake manyara and the ngorongoro crater, five kilometer from karatu the junction town of the crater highlands.
huge ground hornbills and elegant secretary  birds stride across the grasslands along with kori bustards, grey crowned crane  and smaller species such as temminck’s coursers, wattled lapwing,  rosy-breasted long claw, yellow-shouldered widowbird and capped wheatear.
please remember that, in the game parks of tanzania, it is generally not permitted for visitors to leave the safety of their vehicles, apart from in our lodge grounds, meaning that well spend quite a lot of time in the comfortable 4x4 safari vehicles.
mountain village sits on a hilltop with lush gardens and breathtaking views of mt. kilimanjaro and mt. meru.
its cone collapsed forming a massive caldera, covering 311 square kilometers and creating one of the most scenic spectacles in all of africa and the eighth wonder of the world.
tarangire  covers 2,600 square kilometers of grassland, marshes and acacia scrub along the  tarangire river and is located around 75 milers southwest of arusha.
tarangire covers 2,600 square kilometers of grassland, marshes and acacia scrub along the tarangire river and is located around 75 milers southwest of arusha.
over 600 meters deep and  20 kilometers across, the caldera is covered by extensive grassland, patches of  forest, marshes and lakes whilst attractive motane forest clings to the rim.
we will have lunch back at the ngorongoro serena lodge and retrace our steps through the crater highlands to lake manyara serena.
zanzibar or lamu: combing beach and wildlife safari - end the safari with pampering stay on nearby lamu or zanzibar island.
amongst a wealth of other species we hope to see are impala, grants gazelle, eland, giraffe, and warthog, kirks dik-dik, waterbuck, topi and hartebeest.
rwanda: after exploring the legacy that karen blixen left behind, travel to rwanda to walk in the footsteps of dian fossey and meet the gentle "gorillas in the mist".
day 2: tarangire national park.
overnight atserena mountain village lodge.