this is a genuine safari  experience that you will treasure forever.
we will fully explore this wonderful area on morning game drives followed by a bush breakfast down at the crater returning to our lodge for lunch.
days 7 - 9: serengeti national park.
drive to masai mara, justiably  the world's most famous wildlife spectable.
most  meals are taken al-fresco in a spacious restaurants and dining tents.
serengeti serena lodge.
zanzibar or lamu: combing beach and bush adventure - end the wildlife safari with  pampering stay on nearby lamu or zanzibar island.
please consult the nearest embassies about your requirements as  soon as possible before traveling.
eight million years ago ngorongoro was an active volcano.
limitless grassy plains, scattered with rocky outcrops, acacia bush land and riverine forest, cover 14,673 square kilometers.
the guides were really  excellent."
this abundance of prey is pursued by many  predator including cheetahs, leopard, serval cats, golden and black-backed  jackals, spotted hyena and bat-eared foxes.
e-mail: info@mbangosafaris.com,  safaris@mbangosafaris.com member of: east africa natural  history society, east africa wildlife society, kenya professional safari guides association, kenya  association of tour operators, kenya tourism federation, kenya museum society and eco-tourism society of kenya .
- unlimited game viewing drives.
this is the time of year that the vast herds of wildebeest move into the serengeti from the masai mara to the north, in order to drop their calves and feed on the lush grass watered by the short rains.
perhaps the greater wildlife spectacle in the world, the serengeti belongs to the animals and no one else.
contact us for friendly travel advice.
you will spend 14 days in  kenya and tanzania in a truly spectacular game viewing area, surrounded by  traditional flat-topped acacia trees, thorny scrublands and the bright  red-cloaked masai people dotted across the plains.
we will be using modified 4wd safari vehicles each holding 4 people.
in the lodge grounds and acacia woodlands we should find a plethora of barbets, finches, weavers, turacos, go-away-birds, glossy starlings and kingfishers.
then there are the bustards, cranes, widowbirds, francolins and cisticolas to be found in the grassland and an equally diverse range of forest species!
indeed, ngorongoro is one of the few places in africa where the  ‘big 5” (buffalo, elephant, leopard, lion and rhino) can be seen  together.
tour participants comments: "a superb tour which fully lived up to expectations.
its cone collapsed forming  a massive caldera, covering 311 square kilometers and creating one of the most  scenic spectacles in all of africa and the ‘eighth wonder of the  world’.
the park is 392 km2 in size with the eco-system that spreads the kenya  - tanzania border, the park is famous for being the best place in africa to get  close to free-ranging elephants herds, abundant wildlife and plains game.
mbango safaris have experience of operating tours in east africa  & beyond.
the following expenses are not included in the tour cost: drinks,  tips, anything of personal use and souvenirs.
on our eventful arrival back at nairobi, we will make  our way to a restaurant for lunch and then to ole sereni hotel for day room.
there is of course, no guarantee, but we will endeavor to follow them as far as possible for sheer mammalian spectacle, there is simply no better coincidence of time and place!
the masai mara is probably the most  famous wildlife reserve in africa.
days 2 & 3: lake nakuru national park.
huge ground hornbills and elegant secretary birds stride across the grasslands along with kori bustards, grey crowned crane and smaller species such as temmincks coursers, wattled lapwing, rosy-breasted long claw, yellow-shouldered widowbird and capped wheatear.
all accommodation is in luxurious lodges and camps in prime wildlife areas.
during the heat of the day,  relax and appreciate the silence, punctuated only by birdcalls.
inevitably this feast of wildlife will eclipse the parks birdlife, but the latter cannot be ignored.
dinner on the first day is also  excluded and should be budgeted for.
maasai mara game reserve.
kenya coast: wrap up the wildlife safari by visiting kenya's  coast, world renowned for its white sand beaches.
amongst a wealth of other species we hope to see are impala,  grant’s gazelle, eland, giraffe, and warthog, kirk’s dik-dik,  waterbuck, topi and hartebeest.
at peak times our confirmation may take up to a day or two to reach you, normally we aim to do it within a day.
after breakfast we depart for lake nakuru national park a salty rift valley lake and a rhino sanctuary: the soda lake attracts thousands of pink flamingos.
drive across the border to kenya's  amboseli national park.
early morning game drives set off at sunrise with bush breakfast in the wilderness in the morning sunlight and return to lodge hours later for lunch.
you will also need to have various vaccinations and take malaria prophylactic.
the park is 392 km2 in size with the eco-system that spreads the kenya - tanzania border, the park is famous for being the best place in africa to get close to free-ranging elephants herds, abundant wildlife and plains game.
the daytime temperatures will average around 15°-25°c and can be cool at night.
the area is part of what is now referred to as the serengeti - mara eco-system, being joined to the huge serengeti national park in tanzania.
timing of the tour was perfect, coinciding with incredible numbers of animals in the southern serengeti.
lake nakuru national park is world famous for its population of lesser  flamingo’s and both black and white rhinoceros where we are going to spend  the next two days looking for the different birds and wildlife species found  here including the endangered black rhinoceros and the elusive leopard.
the following expenses are not included in the tour cost: drinks, tips, anything of personal use and souvenirs.
please ask for information while booking.
this abundance of prey is pursued by many predator including cheetahs, leopard, serval cats, golden and black-backed jackals, spotted hyena and bat-eared foxes.
you will also need to have various vaccinations and take malaria  prophylactic.
there are  fully stocked bars with unlimited selection of wines.
in the  lodge grounds and acacia woodlands we should find a plethora of barbets,  finches, weavers, turacos, go-away-birds, glossy starlings and kingfishers.
there are canvas director's chairs on the veranda to relax in.
two full board overnights atamboseli serena lodge.
an exciting range of  water birds includes many species of ducks, geese, waders, storks and hundreds  of thousands of flamingoes.
unlike other ecological systems in africa, ngorongoro is permanently watered and therefore able to support a resident population of animals.
the masai mara is probably the most famous wildlife reserve in africa.
then across into  tanzania to ngorongoro crater and the rolling plains of serengeti where the  greatest migration starts and ends; a trip back in time to the origins of man  as we explore the olduvai cradle of mankind.
zanzibar or lamu: combing beach and bush adventure - end the wildlife safari with pampering stay on nearby lamu or zanzibar island.
most meals are taken al-fresco in a spacious restaurants and dining tents.
safari highlight: - 14 days kenya and tanzania wildlife safari.
we  will enjoy three ull board nights in the serengeti, at the serengeti serena  lodge in the heart of the reserve.
in the local (maa) language mara means spotted, which is a  reference to the patches of bush and trees on the plains.
most of  europe nationalities passport holders and most other nationalities require a  visa for kenya and tanzania which can be obtained in advance from the nearest  embassies.
huge ground hornbills and elegant secretary birds  stride across the grasslands along with kori bustards, grey crowned crane and  smaller species such as temminck’s coursers, wattled lapwing,  rosy-breasted long claw, yellow-shouldered widowbird and capped wheatear.
from february to  june, however, mammal viewing is at its best.
lone bushes or dead trees provide lookout perches for a variety of bee-eaters and rollers, including the beautiful carmine bee-eater, whilst above them soar martial eagles, lappet-faced, african white-backed, hooded and ruppells vultures, the latter four always on the look out for a recent kill.
two  overnights atflamingo hill tented camp.
the  daytime temperatures will average around 15°-25°c and can be cool at  night.
inevitably this feast of wildlife will eclipse the parks’ birdlife, but  the latter cannot be ignored.
this is a safari, covering all aspects of general wildlife including both mammal viewing and bird watching.
at peak times our confirmation may take up to a day or two to  reach you, normally we aim to do it within a day.
two overnights atflamingo hill tented camp.
drive to serengeti national park.
booking terms | links | photo gallery | tour  reports | news mbango safaris east africa ltd, lang'ata shopping mall, lang'ata  court road, p.o. box 8914 - 00100, nairobi, kenya.
dinner on the first day is also excluded and should be budgeted for.
drive to ngorongoro crater and conservation  area, a natural enclosed eco-system, the crater floor is a world haven.
two  full board overnights atngorongoro serena lodge.
day 1: flight to nairobi.
tel: 00 254 20 - 600 14 54, 221 23 54,211 24 33 / 4.
dinner is served in the  restaurant.
lake nakuru national park.
we will enjoy three ull board nights in the serengeti, at the serengeti serena lodge in the heart of the reserve.
a nightcap by the fire can be enjoyed before retiring to your  comfortable room.
accommodation consists of spacious, fully insect-proof selous style tents equipped with proper beds, linen, bedside tables, luggage racks and rugs.
your safari begins in kenya - unrivalled for its diverse eco-systems and tribal cultures.
accommodation consists of spacious, fully insect-proof selous style tents  equipped with proper beds, linen, bedside tables, luggage racks and rugs.
amboseli national park.
this is the time of year that the  vast herds of wildebeest move into the serengeti from the masai mara to the  north, in order to drop their calves and feed on the lush grass watered by the  short rains.
you will drive across the spectacular great rift valley floor  with its prolific wildlife, stunning scenery and incredible light before  explore masai mara plains teeming with wildlife.
amboseli serena lodge.
drive to serengeti national  park.
later you will be transferred to airport for your outbound flight back home.
the area is part of what is now referred to as the  serengeti - mara eco-system, being joined to the huge serengeti national  park in tanzania.
you will spend 14 days in kenya and tanzania in a truly spectacular game viewing area, surrounded by traditional flat-topped acacia trees, thorny scrublands and the bright red-cloaked masai people dotted across the plains.
serengeti is a prisitine wilderness known for its vast herds of plains game.
it is rising grassland, watered by the mara river and covering an area of 1500 square kilometers of wilderness.
there are fully stocked bars with unlimited selection of wines.
the ngorongoro crater is undoubtedly one of the very  best areas for photography - make sure you bring plenty of memory cards.
afternoon game drives returns after sundown, after which you can freshen up and  gather round the campfire for pre-dinner drinks.
on arrival transfer to ole sereni hotel for a good nights sleep.
days 4 - 6: masai mara game reserve.
we will undoubtedly see more of them, but exactly which ones will depend on our luck!
the mara region has been inhabited by man for at least 2,000 years, the last 200 years by the maasai.
the guides will be on hand to show you the flora of  the area and explain the traditional masai uses of the respective trees and  plants.
on our eventful arrival back at nairobi, we will make our way to a restaurant for lunch and then to ole sereni hotel for day room.
tour price, tour reports, detailed tour plan and how to book your place.
serengeti national park.
food and accommodation included in the price.
we will undoubtedly see  more of them, but exactly which ones will depend on our luck!
- luxury 4wd safari vehicles.
days will be spent game viewing and enjoying the masai mara.
indeed, ngorongoro is one of the few places in africa where the big 5 (buffalo, elephant, leopard, lion and rhino) can be seen together.
there will be plenty of time during the safari to visit a maasai  village and learn about the masai culture and to get a feel for this  fascinating area of africa.
kenya enjoys a pleasant climate all year round thanks to it's altitude,  except the coastal regions which can be humid.
safari destinations | conservation | general info |
an exciting range of water birds includes many species of ducks, geese, waders, storks and hundreds of thousands of flamingoes.
please consult the nearest embassies about your requirements as soon as possible before traveling.
there is of course, no guarantee, but  we will endeavor to follow them as far as possible – for sheer mammalian  spectacle, there is simply no better coincidence of time and place!
bathrooms are en-suite and are equipped with a dresser, shower and flushing  toilet.
during the heat of the day, relax and appreciate the silence, punctuated only by birdcalls.
dinner is served in the restaurant.
lunch, dinner and overnight at mara serena lodge .
other  attractions of the park include includes the opportunity to meet maasai and  spectacular views of mount kilimanjaro, the highest free-standing mountain in  the world.
two full board overnights atngorongoro serena lodge.
- may departure dates: 08 th may to 21 st may 2011.
ngorongoro  crater and conservation area.
for the tour price, tour reports and a detailed tour plan and in order to book a place on this holiday, please call us now on 00 254 20 600 14 54.
then across into tanzania to ngorongoro crater and the rolling plains of serengeti where the greatest migration starts and ends; a trip back in time to the origins of man as we explore the olduvai cradle of mankind.
perhaps the greater wildlife spectacle in the world, the serengeti  belongs to the animals and no one else.
once we have received your request / booking we will confirm your  booking and send you all the further details necessary for you to prepare for  your holiday.
mammal sightings included 16 cheetahs, 10 black rhinos, lions galore and 1m+ wildebeests.
days will be spent  game viewing and enjoying the masai mara.
optional balloon flights, samburu and  maasai village visits are available plus other optional excursions.
from february to june, however, mammal viewing is at its best.
- specialist natularist guide.
you will drive across the spectacular great rift valley floor with its prolific wildlife, stunning scenery and incredible light before explore masai mara plains teeming with wildlife.
drive to masai mara, justiably the world's most famous wildlife spectable.
there will be plenty of time during the safari to visit a maasai village and learn about the masai culture and to get a feel for this fascinating area of africa.
bathrooms are en-suite and are equipped with a dresser, shower and flushing toilet.
limitless grassy plains, scattered with  rocky outcrops, acacia bush land and riverine forest, cover 14,673 square  kilometers.
your safari begins in kenya - unrivalled for its diverse eco-systems and  tribal cultures.
the guides will be on hand to show you the flora of the area and explain the traditional masai uses of the respective trees and plants.
ngorongoro crater and conservation area.
rwanda: after exploring the legacy that karen blixen left behind, travel to rwanda to  walk in the footsteps of dian fossey and meet the gentle "gorillas in the  mist".
it is home to over 30,000  large mammals including white bearded wildebeest, african buffalo,  burchell’s zebra, grant’s and thompson’s gazelles, african  elephant, black rhinoceros, hippopotamus, lion, spotted hyena and black backed  jackal.
after breakfast we depart  for lake nakuru national park a salty rift valley lake and a rhino sanctuary:  the soda lake attracts thousands of pink flamingos.
a nightcap by the fire can be enjoyed before retiring to your comfortable room.
over 600 meters deep and 20 kilometers across, the  caldera is covered by extensive grassland, patches of forest, marshes and lakes  whilst attractive motane forest clings to the rim.
ngorongoro serena lodge.
kenya enjoys a pleasant climate all year round thanks to it's altitude, except the coastal regions which can be humid.
for the tour price, tour  reports and a detailed tour plan and in order to book a place on this holiday,  please call us now on 00 254 20 600 14 54.
booking terms | links | photo gallery | tour reports | news mbango safaris east africa ltd, lang'ata shopping mall, lang'ata court road, p.o. box 8914 - 00100, nairobi, kenya.
amboseli national park offers one of the most classic and breathtaking views of the gigantic kilimanjaro mountain, with it's 5,985 m dominating the plains like a powerful god ruling the world from his silverstone.
other attractions of the park include includes the opportunity to meet maasai and spectacular views of mount kilimanjaro, the highest free-standing mountain in the world.
e-mail: info@mbangosafaris.com, safaris@mbangosafaris.com member of: east africa natural history society, east africa wildlife society, kenya professional safari guides association, kenya association of tour operators, kenya tourism federation, kenya museum society and eco-tourism society of kenya .
we will fully explore this wonderful area on  morning game drives followed by a bush breakfast down at the crater returning  to our lodge for lunch.
once we have received your request / booking we will confirm your booking and send you all the further details necessary for you to prepare for your holiday.
early morning game drives  set off at sunrise with bush breakfast in the wilderness in the morning  sunlight and return to lodge hours later for lunch.
lake nakuru national park is world famous for its population of lesser flamingos and both black and white rhinoceros where we are going to spend the next two days looking for the different birds and wildlife species found here including the endangered black rhinoceros and the elusive leopard.
alternatively, fill our online booking form or email us at: safaris@mbangosafaris.com giving us your  contacts.
serengeti is a prisitine wilderness known for its vast herds of plains  game.
afternoon game drives returns after sundown, after which you can freshen up and gather round the campfire for pre-dinner drinks.
lone  bushes or dead trees provide lookout perches for a variety of bee-eaters and  rollers, including the beautiful carmine bee-eater, whilst above them soar  martial eagles, lappet-faced, african white-backed, hooded and ruppell’s  vultures, the latter four always on the look out for a recent kill.
the park contains nearly 40 species of large mammals, which in february, includes nearly two million white-bearded wildebeest, 200,000 burchells zebra, 300,000 thompsons gazelles and an amazing 2,000 lions.
- the great rift valley, ngorongoro crater, serengeti and masai mara national parks.
the birdlife is no less spectacular.
the ngorongoro crater is undoubtedly one of the very best areas for photography - make sure you bring plenty of memory cards.
this is a genuine safari experience that you will treasure forever.
d.mike, new hampshire.
drive to ngorongoro crater and conservation area, a natural enclosed eco-system, the crater floor is a world haven.
over 600 meters deep and 20 kilometers across, the caldera is covered by extensive grassland, patches of forest, marshes and lakes whilst attractive motane forest clings to the rim.
the tour includes all  transport, game drives, accommodation and meals, except for dinner on day one.
with the herds come the predators.
cellphone: 00 254 - 722 524 987, 733 681 240.
amboseli national park offers one of the most classic  and breathtaking views of the gigantic kilimanjaro mountain, with it's 5,985 m  dominating the plains like a powerful god ruling the world from his silverstone.
we  will be using modified 4wd safari vehicles each holding 4 people.
eight  million years ago ngorongoro was an active volcano.
sadly, today we have to leave amboseli which has been our home and wildlife theatre for the last two days for a return drive to nairobi.
the tour includes all transport, game drives, accommodation and meals, except for dinner on day one.
optional balloon flights, samburu and maasai village visits are available plus other optional excursions.
facebook, skype, msn, yahoo messenger id: mbangosafaris.
unlike other ecological  systems in africa, ngorongoro is permanently watered and therefore able to  support a resident population of animals.
mbango safaris have experience of operating tours in east africa & beyond.
tour price, tour reports,  detailed tour plan and how to book your place.
mammal sightings included 16 cheetahs, 10 black rhinos, lions  galore and 1m+ wildebeests.
accommodation: ole sereni hotel.
- april departure dates: 10 th april to 23 th april 2011.
flamingo hill tented camp.
then there are the bustards, cranes, widowbirds,  francolins and cisticolas to be found in the grassland and an equally diverse  range of forest species!
kenya coast: wrap up the wildlife safari by visiting kenya's coast, world renowned for its white sand beaches.
most of europe nationalities passport holders and most other nationalities require a visa for kenya and tanzania which can be obtained in advance from the nearest embassies.
please ask  for information while booking.
fax: 00 254 - 20 600 14 53, 222 93 54.
alternatively, fill our online booking form or email us at: safaris@mbangosafaris.com giving us your contacts.
it is home to over 30,000 large mammals including white bearded wildebeest, african buffalo, burchells zebra, grants and thompsons gazelles, african elephant, black rhinoceros, hippopotamus, lion, spotted hyena and black backed jackal.
days: day 1: days 2 & 3: days 4 - 6: days 7 - 9: days 10 & 11: days 12 & 13: day 14: location: nairobi.
this is a safari, covering all aspects of general wildlife  including both mammal viewing and bird watching.
the mara  region has been inhabited by man for at least 2,000 years, the last 200  years by the maasai.
in the local (maa) language mara means spotted, which is a reference to the patches of bush and trees on the plains.
tel: 00 254 20 - 600 14  54, 221 23 54,211 24 33 / 4.
sadly, today we have to leave amboseli  which has been our home and wildlife theatre for the last two days for a return  drive to nairobi.
tour participants  comments: "a superb tour which fully lived up to  expectations.
drive across the border to kenya's amboseli national park.
the guides were really excellent."
© 2004 - 2011 mbango safaris east africa ltd.
its cone collapsed forming a massive caldera, covering 311 square kilometers and creating one of the most scenic spectacles in all of africa and the eighth wonder of the world.
kenya bargain wildlife safari kenya and tanzania bargain wildlife safari.
the park contains nearly 40 species of large mammals, which in  february, includes nearly two million white-bearded wildebeest, 200,000  burchell’s zebra, 300,000 thompson’s gazelles and an amazing 2,000  lions.
amongst a wealth of other species we hope to see are impala, grants gazelle, eland, giraffe, and warthog, kirks dik-dik, waterbuck, topi and hartebeest.
it is rising grassland, watered by the mara  river and covering an area of 1500 square kilometers of wilderness.
rwanda: after exploring the legacy that karen blixen left behind, travel to rwanda to walk in the footsteps of dian fossey and meet the gentle "gorillas in the mist".
timing of the tour was perfect, coinciding with  incredible numbers of animals in the southern serengeti.