lions: lower zambezi, okavango and linyanti from may to november; queen elizabeth nps ishasha area for tree-climbing lions; katavis kapapa river in september to november; kidepo valley in north uganda.
the zambezi, kavango, kafue and luangwa rivers play a big role in some activities in southern africa.
instead we've included some brief summaries on things that you should consider plus web links to additional info sources -go there...
active safaris: canoe the lower zambezi anytime of year; take a walking safari in mana pools, hwange, the luangwa, the serengeti or selous between june and october; go trekking in ethiopias simien mountains for the rwenzoris from uganda.
we don't dispense medical advice.
gorillas: permits for mountain gorillas in uganda/rwanda are easy; lowland gorillas in gabon need time/patience/tolerance; options in car/congo are good and as yet not mainstream.
educational encounters: go to victoria falls to walk with lions  and take an elephant back trail; do work as a chimp caregiver on ngamba island;  assist with lion research in hwange; spend some time anywhere in the company of  the best guides family safaris: get the kids active in the kenyan bush and  beaches; combine victoria falls with botswana or zambia; take a malaria free  safari to the kruger and cape; secluded spots: seek out some real gems in tanzania’s  western corridor; venture further north on kenya’s coast or the northern  frontier district; visit the kidepo valley and semliki in uganda or  namibia’s skeleton coast.
east africa has been the traditional choice for most, historically  dominated by “package tours”.
hwange anytime; selous  in july/august; south luangwa in green season.
....smart safaris here ....explore our destinations here our seasons have a significant influence trip timing.
hwange has the  biggest black maned lions around.
air tickets will generally make up a large cost of your total safari.
wild dogs: moremi and linyanti in june;
visit zambia in november for the convergence of millions  of “straw-coloured fruit bats” as they descend on kasanka national  park history and culture: visit ethiopia and the historical sites of  axum, lalibela, gondar and bahir dar; explore lamu or stonetown for swahili  culture; explore some of south africa’s recent past through battlefields  and townships.
absolute best is late october to mid december.
gorillas: permits for mountain gorillas in uganda/rwanda are easy;  lowland gorillas in gabon need time/patience/tolerance; options in car/congo  are good and as yet not mainstream.
uganda, gabon, tanzania, zambia, botswana and south africa offer amongst the best safari habitats for birders.
we recommend either east (tanzania or kenya) or southern africa (zambia, botswana, namibia, south africa, malawi) dont try combining the two regions in one trip.
seychelles in may to september; madagascar in october/november; and for fresh water beaches combine katavi with mahale or the luangwa with malawi between may and october.
lions: lower zambezi, okavango and linyanti from may to november; queen  elizabeth np’s ishasha area for tree-climbing lions; katavi’s kapapa  river in september to november; kidepo valley in north uganda.
active safaris: canoe the lower zambezi anytime of year; take a  walking safari in mana pools, hwange, the luangwa, the serengeti or selous  between june and october; go trekking in ethiopia’s simien mountains for  the rwenzoris from uganda.
best for safari and beach combinations  – very popular july to september and january/february.
birding: anywhere is good from november to april!
luangwa, mana pools, hwange, matusadona, moremi, linyanti, chobe, katavi, selous, ruaha dry season peaks in october.
best for wildlife  – good at anytime of year.
chimps: kibale in uganda, mahale in tanzania offer totally different  experiences.
some help with making your decisions for "first-timers"... we recommend either east (tanzania or kenya) or southern africa (zambia,  botswana, namibia, south africa, malawi) – don’t try combining the  two regions in one trip.
...go on to our smart safaris for 2010 and 2011 ... selected from specific parts of africa with our preferred partners ... simply the best
mara from june to october wildebeest migration in east africa: use a mobile camp or take  a walking safari and go late october/early november to northern serengeti.
southern africa offers significantly more choice and over the last  20 years its safari industry has seen better development.
we've tried to de-mystify the topic with some basic explanations and web links to providers -go there...
wildebeest migration in southern africa: join a small group and go to liuwa plains in western zambia in december, may or june; visit the makgadikgadi pans around march.
elephants: mana pools, linyanti, chobe, hwange, the luangwa, selous, katavi, amboseli.
"short and long rains" have a very direct impact on the seasonal migrations in east africa.
seychelles in may  to september; madagascar in october/november; and for fresh water beaches  combine katavi with mahale or the luangwa with malawi between may and october.
wildebeest migration in southern africa: join a small group and go  to liuwa plains in western zambia in december, may or june; visit the  makgadikgadi pans around march.
leopards: the south luangwa, lower zambezi and southern kafue  anytime between may and october cheetah: go to okavango or linyanti, namibia, hwange all year or  kenya’s
wild dogs: moremi and linyanti in june; hwange anytime; selous in july/august; south luangwa in green season.
leopards: the south luangwa, lower zambezi and southern kafue anytime between may and october cheetah: go to okavango or linyanti, namibia, hwange all year or kenyas mara from june to october wildebeest migration in east africa: use a mobile camp or take a walking safari and go late october/early november to northern serengeti.
elephants: mana pools, linyanti, chobe, hwange, the luangwa,  selous, katavi, amboseli.
uganda, gabon,  tanzania, zambia, botswana and south africa offer amongst the best safari  habitats for birders.
safari-beach combinations: go to kenya or cape town in  february/march; zambia and mozambique in september/october;
expect some tough tracking in june and january.
safari-beach combinations: go to kenya or cape town in february/march; zambia and mozambique in september/october;
educational encounters: go to victoria falls to walk with lions and take an elephant back trail; do work as a chimp caregiver on ngamba island; assist with lion research in hwange; spend some time anywhere in the company of the best guides family safaris: get the kids active in the kenyan bush and beaches; combine victoria falls with botswana or zambia; take a malaria free safari to the kruger and cape; secluded spots: seek out some real gems in tanzanias western corridor; venture further north on kenyas coast or the northern frontier district; visit the kidepo valley and semliki in uganda or namibias skeleton coast.
there're ways of obtaining discounted airfares if you plan correctly -find out more... [ home ] [ safari seasons ] [ medical matters ] [ travel insurance ] [ discounted airfares ] contact us now www.zambezi.com | www.zambezi.co.uk | privacy | disclaimer copyright © 1996-2011 :: zambezi safari and travel co. ltd :: last modified: july 13, 2011
luangwa, mana pools, hwange, matusadona, moremi, linyanti,  chobe, katavi, selous, ruaha – dry season peaks in october.
for "seasoned travellers"... birding: anywhere is good from november to april!
find out more about all of our safari destinations...
chimps: kibale in uganda, mahale in tanzania offer totally different experiences.
visit zambia in november for the convergence of millions of straw-coloured fruit bats as they descend on kasanka national park history and culture: visit ethiopia and the historical sites of axum, lalibela, gondar and bahir dar; explore lamu or stonetown for swahili culture; explore some of south africas recent past through battlefields and townships.
we've included some background info and a table to simplify -go there...
hwange has the biggest black maned lions around.
insurance is a pre-requisite for any safari - you simply can't join us if you don't have it.