the migration can be seen on a long chain approximately 40
the reserve boasts a plethora of wildlife -… read more wildlife beach holidays kenya tour name: bush & beach safari tour kenyacode: aswb 001:
serengeti national park.
0200pm  shuttle back to nairobi.
elevation gain: 1,200 meters hiking time: 5 to 6 hours distance: 10 kilometers .
united states dollar (usd)venezuelan bolivar (veb)south african rand (zar) powered by joomlagadgets monday - friday 08:00am to 17:00pm saturday - 09:00am to 13:00pm sunday - closed (if urgent contact us on phone or by email).
lithuanian litas (ltl)moroccan dirham (mad)mauritian rupee (mur)mexican peso  (mxn)malaysian ringgit (myr)norwegian krone (nok)nepalese rupee (npr)new  zealand dollar (nzd)omani rial (omr)peruvian nuevo sol (pen)philippine peso  (php)pakistani rupee (pkr)polish zloty (pln)qatari riyal (qar)new romanian leu  (ron)russian ruble (rub)saudi riyal (sar)swedish krona (sek)singapore dollar  (sgd)slovenian tolar (sit)slovak koruna (skk)thai baht (thb)new turkish lira  (try)trinidad & tobago (ttd)new taiwan dollar (twd)ukrainian hryvnia (uah)
this park is normally the scene of the annual migration of wildebeest and zebra  that occurs between the kenyan mara and the serengeti.
face fanbox or likebox guests online: 14 - site map - enquiries - safari vehicles - uganda safaris - rwanda safaris - kenya/tanzania safaris - tanzania hotels - tanzania safaris - kenya safaris - kenya hotels - home copyright © 2003 - 2012
amboseli national park depart mara after breakfast  and proceed to nairobi for lunch.
amboseli safaris - 3 days: samburu safaris - 3 days: masai mara safari - 4 - 7 days lodge safaris kenya - 4 days: aberdares sweetwaters safaris - 4 days: lake nakuru masai mara safaris - 5 days: lake nakuru masai mara tour - 6 days: wildlife safari samburu nakuru
maasai mara transfer to wilson airstrip for a scheduled flight to maasai mara departing at 1000 hours.
accommodations: can make your choice of safari  lodges/hotels.
club - mountain lodge - mount kenya safari club - the ark - treetops lodge - outspan golf & country club - sweetwaters luxury
lake manyara national park.
duration: 10 days | 9 nights:parks to visit:lake nakuru/masai  mara/serengeti/ngorongoro/lake manyara .accommodations:can make your choice of  safari lodges/hotels.
arrive mara in time for lunch.
around 1230 and 1300 break for your  lunch.
read more sweetwaters safari tours sweetwaters safaris : tours sweetwaters : aberdares trips : sweetwaters  luxury tented camp nestled between mt. kenya to the east and the aberdares  mountains to the west, sweetwaters game reserve is a privately held reserve
read more sweetwaters safari tours sweetwaters safaris : tours sweetwaters : aberdares trips : sweetwaters luxury tented camp nestled between mt. kenya to the east and the aberdares mountains to the west, sweetwaters game reserve is a privately held reserve covering some 24,000 acres.
after lunch have a rest for one hr, then proceed with your game viewing following the move of the migrants on the southwest of the park.
masai mara safaris serengeti safari convert uae dirham (aed)neth ant gulden (ang)argentine  peso (ars)australian dollar (aud)bulgarian lev (bgn)bahraini dinar (bhd)brunei  dollar (bnd)bolivian boliviano (bob)brazilian real (brl)botswana pula (bwp)
between meals there is optional visit  to the maasai villages for an insight to their culture if clients so wish.
game  drive enroute to the lodge.
after lunch proceed to lake manyara ,game viewing en route for dinner  and overnight at kirurumu tented lodge/similar.
(optional visits to  samburu villages).
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan:  {b,l,d} day 4.
lake nakuru national park.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari  minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
tour duration: 10 days |9 nights:parks to visit: nairobi | masai mara | lake nakuru | beach.
read more echoes of the wild tour name: meru safaris : joy adamsons footsteps tour code: asmp 001:
though harsh, it is blessed with species rarely found elsewhere.
varied bird species can  be seen here including eagles, ducks, geese, egrets, vultures, secretary birds,  ibis, stork, herons, kites, pelicans, cranes and guinea fowl.
dinner and overnight at keekorok lodge/similar.
the park contains vast herds of wildebeest, zebra, gazelle and other antelopes.
read more mt kilimanjaro climbing asstm 042 :6 days/5 nights:  mt.kilimanjaro climbing : machame
arrive in time for lunch at lodge.
all meals and overnight at samburu sopa lodge/similar.
afternoon game drive and picnic lunch en route for dinner and overnight at ngorongoro sopa lodge/similar.
english arabic bulgarian croatian czech danish dutch finnish french german greek hindi italian japanese korean norwegian polish portuguese romanian russian spanish swedish catalan filipino
maasai mara national reserve.
game drive enroute to the lodge.
breakfast at  around 0900am.
safari transport mode: transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
read more mt kilimanjaro climbing asstm 042 :6 days/5 nights: mt.kilimanjaro climbing :
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and your driver guide.
it has a surprisingly number of animals, all the  "big five" except the elephant can be seen here, dinner and overnight  at sarova lion hill/similar.
manyara/serengeti/ngorongoro/tarangire - 4days/3nights :lake manyara/ ngorongoro.
dinner and overnight at samburu sopa lodge/similar.
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.
approx transit time: 4 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 10.
morning game drives in the vast serengeti plain.
read more nairobi excursions & city tours nairobi safaris: nairobi tours : nairobi excursions : holidays nairobi :  nairobi short safaris assn 007: sheldrick elephant orphanage (daily at 11.00  a.m - 12.00p.m).in thepark is the animal orphanage where sick, wounded and  abandoned animals are cared for and rehabilitated into the park, as well as an  educational centre featuring a safari walk.
dinner and overnight at mara sopa lodge/similar.
in the central plains there are carnivores like leopard, lion, hyena and cheetah.
the term serengeti means endless plains in maasai language.
morning (6:30am) and afternoon (1500hrs) game viewing drive inside the park.
after breakfast, leave lake manyara for serengeti via olduvai gorge, with game drive and picnic lunch enroute.
after lunch drive to amboseli at the  foothills of snow capped mt.kilimanjaro , africa ’s highest peak.
dinner and overnight at amboseli serena lodge/similar.
united states dollar (usd)venezuelan bolivar (veb)south african rand (zar) powered by joomlagadgets office hours monday - friday 08:00am to 17:00pm saturday - 09:00am to 13:00pm sunday - closed (if urgent contact us on phone or by email).
depart nairobi in the morning for samburu national reserve crossing the equator and driving through changing terrain to the rugged semi-desert regions in the northern kenya.
meal  plan: {b,l,d} day 8.
tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: meru/sweetwaters/lake  nakuru/maasai mara: accommodations:can make your choice of safari  lodges/hotels.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 3.
dinner and  overnight at keekorok lodge/similar.
breakfast at a lodge and drive to the shoulders of mt. kenya via thomson falls arriving lake nakuru in time for lunch, afternoon game drive at the pink lake referred so for it's thousands of pink flamingos and other birdlife-it's a bird watchers paradise.
full day in samburu with game drives .search for the rare  liver red reticulated giraffe, grevy's zebra, beisa oryx, blue flanked somali  ostrich, vulturine guinea fowl, longneck gerenuk.
- ashnil aruba lodge tsavo east - kibo safari camp
com - home - kenya safaris - air safaris kenya -
wildebeest  migration safaris masai mara,wildebeest migration safaris serengeti,wildlife  migration masai mara serengeti kenya tanzania: serengeti tanzania and masai  mara kenya wildlife migration trips tours:wildlife lodge safari tours masai
club - lake bogoria lodges and camps - lake baringo lodges and camps - soi safari lodge - lake baringo - lake baringo country club - lake elementaita lodges and camps - lake elementaita lodge - lake elementaita serena camp - lake nakuru lodges and camps - lake nakuru lodge - sarova lion hill - mbweha camp - nakuru - flamingo hill camp - kenya coast hotels & resorts - malindi and watamu beach
full day in samburu with game drives .search for the rare liver red reticulated giraffe, grevy's zebra, beisa oryx, blue flanked somali ostrich, vulturine guinea fowl, longneck gerenuk.
the reserve boasts a plethora of wildlife -… read more wildlife beach holidays kenya tour name: bush & beach safari tour  kenyacode: aswb 001:tour  duration: 10 days |9 nights:parks to visit: nairobi | masai mara | lake nakuru  | beach.
morning (6:30am) and afternoon (1500hrs)  game viewing drive inside the park.
(optional visits to samburu villages).
dinner and overnight at  serengeti sopa lodge/similar.
enjoy early morning spectacular views of the snow-capped mountain.
canadian dollar (cad)swiss franc (chf)chilean peso (clp)chinese yuan (cny) colombian peso (cop)serbian dinar (csd)czech koruna (czk)danish krone (dkk) estonian kroon (eek)egyptian pound (egp)euro (eur)fijian dollar (fjd)british  pound (gbp)hong kong dollar (hkd)honduran lempira (hnl)croatian kuna (hrk) hungarian forint (huf)indonesian rupiah (idr)new israeli sheqel (ils)indian  rupee (inr)icelandic krona (isk)japanese yen (jpy)south korean won (krw)kuwaiti  dinar (kwd)kazakhstani tenge (kzt)sri lankan rupee (lkr)lithuanian litas (ltl)
amboseli is a photogenic park and hosts a great number of game and birdlife including the lion,huge herds of elephant and the splendid cheetah.
tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: lake nakuru/lake naivasha/maasai mara.
tour duration: 3 days |2 nights: parks to visit: bwindi impenetrable national park.
approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 12.
this park is normally the scene of the annual migration of wildebeest and zebra that occurs between the kenyan mara and the serengeti.
after breakfast take picnic lunch boxex with you descend 670m into the crater floor for game viewing, breaking for lunch at the lerai picnic site.
depart  nairobi in the morning for samburu national reserve crossing the equator and  driving through changing terrain to the rugged semi-desert regions in the  northern kenya.
tented camp - mara sentrim camp - mara sopa lodge - kichwa tembo camp - mara serena lodge - keekorok lodge - tipilikwani camp-masai mara - kilima camp masai
african servalcat safaris & tours :: site powered by kemnet technologies :: all rights reserved.
search for wild game black manned lion for which mara is famous for, cheetah, buffalo, wildebeest, zebra, leopard, grants gazelle are quite common, even the rare rhino might come out of the thicket for you, hyenas are plentiful, extend your drive to the hippo point where schools of hippo submerge on the approach of vehicles only to surface seconds later to shot and gamble their displeasure as the crocodiles sunbathe on the river banks mouths agape.
you stay in tents adjacent to a waterhole, which  provides for a constant procession of animals taking their turn at the precious  resource.
machame route: day 1: machame gate (1,800m) to machame camp (3,000m).
read more tour name: wildspots kenya tanzania tour code : assea 060e: tour duration: 13 days | 12 nights: parks to visit: samburu/lake nakuru/maasai mara/amboseli/ngorongoro/serengeti/lake manyara accommodations : safari lodges/hotels as indicated in the itinerary.
8hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 7.
masai mara safaris serengeti safari convert uae dirham (aed)neth ant gulden (ang)argentine peso (ars)australian dollar (aud)bulgarian lev (bgn)bahraini dinar (bhd)brunei dollar (bnd)bolivian boliviano (bob)brazilian real (brl)botswana pula (bwp)
saudi riyal (sar)swedish krona (sek)singapore dollar (sgd)slovenian tolar (sit)
afternoon game drive to search for the stars of samburu.
- 15 days: wildlife safaris kenya - 16+ days lodge safaris kenya - 16 days: honeymoon safaris kenya - 18 days: tours africa .
moroccan dirham (mad)mauritian rupee (mur)mexican peso (mxn)malaysian ringgit (myr)norwegian krone (nok)nepalese rupee (npr)new zealand dollar (nzd)omani rial (omr)peruvian nuevo sol (pen)philippine peso (php)pakistani rupee (pkr) polish zloty (pln)qatari riyal (qar)new romanian leu (ron)russian ruble (rub)
wide and is home to all the big five and hence the same may be seen.
ngorongoro/manyara - southern circuit safaris tanzania - selous game reserve:ruaha & mikumi parks - luxury tented camp safaris tanzania - 6 days luxury
approx transit time: 8 hrs meal plan: {b,l} nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry: safaris kenya tanzania safaris
- talk to us - general links - terms & conditions
dinner and overnight at ngorongoro sopa lodge/similar.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {l,d} day 2.
in  the central plains there are carnivores like leopard, lion, hyena and cheetah.
trips kenya - 13 days: tours kenya .
lodge safari trip tanzania - 6days/5nights: manyara/ serengeti/ngorongoro - 5days/4nights :
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
joomla templates and joomla  extensions by joomlavision.
dinner and overnight at serengeti sopa lodge/similar.
breakfast at a lodge and drive to the shoulders of mt. kenya via thomson  falls arriving lake nakuru in time for lunch, afternoon game drive at the pink  lake referred so for it's thousands of pink flamingos and other birdlife-it's a  bird watchers paradise.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 8.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 5.
wildspots safaris kenya tanzania - 13 days
hebrew indonesian latvian lithuanian serbian slovak slovenian ukrainian vietnamese albanian estonian galician hungarian maltese thai turkish persian afrikaans malay swahili irish welsh belarusian icelandic macedonian yiddish armenian azerbaijani basque georgian haitian creole urdu chinese (s) chinese (t) 1 .example-class,#example-id joomla templates and joomla extensions by joomlavision.
read more echoes of the wild tour name: meru safaris : joy adamsons footsteps tour code: asmp  001:
arusha/nairobi after breakfast, depart for arusha for lunch and board
breakfast at the lodge and depart for maasai mara crossing the loita plains, see red clad maasai warriors tend their multi-colored herds amongst plains game.
after lunch drive to amboseli at the foothills of snow capped mt.kilimanjaro , africa ’s highest peak.
approx transit time:
breakfast at lodge and leave with  picnic lunches for a full day game drive inside the park.
around 1230 and 1300 break for your lunch.
it has a surprisingly number of animals, all the "big five" except the elephant can be seen here, dinner and overnight at sarova lion hill/similar.
mt kilimanjaro:zanzibar - kenya tanzania uganda - rwanda safaris - uganda safaris - bwindi impenerable national park - glamour of uganda:
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle  and driver guide.
all meals and overnight at amboseli serena lodge/similar.
amboseli - lake naivasha lodges and camps - lake naivasha sopa lodge
amboseli is a photogenic park and hosts a  great number of game and birdlife including the lion,huge herds of elephant and  the splendid cheetah.
km  heading to the south western direction.
- wildlife budget camping safaris kenya - camping safaris kenya - maasai mara camping safaris - mountain climbing/treks/hike - beach holidays & safaris - beach holidays & safaris kenya - kenya coast - lamu island beach holidays - malindi beach holidays - mombasa beach holidays - kenya national parks & game reserves - aberdare national park - amboseli national park - hells gate national park - lake nakuru national park - nairobi national park - map of kenya parks - maasai mara national reserve - mt. kenya national park - meru national park - samburu game reserve - sweetwater's game reserve - tsavo east & west national park - kenya safari information - mt kenya safaris - sweetwaters safaris - aberdares safaris - kenya hotels - aberdares lodges and camps - aberdare country
km heading to the south western direction.
the park contains vast herds of  wildebeest, zebra, gazelle and other antelopes.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
afternoon game drive to search  for the stars of samburu.
- 14 days: holidays kenya .
arriving maasai mara at 1100 hours.
hotel - 680 hotel - meridian court hotel - windsor golf & country club - panafric hotel - hilton hotel - safari park hotel - norforlk hotel - the stanley hotel - laico regency hotel - nairobi serena
read more tour name: wildspots kenya tanzania tour code : assea 060e: tour duration: 13 days | 12 nights: parks to visit: samburu/lake nakuru/maasai  mara/amboseli/ngorongoro/serengeti/lake manyara accommodations : safari lodges/hotels as indicated in the itinerary.
breakfast at around 0900am.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 13.
afternoon game  drive and picnic lunch en route for dinner and overnight at ngorongoro sopa  lodge/similar.
approx transit time: 4 hrs meal plan:  {b,l,d} day 10.
the wildebeest migration is one of the last big migrations in the animal  world and one of the most breath-taking events earth!
elevation gain:  1,200 meters hiking time: 5 to 6 hours distance: 10 kilometers .
the great wildebeest migration moves from the serengeti national park in tanzania… read more uganda gorilla
amboseli national park depart mara after breakfast and proceed to nairobi for lunch.
breakfast at lodge and leave with picnic lunches for a full day game drive inside the park.
tour  duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: lake nakuru/lake   naivasha/maasai mara.
masai mara victoria serengeti ngorongoro safari tours - 14 days: kenya/tanzania safaris - 16 days kenya / tanzani safaris - 17 - 21 days kenya / tanzania safaris - 17 days: kenya/tanzania/zanzibar - 21 days: wildlife explorer safari and beach holiday kenya tanzania - 21 days wildlife safari tour kenya tanzania:
you need flash player 6+ and javascript enabled to view this video.
close by is the sheldrick elephant  orphanage, where infant elephant and rhino (orphaned because of poaching… read more masai mara serengeti safaris tour name: cormorant safari kenya tanzania tour code:asms 001:tour
safaris treks tour name: mountain gorilla treks/safari uganda.
uganda - uganda safari information - inquiries - safaris qs&as - why travel with us air safari packages kenya assa-001 : 2 days | 1 night : day 1.
the crater is 14.5km.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle  and driver guide.
hotels - hemingways beach resorts - ocean sports hotel - watamu malindi - turtle bay beach club - watamu - hemingways beach resort - watamu - mombasa north coast beach hotels - bamburi beach hotel - nyali beach hotel - plaza beach hotel - whitesands beach hotel - serena beach hotel - travellers beach hotel - voyager beach resort - mombasa south coast beach hotels - jadini beach hotel - leopard beach hotel - leisure lodge resort - leopard beach hotel - southern palms beach resort - shimba rain forest lodge - southern palms beach resort - diani reef beach resort & spa mombasa - maasai mara lodges and camps - ol moran tented camp - sarova mara camp - mara leisure luxury
the wildebeest migration is one of the last big migrations in the animal world and one of the most breath-taking events earth!
amboseli air safaris - maasai mara air safaris - wildlife air safaris kenya - special wildlife & beach safaris kenya - luxury tented camp safaris kenya - sopa wildlife/beach safaris kenya - sarova wildlife/beach safaris kenya - serena wildlife/beach safaris kenya - wildlife/beach safaris kenya - kenya safari & watamu beach holiday - nairobi safaris - mombasa safaris - excursions & city tours - nairobi excursions & city tours - mombasa excursions & city tours - birdwatching safari kenya - wildlife migration safaris masaai mara - lodge safaris kenya - 2 - 3 days lodge safaris kenya - 2 days: safaris kenya - 3 days:
after  breakfast, leave lake manyara for serengeti via olduvai gorge, with game drive  and picnic lunch enroute.
read more nairobi excursions & city tours nairobi safaris: nairobi tours : nairobi excursions : holidays nairobi : nairobi short safaris assn 007: sheldrick elephant orphanage (daily at 11.00 a.m - 12.00p.m).in thepark is the animal orphanage where sick, wounded and abandoned animals are cared for and rehabilitated into the park, as well as an educational centre featuring a safari walk.
read more wildlife migration masai mara the great wildebeest migration safaris kenya tanzania:
arriving nairobi at 1830hrs.
route: day 1: machame gate (1,800m) to machame camp (3,000m).
tour  duration: 3 days |2 nights: parks to visit: bwindi impenetrable national park.
dinner and overnight at amboseli serena  lodge/similar.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.
meals and overnight at mara sopa lodge/similar.
dinner and overnight at ngorongoro sopa  lodge/similar.
- why us - faqs - about us - guest book - testimonials - travel info kenya - travel info uganda - travel info tanzania
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/beach hotels.
we pick you for transfer  to jkia airport for your flight out.
read more lodge safaris tours kenya tour name: lakes and masai mara safari kenyasafari code: asj 058:
arusha/nairobi after breakfast, depart for arusha for lunch and board 0200pm shuttle back to nairobi.
you stay in tents adjacent to a waterhole, which provides for a constant procession of animals taking their turn at the precious resource.
mara - oldarpoi mara community camp masai mara - nairobi hotels - kenya comfort hotel - ole sereni hotel - boulevard hotel - park side
accommodations: safari lodges/hotels as indicated in the itinerary.
see braving lions on the grass, cheetah, leopards among plenty of other plains game.
search for wild game  black manned lion for which mara is famous for, cheetah, buffalo, wildebeest,  zebra, leopard, grants gazelle are quite common, even the rare rhino might come  out of the thicket for you, hyenas are plentiful, extend your drive to the  hippo point where schools of hippo submerge on the approach of vehicles only to  surface seconds later to shot and gamble their displeasure as the crocodiles  sunbathe on the river banks mouths agape.
kzt)sri lankan rupee (lkr) lithuanian litas (ltl)moroccan dirham (mad)mauritian rupee (mur)mexican peso (mxn)malaysian ringgit (myr)norwegian krone (nok)nepalese rupee (npr)new zealand dollar (nzd)omani rial (omr)peruvian nuevo sol (pen)philippine peso (php)pakistani rupee (pkr)polish zloty (pln)qatari riyal (qar)new romanian leu (ron)russian ruble (rub)saudi riyal (sar)swedish krona (sek)singapore dollar (sgd)slovenian tolar (sit)slovak koruna (skk)thai baht (thb)new turkish lira (try)trinidad & tobago (ttd)new taiwan dollar (twd)ukrainian hryvnia (uah)
aprox 1.3 million wildebeest, 250,000 gazelles and 200,000 zebras have been recorded sharing the short grass/ water which is the source of food for the millions of animals in this south area.
com air safari packages kenya assa-001 : 2 days | 1 night : day 1.
canadian dollar (cad)swiss franc (chf)chilean peso (clp)chinese yuan (cny) colombian peso (cop)serbian dinar (csd)czech koruna (czk)danish krone (dkk) estonian kroon (eek)egyptian pound (egp)euro (eur)fijian dollar (fjd)british pound (gbp)hong kong dollar (hkd)honduran lempira (hnl)croatian kuna (hrk) hungarian forint (huf)indonesian rupiah (idr)new israeli sheqel (ils)indian rupee (inr)icelandic krona (isk)japanese yen (jpy)south korean won (krw)kuwaiti dinar (kwd)kazakhstani tenge (kzt)sri lankan rupee (lkr)lithuanian litas (ltl)
wed 15°c / 31°c thu 15°c / 31°c fri 15°c / 31°c
wildebeest migration safaris masai mara,wildebeest migration safaris serengeti,wildlife migration masai mara serengeti kenya tanzania: serengeti tanzania and masai mara kenya wildlife migration trips tours:wildlife lodge safari tours masai mara:
amboseli - 6 days: bird watching safari kenya - 7 days: safari tours kenya - 7 days meru safaris - 8 - 11 days lodge safaris kenya - 8 days: lodge safaris kenya - 8 days meru royal - 8 days: safari masai mara & tsavo - 9 days: wildlife tours kenya .
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/beach  hotels.
see braving lions on the  grass, cheetah, leopards among plenty of other plains game.
slovak koruna (skk)thai baht (thb)new turkish lira (try)trinidad & tobago (ttd)new taiwan dollar (twd)ukrainian hryvnia (uah)united states dollar (usd) venezuelan bolivar (veb)south african rand (zar) into uae dirham (aed) neth ant gulden (ang)argentine peso (ars)australian dollar (aud)bulgarian lev (bgn)bahraini dinar (bhd)brunei dollar (bnd)bolivian boliviano (bob)brazilian real (brl)botswana pula (bwp)canadian dollar (cad)swiss franc (chf)chilean peso (clp)chinese yuan (cny)colombian peso (cop)serbian dinar (csd)czech koruna (czk) danish krone (dkk)estonian kroon (eek)egyptian pound (egp)euro (eur)fijian dollar (fjd)british pound (gbp)hong kong dollar (hkd)honduran lempira (hnl) croatian kuna (hrk)hungarian forint (huf)indonesian rupiah (idr)new israeli sheqel (ils)indian rupee (inr)icelandic krona (isk)japanese yen (jpy)south korean won (krw)kuwaiti dinar (kwd)kazakhstani tenge (
breakfast at the lodge and depart for maasai mara crossing the loita plains,  see red clad maasai warriors tend their multi-colored herds amongst plains  game.
masai mara serengeti safaris - 10 days kenya tanzania safari - 12 - 16 days kenya / tanzani safaris - 12 days: kenya/tanzania safaris - 13 days: kenya/tanzania safaris - 13 days/12 nights kenya/tanzania safaris - 14 days / 13 nights: wildlife safaris kenya/tanzania combined - 13 days / 12 nights :
close by is the sheldrick elephant orphanage, where infant elephant and rhino (orphaned because of poaching… read more masai mara serengeti safaris tour name: cormorant safari kenya tanzania tour code:asms 001:tour duration: 10 days | 9 nights:parks to visit:lake nakuru/masai mara/serengeti/ngorongoro/lake manyara .accommodations:can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
hotel - nairobi safari club - sankara hotel nairobi - samburu & meru lodges and camps - leopard rock lodge -meru national park - elsas kopje lodge -meru national park - samburu sopa lodge - samburu intrepids - samburu lodge - samburu larsens tented camp - sarova shaba lodge - samburu serena lodge - samburu sentrim lodge - elephant bedroom samburu - joy's camp samburu - ashnil samburu camp - ikweta safari camp, meru national park - tanzania safaris - lodge safaris tanzania-north circuit - lodge safaris tanzania - 10days/9nights : arusha/manyara/serengeti/ngorongoro/zanzibar - 9days/8nights : arusha/manyara/serengeti/ngorongoro/zanzibar - 8days/7nights:
varied bird species can be seen here including eagles, ducks, geese, egrets, vultures, secretary birds, ibis, stork, herons, kites, pelicans, cranes and guinea fowl.
after breakfast take a packed lunch with you and continue with game viewing on serengeti park.
aprox 1.3  million wildebeest, 250,000 gazelles and 200,000 zebras have been recorded  sharing the short grass/ water which is the source of food for the millions of  animals in this south area.
after breakfast take   picnic lunch boxex with you descend 670m into the crater floor for game  viewing, breaking for lunch at the lerai picnic site.
dinner and overnight at serengeti sopa  lodge/similar.
moroccan dirham (mad)mauritian rupee (mur)mexican peso (mxn)malaysian ringgit  (myr)norwegian krone (nok)nepalese rupee (npr)new zealand dollar (
after lunch have a rest for one hr, then proceed with your game viewing  following the move of the migrants on the southwest of the park.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7  seater safari minibus in kenya with pop up roof, 4x4 landcruiser/land rover in  tanzania.
approx transit time: 8 hrs meal  plan: {b,l} nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry: safaris kenya tanzania safaris
between meals there is optional visit to the maasai villages for an insight to their culture if clients so wish.
morning game drive and proceed for namanga border town, pick up namanga border town, crossover to tanzania arriving arusha at 1200hrs, lunch at arusha impala hotel.
maasai mara transfer to  wilson airstrip for a scheduled flight to maasai mara departing at 1000 hours.
hotels - chumbe island coral park - mbweni ruins - mtoni marine - zanzibar beach resort (ex fishermans) - zanzibar mnemba island hotels - zanzibar east coast - breezes beach club & spa - bluebay beach resort zanzibar - the palms - karafuu beach resort zanzibar - protea zanzibar beach resort - sultans palace - zanzibar safari resort - zanzibar stone town hotels - chavda hotel - dhow palace hotel - emersons and green - tembo hotel - zanzibar serena inn - kenya/tanzania safaris - echoes of the wild - 8 - 10 days kenya/tanzania safaris - 8/9 days tours kenya/tanzania - 10 days:
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of  vehicle and driver guide.
nzd)omani  rial (omr)peruvian nuevo sol (pen)philippine peso (php)pakistani rupee (pkr) polish zloty (pln)qatari riyal (qar)new romanian leu (ron)russian ruble (rub) saudi riyal (sar)swedish krona (sek)singapore dollar (sgd)slovenian tolar (sit) slovak koruna (skk)thai baht (thb)new turkish lira (try)trinidad & tobago  (ttd)new taiwan dollar (twd)ukrainian hryvnia (uah)united states dollar (usd) venezuelan bolivar (veb)south african rand (zar) into uae dirham (aed) neth ant gulden (ang)argentine peso (ars)australian dollar (aud)bulgarian lev  (bgn)bahraini dinar (bhd)brunei dollar (bnd)bolivian boliviano (bob)brazilian  real (brl)botswana pula (bwp)canadian dollar (cad)swiss franc (chf)chilean peso  (clp)chinese yuan (cny)colombian peso (cop)serbian dinar (csd)czech koruna (czk) danish krone (dkk)estonian kroon (eek)egyptian pound (egp)euro (eur)fijian  dollar (fjd)british pound (gbp)hong kong dollar (hkd)honduran lempira (hnl) croatian kuna (hrk)hungarian forint (huf)indonesian rupiah (idr)new israeli  sheqel (ils)indian rupee (inr)icelandic krona (isk)japanese yen (jpy)south  korean won (krw)kuwaiti dinar (kwd)kazakhstani tenge (kzt)sri lankan rupee (lkr)
though harsh, it is blessed with species rarely found  elsewhere.
tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: meru/sweetwaters/lake nakuru/maasai mara: accommodations:can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 9.
hippos,  cheetah, antelopes and the spotted hyena are other species commonly seen as  well as flamingoes on the crater lakes.
hippos, cheetah, antelopes and the spotted hyena are other species commonly seen as well as flamingoes on the crater lakes.
morning game drive and proceed for namanga border town, pick up namanga border  town, crossover to tanzania arriving arusha at 1200hrs, lunch at arusha impala  hotel.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 6.
the great wildebeest  migration moves from the serengeti national park in tanzania… read  more uganda gorilla safaris treks tour name: mountain gorilla treks/safari uganda.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and  driver guide.
the park covers 12,944km2 of open plains making it  one of the largest in the world.
- lake naivasha country
uganda - mgahinga gorilla national parks - tracking mountain gorillas - uganda national parks - wildlife & gorillas
covering some 24,000 acres.
the rocky outcrops commonly known as ‘kopjes’ in the eastern part of the park are of scenic beauty and occasionally cats can be seen lazing on them.
hotspots - gorilla safaris
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 4.
we pick you for transfer to jkia airport for your flight out.
photogallery kenya/tanzania safaris 8/9 days: tours kenya/tanzania 10 days: masai mara serengeti safaris 12 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: masai mara victoria serengeti 14 days: kenya/tanzania combo 17 days: kenya/tanzania/zanzibar 21 days:safari/kilimanjaro/zanzibar 21 days wildlife explorer/beach quick links kenya safaris tanzania safaris kenya/tanzania safaris bird watching safari kenya blogspot servalcat safaris guestbook testmonials 30°c nairobi partly cloudy humidity: 20% wind: ne at 12 mph
mara - ashnil mara camp masai
samburu game reserve.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater  safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
safari transport mode: transport is in a customized 7 seater  safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
after  breakfast take a packed lunch with you and continue with game viewing on  serengeti park.
afternoon game drive.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 11.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus in kenya with pop up roof, 4x4 landcruiser/land rover in tanzania.
the park covers 12,944km2 of open plains making it one of the largest in the world.
tented camp safaris tanzania - camping safaris tanzania - wildlife safaris tanzania/zanzibar beach - mountain climbing tanzania - mt kilimanjaro climbing tanzania - zanzibar safaris - tanzania national park - mt. kilimanjaro national park - serengeti national park - ngorongoro national park - selous game reserve:ruaha & mikumi parks - map of tanzania parks - tanzania safari information - zanzibar excursions: stone town excursions:city tours zanzibar - tanzania hotels - arusha hotels - arusha coffee lodge - arusha impala hotel - crown hotel - ngorongoro safari lodges - ngorongoro sopa lodge - ngorongoro serena safari lodge - gibb's farm (ngorongoro/karatu) - ngorongoro wildlife lodge - serengeti safari lodges - serengeti sopa lodge - serengeti serena safari lodge - serengeti migration camp - soroi serengeti lodge-serengeti national park, tanzania - seronera wildlife lodge - lobo wildlife lodge - lake manyara safari lodges - lake manyara hotel - lake manyara serena lodge - kirurumu tented lodge - lake manyara wildlife lodge - tarangire safari lodges - tarangire sopa lodge - tarangire treetops - tarangire safari lodge:tarangire national park, tanzania - tarangire river camp:tarangire national park, tanzania - selous ruaha & mikumi lodges and camps - rufiji river camp - ruaha river lodge - vuma hills tented lodge - zanzibar beach hotels - zanzibar north coast - nungwi village - ras nungwi beach resort - zanzibar west coast
lunch and afternoon game drive.
- 11 days: kenya safari - 10 days: wildlife and beach safari holidays kenya - 11 days: kenya safari & beach holiday watamu beach malindi - 12 - 15 days lodge safaris kenya - 12 days:
after lunch proceed to lake manyara ,game viewing en route for dinner and overnight at kirurumu tented lodge/similar.
the rocky outcrops commonly known as  ‘kopjes’ in the eastern part of the park are of scenic beauty and  occasionally cats can be seen lazing on them.
tented camp - amboseli,tsavo,taita lodges and camps - amboseli serena lodge - amboseli sentrim lodge - amboseli sopa lodge - kilaguni serena lodge - ngulia lodge - sarova taita hills lodge - sarova salt lick lodge - voi wildlife lodge - voi safari lodge
departure  days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and your driver guide.
game viewing enroute to lodge for lunch.