back to top generally, typical temp in most places of east africa is: mid august to april, day and night time temperatures of about 75 to 80ï¿½ï¿½s and 70 to 80ï¿½ï¿½s degrees
after the short rains in the month of november, the herds move back  into serengeti and make their way to the southern pastures where they rest and  feed through the rains until their search for better grazing leads them to  begin their annual migration once again.
will i have a chance to interact with the local people of  tanzania?
among recommended tables for this include malarone and larium.
- when is the wildebeests / zebras calving season?
our skilled cooks are happy to accommodate your dietary restrictions and/or allergies.
thebelow chart can also give you an idea on places to go and best time  to go to those places.
back to top we recommend you email us with as much details as you can so that we can  check and see whether we have a room for you or not.
after the short rains in the month of november, the herds move back into serengeti and make their way to the southern pastures where they rest and feed through the rains until their search for better grazing leads them to begin their annual migration once again.
lunch: hot tea, coffee, chips, sandwiches, biscuits, pancakes with honey or jam, and fruits dinner: soup, cooked meat or vegetarian meal (these include chicken/beef with rice, sliced fresh carrots and green beans, mashed potatoes, and salads), fruits, and fruit juice, and variety of hot drinks.
how soon do i have to book your tour?
among recommended tables for this include malarone and  larium.
you can even start talking to some of  our staff in usa office, who were born in africa, raised there, gone on safaris  several times and know it than anybody else!
back to top we recommend you visit the embassies websites for the most updated info on visas including costs for the visas.
will i have a chance to interact with the local people of tanzania?
when will the  wildebeests/zebra calving seasons?
- i am a solo (single) traveler, how can i join your tour?
back to top this occurs in late january  ~ mid march, with thousands of them born daily within that one month period.
back to top currently, there is no any immunizations/shots required in order to get  into east africa (tanzania/kenya/uganda) unless prior to your arrival you go  thru countries that are infected with yellow fever/cholera or other diseases.
back to top we recommend at least 6  months before a day you plan to start a safari.
what is the migration?
back to top we recommend at least 6 months before a day you plan to start a safari.
i am a solo (single) traveler, how can i join your tour?
august depending on rain  endings.
- what is the migration?
back to top currently, there is no any immunizations/shots required in order to get into east africa (tanzania/kenya/uganda) unless prior to your arrival you go thru countries that are infected with yellow fever/cholera or other diseases.
best time to visit | kilimanjaro climbing | tanzania itineraries | kenya itineraries | uganda itineraries | tanzania & kenya combo | | safari & trek photos | our safari vehicles | africa camping safari | africa safari testimonial | packing list for safari | | tanzania safari lodges | kenya safari lodges | tanzania safari special | kenya safari special | african safari special | | contact us | terms & conditions | privacy policy | copyright © 2011 good earth tours & safaris.
do you customize the tour?
what's the food like on safari?
we also, recommend insect repellents in addition to the above and also  to get away from the bugs on the safari that might bother you (though not that  many).
do you customize a tour?
fahrenheit, and from may to early august, day and night time temperatures of about 55 to 70ï¿½ï¿½s and 50 and 45 to 65 degrees fahrenheit.
safari faqs safari packing list safari vehicles safari guides safari faqs - what immunizations / shots are required?
however for accurate and most updated info please visit the embassies for a  country you plan on visiting (tanzania / kenya / uganda) 2.
- do you customize a tour?
would you recommend malaria medication?
do you accommodate people with dietary restrictions?
- would you recommend malaria medication?
back to top we recommend you email us with as much details as you can so that we can check and see whether we have a room for you or not.
thebelow chart can also give you an idea on places to go and best time to go to those places.
i am also solo (single)  traveler, how can i join your tour?
- where is the best place / time to go?
design bybrian  zhang.
back to top this occurs in late january ~ mid march, with thousands of them born daily within that one month period.
back to top we  recommend you visit the embassies websites for the most updated info on visas  including costs for the visas.
- will i have a chance to interact with the local people of tanzania?
temperatures of about 75 to 80ï¿½ï¿½s and  70 to 80ï¿½ï¿½s degrees
- do you accommodate people with dietary restrictions?
august depending on rain endings.
in  late may / early june migration (mainly wildebeests and zebras) begin their  annual migration from north of serengeti to the mara crossing the mara river,  reaching masai mara park sometime in mid july /early
fahrenheit, and  from may to early august, day and night time temperatures of about 55 to  70ï¿½ï¿½s and 50 and 45 to 65 degrees  fahrenheit.
back to top animal migration means periodic change of animal movement from one place to another, and in east africa its referred to serengeti and mara parks.
back to top tanzania is considered by many as the best place to go on a  safari.
we also, recommend insect repellents in addition to the above and also to get away from the bugs on the safari that might bother you (though not that many).
back to top whether you do a lodge or camping safari, the below  would be a typical menu.
back to top whether you do a lodge or camping safari, the below would be a typical menu.
we would need to know the following: your budget, places you want to stay/visit, number of nights at each place, month of travel, number of people in your group and any other info.
back to top absolutely!
can i get a visa upon arrival?
we  would need to know the following: your budget, places you want to stay/visit,  number of nights at each place, month of travel, number of people in your group  and any other info.
- what is the whether like in east africa?
however, the earlier the better.
you can even start talking to some of our staff in usa office, who were born in africa, raised there, gone on safaris several times and know it than anybody else!
back to top tanzania is considered by many as the best place to go on a safari.
however for accurate and most updated info please visit the embassies for a country you plan on visiting (tanzania / kenya / uganda) 2.
i am also solo (single) traveler, how can i join your tour?
what is the whether like in east africa?
what's the food like on  safari?
back to top yes, because its very  common in east africa.
best time to visit | kilimanjaro climbing | tanzania itineraries | kenya  itineraries | uganda itineraries | tanzania & kenya combo | | safari  & trek photos | our safari vehicles | africa camping safari | africa safari  testimonial | packing list for safari | | tanzania safari lodges | kenya  safari lodges | tanzania safari special | kenya safari special | african safari  special | | contact us | terms & conditions | privacy policy | copyright  © 2011 good earth tours & safaris.
when is the wildebeests / zebras calving season?
rain season is in the months of march, april, may and november.
at this time most animals are in southern serengeti.
our skilled cooks are happy to accommodate your dietary  restrictions and/or allergies.
when will the wildebeests/zebra calving seasons?
- how soon do i have to book your tour?
what immunizations / shots are required?
- what's the food like on the safari?
in late may / early june migration (mainly wildebeests and zebras) begin their annual migration from north of serengeti to the mara crossing the mara river, reaching masai mara park sometime in mid july /early
back to top animal migration means periodic change of animal movement from one place  to another, and in east africa its referred to serengeti and mara parks.
what's the food like on the safari?
back to top generally, typical temp in  most places of east africa is: mid august to april, day and night time
what is  the whether like in east africa?
design bybrian zhang.
where is the best place / time to go?
can i get visa upon arrival?
back to top yes, because its very common in east africa.
breakfast: coffee, tea, porridge, fruits, fruit juice, scrambled eggs/omelet, sausage, toast, margarine, honey and jam.
at  this time most animals are in southern serengeti.
lunch: hot tea, coffee, chips, sandwiches, biscuits, pancakes with honey or  jam, and fruits dinner: soup, cooked meat or vegetarian meal (these  include chicken/beef with rice, sliced fresh carrots and green beans, mashed  potatoes, and salads), fruits, and fruit juice, and variety of hot drinks.
- can i get a visa upon arrival?
breakfast: coffee, tea, porridge, fruits, fruit  juice, scrambled eggs/omelet, sausage, toast, margarine, honey and jam.