we love africa and we look forward helping others fall in love with africa, too.
they also make payments simple.
travelers who avoid agencies altogether  and book directly with individual lodges and camps may indeed receive a  discount, but those travelers must then make all the other arrangements a  safari demands: airport pickup and transfer; travel between lodges and parks;
(terms and conditions) call 1.866.359.8623 today and talk to a safari professional about finding the best safari deal.
travelers who avoid agencies altogether and book directly with individual lodges and camps may indeed receive a discount, but those travelers must then make all the other arrangements a safari demands: airport pickup and transfer; travel between lodges and parks; arrangements with local pilots for flights in and out of the bush.
our consultants spend six to eight weeks each year in africa.
that's  why kenya.com created the best safari price guarantee.
we are also members of the kenya association of tour operators (kato) and we are very proud to be corporate members and representatives of the east african wildlife society (eawls).
does the company offer a toll free telephone number?
however, travelers booking with agencies based  outside of the united states cannot rely on strict national and local business  regulations to protect their interests.
if you still aren't sure that kenya.com is the right choice, take a moment  to review testimonials from a few of our clients,here.
- do the agents have firsthand knowledge?
is the agency a member of the american society of travel agents (asta),  which is recognized as the leading symbol of travel professionalism and  integrity?
kenya.com will beat any  safari price quote for the same "apples for apples" kenya, tanzania  or kenya/tanzania combination safari from a reputable, well established us or  canada based safari provider.
however, travelers booking with agencies based outside of the united states cannot rely on strict national and local business regulations to protect their interests.
he has a great sense of humor; he is warm, patient and professional.
- does the agency accept credit cards for payment?
some travelers try to save money by booking with african based tour  operators or travel agencies.
kenya.com does not require  an upfront deposit and we do not charge any booking or change fees.
we do  charge us $30 per person per air ticket ticketing fee when issuing air tickets.
does the agency charge booking fees or fees for itinerary changes, which  can be numerous as plans are refined and adjusted?
- ten questions to ask an agency - kenya.com best price guarantee why choose a full service safari travel agency?
- is the agency a member of the american society of travel agents (asta), which is recognized as the leading symbol of travel professionalism and integrity?
- does the agency charge booking fees or fees for itinerary changes, which can be numerous as plans are refined and adjusted?
only 14 states license  or regulate travel agents, and of these states, there are currently only six  that require registration.
a reliable and experienced travel  agency such as kenya.com can help travelers make smart choices early.
planning a trip to africa is an exciting process, made even more so when you are working with a travel agent who is both friendly and passionate about what they do.
with as much local knowledge as he carries with himself.
kenya.com is a longstanding member of the society.
ten questions to ask about a safari travel agency whether you book with kenya.com or another travel agency, choose a firm that meets the following criteria.
safari guide - an african safari made easy - where and when - choose a safari provider - plan your safari - book your safari - get ready to go inquiry form name * phone * email * number in group * safari date * ask a safari adviser your questions* a safari adviser will respond within 24hrs change image website design by flexsin - home - africa safari - kenya safari - tanzania safari - contact - privacy policy - terms and conditions - site map
each  of our professional safari consultants has lived and worked in africa.
our  consultants spend six to eight weeks each year in africa.
while our focus is safari travel planning, kenya.com is a full service travel agency.
amazing safari thank you for an amazing safari.
and once all of those arrangements are made, should something go wrong, our discount traveler is left to solve his itinerary and logistical problems on his own.
managing  director ian proctor has personally stayed at over 250 hotel/lodge/camp  properties in east and southern africa and inspected hundreds more.
our california office is open between 10 am and 6 pm weekdays.
this is the affiliation most often endorsed by the media when  recommending reliable travel agencies.
we do charge us $30 per person per air ticket ticketing fee when issuing air tickets.
kenya.com has been operating  since 1999, and is staffed by east african experienced travel professionals  with firsthand knowledge of the people and places you will be visiting.
is the staff friendly and engaging?
- why choose kenya.com?
kenya.com will beat any safari price quote for the same "apples for apples" kenya, tanzania or kenya/tanzania combination safari from a reputable, well established us or canada based safari provider.
why choose kenya.com?
a reliable and experienced travel agency such as kenya.com can help travelers make smart choices early.
kenya.com accepts payment by american express,  master card and visa.
(terms and conditions) call 1.866.359.8623 today and talk to a safari professional about finding  the best safari deal.
planning a trip to africa is an  exciting process, made even more so when you are working with a travel agent  who is both friendly and passionate about what they do.
that's why kenya.com created the best safari price guarantee.
all asta member agents must abide by a  strict code of conduct.
is the agency prompt and reliable?
planning an african safari is difficult.
ten questions to ask about a safari travel agency whether you book with kenya.com or another travel agency, choose a firm  that meets the following criteria.
we love africa and we  look forward helping others fall in love with africa, too.
a  safari adviser will respond within 24hrs change image wed feb 15 14:27:15 est 2012 choose a safari provider why choose a full service agency?
many of our clients return to us again and again.
do the agents have firsthand knowledge?
is the agency usa based, licensed and registered?
each of our professional safari consultants has lived and worked in africa.
with a growing number of safari travel specialists to choose from, deciding on a reliable, experienced agency can be tough.
while our focus is safari  travel planning, kenya.com is a full service travel agency.
all asta member agents must abide by a strict code of conduct.
we visit to insure  that each property meets the high standards we demand for our clients, but also  because we love africa and its wild areas.
1.866.359.8623 - start here - safari guide - great safaris - wildebeest migration - amazing destinations - top game parks - lodging options - finding airfares - trip insurance - about - home - an african safari made easy - where and when - choose a safari provider - plan your safari - book your safari - get ready to go - private safaris - safaris planner - safaris questions - learn kiswahili - kenya - tanzania - climate guide - distance calculator - kenya parks - tanzania parks - maasai mara - serengeti - ngorongoro - amboseli - samburu - lake nakuru - kenya lodges - tanzania lodges - sopa lodges - simba group lodges - serena lodges - sarova lodges - pvt wilderness lodges - lonhro lodges - heritage lodges - governors lodges - cc africa lodges - c & p lodges - alliance lodges - airport codes - airline phone - our principles - credit card form - client testimonials - exchange rate - email log in - contact - links client testimonials
kenya.com has been operating since 1999, and is staffed by east african experienced travel professionals with firsthand knowledge of the people and places you will be visiting.
managing director ian proctor has personally stayed at over 250 hotel/lodge/camp properties in east and southern africa and inspected hundreds more.
we strive to be attentive to our clients' needs and focused on every detail of their safari plans.
are emails and phone messages replied to in a timely manner?
kenya.com does not require an upfront deposit and we do not charge any booking or change fees.
regulate travel agents, and of these states, there are currently only six that require registration.
our service quality and performance conforms to exacting standards of excellence.
we know africa intimately.
california is one of these six states.
- is the staff friendly and engaging?
and once all  of those arrangements are made, should something go wrong, our discount  traveler is left to solve his itinerary and logistical problems on his own.
- is the agency usa based, licensed and registered?
kenya.com best price guarantee finding the best safari price shouldn't be hard.
arrangements with local pilots for flights in and out of the bush.
with a growing number of safari travel specialists to choose from, deciding  on a reliable, experienced agency can be tough.
some travelers try to save money by booking with african based tour operators or travel agencies.
confirm that the agency has extensive personal travel experience in africa.
kenya.com accepts payment by american express, master card and visa.
- can the agency plan all of your travel arrangements including accommodations, airline tickets and travel insurance?
are emails and phone messages replied  to in a timely manner?
they  also make payments simple.
safari guide an african safari made easy where and when
his extensive knowledge of flora and fauna was amazing.
and if  something does wrong once the safari is underway, kenya.com will get everything  back on course while you continue to enjoy africa.
can the agency plan all of your travel arrangements including  accommodations, airline tickets and travel insurance?
and if something does wrong once the safari is underway, kenya.com will get everything back on course while you continue to enjoy africa.
kenya.com is licensed and registered in california.
we visit to insure that each property meets the high standards we demand for our clients, but also because we love africa and its wild areas.
we have  arranged safaris for thousands of travelers.
we strive to be  attentive to our clients' needs and focused on every detail of their safari  plans.
charge cards provide  better consumer protection than payments made by check or wire transfer.
confirm that the agency has  extensive personal travel experience in africa.
- is the agency prompt and reliable?
charge cards provide better consumer protection than payments made by check or wire transfer.
many of our clients return to us  again and again.
kenya.com is  licensed and registered in california.
ten questions to ask an agency kenya.com best price guarantee why choose a full service safari travel agency?
we have arranged safaris for thousands of travelers.
begin your safari today call:
our service quality and performance conforms  to exacting standards of excellence.
does the agency accept credit cards for payment?
this is the affiliation most often endorsed by the media when recommending reliable travel agencies.
only 14 states license
our  california office is open between 10 am and 6 pm weekdays.
we are also members of the kenya association of tour operators (kato) and  we are very proud to be corporate members and representatives of the east  african wildlife society (eawls).
patrick not ... constantine and luis regalado physician wellington, fl more testimonials » safari questions & answers talk to a safari professional - call 1.866.359.8623 contact a safari adviser name* phone * email * number in group * safari date * ask a safari adviser your questions* a safari adviser will respond within 24hrs change image current time in nairobi : wed feb 15 14:27:15 est 2012 choose a safari provider - why choose a full service agency?
our guide patrick was the best.
if you still aren't sure that kenya.com is the right choice, take a moment to review testimonials from a few of our clients,here.