fully accessible year round - allow lots of time if you can spare it
safaris in tanzania tanzania's "northern circuit": from arusha, includes tarangire,  manyara, ngorongoro crater and the serengeti south and western tanzania: from arusha or dar es salaam, access into  selous, ruaha or the western gems of katavi and mahale katavi and mahale: katavi is renowned for its outstanding resident game  and lack of crowds; mahale is home to a healthy population of habituated  chimps...but there's so much more zanzibar: stonetown and the eastern beaches are the obvious draw but if  it's diving you want then go to mafia in tanzania - this crowd avoidance formula works easily in southern  tanzania (particularly in ruaha and selous but better still in katavi and  mahale between may and late october) during which time we also have some great  beach combinations.
south africa is an ideal destination for extensions particularly  from cape town, something that we do regularly.
lacks the wilder nature of destinations up north).
essential "safari primer" resources on this site intro | destinations & maps | seasons | types of safaris safari costs and prices | planning a safari | good safari examples east africa comprising uganda, rwanda, tanzania and kenya with zanzibar on the east coast of the continent.
safaris in southern africa southern africa is home to most of us in the company - the part of africa  that we know intimately.
"safari" primer menu introduction | destinations |  seasons |  types of safaris | safari costs special interest trips | safari planning | ...some typical safari  modules... zambezi site home | botswana | zambia | zimbabwe | namibia |  tanzania | kenya uganda | rwanda | congo/car  | gabon |  tours |  contact last updated 01 december, 2011 call uk: +44 1548 830059 | usa: +1 347 7081794 canada:
we don't regard the kruger national park as a particularly good safari spot though - access is simple, it has a very well developed infrastructure and tends to attract big crowds....
- kibale forest national park: especially good for chimp trekking but renowned for some specialist guides whose penchant is for birds, orchids, butterflies and more.
almost included as part of a more encompassing uganda safari.
here're some notes on planning a first time safari to southern africa.
introduction destinations seasons types of safaris safari costs special interest safari planning ...modules... africa's main safari regions are located in east and southern africa....
- get the latest on ethiopia, madagascar, mauritius and seychelles from our parent site at www.zambezi.com ...move onto our safari seasons in africa...
safaris in uganda bwindi impenetrable forest: arguably the best mountain gorilla trekking  in central africa.
we've partnered with specialists and offer both private and set date trips - 8000 climbs since 1993 with a 95% success rate....(speak to mark or jackie) - central africa:
southern africa's main safari destinations - zambia, botswana, zimbabwe, namibia, malawi and south africa.
compare withrwanda queen elizabeth national park: part of a much larger conservation area  including the ruwenzoris, kibale, virunga national park and  kigezi/chambura.
get the latest on ethiopia, madagascar, mauritius and seychelles from our parent site at www.zambezi.com ...move onto our safari seasons in africa...
"the zambezi safari & travel co. ltd".
semliki reserve: excellent for birding, its wild nature and lack of  crowds destinations excluded from this part of our website....
the annual  wildebeest migration is the big event.
we've partnered with specialists and offer both private and set  date trips - 8000 climbs since 1993 with a 95% success rate....(speak to mark  or jackie)
it's like a big safari park.
- kilimanjaro is an area that we regularly combine with our serengeti trips.
- etosha: namibia's premier wildlife spot, accessible only on the southern rim, has some particularly well known game viewing spots - central namib: includes namib-naukluft, sandwich harbour and the famous sand dunes of sossusvlei - a scenic photographers ideal - skeleton coast: most of the area has limited access, best tackled on a fly-in safari in the north - very rugged, extraordinary wildlife - kaokoveld: africa's last great wilderness, fascinating geology and ancient rock art - best tackled on a packaged safari safaris in zimbabwe - victoria falls: world heritage site, largest curtain of falling water on earth, africa's "adrenaline capital" - one of the seven natural wonders - offers a wider range and selection of accommodation options than the zambian shoreline - matusadona: on the shores of lake kariba, holds the highest concentration of wild lions, one of the last sanctuaries of the black rhino - mana pools: world heritage site on the banks of the lower zambezi river, best canoe safaris in africa, ideal for walking - hwange: one of africa's finest reserves, home to the presidential herd of elephants - best tackled with a walking and canoeing safari - safaris year round but best may to october safaris in east africa tanzania and kenya are east africa's most popular wildlife destinations and you'll find a host of expensive to cheap "safari packages" and "safari-beach combinations".
the trick to a planning a successful safari in east africa invariably  comes down to guiding standards and achieving a balance between affordability  and "crowd avoidance".
"safari" primer menu introduction | destinations | seasons | types of safaris | safari costs special interest trips | safari planning | ...some typical safari modules... zambezi site home | botswana | zambia | zimbabwe | namibia | tanzania | kenya uganda | rwanda | congo/car | gabon | tours | contact last updated 01 december, 2011 call uk: +44 1548 830059 | usa: +1 347 7081794 canada: +1 647 6941402 | australia: +61 2 84172176 uk head office africa house, modbury, devon, pl21 0qj e-mail:info@zambezi.co.uk african head office the heights, kariba, zimbabwe e-mail: info@zambezi.com © copyright, 1996-2012.
we've done expeditionary trips since 2005 - better suited to seasoned travellers and available as guided set-date trips each season (speak to john, trish and chris)
the only real alternative are some of the smaller and more exclusive private concessions..$ (south africa lacks the wilder nature of destinations up north).
our "emerging destinations" include gabon, congo-brazzaville, car and cameroon.
we've done  expeditionary trips since 2005 - better suited to seasoned travellers and  available as guided set-date trips each season (speak to john, trish and chris)
kilimanjaro is an area that we regularly combine with our serengeti  trips.
here're some notes on planning a first time  safari to southern africa.
safaris in zambia - unquestionably africa's best walking safari destination, remoter areas only accessible in the dry season may to october - nocturnal species are a very special attraction - south luangwa: home of the modern-day walking safari, one of the best places to see leopard, has some of the finest bushcamps and lodges in africa - north luangwa: remote walking safari wilderness, practically off-limits for four decades, restricted access, "serious safari turf" - kafue: best reserve in africa for antelope, ideal for old hands and "birding" enthusiasts - lower zambezi: a relatively unexplored wilderness, africa's real canoe safari spot with true wilderness lodges (canoeing tackled equally well from the zimbabwean bank) - victoria falls: from livingstone - world heritage site, largest curtain of falling water on earth, africa's "adrenaline capital" - one of the seven natural wonders - offers better "adventure" and "cultural" options than the zimbabwean shoreline safaris in botswana - best tackled on a fly-in or mobile basis - best from may to october - chobe: renowned for its elephant population, popular river front game viewing, zebra migrations in the savuti and outstanding camps in the selinda reserve on the western front - okavango delta: africa's finest wetland - an oasis in the kalahari, best accessed by light aircraft, usually explored from moremi - moremi game reserve: focal point for delta safaris, makes up nearly 70% of the okavango delta, includes some of botswana's best camps - best on fly in safaris - the kalahari: home of the bushmen, one of the world's largest sand mantles, best tackled on a mobile safari, broadly encompasses the makgadikgadi pans safaris in namibia - best tackled on a fly-in or mobile basis - best from may to october but
we don't regard the  kruger national park as a particularly good safari spot though - access is  simple, it has a very well developed infrastructure and tends to attract big  crowds....
compare withrwanda - queen elizabeth national park: part of a much larger conservation area including the ruwenzoris, kibale, virunga national park and kigezi/chambura.
safaris in zambia unquestionably africa's best walking safari destination, remoter areas  only accessible in the dry season may to october - nocturnal species are a very  special attraction south luangwa: home of the modern-day walking safari, one of the best  places to see leopard, has some of the finest bushcamps and lodges in africa north luangwa: remote walking safari wilderness, practically off-limits  for four decades, restricted access, "serious safari turf" kafue: best reserve in africa for antelope, ideal for old hands and  "birding" enthusiasts lower zambezi: a relatively unexplored wilderness, africa's real canoe  safari spot with true wilderness lodges (canoeing tackled equally well from the  zimbabwean bank) victoria falls: from livingstone - world heritage site, largest curtain  of falling water on earth, africa's "adrenaline capital" - one of the  seven natural wonders - offers better "adventure" and  "cultural" options than the zimbabwean shoreline safaris in botswana best tackled on a fly-in or mobile basis - best from may to october chobe: renowned for its elephant population, popular river front game  viewing, zebra migrations in the savuti and outstanding camps in the selinda  reserve on the western front okavango delta: africa's finest wetland - an oasis in the kalahari, best  accessed by light aircraft, usually explored from moremi moremi game reserve: focal point for delta safaris, makes up nearly 70% of  the okavango delta, includes some of botswana's best camps - best on fly in  safaris the kalahari: home of the bushmen, one of the world's largest sand  mantles, best tackled on a mobile safari, broadly encompasses the makgadikgadi  pans safaris in namibia best tackled on a fly-in or mobile basis - best from may to october but  fully accessible year round - allow lots of time if you can spare it etosha: namibia's premier wildlife spot, accessible only on the southern  rim, has some particularly well known game viewing spots central namib: includes namib-naukluft, sandwich harbour and the famous  sand dunes of sossusvlei - a scenic photographers ideal skeleton coast: most of the area has limited access, best tackled on a  fly-in safari in the north - very rugged, extraordinary wildlife kaokoveld: africa's last great wilderness, fascinating geology and ancient  rock art - best tackled on a packaged safari safaris in zimbabwe victoria falls: world heritage site, largest curtain of falling water on  earth, africa's "adrenaline capital" - one of the seven natural  wonders - offers a wider range and selection of accommodation options than the  zambian shoreline matusadona: on the shores of lake kariba, holds the highest concentration  of wild lions, one of the last sanctuaries of the black rhino mana pools: world heritage site on the banks of the lower zambezi river,  best canoe safaris in africa, ideal for walking hwange: one of africa's finest reserves, home to the presidential herd of  elephants best tackled with a walking and canoeing safari - safaris year round but  best may to october safaris in east africa tanzania and kenya are east africa's most popular wildlife  destinations and you'll find a host of expensive to cheap "safari  packages" and "safari-beach combinations".
the annual wildebeest migration is the big event.
kibale forest national park: especially good for chimp trekking but  renowned for some specialist guides whose penchant is for birds, orchids,  butterflies and more.
africa's main safari regions are located in east and southern africa....
safaris in uganda - bwindi impenetrable forest: arguably the best mountain gorilla trekking in central africa.
home | contact africa's safari destinations safari primer menu
unless considering one or two very specific spots avoid kenya in april, may and november.
safaris in southern africa southern africa is home to most of us in the company - the part of africa that we know intimately.
essential "safari primer" resources on this site intro  |  destinations & maps  |  seasons  |   types of safaris safari costs and prices  |  planning a safari   | good safari examples east africa comprising uganda, rwanda, tanzania and kenya with zanzibar on the east coast  of the continent.
laikipia and the northern frontier district: still wild and largely  unpopulated this is really the region to explore if you've had a wildlife fix  in the mara in kenya - there's a huge amount of diversity in terms of wildlife,  cultural options and beach breaks especially when combining the mara with  laikipia, amboseli and the north coast.
central africa - we run a few special safaris in gabon, car, congo  brazzaville and cameroon (go to www.zambezi.com for latest)
safaris in kenya - the masai mara: from nairobi, access into the masai mara reserve and mara group ranches - best from july to october - nairobi, amboseli and the rift valley: from nairobi, part of the traditional kenyan safari circuit - lamu and the kenyan coast: whilst mombasa has provided the traditional coastal escape, lamu tops it!
central africa - we run a few special safaris in gabon, car, congo brazzaville and cameroon (go to www.zambezi.com for latest)
the only real alternative are some  of the smaller and more exclusive private concessions..$  (south africa
southern africa's main safari destinations - zambia, botswana,  zimbabwe, namibia, malawi and south africa.
unless considering one or two  very specific spots avoid kenya in april, may and november.
the masai mara: from nairobi, access into the masai mara reserve and mara  group ranches - best from july to october nairobi, amboseli and the rift valley: from nairobi, part of the  traditional kenyan safari circuit lamu and the kenyan coast: whilst mombasa has provided the traditional  coastal escape, lamu tops it!
+1 647 6941402  | australia: +61 2 84172176 uk head office africa house, modbury, devon, pl21 0qj e-mail:info@zambezi.co.uk
- semliki reserve: excellent for birding, its wild nature and lack of crowds destinations excluded from this part of our website.... - south africa is an ideal destination for extensions particularly from cape town, something that we do regularly.
safaris in tanzania - tanzania's "northern circuit": from arusha, includes tarangire, manyara, ngorongoro crater and the serengeti - south and western tanzania: from arusha or dar es salaam, access into selous, ruaha or the western gems of katavi and mahale - katavi and mahale: katavi is renowned for its outstanding resident game and lack of crowds; mahale is home to a healthy population of habituated chimps...but there's so much more - zanzibar: stonetown and the eastern beaches are the obvious draw but if it's diving you want then go to mafia in tanzania - this crowd avoidance formula works easily in southern tanzania (particularly in ruaha and selous but better still in katavi and mahale between may and late october) during which time we also have some great beach combinations.
the trick to a planning a successful safari in east africa invariably comes down to guiding standards and achieving a balance between affordability and "crowd avoidance".
almost included as part of a more encompassing uganda  safari.
- laikipia and the northern frontier district: still wild and largely unpopulated this is really the region to explore if you've had a wildlife fix in the mara in kenya - there's a huge amount of diversity in terms of wildlife, cultural options and beach breaks especially when combining the mara with laikipia, amboseli and the north coast.