you will visit the elephant viewing platform, the animal orphanage  and masai villages in the kilimanjaro conservancy while on your game drives or  nature walks.
despite the crowds, the crater is a thrilling place to be.
an introductory nature walk with a  naturalist is followed by an off-road game drive.
meals and overnight siana  intrepids camp (ldbb).
after lunch, fly to a delightful fenced camp in the masai mara  with spacious tented accommodation.
meals and overnight at siana  intrepids camp (ldbb).
owned by peter jones and margot kiser-jones, the ranch is an excellent place  for children to learn about the conservation and sustainable tourism programmes  that the jones' support for the benefit of local masai communities as well as  wildlife.
after lunch, visit the elsamere born free centre, former home of joy and george adamson, and take a boat safari on the lake, followed by traditional english tea under tall fever trees.
the delightful gibbs farm is set in a farm that produces excellent coffee and organic vegetables.
an early lunch (or we may take packed lunch) is followed by a game drive into ngorongoro crater which contains the highest density of wildlife anywhere in africa.
the delightful gibbs farm is set in a  farm that produces excellent coffee and organic vegetables.
day 8 - west kilimanjaro - ndarakwai camp after breakfast, we drive into tanzania, crossing the  kenya border at namanga, and head for ndarakwai camp in western kilimanajro.
meals and overnight at gibbs  farm (ldbb).
day 5 -  lake naivasha - great rift valley lodge & golf resort after breakfast, travel to a fabulous resort in the  great rift valley overlooking lake naivasha.
arrive for lunch at your lodge.
dinner and overnight at  siana intrepids camp (dbb).
our professional driver/guide will introduce you to the  magnificent birds of kenya.
african safaris & adventures p.o.box 5176,00100 gpo college house 1st
meals and overnight at amboseli serena lodge (ldbb).
day 2 - masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids camp feeling refreshed, you will visit the giraffe centre for endangered rothschild giraffe, followed by the daphne sheldrick wildlife trust .
meals and overnight at great rift valley lodge (ldbb).
meals and overnight at ndarakwai ranch (ldbb).
the resort offers an 18-hole golf  course, tennis courts, riding, pool and an adventure club.
after breakfast we drive back to arusha for lunch, then drive to nairobi.
we return to gibbs farm at dusk.
meals and overnight siana intrepids camp (ldbb).
floor koinange street nairobi,kenya tel: +254-20-2245023 tel/fax: +254-20-2245013 cell phone: +254-728-873329 after office hours: +254-722-461047 email safari consultants: sales@africansafaris.co.ke website: www.africansafaris.co.ke
kenya and tanzania is the original home of african safaris (safari means tour africa in swahili).
the house offers gorgeous gardens with a pool and lovely living areas.
today, relax by the pool and recover from the overnight flight.
after lunch, fly to a delightful fenced camp in the masai mara with spacious tented accommodation.
you may  extend your holiday to mombasa or zanzibar.
day 2 - masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids camp feeling refreshed, you will visit the giraffe centre  for endangered rothschild giraffe, followed by the daphne sheldrick wildlife  trust .
day 11 - ngorongoro highlands - gibbs farm after a relaxed breakfast, we will visit a coffee farm and waterfall, bird  watching at the same time.
they are the most popularafrican safari countries for  exclusive luxury lodge and camping holidays, african wildlife safaris and  budget african safari vacations.
meals and overnight at macushla house (ldbb).
they are the most popularafrican safari countries for exclusive luxury lodge and camping holidays, african wildlife safaris and budget african safari vacations.
return to camp before sunset for an exhilarating  bush dinner (minimum 6 persons necessary).
day 12 - depart after  breakfast we drive back to arusha for lunch, then drive to nairobi.
11 nights in kenya and tanzania including nairobi, masai mara national g.r,  lake naivasha,  amboseli n.p, west kilimanjaro, ngorongoro highlands full itinerary | summary |
day 11 - ngorongoro highlands - gibbs farm after a relaxed breakfast, we will visit a coffee farm and waterfall, bird watching at the same time.
day 5 - lake naivasha - great rift valley lodge & golf resort after breakfast, travel to a fabulous resort in the great rift valley overlooking lake naivasha.
day 7 - amboseli national park - amboseli serena - safari lodge after breakfast, drive to the amboseli national park lying below the most famous symbol of africa, mt kilimanjaro.
prices full itinerary -  12 days kenya/tanzania family safari day 1 -  nairobi/macushla house
day 3 - masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids camp after early breakfast, we visit the masai tribe and  then continue onto a full-day game drive in the game-rich reserve.
enjoy a  delicious picnic lunch under an acacia tree.
day 3 - masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids camp after early breakfast, we visit the masai tribe and then continue onto a full-day game drive in the game-rich reserve.
an early lunch (or we may take packed lunch) is  followed by a game drive into ngorongoro crater which contains the highest  density of wildlife anywhere in africa.
we explore the savannah, acacia forests and lake shores for the 'big 5'.
kenya and tanzania is the original home of african safaris (safari means  tour africa in swahili).
on arrival you will be  transferred to macushla house, a quaint private house in a quiet suburb of  nairobi.
in the afternoon, we will tour the lake manyara national park which is famous for its tree climbing lions, vast elephant and buffalo herds and flamingo.
despite the crowds, the crater is a thrilling  place to be.
day 6 - lake naivasha - great rift valley lodge & golf resort today relax and enjoy lodge facilities or take optional excursions.
after lunch, visit  the elsamere born free centre, former home of joy and george adamson, and take  a boat safari on the lake, followed by traditional english tea under tall fever  trees.
zanzibar safaris zanzibar hotels kenya family vacations  to tanzania tourism, visit africa family destinations with kenya tour vacations  experts offering cheap tanzania family safaris to ngorongoro crater wildlife  bird watching migration tours in east africa honeymoon or flying safari.
you may extend your holiday to mombasa or zanzibar.
our professional driver/guide will introduce you to the magnificent birds of kenya.
dinner and overnight at siana intrepids camp (dbb).
the resort offers an 18-hole golf course, tennis courts, riding, pool and an adventure club.
on arrival you will be transferred to macushla house, a quaint private house in a quiet suburb of nairobi.
day 6 - lake naivasha - great rift  valley lodge & golf resort today relax and  enjoy lodge facilities or take optional excursions.
in the afternoon,  we will tour the lake manyara national park which is famous for its tree  climbing lions, vast elephant and buffalo herds and flamingo.
meals and  overnight at macushla house (ldbb).
return to camp before sunset for an exhilarating bush dinner (minimum 6 persons necessary).
day 4 - masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids tented camp today, take an optional balloon safari or partake in another full-day game drive.
meals and  overnight at gibbs farm (ldbb).
meals and overnight at siana intrepids camp (ldbb).
an introductory nature walk with a naturalist is followed by an off-road game drive.
you will visit the elephant viewing platform, the animal orphanage and masai villages in the kilimanjaro conservancy while on your game drives or nature walks.
we explore the savannah, acacia forests  and lake shores for the 'big 5'.
meals and overnight at  great rift valley lodge (ldbb).
day 7 - amboseli national park - amboseli serena - safari lodge after breakfast, drive to the amboseli  national park lying below the most famous symbol of africa, mt kilimanjaro.
owned by peter jones and margot kiser-jones, the ranch is an excellent place for children to learn about the conservation and sustainable tourism programmes that the jones' support for the benefit of local masai communities as well as wildlife.
day 10 - ngorongoro highlands - gibb's farm today, we travel to gibbs farm on the ngorongoro highlands.
afternoon game drive.
make a reservation home | about us | why us | contact us | link exchange |  travel agents | kenya hotels | tanzania  hotels |  uganda hotels | zanzibar hotels | sitemap |  photo gallery| tanzania safaris  | kenya safaris  | uganda safaris  | kenya-tanzania safaris  | zanzibar holidays| honeymoon | maps | kenya  | tanzania| uganda |  zanzibar | african safaris & adventures
meals and overnight at gibbs farm (ldbb).
day 8 - west kilimanjaro - ndarakwai camp after breakfast, we drive into tanzania, crossing the kenya border at namanga, and head for ndarakwai camp in western kilimanajro.
optional flight to nairobi can be booked in advance.
day 10 - ngorongoro  highlands - gibb's farm today, we travel to  gibbs farm on the ngorongoro highlands.
optional flight to nairobi can be  booked in advance.
day 9 - west kilimanjaro - ndarakwai camp whole day in ndarakwai with morning and afternoon game  drives-with optional activities.
enjoy a delicious picnic lunch under an acacia tree.
day 9 - west kilimanjaro - ndarakwai camp whole day in ndarakwai with morning and afternoon game drives-with optional activities.
optional riding is also available if booked in advance.
meals and overnight at ndarakwai ranch  (ldbb).
11 nights in kenya and tanzania including nairobi, masai mara national g.r, lake naivasha, amboseli n.p, west kilimanjaro, ngorongoro highlands full itinerary | summary | prices full itinerary - 12 days kenya/tanzania family safari day 1 - nairobi/macushla house
day 4 -  masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids tented camp today, take an optional balloon safari or partake in another  full-day game drive.