samburu/ aberdere e e g f f e masai mara g g g g g g top kenya safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jul aug
morning and afternoon game viewing drives.
* what are the types of things you would like to do or experience on this vacation?
this is a spectacle that should be witnessed at least  once in a lifetime.
picnic lunch boxes will be served by the hippo  pool.
* what type of accommodation do you want to stay in?
vast herds of wildebeest and zebra wander across the  mara grasslands in huge numbers during this period of the annual migrations  take place, when millions of wildebeest, zebra, and gazelle traverse the  landscape to feed on the rich new grass and give birth to their young.
a magnificent  spectacle photo courtesy of cheli & peacock "i never knew of a morning in africa when i woke that i was not  happy" ernest hemingway enter your search termssubmit search  form web www.african-safari-and-travel-advisor.com your guide to the best time for your kenya tanzania safaris
contact us now just fill in the form below and we'll get right back to you with free customized kenya tanzania safari ideas suited to your interests and budget!
* do you need international flights?
free expert advice & superb deals on the best tanzania kenya safaris, tours & flights.
morning and afternoon  game viewing drives.
6- central serengeti to ngorongoro - the third jewel in the kenya tanzania safari crown breakfast at the serengeti serena safari lodge, followed by morning game viewing drives in the serengeti national park.
do you want a self drive trip?
the best kenya tanzania safari & holiday deals for you!
to do that we require a $150 usd deposit that is applied to your trip (without regard to the number in your traveling party).
6- central serengeti to ngorongoro - the third jewel in the kenya  tanzania safari crown • breakfast at the serengeti serena safari  lodge, followed by morning game viewing drives in the serengeti national park.
the design was inspired by the  area’s abundant bird life: swooping curves are complemented by soft,  geometric patterns and stylish plaster moldings adorn the walls.
greece greenland grenada guadeloupe guam guatemala guinea guinea-bissau guyana haiti heard and mcdonald islands honduras hong kong hungary iceland india indonesia iran iraq ireland israel italy
(excluding international airfare)* ---select---\n$us 100-200 euro 77-155 $us 200-300 euro 155-233 $us 300-500 euro 233-380 $us 500-1000 euro 380-777 $us 1000+ euro 777+ do you need international flights?
no where would you like to go on this trip?
then ending  it all off with a post safari beach holiday in exotic lamu, zanzibar (and even  better in nearby mozambique’s quirimbas (link mozambique safari)) will  leave yourevitalized, with a lasting sense of well being and peace.
the second thing i can tell you first hand is that combining it with a  kenya safari --a
the other crown jewel in your kenya tanzania safari breakfast at the mbuzi mawe tented camp.
sep oct nov dec kenya amboseli/ tsavo e e e vg vg g samburu/ aberdere e e e g g vg masai mara e e e vg vg vg one of the best kenyatanzania safari deals we've found here is a great kenya tanzania safari.
a magnificent spectacle photo courtesy of cheli & peacock "i never knew of a morning in africa when i woke that i was not happy" ernest hemingway enter your search termssubmit search form web www.african-safari-and-travel-advisor.com your guide to the best time for your kenya tanzania safaris
met on arrival and continue on morning game viewing drives in the masai mara game reserve.
please check all that apply.
please enter month/day/year like this jan 1, 2007.
depart for nairobi wilson airport to connect the scheduled flight for mara serena airstrip to depart at 10h00 to arrive at 11h15.
the other crown jewel in your kenya tanzania  safari• breakfast at the mbuzi mawe tented camp.
(available if you fly through south africa)
know your travel dates?
we strongly recommend travel insurance.
laos latvia lebanon lesotho liberia libya liechtenstein lithuania luxembourg macao macedonia madagascar malawi malaysia maldives mali malta marshall islands martinique mauritania mauritius mayotte mexico federated states of micronesia moldova monaco mongolia monserrat morocco montenegro mozambique myanmar namibia nauru nepal netherlands netherlands antilles
* how many days do you want to spend on your african vacation?
it is luxury kenya tanzania safari at a great  price - from $2200 per person based on double occupancy.
lunch at the serengeti serena safari lodge.
home of world famous serengeti, the annual wildebeest migration, and  legendary mount kilimanjaro, this is a safari destination that can never  disappoint.
• lunch, dinner and overnight at the mara serena safari lodge.
after lunch depart via the olduvai gorge to ngorongoro highlands and through the serengeti plains climbing to the altitude of 8,000 feet.
8- lake manyara to nairobi onto departure • breakfast  at the lake manyara serena safari lodge.
one things for sure, you will be amazed and left breathless.
ngorongoro serena safari lodge, close to some of the  earliest dwellings of man in olduvai gorge, has taken their cave paintings as  inspiration.
day 3 masai mara - a crown jewel of a kenya tanzania safari
ivory coast jamaica japan jordan kazakhstan kenya kiribadi north korea south korea kuwait kyrgyzstan
total number of persons traveling (please include youself)
lunch, dinner and overnight at the mbuzi mawe tented camp day
1- arrive nairobi to start your kenya tanzania safari •
want to discover the best kenya tanzania safari for you?
vast herds of wildebeest and zebra wander across the mara grasslands in huge numbers during this period of the annual migrations take place, when millions of wildebeest, zebra, and gazelle traverse the landscape to feed on the rich new grass and give birth to their young.
first name* first name* e-mail address* e-mail address* country* country* country united states canada ----------------
if you are like many of our friends, looking for an exotic vacation that  will get you close to nature and to your loved ones, then a kenya tanzania  safari is just for you.
* where would you like to go on this trip?
find peace of mind & answers to your questions about which are the best kenya tanzania safari for you.
the lodge glows with tranquility and peace.
a volcanic crater of over 259 square kilometers with surrounding walls rising 609 meters above it, the crater is a natural sanctuary for over 25,000 animals, including the black rhino.
met on arrival  and continue on morning game viewing drives in the masai mara game reserve.
early morning wake  up followed by breakfast.
sep oct nov dec tanzania serengeti northern g g g g g e serengeti southern g g g g vg e tarangire e e e e vg g manyara e e e e e e ngorongoro e e e e e e selous e e e e e vg top kenya safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jan feb mar apr may jun kenya amboseli/ tsavo vg vg g f f vg
minor outlying islands uganda ukraine united arab emirates united kingdom uruguay uzbekistan
dinner and overnight at the mara serena safari lodge mara serena safari lodge perched on the saddle of a hill, the mara serena safari lodge has one of the most spectacular views imaginable across the vast plains, forests and rivers that make up the masai mara one of the worlds richest wildlife sanctuaries.
the second thing i can tell you first hand is that combining it with a kenya safari --a
saint kitts and nevis saint lucia saint vincent and the grenadines samoa san marino sao tome and principe saudi arabia senegal serbia seychelles sierra leone singapore slovakia slovenia solomon islands somalia south africa spain sri lanka st. helena st. pierre and miquelon sudan suriname svalbard and jan mayen islands swaziland sweden switzerland syria taiwan tajikistan tanzania thailand togo tokelau
if you dont take your trip it is non refundable.
kenya tanzania safari -- is an unparalleled african safari  combination!
dinner and overnight at the ngorongoro serena safari lodge ngorongoro serena safari lodge often described as the eighth wonder of the world, the ngorongoro crater is so spectacular that it touches all the senses.
afghanistan albania algeria american samoa andorra angola anguilla antarctica antigua argentina armenia aruba australia austria azerbaijan bahamas bahrain bangladesh barbados belarus belgium belize benin bermuda bhutan bolivia bosnia and herzegovina botswana bouvet island brazil british indian ocean territory british virgin islands
no from which city will you fly from and return to?
after that we offer a service where by we continue to work with you to get you the best trip for the price you want to pay.
it is difficult to imagine a more spectacular setting.
it is built of stones and boulders and is literally hidden in the  vegetation of the crater’s rim, disappearing completely from view from the  crater’s floor.
the ngorongoro serena safari lodge is built onto the rim of this amazing  natural phenomenon, a stunning plant and local creeper covered stone lodge  where guests co-exist in perfect harmony with the surrounding natural  environment and wildlife.
or want more personalized advice about your kenya tanzania  safari?
dinner and overnight at the mbuzi mawe tented camp day
after lunch ascend and depart to lake manyara • dinner and  overnight at the lake manyara serena safari lodge lake manyara serena safari lodge lake manyara serena safari  lodge is perched on the edge of the mto wa mbu escarpment with one of the  greatest views over the great rift valley and its soda lake.
(available if you fly through south africa)* would you like a free cell phone to use during your trip?
the terrain is the main stage for the great wildebeest migration, an awesome spectacle involving millions of these beasts.
dinner not included in the  safari program at the hotel •
after breakfast depart to arusha and connect the scheduled flight to nairobi jomo kenyatta international airport to connect your departure flight home.
* ---select---\nknow your travel dates?
day 3 –masai mara - a crown jewel of a kenya tanzania safari •
tanzania safari guides that i think will be helpful as you map out the best time for your kenya tanzania safari!
it is on this very terrain that the annual migration takes place when millions of zebra, wildebeest and gazelle cross the plains below, on their way to the rich new grasses of the serengeti.
sep oct nov dec kenya tsavo e e e vg vg g samburu/ aberdere e e e g g vg masai mara e e e vg vg vg one of the best kenyatanzania safari deals we've found here is a  great kenya tanzania safari.
* botswana kenya lesotho mozambique namibia rwanda seychelles south africa swaziland uganda victoria falls zambia zanzibar zimbabwe
then depart for the kirawira camp- western serengeti to arrive in time for lunch, after lunch continues to central serengeti to arrive late afternoon at the mbuzi mawe tented camp.
8- lake manyara to nairobi onto departure breakfast at the lake manyara serena safari lodge.
brunei bulgaria burkina faso burundi cambodia cameroon cape verde cayman islands central african republic chad chile china christmas island cocos islands colombia comoros congo cook islands costa rica croatia cuba cyprus czech republic denmark
would you like advice on travel insurance?
accommodation  and public areas are housed in individual thatched circular buildings and are a  tribute to local architectural traditions.
djibouti dominica dominican republic east timor ecuador egypt el salvador equatorial guinea eritrea estonia ethiopia falkland islands faroe islands fiji finland france french guiana french polynesia french southern territories gabon gambia georgia germany ghana gibraltar
no reproduction permitted without permission.
kenya tanzania safari -- is an unparalleled african safari combination!
you continue to ascend to the exterior of the crater reaching its rim and here your first glimpse of what has often been referred to as the eighth wonder of the world.
check all that apply.
depart for nairobi wilson airport to connect the scheduled flight  for mara serena airstrip to depart at 10h00 to arrive at 11h15.
after having been on more than 80 african safaris, i can tell you first hand tanzania is simply dazzling.
a   tanzania safari by itself or with kenya as a kenya tanzania safari.
get the best vacation ideas for your african safari &  holiday please note that all fields followed by an asterisk must be  filled in.
the ngorongoro serena safari lodge is built onto the rim of this amazing natural phenomenon, a stunning plant and local creeper covered stone lodge where guests co-exist in perfect harmony with the surrounding natural environment and wildlife.
return from kenya tanzania safari page to tanzania safari page copyright best african safaris all rights reserved.
tanzania safari guides that i think will be helpful as you map out  the best time for your kenya tanzania safari!
it is also a  conservation area inhabited by the masai tribe.
lunch at the mara serena safari lodge, after lunch afternoon game viewing drive  in the masai mara game reserve.• dinner and overnight at the mara serena  safari lodge mara serena safari lodge perched on the saddle of a hill, the  mara serena safari lodge has one of the most spectacular views imaginable  across the vast plains, forests and rivers that make up the masai mara –  one of the world’s richest wildlife sanctuaries.
the terrain  is the main stage for the great wildebeest migration, an awesome spectacle  involving millions of these beasts.
what is your preferred traveling style?
5- central serengeti -
one thing’s for sure, you will be amazed and left breathless.
* do you want a self drive trip?
the wildlife defines the serengeti-countless zebra, buffalo, gazelle, wildebeest, and other species make it their home.
after lunch depart via the olduvai  gorge to ngorongoro highlands and through the serengeti plains climbing to the  altitude of 8,000 feet.
you've come to the right place!
lunch, dinner and overnight at the mara serena safari lodge.
discover the best kenya tanzania safari & holiday deals for you!
the wildlife defines the serengeti-countless zebra,  buffalo, gazelle, wildebeest, and other species make it their home.
the hotel has been designed to mirror a traditional masai village or manyatta and all the guest rooms are located in individual domed huts grouped in a circular manner.
it is built of stones and boulders and is literally hidden in the vegetation of the craters rim, disappearing completely from view from the craters floor.
top tanzania safari park game viewing guide e-excellent;  vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jan feb mar apr may jun tanzania serengeti northern f f f f vg
the hotel has been designed to mirror a traditional masai village or  manyatta and all the guest rooms are located in individual domed huts grouped  in a circular manner.
you continue to ascend to the exterior of the crater  reaching its rim and here your first glimpse of what has often been referred to  as the “eighth wonder of the world.”
07h30 depart for isebania/sirari kenya/ tanzania  border to immigration and customs formalities and vehicle exchanges between the  kenyan and tanzania drivers.
accommodation and public areas are housed in individual thatched circular buildings and are a tribute to local architectural traditions.
7- ngorongoro crater to lake manyara early breakfast at the ngorongoro serena safari lodge, then descend to the floor of the crater for an opportunity to view the delicate balance of predator and prey in the endless quest for survival.
click here and enter them below january to march 2007 april to june 2007 july to september 2007 october to december 2007 january to march 2008 april to june 2008 july to september 2008 october to december 2008
dinner not included in the safari program at the hotel
a full day at the masai mara game reserve.
* ---select---\n7 days or less 8 days to 14 days 15 days to 21 days more than 21 days what are the types of things you would like to do or experience on this vacation?
sep oct nov dec tanzania serengeti northern g g g g g e serengeti southern g g g  g vg e tarangire e e e e vg g manyara e e e e e e ngorongoro e e  e e e e selous e e e e e vg top kenya safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very  good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jan feb mar apr may jun kenya tsavo vg vg g f f vg samburu/ aberdere e e g f f e masai mara g g g g g g top kenya safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very  good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jul aug
4- masai mara to central serengeti •
it is luxury kenya tanzania safari at a great price - from $2200 per person based on double occupancy.
ngorongoro serena safari lodge, close to some of the earliest dwellings of man in olduvai gorge, has taken their cave paintings as inspiration.
tonga trinidad and tobago tunisia turkey turkmenistan turks and caicos islands tuvalu u.s.
morning and afternoon game  drives across the plains.
top tanzania safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jan feb mar apr may jun tanzania serengeti northern f f f f vg e serengeti southern e e e e e g tarangire g g g f f g manyara e e e f vg e ngorongoro e e e g e e selous g g p p p e top tanzania safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jul aug
the furnishings of each room have been inspired by traditional masai art and each one has a private balcony with views that stretch over the vast african landscape.
* how many of your group are 12 years old or younger?
after lunch ascend and depart to lake manyara dinner and overnight at the lake manyara serena safari lodge lake manyara serena safari lodge lake manyara serena safari lodge is perched on the edge of the mto wa mbu escarpment with one of the greatest views over the great rift valley and its soda lake.
upon your arrival at the nairobi jomo kenyatta international airport from south africa, met and transferred to nairobi serena hotel.
what else do you want to tell us so we can give you more advice?
after having been on more than 80 african safaris, i can tell you first  hand – tanzania is simply dazzling.
home of world famous serengeti, the annual wildebeest migration, and legendary mount kilimanjaro, this is a safari destination that can never disappoint.
(honeymoon, anniversary?) would you like a free cell phone to use during your trip?
kenya tanzania safaris at wildebeest migration!
subscribe to this site discover
when do you want to travel?
you pay that via paypal.
the first itinerary is free & it will be based on your interests & budget.
* total number of persons traveling (please include youself)
* when do you want to travel?
2- nairobi to masai mara • breakfast at the nairobi  serena hotel.
find peace of mind & answers to your questions about which are the  best kenya tanzania safari for you.
picnic lunch boxes will be served by the hippo pool.
beach golf shop spas or wellness centers what type of accommodation do you want to stay in?
a volcanic crater of over 259 square kilometers  with surrounding walls rising 609 meters above it, the crater is a natural  sanctuary for over 25,000 animals, including the black rhino.
early breakfast  at the ngorongoro serena safari lodge, then descend to the floor of the crater  for an opportunity to view the delicate balance of predator and prey in the  endless quest for survival.
the furnishings of each room have been inspired by  traditional masai art and each one has a private balcony with views that  stretch over the vast african landscape.
a tanzania safari by itself or with kenya as a kenya tanzania safari.
this is a spectacle that should be witnessed at least once in a lifetime.
if you are like many of our friends, looking for an exotic vacation that will get you close to nature and to your loved ones, then a kenya tanzania safari is just for you.
* 5 star 4 star 3 star 2 star large hotels, safari lodges small hotels,b&bs,guesthouses small safari lodges, safari camps permanent tented safari camps mobile tented safari camps what is your budget per person per day?
* we strongly recommend travel insurance.
(excluding international airfare)* what is your budget per person per day?
upon your arrival at the nairobi jomo kenyatta international airport from south  africa, met and transferred to nairobi serena hotel.
vanuatu vatican city venezuela vietnam us virgin islands wallis and futuna islands western sahara yemen yugoslavia (former) zaire zambia zimbabwe please enter your e mail address again - we want to make sure we have it right - 3% of our inquiries have errors* please enter your e mail address again - we want to make sure we have it right - 3% of our inquiries have errors* how many days do you want to spend on your african vacation?
the design was inspired by the areas abundant bird life: swooping curves are complemented by soft, geometric patterns and stylish plaster moldings adorn the walls.
* what is your preferred traveling style?
it is also a conservation area inhabited by the masai tribe.
morning and afternoon game drives across the plains.
* ---select---\nexclusive/private: just me,my friends and/or my family exclusive/very small group- max of 7 want to join a larger small group up to 16 i'd rather be in a big group
it is difficult to  imagine a more spectacular setting.
then ending it all off with a post safari beach holiday in exotic lamu, zanzibar (and even better in nearby mozambiques quirimbas (link mozambique safari)) will leave yourevitalized, with a lasting sense of well being and peace.
overnight at the nairobi serena hotel day
1- arrive nairobi to start your kenya tanzania safari
• dinner and overnight  at the ngorongoro serena safari lodge ngorongoro serena safari lodge often described as the  ‘eighth’ wonder of the world, the ngorongoro crater is so spectacular  that it touches all the senses.
after breakfast depart to arusha and  connect the scheduled flight to nairobi jomo kenyatta international airport to  connect your departure flight home.
the lake is renowned among ornithologists for its birds of prey and the  famous tree-climbing lions that inhabit the woodland that nestles between the  lake and the rift valley.
4- masai mara to central serengeti early morning wake up followed by breakfast.
lunch at the mara serena safari lodge, after lunch afternoon game viewing drive in the masai mara game reserve.
the lake is renowned among ornithologists for its birds of prey and the famous tree-climbing lions that inhabit the woodland that nestles between the lake and the rift valley.
contact us now just fill in the form below and we'll get right back  to you with free customized kenya tanzania safari ideas suited to your  interests and budget!
* admire natural beauty explore culture view wildlife/safari do adventure sports go to good restaurants visit tourist attractions visit wine region visit apartheid sites visit big cities
07h30 depart for isebania/sirari kenya/ tanzania border to immigration and customs formalities and vehicle exchanges between the kenyan and tanzania drivers.
then depart for the kirawira camp- western  serengeti to arrive in time for lunch, after lunch continues to central  serengeti to arrive late afternoon at the mbuzi mawe tented camp.
or want more personalized advice about your kenya tanzania safari?
new caledonia new zealand nicaragua niger nigeria niue norfolk island northern mariana islands norway oman pakistan palau panama papua new guinea paraguay peru philippines pitcairn island poland portugal puerto rico qatar reunion romania russia rwanda s. georgia and s. sandwich isls.
e serengeti southern e e e e e g tarangire g g g f f g manyara e e e f vg e ngorongoro e e e g e e selous g g p p p e top tanzania safari park game viewing guide e-excellent; vg-very good; g-good; f-fair; p-poor jul aug
• lunch, dinner and overnight at  the mbuzi mawe tented camp day
get the best vacation ideas for your african safari & holiday please note that all fields followed by an asterisk must be filled in.
free expert advice & superb deals on the best tanzania kenya  safaris, tours & flights.
it is on this very  terrain that the annual migration takes place when millions of zebra,  wildebeest and gazelle cross the plains below, on their way to the rich new  grasses of the serengeti.
2- nairobi to masai mara breakfast at the nairobi serena hotel.
7- ngorongoro crater to lake manyara •