dinner and overnight  budget adventure camping or lake naivasha budget hotel.
after an early  breakfast, drive to lake naivasha with a stop over for a picnic lunch en route,  view the great rift valley before getting into naivasha for a sundowner boat  ride to crescent island well known for its birdlife.
day 3: lake naivasha/maasai mara
8077d29a-34ef-4bee-88d5-eff2f20cb874  1.03.01 hotline: +254 725 881 811 kenya volunteer programs
3 days tanzania budget tours 4 days tanzania budget tour 5 days tanzania budget tours 6 days tanzania budget tour 7 days tanzania budget tours kenya adventure safaris, adventure safaris kenya, kenya adventure safari,  kenya adventure tours, kenya adventure vacation, adventure safari kenya, kenia  adventure safari, kenya safaris, kenya adventures 9 days best of kenya camping and zanzibar holidays day1: nairobi/nakuru pick up from your hotel by 7.30  am, we drive down the escarpment via the floor of the great rift valley, to  lake nakuru.
lunch followed by an extensive afternoon game drive.
dinner and  overnight in a nakuru budget hotel.
your fly540 flight for nairobi departs at 1350 hrs to arrive nairobi, jomo  kenyatta international airport at 1545 hrs to connect with your inbound flight  back home.
on this day you have a chance to experience the hot air balloon ride over the mara plains or go for an escorted walk within designated areas at an extra cost.
notes: kindly davise us about your zanzibar holiday accommodation  preference for us to facilitate the reservation.
after an early breakfast depart lake naivasha and drive to maasai mara with a picnic lunch en route evening game drive.
day 5: masai mara/nairobi after breakfast break camp and drive as you watch out for game.
after an early breakfast depart lake  naivasha and drive to maasai mara with a picnic lunch en route evening game  drive.
dinner and overnight at ocean paradise resort/similar.
day 4: maasai mara whole day spent exploring the mara plains to experience the mara magic!
day 5: masai mara/nairobi after breakfast break camp and  drive as you watch out for game.
on this day you have a chance to experience the hot air  balloon ride over the mara plains or go for an escorted walk within designated  areas at an extra cost.
dinner and overnight at  ocean paradise resort/similar.
maasai mara whole day spent exploring the mara plains to  experience the mara magic!
dinner and overnight in a nakuru budget hotel.
dinner  and overnight in zanzibar hotel/lodge.
drop  off at your hotel for a rest after 5 days of kenya budget camping safaris
full day of relaxation on the white sandy beach.
8077d29a-34ef-4bee-88d5-eff2f20cb874 1.03.018077d29a-34ef-4bee-88d5-eff2f20cb874 1.03.01 hotline: +254 725 881 811 sitemap panorama safari guarantee daily safari departures
day 9: zanzibar-nairobi.
dinner and overnight masai mara budget camping.
day 6: nairobi-zanzibar wake up fresh and feeling happy after the previous budget adventure kenya safari,you will be transferred after your morning breakfast to the airstrip for your zanzibar flight.
day 3:  lake naivasha/maasai mara
dinner and overnight budget adventure camping or lake naivasha budget hotel.
you will be transferred after your morning breakfast for kisauni airport.
day 6: nairobi-zanzibar wake up fresh and feeling  happy after the previous budget adventure kenya safari,you will be transferred  after your morning breakfast to the airstrip for your zanzibar flight.
this reserve which is an extension of the serengeti national park in tanzania is kenya's premier reserve and is famed for its astounding concentration of wildlife with the wildebeest migration mainly in july and august.
this reserve which is an extension of the serengeti  national park in tanzania is kenya's premier reserve and is famed for its  astounding concentration of wildlife with the wildebeest migration mainly in  july and august.
day 2: lake nakuru/lake naivasha
stop over at narok to buy souvenirs or just  for a cup of tea.
notes: kindly davise us about your zanzibar holiday accommodation preference for us to facilitate the reservation.
dinner and overnight in zanzibar hotel/lodge.
picnic lunch en route before proceeding on to nairobi.
your fly540 flight for nairobi departs at 1350 hrs to arrive nairobi, jomo kenyatta international airport at 1545 hrs to connect with your inbound flight back home.
kenya adventure safaris, adventure safaris kenya, kenya adventure safari, kenya adventure tours, kenya adventure vacation, adventure safari kenya, kenia adventure safari, kenya safaris, kenya adventures 9 days best of kenya camping and zanzibar holidays day1: nairobi/nakuru pick up from your hotel by 7.30 am, we drive down the escarpment via the floor of the great rift valley, to lake nakuru.
drop off at your hotel for a rest after 5 days of kenya budget camping safaris activities.
stop over at narok to buy souvenirs or just for a cup of tea.
after an early breakfast, drive to lake naivasha with a stop over for a picnic lunch en route, view the great rift valley before getting into naivasha for a sundowner boat ride to crescent island well known for its birdlife.