crime is not a major problem, but do ensure you have your possessions with you at all times.
depending on nationality and country of origin, a visa may be obtained on arrival at dar es salaam and kilimanjaro airports and at namanga gate on the tanzania/kenya border.
the key roads are in good  condition, though the majority are bad and hazardous.
hotels often have their own restaurants.
during the migration and peak season, availability is at a premium.
visas  cost us$10-60 depending on nationality and are usually valid for three months.
accommodation tends to be of rondawel or banda type, with a lounge, central  dining area and bar in single unit hotels.
kilimanjaro international (jro) »
it is necessary to pre-book special  campsites, and advisable to book ordinary ones.
kishni, zanzibar (znz) there are a total of 129 airports in tanzania, of which only eleven are paved.
air services have become the most significant form of internal transport for official and business travel.
kilimanjaro international (jro) »     kishni,  zanzibar (znz) there are a total of 129 airports in tanzania, of which only  eleven are paved.
note that the word hotel (or in  swahili, hoteli) means food and drink only, rather than lodging.
rail travel tanzania has two rail lines: the tazara line runs from dar es salaam to zambia's new kapiri mposhi, via mbeya and tunduma.
airports domestic air services operate between the major airports: »      dar es salaam international (dar) »
ordinary buses (generally the only option on secondary routes) are often packed to overflowing, make many stops, and deviate quite freely from the schedule.
sometimes a photocopy of your airline tickets is required.
watch out for cyclists, pedestrians, livestock and wild animals.
the main meal is at midday and many restaurants are closed in the evening.
the main meal is at midday and many restaurants are  closed in the evening.
roads there are 88,200 km of highways in tanzania, but only 3,704 km of these are tarred.
passports and a tanzanian visa are required for even a single  day's visit.
tanzania is definitely not recommended as a self-drive destination.
host to amazing concentration of wildlife.
the masai mara national reserve is kenya’s most popular game reserve.
most  car rental companies do not allow self-drive outside of dar es salaam.
during the  rainy season, many roads are passable only with four-wheel drive vehicles.
you should acquire a visa before  travelling, because some airlines insist on them prior to departure.
due to the distances travelled in tanzania it is  strongly recommended that you make all your arrangements in advance.
© 2012 destination connect
it would be  better to use the word guesthouse (or in swahili, guesti).
road conditions  in the reserves and national parks of tanzania are extremely rough.
if you carry firearms you will require a special permit.
if you  carry firearms you will require a special permit.
"special"  campsites usually only have a pit toilet.
due to the distances travelled in tanzania it is strongly recommended that you make all your arrangements in advance.
"special" campsites usually only have a pit toilet.
passports and visas entry requirements (as at dec 2004) important note: this is a guide only - please  check with your nearest tanzanian consulate for up to date information.
requirements may change so you are advised to contact your nearest tanzanian consulate before finalising your travel arrangements.
the central line runs from  dar es salaam to kigoma and mwanza, via morogoro, dodoma and tabora.
you should acquire a visa before travelling, because some airlines insist on them prior to departure.
rail travel tanzania has two rail lines: the tazara line runs from dar es salaam to  zambia's new kapiri mposhi, via mbeya and tunduma.
despite being part of the union of tanzania, zanzibar remains  independent.
all major towns in tanzania have excellent luxury hotels, and all  towns will at least have a good guest house.
accommodation tends to be of rondawel or banda type, with a lounge, central dining area and bar in single unit hotels.
you are almost…more... safari to tanzania's best attractions - ngorongoro crater, lake manyara national reserve and zanzibar's coast.
in the east, facing the rich indian ocean, you will encounter wonderful seafood as well as great tasting fruit.
express buses are more comfortable, make fewer stops, and  operate to a schedule, though they are slightly more expensive.
safari to ol pejeta, aberdares national reserve, lake nakuru national reserve and masai mara in kenya.
general accommodation info most safari lodges  vary in size and style, and are built to blend in with the environment.
all major towns in tanzania have excellent luxury hotels, and all towns will at least have a good guest house.
national parks offer "ordinary" campsites which provide toilets, fireplaces and usually water taps.
the central line runs from dar es salaam to kigoma and mwanza, via morogoro, dodoma and tabora.
namanga gate (between tanzania and kenya) is open 24 hours per day.
any other items are subject to customs duty.
passports and visas entry requirements (as at dec 2004) important note: this is a guide only - please check with your nearest tanzanian consulate for up to date information.
reservations are not always possible, so get to the bus with plenty of time before the scheduled departure.
your home driving licence, with english translation if necessary, is accepted.
<< prev - next to receive our regular newsletter with special offers and  great packages, please subscribe below receive html?
any  four-wheel drive vehicles for safaris usually have to be hired with a driver.
general accommodation info most safari lodges vary in size and style, and are built to blend in with the environment.
the key roads are in good condition, though the majority are bad and hazardous.
road conditions in the reserves and national parks of tanzania are extremely rough.
requirements for obtaining a visa are: a passport valid for six months beyond  the intended length of stay, two passport photographs, proof of sufficient  funds, two application forms and a detailed itinerary stating the reason for  your visit.
buses are not permitted to operate at  night.
requirements may change so you are advised to contact your nearest  tanzanian consulate before finalising your travel arrangements.
mt. kenya safari club
buses are not permitted to operate at night.
any four-wheel drive vehicles for safaris usually have to be hired with a driver.
visas cost us$10-60 depending on nationality and are usually valid for three months.
airports domestic air services operate between the major airports: » dar es salaam international (dar) »
it is necessary to pre-book special campsites, and advisable to book ordinary ones.
hotels often have  their own restaurants.
in the east, facing the  rich indian ocean, you will encounter wonderful seafood as well as great  tasting fruit.
requirements for obtaining a visa are: a passport valid for six months beyond the intended length of stay, two passport photographs, proof of sufficient funds, two application forms and a detailed itinerary stating the reason for your visit.
note that the word hotel (or in swahili, hoteli) means food and drink only, rather than lodging.
namanga  gate (between tanzania and kenya) is open 24 hours per day.
note that tanzanian roads have a high accident rates, and buses tend to speed.
despite being part of the union of tanzania, zanzibar remains independent.
driving is on the left side of the road.
camping is limited outside the national parks.
note that tanzanian roads have a high accident rates, and buses tend to  speed.
the latter are a slower and more dangerous option.
national parks offer "ordinary" campsites  which provide toilets, fireplaces and usually water taps.
they are very popular and give the visitor the true experience of being close to nature without the inconvenience and discomfort that can be associated with camping in the open.
do not be misled by the term "tented accommodation" - this usually refers to luxurious insect-proof tents that are permanently pitched on concrete bases, often including en suite bathrooms with flush toilets.
camping is limited outside the  national parks.
depending  on nationality and country of origin, a visa may be obtained on arrival at dar  es salaam and kilimanjaro airports and at namanga gate on the tanzania/kenya  border.
roads there are 88,200 km of highways in  tanzania, but only 3,704 km of these are tarred.
the duty-free allowance is limited to one litre of liquor; 200 cigarettes, 50 cigars or 250g of tobacco; and 250ml of perfume.
during the rainy season, many roads are passable only with four-wheel drive vehicles.
more... mount kenya safari getting around border points just below the equator, tanzania borders kenya and uganda in the north; zaire, rwanda and burundi in the west; and zambia, malawi and mozambique in the south.
passports and a tanzanian visa are required for even a single day's visit.
your home driving licence, with english  translation if necessary, is accepted.
the duty-free allowance is  limited to one litre of liquor; 200 cigarettes, 50 cigars or 250g of tobacco;  and 250ml of perfume.
driving  is on the left side of the road.
bus travel 'express' and 'ordinary' buses operate along tanzania's major long-distance routes.
almost all nationalities of visitor require visas, with the exception of  certain countries of the commonwealth.
almost all nationalities of visitor require visas, with the exception of certain countries of the commonwealth.
air services have become the most significant form of  internal transport for official and business travel.
most car rental companies do not allow self-drive outside of dar es salaam.
it would be better to use the word guesthouse (or in swahili, guesti).
they and dalla-dallas (minivans) serve shorter routes.
ordinary buses (generally the only option on secondary routes) are often packed  to overflowing, make many stops, and deviate quite freely from the schedule.
getting around border points just below the  equator, tanzania borders kenya and uganda in the north; zaire, rwanda and  burundi in the west; and zambia, malawi and mozambique in the south.
small planes, from charter companies, fly to towns and to bush airstrips.
they are very popular and give  the visitor the true experience of being close to nature without the  inconvenience and discomfort that can be associated with camping in the open.
more... the snow-capped peak of mount kilimanjaro rising above the clouds dominates every aspect of amboseli.
crime is not a major problem, but do ensure you have your possessions with you  at all times.
small planes, from charter  companies, fly to towns and to bush airstrips.
the latter are a slower  and more dangerous option.
express buses are more comfortable, make fewer stops, and operate to a schedule, though they are slightly more expensive.
rail is a safer but slower travel option, and food can be purchased on board.
reservations are not always possible, so get to the bus with plenty of  time before the scheduled departure.
do not be misled by the  term "tented accommodation" - this usually refers to luxurious  insect-proof tents that are permanently pitched on concrete bases, often  including en suite bathrooms with flush toilets.
during the  migration and peak season, availability is at a premium.
what is your favourite destination place?
local food is readily available.
bus travel 'express' and 'ordinary' buses operate along tanzania's major long-distance  routes.