* ---select---\nknow your travel dates?
this is especially true of kenya, south africa, tanzania & botswana.
click here to learn more about taking good wildlife photographs intrigued?
thailand togo  tokelau
africa photo safari guide - kenya's weather & seasons kenya seasons and weather kenya has a definite rainy season that occurs from march to may.
see them on your africa photo safari photo courtesy of kwando safaris & mark tennant "i never knew of a morning in africa when i woke that i was not happy" ernest hemingway enter your search termssubmit search form web www.african-safari-and-travel-advisor.com
* what are the types of things you would like to do or experience on this  vacation?
* where would you like to go on this trip?
* admire natural beauty explore culture view wildlife/safari do adventure sports go to good restaurants visit tourist attractions visit wine region visit apartheid sites visit big cities
djibouti dominica dominican republic east timor ecuador egypt  el salvador equatorial guinea eritrea estonia ethiopia falkland islands
read up on animal behavior so you know what types of terrain to expect certain animals in.
there is still great amounts of wildlife -- if you know where to go.
why visit - kenya's largest park - elephant, rhino, lion, leopard - not as congested as other parks - huge variety of habitats and scenery
get the best vacation ideas for your african safari & holiday please note that all fields followed by an asterisk must be filled in.
winter: july august here is a free game viewing guides for kenya & its top wildlife safari parks.
it has the big five as well as elusive, rare animals like the bongo antelope - night drives amboseli national park
* how many days do you want to spend on your african vacation?
find peace of mind & answers to your questions about the best time for your african photo safari in kenya, tanzania, botswana, south africa!
* we strongly recommend travel insurance.
want more personalized advice?
no from which city will you fly from and return to?
the first itinerary is free & it will be based on your interests & budget.
brunei bulgaria burkina faso burundi cambodia cameroon cape verde cayman islands central african republic chad chile china christmas island cocos islands colombia comoros congo cook islands costa rica croatia cuba cyprus czech republic denmark
* ---select---\n7 days or less 8 days to 14 days 15 days to 21 days more than 21 days what are the types of things you  would like to do or experience on this vacation?
faroe  islands fiji finland france french guiana french polynesia french southern  territories gabon gambia georgia germany ghana gibraltar
tonga trinidad and tobago tunisia turkey turkmenistan turks and caicos  islands tuvalu u.s.
beach golf shop spas or wellness centers what type of accommodation do you want to stay in?
also ask your guide for advice.
(honeymoon, anniversary?) would you like a free cell phone to use during your trip?
mi. game viewing guide - excellent: june-sept - very good: jan, feb, oct, nov - good: mar, dec - fair: april, may where is it in southern kenya, bordering tanzania, near namanga why visit - spectacular backdrop of mt. kilimanjaro - second favorite park in kenya - big five - lion, leopard, elephant, rhino, buffalo plus over 400 bird species, including the bee-eater, kingfisher, african fish eagle, martial eagle - maasai people live in amboseli meru national park how big
return from africa photo safari page to kenya safaris page all rights reserved.
please check all that apply.
of course in low season you will find far more deals on kenya safaris, south africa safaris, botswana safaris & tanzania safaris.
* what is your preferred traveling style?
this is a question we are asked a lot.
africa photo safari guide - kenya's wildlife parks kenya safari parks at a glance aberdere national park
minor outlying islands uganda ukraine united arab emirates  united kingdom uruguay uzbekistan vanuatu vatican city venezuela vietnam us  virgin islands wallis and futuna islands western sahara yemen yugoslavia  (former) zaire zambia zimbabwe
(available if you fly through south africa)
know your travel dates?
click here and enter them below january to march 2007 april to june 2007 july to september 2007 october to december 2007 january to march 2008 april to june 2008 july to september 2008 october to december 2008
how big 320 sq. km or 124 sq.
what else do you want to tell us so we can give you more advice?
mi. game viewing guide - excellent: june - sept - very good: jan, feb, oct, nov - good: mar, dec - fair: april, may where is it in southern kenya, near tsavo
mi. game viewing guide - excellent: jan, feb, mar, july, aug, sept - very good: dec - good: may, oct-nov where is it in central kenya, near nanyuki why visit -
(excluding international airfare)* what is your budget per person per day?
to do that we require a $150 usd deposit that is applied to your trip (without regard to the number in your traveling party).
want to discover the best time for your africa photo safari?
why visit - most popular game park in kenya - big five - annual migration of up to two million wildebeest, hundreds of thousands of zebra, gazelle - a wildlife spectacular - balloon safaris nairobi national park
minor outlying islands uganda ukraine united arab emirates united kingdom uruguay uzbekistan
total number of persons traveling (please include youself)
new caledonia new zealand nicaragua niger nigeria niue norfolk island northern mariana islands norway oman pakistan palau panama papua new guinea paraguay peru philippines pitcairn island poland portugal puerto rico qatar reunion romania russia rwanda s. georgia and s. sandwich isls.
country* country* country united states canada ----------------
* how many days do you want to spend on  your african vacation?
copyrightbest african safaris no reproduction permitted without permission.
mi. game viewing guide - excellent -- jan, feb - very good -- june - sept, dec - good -- mar, oct, nov - april, may where is it in north central kenya east of mt kenya & aberderes why visit - lion, elephant, leopard - home of "born free" conservationists george and joy adamson; see the grave of elsa the lioness - luxurious jungle of forest, swamp and tall grasses masai mara national park
we live in africa, my wife is a local and we've been on over 80 african safaris.
* ---select---\n7 days or less 8 days to 14 days 15 days to 21 days more than 21 days what are the types of things you would like to do or experience on this vacation?
laos latvia lebanon lesotho liberia  libya liechtenstein lithuania luxembourg macao macedonia madagascar malawi  malaysia maldives mali malta marshall islands martinique mauritania mauritius  mayotte mexico federated states of micronesia moldova monaco mongolia monserrat  morocco montenegro mozambique myanmar namibia nauru nepal netherlands
when do you want to travel?
if you want to take pictures of african tribal people, ask first.
game viewing guide - excellent: july-sept - very good: oct-dec - good: jan-june - for annual migration: approximately july - october where is it in southern kenya, on border with tanzania near navok
please enter month/day/year like this jan 1, 2007.
brunei bulgaria burkina faso burundi cambodia cameroon cape verde cayman islands central african republic chad chile china christmas island cocos islands  colombia comoros congo cook islands costa rica croatia cuba cyprus czech  republic denmark
saint  kitts and nevis saint lucia saint vincent and the grenadines samoa san marino  sao tome and principe saudi arabia senegal serbia seychelles sierra leone  singapore slovakia slovenia solomon islands somalia south africa spain sri lanka st. helena st. pierre and miquelon sudan suriname svalbard and jan mayen islands swaziland sweden switzerland syria taiwan tajikistan tanzania
saint kitts and nevis saint lucia saint vincent and the grenadines samoa san marino sao tome and principe saudi arabia senegal serbia seychelles sierra leone singapore slovakia slovenia solomon islands somalia south africa spain sri lanka st. helena st. pierre and miquelon sudan suriname svalbard and jan mayen islands swaziland sweden switzerland syria taiwan tajikistan tanzania thailand togo tokelau
afghanistan albania algeria
(available if you fly through south africa)* would you like a free cell phone to use during your trip?
laos latvia lebanon lesotho liberia libya liechtenstein lithuania luxembourg macao macedonia madagascar malawi malaysia maldives mali malta marshall islands martinique mauritania mauritius mayotte mexico federated states of micronesia moldova monaco mongolia monserrat morocco montenegro mozambique myanmar namibia nauru nepal netherlands netherlands antilles
* do you need international flights?
* ---select---\nexclusive/private: just me,my friends and/or my family exclusive/very small group- max of 7 want to join a larger small group up to 16 i'd rather be in a big group
in these countries, you can have a wonderful african safari or vacation anytime of year.
here's what we think.
do you want a self drive trip?
* what type of accommodation do you want to stay in?
that's what we'll tell you...
(excluding international airfare)* ---select---\n$us 100-200 euro 77-155 $us 200-300 euro 155-233 $us 300-500 euro 233-380 $us 500-1000 euro 380-777 $us 1000+ euro 777+ do you need international flights?
this will help you plan the best photos for your africa photo safari.
contact us now for a free customized africa photo safari vacation itinerary suited to your interests and budget!
if you dont take your trip it is non refundable.
never interfere with the natural behavior of animals to take a better photo.
these parks are much less visited than masai mara and amboseli - giving more a wilderness sense - big four (no rhino) - close up sightings of elephants - see rare animals like grevy's zebra, the beautiful reticulated giraffe and the beisa oryx tsavo east & tsavo west national parks how big 20,812 sq. km or 8,033 sq.
check all that apply.
you pay that via paypal.
870 sq. km or 336 sq.
would you like advice on travel insurance?
have the best africa photo safari possible.
the low season can be great for your africa photo safari.
it is known as the long rains and it is common that to have a sunny morning and a downpour later in the day.
how big 117 sq. km or 45 sq. mi. game viewing guide - all year round - especially during the dry season: july - september where is it in southern kenya, outside nairobi why visit - close to nairobi, easily accessible - big four (no elephant) - chances of spotting a rhino are good - oldest park in kenya samburu, buffalo springs & shaba national reserves how big together they equal around 300 sq.
* what are the types of things you would like to do or experience on this vacation?
most countries in africa are a year round destination.
* 5 star 4 star 3 star 2 star large hotels, safari lodges small hotels,b&bs,guesthouses small safari lodges, safari camps permanent tented safari camps mobile tented safari camps what is your budget per person per day?
when is the best time for your african photo safari?
greece greenland grenada guadeloupe guam guatemala guinea guinea-bissau guyana haiti heard and mcdonald islands honduras hong kong hungary iceland india indonesia iran iraq ireland israel italy
* admire natural beauty
after that we offer a service where by we continue to work with you to get you the best trip for the price you want to pay.
ivory coast jamaica japan jordan kazakhstan kenya kiribadi north korea south korea kuwait kyrgyzstan
how big 392 sq. km or 151 sq.
we strongly recommend travel insurance.
you've come to the right place!
click the other country links to get similar guides for the other countries.
it is low season largely because fewer tourists come.
spring: september november
the best time for your africa photo safari!
* botswana kenya lesotho mozambique namibia rwanda seychelles south africa swaziland uganda victoria falls zambia zanzibar zimbabwe
what is your preferred traveling style?
the rains are short and usually arent a big problem for your africa photo safari.
greece greenland  grenada guadeloupe guam guatemala guinea guinea-bissau guyana haiti heard and  mcdonald islands honduras hong kong hungary iceland india indonesia iran iraq  ireland israel italy ivory coast jamaica japan jordan kazakhstan kenya kiribadi  north korea south korea kuwait kyrgyzstan
* total number of persons traveling (please include youself)
no where would you like to go on this trip?
afghanistan albania algeria american samoa andorra angola anguilla antarctica antigua argentina armenia aruba australia austria azerbaijan bahamas bahrain bangladesh barbados belarus belgium belize benin bermuda bhutan bolivia bosnia and herzegovina botswana bouvet island brazil british indian ocean territory british virgin islands
american samoa andorra angola anguilla antarctica antigua argentina armenia  aruba australia austria azerbaijan bahamas bahrain bangladesh barbados belarus  belgium belize benin bermuda bhutan bolivia bosnia and herzegovina botswana  bouvet island brazil  british indian ocean territory british virgin islands
* when do you want to travel?
please enter your e mail address again  - we want to make sure we have it right - 3% of our inquiries have errors* please enter your e mail address again - we want to make sure we have it right  - 3% of our inquiries have errors* how many days do you want  to spend on your african vacation?
subscribe to this site discover
how big 776 sq. km or 296 sq.
first name* first name* e-mail address* e-mail address* country* country* country united states canada ----------------
scroll down for useful tips on taking photos of wildlife in africa.
vanuatu vatican city venezuela vietnam us virgin islands wallis and futuna islands western sahara yemen yugoslavia (former) zaire zambia zimbabwe please enter your e mail address again - we want to make sure we have it right - 3% of our inquiries have errors* please enter your e mail address again - we want to make sure we have it right - 3% of our inquiries have errors* how many days do you want to spend on your african vacation?
tonga trinidad and tobago tunisia turkey turkmenistan turks and caicos islands tuvalu u.s.
summer: december march fall: april june
* how many of your group are 12 years old or younger?
mi. game viewing guide - excellent -- jan, feb - very good -- june - sept, dec - good -- mar, oct, nov - fair -- april, may where is it in lower central kenya, near navaisha why visit - beautiful scenery -
plusafrican wildlife photography tips & superb safari deals.
click for botswana seasons & safari park info click for south africa safari info click for tanzania safari info africa photo safari guide - top 3 photography tips here are our top 3 wildlife photography tips - 1.
we have taken safaris during all times of year low season, high season, shoulder season as well as peak season.
* do you want a self drive trip?
netherlands antilles new caledonia new zealand nicaragua niger nigeria niue  norfolk island northern mariana islands norway oman pakistan palau panama papua  new guinea paraguay peru philippines pitcairn island poland portugal puerto rico qatar reunion romania russia rwanda s. georgia and s. sandwich isls.
djibouti dominica dominican republic east timor ecuador egypt el salvador equatorial guinea eritrea estonia ethiopia falkland islands faroe islands fiji finland france french guiana french polynesia french southern territories gabon gambia georgia germany ghana gibraltar