besides first-rate safari beach holidays, kenya and tanzania have some of the best diving spots in the world for all levels and visitors can spend hours exploring the many diving opportunities along the coastline.
all rights reserved.
when to travel kenya tanzania zanzibar uganda rwanda africa tours enquire
this is one of our safari & beach holidays combinations that is rounded off perfectly with 3-nights on the beautiful beach island of zanzibar.
disclaimer: all pricing and itineraries subject to final confirmation.
diving in east africa do you have a passion for diving?
africa safari experts for travel to east africa plan
view ourafrica tours selection » kenya safari | uganda safari | zanzibar hotels | tanzania safari | zanzibar holidays | rwanda safari safari holidays | southern africa safaris | your safari contact us | enquire now | advanced tour search | accommodation search | africa directory | site map further african safari, travel & tour info: african safari | africa safari travel | safari guide | african adventure travel | africa overland travel | lion sands |londolozi |african wildlife guide please contact the webmaster if any area of this site is not responding.
please read the booking policy terms & conditions and the web usage terms & conditions when entering this site.
copyright © 2011  go2africa.com.
safari beach holidays
besides first-rate safari beach holidays, kenya and tanzania have some  of the best diving spots in the world for all levels and visitors can spend  hours exploring the many diving opportunities along the coastline.
discover coral reefs and underwater wildlife on holidays in east africa.
the warm indian ocean is host to a variety of fish and corals and it as an  excellent opportunity to combine diving with a wildlife safari in east africa.
classic tanzania safari and zanzibar
do safari holidays get better than this?
the warm indian ocean is host to a variety of fish and corals and it as an excellent opportunity to combine diving with a wildlife safari in east africa.
copyright © 2011 go2africa.com.
do safari holidays get better than  this?
this is one of our safari & beach holidays combinations that is  rounded off perfectly with 3-nights on the beautiful beach island of zanzibar.
a perfect safari for  those looking for holidays that enable you to experience all the highlights of  tanzania.
site search        (powered by google)
what better way to perfectly compliment safari  holidays in the african bush than finishing them off by relaxing on a white  sandy beach with a sundowner?
14 day mombasa beach & safari rendezvous sit  back and relax as you enjoy 5 days of sun and sand on the white sandy beaches  of kenya's coast, before heading to some of kenya's best game parks.
14 day mombasa beach & safari rendezvous sit back and relax as you enjoy 5 days of sun and sand on the white sandy beaches of kenya's coast, before heading to some of kenya's best game parks.
a perfect safari for those looking for holidays that enable you to experience all the highlights of tanzania.
now site search (powered by google)
these safari beach holidays capture the highlights of  tanzania or kenya before ending at a beach retreat, either on the beach in  kenya or on the tropical island of zanzibar.
accommodation search home call us toll-free read the traveller feedback to find out what people are saying about our tours.
kenya and zanzibar host excellent dive centres as well as accredited padi dive courses, so those that have never scuba dived before can also take part in this unforgettable experience.
13 day kenya safari & beach wilderness retreat talk about a comprehensive safari: this adventure takes in not only some of kenya's best and most wildlife-prolific destinations but finishes off with a few indulgent days on a tropical beach.
what makes kenya and tanzania so perfect for  safari beach holidays is that it is so quick and easy to travel between the two.
read the traveller feedback to  find out what people are saying about our tours.
view  ourafrica tours selection » kenya safari  |  uganda safari  |   zanzibar hotels  |  tanzania safari  |   zanzibar holidays  |  rwanda safari safari  holidays  |  southern africa safaris   |  your safari contact us   |  enquire now  |   advanced tour  search  |   accommodation search  |    africa directory  |   site map further african  safari, travel & tour info:  african safari  |   africa safari travel  |  safari guide  | african  adventure travel | africa overland travel | lion sands |londolozi |african  wildlife guide please contact the  webmaster if any area of this site is not responding.
po box 16194 vlaeberg, 8018 western cape south africa
these safari beach holidays capture the highlights of tanzania or kenya before ending at a beach retreat, either on the beach in kenya or on the tropical island of zanzibar.
accommodation search  home call us toll-free diving in east africa do you have a passion  for diving?
kenya and zanzibar host excellent dive centres as well as accredited  padi dive courses, so those that have never scuba dived before can also take  part in this unforgettable experience.
tel : (+27 21) noskype 481-4900 fax : (+27 21) 426-5339 e-mail : click here
please read the  booking policy terms & conditions and the web usage terms & conditions when entering this site.
13 day kenya safari & beach  wilderness retreat talk about a comprehensive safari: this  adventure takes in not only some of kenya's best and most wildlife-prolific  destinations but finishes off with a few indulgent days on a tropical beach.
safari beach holidays what better way to perfectly compliment safari holidays in the african bush than finishing them off by relaxing on a white sandy beach with a sundowner?
what makes kenya and tanzania so perfect for safari beach holidays is that it is so quick and easy to travel between the two.
disclaimer: all pricing and itineraries  subject to final confirmation.
we don’t think so – but come and discover for yourself!
discover coral reefs and underwater wildlife on holidays in east  africa.