15 days, 14 nights (per  person, depending on dates & camps selected)
nairobi has  long been a meeting point for adventurers and travelers from all over the  world, and most kenya safaris still originate here.
from nairobi, visit amboseli, the lewa conservancy and masai mara, then cross into tanzania to follow the migrating herds across the serengeti.
enjoy day and night safari drives and bush walks in view of snow-capped mt. kenya.
the famed masai mara is one of africa’s most acclaimed wildlife reserves, renowned for its annual wildebeest migration, prides of lion and huge herds of plains animals.
in the shadow of mount meru, where verdant forest intersects with grassy savannah, arusha sits within a lush agricultural region famed for its coffee and tea.
established as a rhino sanctuary, it has played a  critical role in returning black rhinos from the brink of extinction while also  supporting endangered white rhino, grevy’s zebra and sitatunga.
nairobi has long been a meeting point for adventurers and travelers from all over the world, and most kenya safaris still originate here.
the mara is the northern portion of the serengeti plains, and we find excellent wildlife viewing all year long in these grasslands on the tanzania border.
view image gallery days 10-12: serengeti nat'l park the serengeti is legendary.
view  image gallery days 13-14:
more than 30,000 animals live in this primeval eden, including huge herds of gazelle and the lions and hyena that prey upon them.
natural habitat adventures: the nature people   po box 3065  boulder, co, usa 80307 800-543-8917 us & canada 303-449-3711 international © 2011 natural habitat adventures.
arusha is noted for handcrafts, and the cultural heritage center boasts an array of superb carvings, paintings, batiks and baskets.view image gallery
don’t: experience the best of both on this classic route that takes in five famous wildlife reserves in each legendary safari country.
view image gallery days 4-5: lewa wildlife conservancy lewa wildlife conservancy is one of africa’s most impressive private  conservation successes.
between $24 and $160 of the retail price per traveler is received by wwf for a minimum of $152,000 and a maximum annual amount of $210,000.natural habitat adventures: the nature people po box 3065 boulder, co, usa 80307 800-543-8917 us & canada 303-449-3711 international
a chance to see the big five, witness amazing scenery and learn about fascinating cultures.
from nairobi,  visit amboseli, the lewa conservancy and masai mara, then cross into tanzania  to follow the migrating herds across the serengeti.
established as a rhino sanctuary, it has played a critical role in returning black rhinos from the brink of extinction while also supporting endangered white rhino, grevy’s zebra and sitatunga.
the serengeti is legendary.
wwf & natural habitat adventures.
cancellation, baggage and medical insurance staff gratuities any newly-implemented government taxes, levies, fuel or industry increases  which are beyond our control visa fees where relevant international airport departure taxes applicable from manned airports  only, which is to be paid in us$ cash on departure unless included in your  ticket cost
here on africa’s great plains, where the  sky arcs like a blue bowl over shimmering gold grasslands, the number of  animals is staggering.
any items of a personal nature about us our value guarantee  terms & conditions awards & news faq's contact us wwf & natural habitat adventures.
the exceptionally fortunate may also spot the endangered black rhino.view image gallery
the crater floor, 12 miles across, is a wonder of the natural world.
start planning your  custom safari  view larger image can’t decide between the safari highlights of kenya versus tanzania?
in the shadow of mount meru,  where verdant forest intersects with grassy savannah, arusha sits within a lush  agricultural region famed for its coffee and tea.
the reserve is named for the masai  tribespeople, the traditional inhabitants of the area who graze cattle here,  and the mara river that runs through it.
start planning countries camps interests wildlife value & pricing about us how to use sign
these black lava remnants of extinct volcanoes are a  captivating area of ancient craters, rolling grasslands and aromatic cedar  forest.
wildebeest, zebra, eland and giraffe are abundant, with leopard and cheetah in pursuit.
sign in or register best time to travel to africa call us: (800) 543-8917 15 days, 14 nights price range: $9,594 – $24,160 (per person, depending on dates & camps selected) can’t decide between the safari highlights of kenya versus tanzania?
leopards rest in acacia trees, pursuing prey with lion, cheetah, jackal and hyena.
view image gallery days 2-3: amboseli/chuylu hills elephants abound in amboseli, and to see these african icons against the  backdrop of snow-topped mount kilimanjaro is a timeless image of the continent.
the nearby chyulu hills are exceptionally photogenic.
what more could you ask for from  a safari?
encompassing 65,000 acres, the conservancy protects 650 rhinos, 440 bird  species and 70 species of mammals.
what more could you ask for from a safari?
inclusions all accommodation on a double occupancy basis meals at camps and lodges excursions and transfers unless listed as optional services of the lodge guides in kenya and an nha safari expedition leader  in tanzania relevant park fees alcoholic and soft drink beverages are included at some camps and lodges laundry service is available at most permanent camps/lodges and hotels; in  some cases this service is included in the tariff quoted air transfers within countries as specified accommodation taxes, the applicable tourism levies and all relevant value  added tax (vat) or government sales tax (gst) exclusions travel to the start and end point of the route flights between countries generally lunch and dinner in city hotels alcoholic and soft drink beverages at some camps and lodges
leopards rest in acacia trees, pursuing prey with lion, cheetah, jackal and  hyena.
while the serengeti is riveting year-round, nothing matches the phenomenon of the migration, when 1.5 million wildebeest and zebra traverse the plains with thousands of gazelle and predators in stealthy pursuit.view image gallery
enjoy day and night safari drives and bush  walks in view of snow-capped mt. kenya.
within the walls of the world’s largest unbroken volcanic caldera is the densest concentration of wildlife in all of africa.
buffalo, elephant and giraffe roam the savannah.
the exceptionally fortunate may also spot the  endangered black rhino.
these black lava remnants of extinct volcanoes are a captivating area of ancient craters, rolling grasslands and aromatic cedar forest.view image gallery lewa wildlife conservancy is one of africa’s most impressive private conservation successes.
don’t: experience the best of both on this classic route that takes in  five famous wildlife reserves in each legendary safari country.
more than 30,000 animals live  in this primeval eden, including huge herds of gazelle and the lions and hyena  that prey upon them.
with this in mind, some lodges may have a higher transfer cost  which will be reflected in the final proposal submitted to you by our africa  adventure specialists.
nairobi’s excellent  museum and the historic home of karen blixen, author of out of africa, are  popular attractions.
between $24 and $160 of the retail price per traveler is received by wwf  for a minimum of $152,000 and a maximum annual amount of $210,000.
notes africa safari planner cannot precisely calculate the costs of air and land  transfers to all of our lodge offerings as the locations and travel distances  vary slightly.
our expert says wildlife, wildlife, wildlife!
originally a german  settlement, arusha is today a lively city with an international flair.
wildebeest, zebra, eland and giraffe are abundant, with  leopard and cheetah in pursuit.
here on africa’s great plains, where the sky arcs like a blue bowl over shimmering gold grasslands, the number of animals is staggering.
encompassing 65,000 acres, the conservancy protects 650 rhinos, 440 bird species and 70 species of mammals.
the estimated rates given for these itineraries are adult rates, but many  properties offer reduced rates for children.
discovering our planet together.
nairobi’s excellent museum and the historic home of karen blixen, author of out of africa, are popular attractions.view image gallery elephants abound in amboseli, and to see these african icons against the backdrop of snow-topped mount kilimanjaro is a timeless image of the continent.
the nearby chyulu hills are  exceptionally photogenic.
view image gallery days 6-8: masai mara nat'l reserve the famed masai mara is one of africa’s most acclaimed wildlife  reserves, renowned for its annual wildebeest migration, prides of lion and huge  herds of plains animals.
holiday surcharges may apply for travel in late december and early  january, and occasionally over the easter holiday.
camel and horseback rides are also  available.
originally a german settlement, arusha is today a lively city with an international flair.
a non-refundable deposit of 25% of the trip fee per person is required  upon booking to confirm your reservation.
a chance to see the big five, witness amazing  scenery and learn about fascinating cultures.
while the serengeti is riveting year-round, nothing matches the  phenomenon of the migration, when 1.5 million wildebeest and zebra traverse the  plains with thousands of gazelle and predators in stealthy pursuit.
your safari adventure ends today in arusha, tanzania.
this mosaic of dusty plains and swampy springs is also home to buffalo,  wildebeest, zebra, impala, hyena, lion, leopard, cheetah and a third of  kenya’s nearly 1,100 bird species.
the reserve is named for the masai tribespeople, the traditional inhabitants of the area who graze cattle here, and the mara river that runs through it.view image gallery arusha is the safari capital of the world, the jumping-off point for the serengeti, ngorongoro crater and kilimanjaro.
please contact our office for more  information.
within the walls of the world’s largest unbroken volcanic caldera is  the densest concentration of wildlife in all of africa.
view image galleryview image gallery our expert says wildlife, wildlife, wildlife!
this mosaic of dusty plains and swampy springs is also home to buffalo, wildebeest, zebra, impala, hyena, lion, leopard, cheetah and a third of kenya’s nearly 1,100 bird species.
view image gallery day 9: arusha arusha is the safari capital of the world, the jumping-off point for the  serengeti, ngorongoro crater and kilimanjaro.
the crater floor, 12  miles across, is a wonder of the natural world.
– suzanna spencer view image gallery day 1:
in or register best time to travel to africa call us: (800) 543-8917 classic kenya & tanzania safari (dec-jun)
nairobi a rough outpost amidst a highland swamp when it became the colonial capital  of british east africa in 1907, nairobi today is the urban heartbeat of an  independent kenya and one of africa’s most important cities.
finish with the ngorongoro crater, home to the densest concentration of animals in all africa.
the mara is the northern portion of the serengeti  plains, and we find excellent wildlife viewing all year long in these  grasslands on the tanzania border.
arusha  is noted for handcrafts, and the cultural heritage center boasts an array of  superb carvings, paintings, batiks and baskets.
camel and horseback rides are also available.view image gallery
a rough outpost amidst a highland swamp when it became the colonial capital of british east africa in 1907, nairobi today is the urban heartbeat of an independent kenya and one of africa’s most important cities.
finish with the ngorongoro  crater, home to the densest concentration of animals in all africa.