if this sounds to you like the sort of tanzania safari travel adventure you are looking for, browse on.
african legends dmc: our commitment we are committed to assisting
not forgetting the less explored parks in the south and west - selous, mikumi, ruaha, and katavi.
tanzania special offers honeymoons tanzania weddings in tanzania southern parks safaris southern safari packages swahili coast parks & reserves tanzania parks, reserves and other attractions tailor - made safaris email us for your personalised east africa safaris & holidays tanzania safari booking form accomodation in tanzania safari lodges & camps safari camp sites kilimanjaro climbing kilimanjaro climb
explore the idyllic endless white beaches of the tanzanianswahili coastline and the tropical islands of zanzibar, pemba and mafia
click here for our special offer,14 days safari and zanzibar!
let us know what your budget is and we will do our best to design a trip that  gives you the experiences you want within the budget you set.
as  zanzibar internationally) is still one of the best-kept secrets in the indian  ocean, characterized by beautiful sandy beaches with fringing coral reefs, also  featuring fascinating historicalstone town (a world  heritage site), lush plantation, incredible history and fascinating  culture.
-information kilimanjaro - marangu route kilimanjaro - machame route kilimanjaro - lemosho route kilimanjaro - rongai route kilimanjaro - umbwe route mount meru climbing zanzibar holidays general information hotels in zanzibar day trips & excursion short safaris from zanzibar fact about zanzibar testimonials download our brochure faqs your tanzania safari adventure begins here...
one can access the summit through different routes that vary in difficulty –marangu, machame, lemosho, umbwe, and rongai.
serengeti's vast open plains the most famous of all, with annual wildebeest migration.
… click here  for an overview of all privatesafaris in tanzania offered.
site updated -  november, 2009 african legends dmc – tanzania safari | kilimanjaro climbing  | zanzibar holiday ‘adventure redefined’
unwind on holiday to exotic zanzibar zanzibar is an archipelago made up of zanzibar and pemba islands, and several islets.
safari travel  adventure you are looking for, browse on.
zanzibar island (known locally as unguja, but
we have  been in the travel business for the past 10 years specializing in  travel/safaris.
a special type ofafrican safari adventure awaits you  inzanzibar (see zanzibar map).
soar atop mount kilimanjaro mystic mount kilimanjaro continues to enthrall its viewers, being the highest mountain in africa and one of the largest ‘free standing’ mountains in the world.
a distinct sense of awe strikes one when the clouds  clear to reveal a glimpse of the towering snow-capped peaks, shining bright in  the equatorial sun.
explore tanzania's parks, mountains... tanzania safari is outstanding as it is clearly the best wildlife destination, playing host to some of the best national parks in the world including the world-famousserengeti national park, the baobab-filled tarangire national park, not to mention the ngorongoro crater (‘noah’s ark’), the soda lake of lake manyara host to pink flamingos, arusha national park and africa's highest mountain,kilimanjaro, the stunning ruaha national park, the isolated and unspoiled selous game reserve, and the chimpanzee conservancy of mahale mountains national park.
at african legends, we do not have regular departures like most tour operators in tanzania, instead we tailor-make each itinerary to suit the individual's or group's wishes.
site updated - november, 2009 african legends dmc – tanzania safari | kilimanjaro climbing | zanzibar holiday ‘adventure redefined’
furthermore, we organize group travel, family safaris and budget camping safaris.
gombe streams, famous for its chimpanzees, the newsaadani national park with a unique combination of both bush and beach experience; and the exotic islands of zanzibar, pemba and mafia.
back  to top please contact the webmaster if any area of the site is  not responding.
© 1998 – 2010 african legends dmc – east  africa, tanzania safaris.
we specialize in honeymoon travel, safari holidays in romantic hotels in  zanzibar.
your tanzania safari adventure begins here...
also seesafari special offers.
click here for our special  offer,14 days safari and zanzibar!
furthermore, we organize group travel, family safaris and  budget camping safaris.
for alternative remote beach locations, either instead of, or in  combination with zanzibar please seemafia and pemba islands.
images of the towering snow-covered cone rising majestically from  fertile green foothills have become a powerful motif of tanzania's  extraordinary extremes.
as this is an island  destination, a wide range of watersports can be pre-booked, and tours around  the island, (e.g. spice tours, cultural tours, historical tours, et cetera)
at african legends, we do not have regular departures like most  tour operators in tanzania, instead we tailor-make each itinerary to suit the  individual's or group's wishes.
safari dmc specialists for east africa safari - tanzania safaris, kilimanjaro climbing, and zanzibar beach holidays.
we are a tanzania based tour operator and our staff originates from the region, with perfect knowledge about african wildlife and the different cultures and tribes of the region(see:tanzania cultural tours ).
tanzania safaris itineraries & prices tanzania safari overview lodge safaris budget camping safaris luxury camping safaris holiday packages itineraries & prices safari/kilimanjaro/zanzibar - safari overview - > 8 days safari & zanzibar... > 11 days honeymoon safari ...
home kilimanjaro zanzibar pemba mafia kenya safaris special offers safaris to tanzania, kilimanjaro and zanzibar - 'adventure redefined!'
your timings are only limited by flight  schedules – and your imagination!
tanzania lays claim to the title,"the cradle of mankind", as early human fossils were discovered nearolduvai gorge.
unwind on holiday to exotic zanzibar zanzibar is an archipelago made up of zanzibar and pemba islands, and several  islets.
your timings are only limited by flight schedules – and your imagination!
mount kilimanjaro is inimitable  in that during the ascent you will climb through all climatalogical zones.
explore the idyllic endless white beaches of  the tanzanianswahili coastline and the tropical islands of zanzibar, pemba and mafia
commencing with tropical rain forest, through moss, and desert, to the snow-capped summit.
© 1998 – 2010 african legends dmc – east africa, tanzania safaris.
landline: +255-732-978-153 |mobile: +255-754-381-788 email: tanzania@africanlegends.co.tz | bookings@africanlegendsdmc.com url: http://www.africanlegendsdmc.com all safaris | special offers | kilimanjaro | serengeti | ngorongoro | lodge safari | balloon safari |budget camping | luxury camping | swahili coast | sitemap | zanzibar | zanzibar hotels | accommodation | marangu route | machame route| terms & conditions video console | facebook | skype links with our partner s - a-b | c-d | e-f | g-h |
the country's game viewing experiences are widely regarded as the best in africa safari.
explore tanzania's parks, mountains... tanzania safari is outstanding as it is clearly the best wildlife destination,  playing host to some of the best national parks in the world including the  world-famousserengeti national park, the baobab-filled tarangire national park, not to mention the ngorongoro crater (‘noah’s ark’), the soda lake of lake  manyara host to pink flamingos, arusha national park and africa's highest mountain,kilimanjaro, the stunning ruaha national park, the isolated and unspoiled selous  game reserve, and the chimpanzee conservancy of mahale  mountains national park.
mount kilimanjaro is inimitable in that during the ascent you will climb through all climatalogical zones.
click here for ourtanzania safari
explore this rich landscape with us.
there's no better place to take a safari in africa to enjoy the awe-inspiring diversity of landscapes, abundant wildlife and fascinating cultures than tanzania safari(tanzania safari map) .
> 18 days best of tanzania kili, safari & zanzibar...
one can access the summit through different routes that  vary in difficulty –marangu, machame, lemosho, umbwe, and rongai.
commencing with tropical rain forest, through moss, and desert, to the  snow-capped summit.
> 12 days great north safari... > 15 days best of tanzania kili, safari & zanzibar...
p. o. box 54, arusha, tanzania, east africa.
the majestic, snow-cappedmount kilimanjaro, is the tallest mountain in africa.
click here for full inclusive tours - fits or safaris in tanzania .
we offer a wide range of packages in zanzibar.
as this is an island destination, a wide range of watersports can be pre-booked, and tours around the island, (e.g. spice tours, cultural tours, historical tours, et cetera)
for alternative remote beach locations, either instead of, or in combination with zanzibar please seemafia and pemba islands.
soar atop mount kilimanjaro mystic  mount kilimanjaro continues to enthrall its viewers, being the highest mountain  in africa and one of the largest ‘free standing’ mountains in the  world.
p. o.  box 54, arusha, tanzania, east africa.
if this sounds to you like the sort of tanzania
we offer suggested itineraries, but you can vary them to suit your needs.
climbing kilimanjaro is a must-do challenge for about every trekker and mountaineer in the world.
… click here for an overview of all privatesafaris in tanzania offered.
arusha national park, a hidden treasure on the foothills of the volcanicmount meru .
i-l | m-o | p-r | s-t | u-z web www.africanlegendsdmc.com
you plan your perfect personalized tanzaniaprivate safari with  expert advice whether you are a first time or experienced traveler.
we are a tanzania based tour operator and our staff originates  from the region, with perfect knowledge about african wildlife and the  different cultures and tribes of the region(see:tanzania cultural tours ).
we have been in the travel business for the past 10 years specializing in travel/safaris.
landline: +255-732-978-153 |mobile: +255-754-381-788 email: tanzania@africanlegends.co.tz | bookings@africanlegendsdmc.com url: http://www.africanlegendsdmc.com all safaris | special offers | kilimanjaro | serengeti |  ngorongoro | lodge safari | balloon safari |budget camping | luxury camping |  swahili coast | sitemap | zanzibar | zanzibar hotels | accommodation | marangu  route | machame route| terms & conditions video console |  facebook  | skype links with our partner s - a-b | c-d | e-f | g-h | i-l | m-o | p-r | s-t | u-z web www.africanlegendsdmc.com
back to top please contact the webmaster if any area of the site is not responding.
images of the towering snow-covered cone rising majestically from fertile green foothills have become a powerful motif of tanzania's extraordinary extremes.
climbing kilimanjaro is a must-do challenge for about every trekker  and mountaineer in the world.
as zanzibar internationally) is still one of the best-kept secrets in the indian ocean, characterized by beautiful sandy beaches with fringing coral reefs, also featuring fascinating historicalstone town (a world heritage site), lush plantation, incredible history and fascinating culture.
“safari" in kiswahili means "journey."
african legends dmc: our commitment we are committed to assisting you plan your perfect personalized tanzaniaprivate safari with expert advice whether you are a first time or experienced traveler.
africa's "eden" the uniquengorongoro crater (the 8th wonder of the world) - the largest caldera in the world teeming with game, is a must see.
let us know what your budget is and we will do our best to design a trip that gives you the experiences you want within the budget you set.
the spectacularlake manyara national park in the great rift valley with its tree climbing lions,tarangire national park, famous for its eco system, with huge baobab trees and large herds of elephants.
a special type ofafrican safari adventure awaits you inzanzibar (see zanzibar map).
we specialize in honeymoon travel, safari holidays in romantic hotels in zanzibar.
a distinct sense of awe strikes one when the clouds clear to reveal a glimpse of the towering snow-capped peaks, shining bright in the equatorial sun.