price1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 countrykenya tanzania kenya, tanzania - advanced search | bookmark us!
please  navigate to ourkenya and tanzania safari page to view the safari  packages.
- your safari: on your safari our staff will make every effort to meet any request you have--it's your safari!
affordable safari scheduled departure odyssey safaris is launching an affordable safari scheduled departure visiting the highlights of kenya.
since your web browser does not support javascript, here is a non-javascript version of the image slideshow: east african safari - the odyssey safari advantage:
please navigate to ourkenya and tanzania safari page to view the safari packages.
safaris tanzania a safaris tanzania is similar to kenya safari travel and is generally more expensive than travel in kenya, however a safari in tanzania takes you to some of the most exceptional parks and reserves found anywhere in the africa.
more  information:highlights of kenya safari see all the  scheduled safari options here:group safaris scheduled departure pdf our safari vehicles checkout the vehicles that will take you on your wild journey.
please navigate to ourkenya  safari page to view our kenya safari packages.
since your web  browser does not support javascript, here is a non-javascript version of the  image slideshow: east african safari the odyssey safari advantage: fully customizable east african  safari designed by our experts for the same price as pre-packaged safari tours.
oursafaris tanzania are found here.
odyssey safaris offers a number of trips that feature the highlights of a kenya tanzania safari.
remember me forgot password?
kenya safari a safari in kenya is a magical experience and kenya is the original safari destination; from the maasai mara to the top of mt. kenya this country offers a variety of terrain and safari wildlife.
friday 30th of march 2012 08:44:36
all vehicles have roof access and built properly for your adventure.
view our safari packages below or choose from kenya safari, tanzania safari, or kenya and tanzania safari
exciting volunteer and small group safari about us | east african  destinations | travel agents | safe safari |  create a custom safari | myodyssey |  | luxury  safari | private safaris | group safaris |   |  | group on redemption instructions | group
once in a lifetime honeymoons safari wildlife safari and white sand beaches
a tour operator is  especially valuable when undertaking this type of safari and can help you  organize all the details for a smooth and safe safari.
affordable safari scheduled departure odyssey safaris is launching an affordable safari scheduled departure  visiting the highlights of kenya.
kenya tanzania safari travelers to east africa often take advantage of the amazing variety of  safari destinations by planning a kenya tanzania safari.
- please view our safari specials for unbeatable deals on safaris to kenya and tanzania!
group on frequently asked questions | standard booking form | download brochure | safari enewsletter | download videos |
- myodyssey: sign up for a myodyssey account and save the safaris you find on our site to your 'watch list' to make shopping and comparing easy!
pm east african safari newsletter signups name: email: interest:  mountaineering safarisadventure safaris honeymoon safarisbeach & wildlife safarisvolunteer & group safaris family safarismountianeering safarisadventure safarimountaineering safarifamily  safarigroup safarisbest kenya safaribest of kenya safarihighlights of kenya  safarikenya safari inc.
odyssey safaris offers a  number of trips that feature the highlights of a kenya tanzania safari.
see all the scheduled safari options here:group safaris scheduled departure pdf our safari vehicles checkout the vehicles that will take you on your wild journey.
also don't forget to visit oursafari image gallery.
a tour operator is especially valuable when undertaking this type of safari and can help you organize all the details for a smooth and safe safari.
the serengeti and ngorongoro are world renown wildlife habitats and a common stop on safari tourist itineraries; the selous and ruaha national reserves offer a safari experience that is a window to the africa of decades past and odyssey safaris could help ou plan your tanzania safari travel for the safari of a lifetime to any of the safari destinations in tanzania.
oursafaris tanzania are  found here.
- easy, all-inclusive kenya safaris:
fully customizable east african safari designed by our experts for the same price as pre-packaged safari tours.
our safari packages include all  expenses and many include international airfare making booking simple!
- personal attention: our staff will work with you to create and execute the safari of a lifetime.
safaris tanzania a safaris tanzania is similar to kenya safari travel and is generally more  expensive than travel in kenya, however a safari in tanzania takes you to some  of the most exceptional parks and reserves found anywhere in the africa.
pm east african safari newsletter signups name: email: interest: mountaineering safarisadventure safaris honeymoon safarisbeach & wildlife safarisvolunteer & group safaris family safarismountianeering safarisadventure safarimountaineering safarifamily safarigroup safarisbest kenya safaribest of kenya safarihighlights of kenya safarikenya safari inc.
sign up for a myodyssey account and save the safaris you  find on our site to your 'watch list' to make shopping and comparing easy!
kenya tanzania safari travelers to east africa often take advantage of the amazing variety of safari destinations by planning a kenya tanzania safari.
a safari for the whole family safari adventures in kenya and tanzania
easy, all-inclusive kenya safaris:
exciting volunteer and small group
east african safari | family safaris | adventure safaris | honeymoon safaris | beach & wildlife safaris | mt kenya and mt kilimanjaro treks & safaris | volunteer/group safaris | safari holidays | luxury safari | private safari | group safaris | safari deals | safari special | travel agents | travel agents application | travel agent commission | safari testimonials | safari image gallery | safari social | links terms and condition | privacy policy | contact us
on  frequently asked questions | standard booking form |   download brochure | safari enewsletter | download videos | east african  safari | family safaris | adventure safaris | honeymoon safaris | beach &  wildlife safaris | mt kenya and mt kilimanjaro treks & safaris |  volunteer/group safaris | safari holidays | luxury safari | private safari |  group safaris | safari deals | safari special | travel agents | travel agents  application | travel agent commission | safari testimonials | safari image  gallery | safari social | links terms and condition | privacy policy |
airfareaffordable highlights of kenya safari terms & conditions sign up for exclusive safari  savings found only in our safari newsletters---save up to 25% on your next trip  to kenya and tanzania!
our safari packages include all expenses and many include international airfare making booking simple!
kenya safari a safari in kenya is a magical experience and kenya is the original safari  destination; from the maasai mara to the top of mt. kenya this country offers a  variety of terrain and safari wildlife.
the  serengeti and ngorongoro are world renown wildlife habitats and a common stop  on safari tourist itineraries; the selous and ruaha national reserves offer a  safari experience that is a window to the africa of decades past and odyssey  safaris could help ou plan your tanzania safari travel for the safari of a  lifetime to any of the safari destinations in tanzania.
the 8 day, 7 night package visits mt. kenya, samburu, lake nakuru and the masai mara and starts at $1,820!
trek mt kilimanjaro, africa's  highest peak!
odyssey safaris local guides can organize safaris to any destination in kenya.
odyssey safaris local guides can  organize safaris to any destination in kenya.
the 8 day, 7 night package visits mt. kenya,  samburu, lake nakuru and the masai mara and starts at $1,820!
airfareaffordable highlights of kenya safari terms & conditions sign up for exclusive safari savings found only in our safari newsletters---save up to 25% on your next trip to kenya and tanzania!
- flexibility: choose your kenya safari or tanzania safari departure date and safari accommodations to fit your schedule and budget.
- view our safari packages below or choose from kenya safari, tanzania safari, or kenya and tanzania safari
more information:highlights of kenya safari
once in a  lifetime honeymoons safari wildlife safari and  white sand beaches
please navigate to ourkenya safari page to view our kenya safari packages.
personal attention: our staff will work with you to create and  execute the safari of a lifetime.
all vehicles  have roof access and built properly for your adventure.
safari about us | east african destinations | travel agents | safe safari | create a custom safari | myodyssey | | luxury safari | private safaris | group safaris | | | group on redemption instructions |
myodyssey log-in username: password: travel agents guests remember me forgot password?
flexibility: choose your kenya safari or tanzania safari departure  date and safari accommodations to fit your schedule and budget.
also don't forget to  visit oursafari image gallery.
your safari: on your safari our staff will make every effort to  meet any request you have--it's your safari!
please view our safari specials for unbeatable deals on safaris to  kenya and tanzania!
trek mt kilimanjaro, africa's highest peak!