dinner and  overnight at ngorongoro camp approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b, l, d} day 11.
lunch will be taken at elsamere, a haven for lovers of nature, set in acacia forest on the banks of lake naivasha.
- dinner and overnight at the hotel.
arrival to  ngorongoro for lunch.
you pass through green savannah with elephants  and giraffs roaming around through a stretch of land which is rarely visited by  travellers to reach central serengeti.
nestling at the  base of the great rift valley escarpment, the park is recognized for its  incredible beauty with lush vegetation and tropical forests of giant fig and  mahogany trees.
telephone: 254 -20- 316645/2179167/782806 fax:254-20- 318298 cell phone:254 733 725823, 254 722 802513 .
activity: transfer to lake manyara - afternoon
on the way you will stop at the olduvai gorge where anthropologists louis and mary leakey made many significant discoveries, contributing to the theory that human life originated in africa.
lots of elephants, giraffe, buffalo, zebra and a variety of antelope inhabit the park as well as a variety of monkeys and a large population of hippos.
activity:  morning and afternoon game drives optional: visit to  tribal village & walking safari morning and afternoon game drives over the park's dusty roads (some of  these are impassable during the rainy season due to the ashy soil), and you're  likely to spot wildebeest and zebra attracted to the marshes and swamps fed by  the melting snows of kilimanjaro.
amboseli national park accommodations: amboseli camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: cross board into kenya, clear immigration, transfer to amboseli.
if you are lucky you may see the manyara lions, well  known for their tree climbing habits, lazily resting on the branches of an  "acacia tortilis" tree.
lunch at impala hotel then to be assisted to board afternoon shuttle bus back to nairobi arriving approx 18:30hrs (a flying option is available).
if you are lucky you may see the manyara lions, well known for their tree climbing habits, lazily resting on the branches of an "acacia tortilis" tree.
- approx transit time: 5 hrs - meal plan: {l, d} - - day 2.
ngorongoro – lake manyara
set in rolling savannah scenery it is dwarfed by the presence of the  pink-tinged, snow-capped peak of mount kilimanjaro which, at 5,896 meters, is  the highest free-standing mountain in the world and topped by one fifth of all  the ice in africa..
serengeti - full day in serengeti.
afternoon game drive amboseli national park provides the classic hollywood image of africa.
after lunch you make your way to masai mara with viewing various games on the  way, birds, herds of antelopes, zebra, giraffe, elephants, gazelle, etc.
we visit the olduvai gorge and museum, the site of the remains of prehistoric man.
the name serengeti comes from the maasai  word “siringet” referring to an endless plain which you will  experience on your way to your lodge located at the niaroboro hills where you  have spectacular views through huge panorama windows.
lake manyara - depart
all meals and  overnight at serengeti camp meal plan: {b, l, d} day 10.
walking safari - morning and afternoon game drives over the park's dusty roads (some of these are impassable during the rainy season due to the ashy soil), and you're likely to spot wildebeest and zebra attracted to the marshes and swamps fed by the melting snows of kilimanjaro.
ngorongoro crater conservancy accommodations: ngorongoro simba camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: transfer to ngorongoro, optioanal visit to olduvai  gorge and museum after breakfast, take a drive in the ngorongoro crater conservancy area,  with a mid-day break for a picnic lunch.
set in rolling savannah scenery it is dwarfed by the presence of the pink-tinged, snow-capped peak of mount kilimanjaro which, at 5,896 meters, is the highest free-standing mountain in the world and topped by one fifth of all the ice in africa.. - - day 11: amboseli national park accommodations: amboseli camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: morning and afternoon game drives optional: visit to tribal village &
- approx transit time: 8 hrs - meal plan: {b, l} instant booking: call or sms on +254 733 725 823
the number of flamingoes on the lake varies with water and food conditions and the best vantage point is from baboon rocks.
you will have dinner and overnight at nanyuki budget hotel, fb - - day 3: sweetwaters- lake nakuru - after breakfast you proceed to lake nakuru.
dinner and overnight at ngorongoro camp approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 11.
it is located in a depressed valley where  the red and brown cliffs of the western wall of great rift valley seem to rise  up out of the lake itself.
embraced by savannah, the lodge looks like a small village,  stretched out along the shores of the lake.
in the afternoon you go for a walking safari at the northern crater rim inhabited by buffaloes, elephants and different species of monkeys escorted by an armed ranger guide.
enroute enjoy a picnic lunch on the shores of  lake victoria.
activity: morning & afternoon game drives optional: visit to tribal village & walking safari a full day of game drives around serengeti.
morning and afternoon game drives in the rolling  grasslands studded with wildlife for as far as the eye can see.
the  number of flamingoes on the lake varies with water and food conditions and the  best vantage point is from baboon rocks.
nairobi/maasai mara depart nairobi in the morning and drive to the floor of the rift valley -  to maasai mara game reserve arriving mara  camp in time for lunch.
fb - - day 6: masai mara – isebania - private island in lake victoria - early morning game drive at masai mara and leaving after breakfast.
nairobi - kenya tel: +254 20 316645
also of interest, an area of 188 km  around the lake fenced off as a sanctuary to protect rothchild giraffe and  black rhinos.
cell: +254 722 802513 or +254 733 725823 website: http://www.bushtroop-safaris.com name: bushtroop.safaris kenya safaris, tanzania safaris, holidays tours africa, kenya  tanzania safari, 12 days kenya tanzania camping tour, wildlife holiday kenya  tanzania 12 days kenya & tanzania safari to masai mara - lake victoria -  serengeti - ngorongoro - lake manyara - amboseli camping safari day 1: arrival nairobi meal plan: bed & breakfast arrival airport where you will be meet, greet & assist.
fb day 5: masai mara national reserve full day of game drive at maasai mara..
you can expect to see  wildebeest, lions, elephants, giraffes, zebras, monkeys, baboons, hippos,  rhinos, antelopes and many birds and other species.
springs rising from the base of the escarpment  provide a welcome water supply.
then drive on to lake manyara national park for  dinner and overnight at lake manyara camp.
afternoon at leisure with optional visit to a local maasai village.
while  on the way, you have chances to visit maasai local village (manyata) and take  some photos of really maasai with their culture attires.
day 4: lake victoria -tanzania accommodations : speke bay lodge meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: cross board into tanzania, clear immigration transfer to lake victoria.
game drives are flexible, with the option of going out with picnic lunch  boxes to spend entire day in the the park, or you can choose to have early  morning and late afternoon game drives.
at 1500hrs after lunch,  leave for afternoon game drives in the sanctuary to look for giraffe, zebra,  elephant, cheetah and lion.
you may also spot white rhinos on the fringes of the marshes as well as a great variety of birdlife (some 425 species of bird populate the park).
maasai mara/lake nakuru depart maasai mara after breakfast for lake nakuru national park,  arriving budget hotel in time for lunch.
mara tented  camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: transfer to maasai mara.
we are very flexible with  choosing our route will be on the track with the migration on its way to masai
accommodations include en suite restroom facilities and secluded verandahs.
in between game drives, lounge at the pool or bar, or enjoy a mid-day nap.
day 7: lake victoria - serengeti
while the lions may be shy (visitors who spot  them are lucky indeed), manyara includes a variety of habitats, home to a  variety of big game and a rich assortment of birdlife.
- approx transit time: 6 hrs - meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 4.
after lunch and some rest game drive at lake nakuru, one of the rift valley soda lakes and best known for its thousands, sometimes millions of flamingoes nesting along the shores.
besides the flamingos that the lake is famous for, there are approx 400 other species of birds visiting the lake.
lunch at impala  hotel then to be assisted to board afternoon shuttle bus back to nairobi  arriving approx 18:30hrs (a flying option is available).
overnight at the budget hotel fb - - day 4: lake nakuru - masai mara - after breakfast, proceed to lake naivasha where you enjoy a beautiful boat trip on lake naivasha, a true bird sanctuary.
as only very few of those migrate in and out of the crater with its 2000 ft. high walls, you can expect to see lions, elephants, giraffes, zebras, hippos, flamingos, jackals, rhinos, antelopes, many birds and other species.
rest of the day at leisure and possibility to swim in the warm water of lake victoria.
all  meals and overnight at amboseli camp meal plan: {b, l, d} day 7.
- - day 4: lake victoria -tanzania accommodations : speke bay lodge meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: cross board into tanzania, clear immigration transfer to lake victoria.
day 12: amboseli national park - nairobi city meal  plan: breakfast activity: predawn game drive >  breakfast > transfer to nairobi at leisure.
overnight at the budget hotel fb day 4: lake nakuru - masai mara after breakfast, proceed to lake naivasha where you enjoy a beautiful  boat trip on lake naivasha, a true bird sanctuary.
amboseli national park accommodations: amboseli camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: cross board into kenya, clear immigration, transfer to  amboseli.
afterwards you proceed towards ndabaka gate and enter serengeti through the western corridor.
you pass through green savannah with elephants and giraffs roaming around through a stretch of land which is rarely visited by travellers to reach central serengeti.
in musoma take a speedboat which will take you to an island in lake victoria and to a budget hotel.
- - day 7: lake victoria - serengeti - in the morning we go out for a boattrip to lake victoria by local fishermen.
kenya luxury safaris || uganda gorilla safaris ||
once you arrive at the airport, your guide will meet you and drive you to  your hotel in nairobi where you can relax for an evening day 2: maasai mara national reserve accommodation choices:
in musoma take a speedboat which will take you to an island in lake  victoria and to a budget hotel.
amboseli national park - nairobi city meal plan: breakfast activity: predawn game drive > breakfast > transfer to nairobi at leisure.
afternoon at leisure with optional  visit to a local maasai village.
- approx transit time: 6 hrs - meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 8.
all meals and overnight at mara  camp.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b, l, d} day 4.
overnight at the camp.
at masai mara you go for an afternoon game drive with high chances of seeing the’ big five’ and many other wild animals set to retire for the day.
don't be surprised to see maasai herders and their livestock, especially on the  crater rim; the conservation area protects both wildlife and maasai.
with a bit of luck you will see  the ‘big five’ during one game drive.
return to the camp for late  breakfast.
with kilimanjaro providing a dramatic backdrop, your  photographs will be stunning.
the surface of the shallow lake is often hardly recognizable due to the continually shifting mass of pink.
in the evening you go for a night game drive which is an extraordinary safari experience watching masai mara’s nocturnal life like porcupine, aardvark, servalcat and mongoose.
serengeti - morning game drive in manyara park, a park dotted with exotic trees such as the giant fig, baobab and mahogany and famour for lions that sprawl on trees (though rare these days).
arrival to ngorongoro for lunch.
safaris || eco tours || kenya car
rest of the day at leisure booked on half board basis, hb - - day 2: nairobi - sweetwaters (bld) - in the morning at 0800hrs pick up from your hotel in nairobi and travel to nanyuki at the foot of mt. kenya for lunch.
day 5: serengeti national park accommodations: serengeti campsite meal  plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: transfer to serengeti  - afternoon game drive .
with kilimanjaro providing a dramatic backdrop, your photographs will be stunning.
the crater is also home to the  rare black rhino almost extinct in tanzania.
safaris || eco tours || kenya car hire  ||tanzania luxury safaris || tanzania family safaris || tanzania game safari | | luxury tours in uganda | | mount ruwenzori h iking | | serengeti  camping tours  || southern tanzania holidays || links web  developed and hosted bybush troop safaris
approx transit time: 5 hrs meal plan: {l, d} day 2.
you cross into tanzania.
in the afternoon you go for a walking safari at the  northern crater rim inhabited by buffaloes, elephants and different species of  monkeys escorted by an armed ranger guide.
approx transit time: 8 hrs meal plan: {b, l} instant booking: call or sms on +254 733 725 823
rest of the day at leisure and possibility to  swim in the warm water of lake victoria.
maasai mara spend the day in maasai mara, kenya's most popular game sanctuary where  you will have the best opportunity of spotting the big five - lion, leopard,  buffalo, rhino and elephant.
proceed to isebania for border crossing into tanzania.
nestling at the base of the great rift valley escarpment, the park is recognized for its incredible beauty with lush vegetation and tropical forests of giant fig and mahogany trees.
depart after lunch for serengeti nat.
east africa game avoids the mid-day heat by  dozing in the shade.
fb day 6: masai mara – isebania - private island in lake victoria early morning game drive at masai mara and leaving after breakfast.
depending on the game drive nature you will have a great moment to visit the famous mara river whereby different types of animals mingle to drink water, picnic lunch in the bush.
in  the evening we chauffeur you to the airport and bid you bon voyage as you catch  your flight home.
nairobi/maasai mara - depart nairobi in the morning and drive to the floor of the rift valley - to maasai mara game reserve arriving mara camp in time for lunch.
drop at your hotel or  at the airport for onward flight.
you  will have either at masai mara or serengeti the chance to experience the  ‘great migration’ and some 1.5 millions of wildebeest an zebras on  the move.
the resulting 100 square mile depression, surrounded by a 2000 foot volcanic rim, contains water and forage necessary to support most of the familiar african wildlife.
speke bay lodge is situated on the south-eastern shore of lake victoria in tanzania.
budget camping in kenya || || tanzania camping tours || bird watching
your camp lies in the heart of the private 24,000 acre sweetwaters game sanctuary.
the main buildings and luxury  accommodation are round in form, built to perfection, painted white and  thatched with a grass roof in the traditional style of the local tribe, the  sukuma.
elephants are rare within the crater, though lone, non-breeding bulls roam the region, their great tusks reaching out before them.
links web developed and hosted bybush troop safaris
day 8: ngorongoro crater conservancy accommodations: ngorongoro simba camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: spend the day game viewing in the crater, picnic lunch in crater spend another day on the crater floor viewing game; as many as 30,000  animals populate the crater.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b, l, d} day 5.
at masai mara you go  for an afternoon game drive with high chances of seeing the’ big  five’ and many other wild animals set to retire for the day.
maasai mara - spend the day in maasai mara, kenya's most popular game sanctuary where you will have the best opportunity of spotting the big five - lion, leopard, buffalo, rhino and elephant.
also of interest, an area of 188 km around the lake fenced off as a sanctuary to protect rothchild giraffe and black rhinos.
email: info@bushtroop-safaris.com kenya walking  safaris  || president obama heritage tour  ||  birding in africa  || kenya  luxury safaris || uganda gorilla safaris  ||
their great tusks  reaching out before them.
fax: +254 20 317785 cell: +254 722 802513 or +254 733 725823 email: info@bushtroop-safaris.com website: http://www.bushtroop-safaris.com name: bushtroop.safaris kenya safaris, tanzania safaris, holidays tours africa, kenya tanzania safari, 12 days kenya tanzania camping tour, wildlife holiday kenya tanzania - - 12 days kenya & tanzania safari to masai mara - lake victoria - serengeti - ngorongoro - lake manyara - amboseli camping safari - - day 1: arrival nairobi - meal plan: bed & breakfast arrival airport where you will be meet, greet & assist.
depending on the game drive  nature you will have a great moment to visit the famous mara river whereby  different types of animals mingle to drink water, picnic lunch in the bush.
ngorongoro crater tour after breakfast you will descend into the crater for a wonderful game  drive (with a picnic lunch) inside the ngorongoro crater on world heritage site  holding a permanent population of more than 30 000 animals.
arrange to visit a local maasai village and see how  this proud, resourceful people live in harmony with the animals.
east africa game avoids the mid-day heat by dozing in the shade.
serengeti national park - a full day of game drives around serengeti.
game  drive travel to lake manyara, an amazing wildlife sanctuary famous for its tree  climbing lions and dramatic views.
- - day 9: lake manyara national park accommodations: lake manyara campsite meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: transfer to lake manyara - afternoon game drive - travel to lake manyara, an amazing wildlife sanctuary famous for its tree climbing lions and dramatic views.
amboseli early morning pre-breakfast game drive at 6.30am, when you have the best  chance to see the majestic mt. kilimanjaro.
we are very flexible with choosing our route will be on the track with the migration on its way to masai mara.
park arriving  serengeti camp for dinner and overnight.
serengeti full day in serengeti.
speke bay is part of speke gulf, named after the famous  explorer john hanning speke, who, in 1858, discovered lake victoria as the  source of the nile.
- approx transit time: 4 hrs - meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 9.
back to arusha/nairobi/out - depart ngorongoro after breakfast and drive to arusha.
overnight at ngorongoro simba which  providing a wonderful view towards the crater.
dinner and overnight at at serengeti .
afterwards you proceed towards ndabaka gate and enter serengeti through  the western corridor.
ngorongoro - another morning game drive in serengeti, departing after lunch for ngorongoro via olduvai gorge for a brief visit of the museum.
- - day 6: serengeti national park accommodations: serengeti campsite meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner
at 1500hrs after lunch, leave for afternoon game drives in the sanctuary to look for giraffe, zebra, elephant, cheetah and lion.
airport departure transfer an early morning game drive is followed by a breakfast feast.
we visit the olduvai gorge and museum,  the site of the remains of prehistoric man.
afternoon game drive.
dinner and overnight at lake manyara mto wa
all meals and overnight at serengeti camp - meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 10.
amboseli after breakfast and driving to namanga (kenya/tanzania  border) where you will change vehicle and driver/guide and proceed to arusha  for lunch at impala hotel.
+254 722 802 513 © 2011 bush troop safaris p.o. box 00515-1226 buru buru, nairobi, kenya.
elephants are rare within the  crater, though lone, non-breeding bulls roam the region,
after lunch you make your way to masai mara with viewing various games on the way, birds, herds of antelopes, zebra, giraffe, elephants, gazelle, etc.
in the evening you go for a night game drive which is an  extraordinary safari experience watching masai mara’s nocturnal life like  porcupine, aardvark, servalcat and mongoose.
- all meals and overnight at mara camp.
it is the  former home of the late joy adamson who, together with her husband george,  became world famous for their pioneering conservation work and relationship  with lioness elsa, as told in her best selling book ‘born free’.
return to the camp for late breakfast.
ngorongoro crater conservancy accommodations: ngorongoro simba camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: transfer to ngorongoro, optioanal visit to olduvai gorge and museum - after breakfast, take a drive in the ngorongoro crater conservancy area, with a mid-day break for a picnic lunch.
rest of the day at  leisure booked on half board basis, hb day 2: nairobi - sweetwaters (bld)
the rest of the morning is at leisure.
after arrival you check in at  your budget hotel.
airport transfer nairobi arusha shuttle nairobi excursions kenya hotel and lodges kenya camping safaris kenya lodge safaris kenya luxury tented kenya flying safaris kenya honeymoon safari kenya disability tours mount kenya climb family adventure safari bird watching safaris africa ecotourism safaris kenya car hire and rental kenya golf safari uganda adventure travel tanzania camping safaris tanzania lodge safaris tanzania family safaris mount kilimanjaro climb mt kenya/ mt kilimanjaro kenya tanzania safari egypt and kenya tours egypt tours travel tips safari conditions a proud member of kenya association of tour operators (k.a.t.o) bushtroop tours & safaris sonalux house, 5th floor moi avenue p.o. box 1226 - 00515
accommodations include en suite restroom  facilities and secluded verandahs.
+254 722 802 513 © 2011 bush troop safaris p.o.  box 00515-1226 buru buru, nairobi, kenya.
on your way along the  lakeshores you will see hippos socializing lazily in the shallow waters or  hiding in dense papyrus forest.
optional activity include  souvenir shopping, farewell dinner etc.
it is the former home of the late joy adamson who, together with her husband george, became world famous for their pioneering conservation work and relationship with lioness elsa, as told in her best selling book ‘born free’.
amboseli after breakfast and driving to namanga (kenya/tanzania border) where you will change vehicle and driver/guide and proceed to arusha for lunch at impala hotel.
day 6: serengeti national park accommodations: serengeti campsite meal plan:  full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner
optional: visit to tribal village & walking safari, fishing canoeing or a host of other fun activities.
dinner and overnight at the hotel.
after visa and border  procedures, drive along the lakeshore to musoma one of the major towns at lake  victoria.
tanzania masai mara - lake nakuru - amboseli - lake manyara - serengeti - ngorongoro camping joining safari - - day 1.
all meals and overnight at amboseli camp meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 7.
maasai mara/lake nakuru - depart maasai mara after breakfast for lake nakuru national park, arriving budget hotel in time for lunch.
after arrival you check in at your budget hotel.
after breakfast you proceed to lake nakuru.
lions, cheetahs, and jackals prey upon large herds  of zebra, wildebeest, and antelope.
12 days kenya tanzania masai mara - lake nakuru - amboseli - lake  manyara - serengeti - ngorongoro camping joining safari day 1.
additional days in nairobi to visit places of interest - - - 12 days kenya and tanzania - sweetwaters - lake nakuru - masai mara - lake victoria - serengeti - ngorongoro - lake manyara camping adventure - - day 1: arrival nairobi - you will be met at the international airport of nairobi by your driver/guide and our representative and taken to your hotel.
email: info@bushtroop-safaris.com kenya walking safaris || president obama heritage tour ||
the ngorongoro crater was formed millions of years ago by the collapse of a long extinct volcano.
plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner
optional extensions: beach vacation in mombasa or zanzibar.
ngorongoro – lake manyara - in the morning you drive to lake manyara national park.
dinner and overnight at ngorongoro simba.
on the way you will stop at the olduvai gorge where  anthropologists louis and mary leakey made many significant discoveries,  contributing to the theory that human life originated in africa.
after lunch breakfast you leave for ngorongoro  conservation area.
also, many species of game can be found in the park  including the introduced rothschild's giraffe, black and white rhino,  waterbuck, reedbuck, lion, buffalo, leopard, baboon and many species of plains  game.
lions, cheetahs, and jackals prey upon large herds of zebra, wildebeest, and antelope.
- meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 12.
the crater is also home to the rare black rhino almost extinct in tanzania.
in the morning we go out for a boattrip to lake victoria by local  fishermen.
activity: transfer to serengeti - afternoon game drive - .
afternoon game drive your safari begin in the nairobi in the morning and drive to the floor of  the rift valley - to maasai mara game reserve arriving mara  camp in time  for lunch.
amboseli - early morning pre-breakfast game drive at 6.30am, when you have the best chance to see the majestic mt. kilimanjaro.
airport departure transfer - an early morning game drive is followed by a breakfast feast.
we leave when you're ready.
fb day 9: serengeti – olduvai gorge - ngorongoro one early morning game drive after tea/coffee which is the best time to  see the animals as they get out from their hide for the morning preys or return  from their night hunt.
speke bay is part of speke gulf, named after the famous explorer john hanning speke, who, in 1858, discovered lake victoria as the source of the nile.
park arriving serengeti camp for dinner and overnight.
day 8: serengeti national park a full day of game drives around serengeti.
day 11: amboseli national park accommodations: amboseli camp meal plan:  full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner
meal plan: {b, l, d} day 3.
arrange to visit a local maasai village and see how this proud, resourceful people live in harmony with the animals.
with a bit of luck you will see the ‘big five’ during one game drive.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b, l, d} day 8.
serengeti morning game drive in manyara park, a park dotted with exotic trees such  as the giant fig, baobab and mahogany and famour for lions that sprawl on trees  (though rare these days).
the name serengeti comes from the maasai word “siringet” referring to an endless plain which you will experience on your way to your lodge located at the niaroboro hills where you have spectacular views through huge panorama windows.
masai mara national reserve - full day of game drive at maasai mara..
ngorongoro crater conservancy accommodations: ngorongoro simba camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: spend the day game viewing in the crater, picnic lunch in crater - spend another day on the crater floor viewing game; as many as 30,000 animals populate the crater.
additional days in nairobi to visit places of interest 12 days  kenya and tanzania - sweetwaters - lake nakuru - masai mara  - lake victoria - serengeti - ngorongoro - lake manyara camping adventure day 1: arrival nairobi you will be met at the international airport of nairobi by your  driver/guide and our representative and taken to your hotel.
morning and afternoon game drives in the rolling grasslands studded with wildlife for as far as the eye can see.
in the morning at 0800hrs pick up from your hotel in nairobi and travel  to nanyuki at the foot of mt. kenya for lunch.
in between game drives, lounge at the pool  or bar, or enjoy a mid-day nap.
you can expect to see wildebeest, lions, elephants, giraffes, zebras, monkeys, baboons, hippos, rhinos, antelopes and many birds and other species.
then drive on to lake manyara national park for dinner and overnight at lake manyara camp.
overnight at at serengeti seronera campsite .
after visa and border procedures, drive along the lakeshore to musoma one of the major towns at lake victoria.
dinner and overnight at  ngorongoro simba.
after lunch and some rest game drive at lake nakuru, one of  the rift valley soda lakes and best known for its thousands, sometimes millions  of flamingoes nesting along the shores.
embraced by savannah, the lodge looks like a small village, stretched out along the shores of the lake.
lunch will be taken at elsamere, a haven for  lovers of nature, set in acacia forest on the banks of lake naivasha.
afterwards you proceed towards ndabaka gate and enter serengeti  through the western corridor.
take your time to say kwaheri to simba and his friends.
- - day 3: maasai mara national reserve accommodation choices: tented camp - meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: morning and afternoon game drive optional: visit to tribal village & walking safari - morning and afternoon game drives will lead you to some of africa's largest lion prides, herds of zebra, antelopes, buffaloes, wildebeest, giraffes, cheetahs, and hyenas.
speke bay lodge is situated on the south-eastern shore of lake  victoria in tanzania.
the lake on the floor of the crater  supports wading hippos and a myriad of birdlife.
lake nakuru/nairobi another morning game drive in nakuru, then depart via nairobi for  amboseli national park with pinic lunch on the way.
- you cross into tanzania.
back to arusha/nairobi/out depart ngorongoro after breakfast and drive to arusha.
the surface of the shallow lake is  often hardly recognizable due to the continually shifting mass of pink.
after lunch breakfast you leave for ngorongoro conservation area.
dinner and  overnight at lake manyara mto wa
the birdlife is also abundant, with flamingoes, pelicans, hornbills and plenty of forest species.
fb seronera campsite.
once you arrive at the airport, your guide will meet you and drive you to your hotel in nairobi where you can relax for an evening - - day 2: maasai mara national reserve accommodation choices: mara tented camp - meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: transfer to maasai mara.
you may also spot white rhinos on the fringes  of the marshes as well as a great variety of birdlife (some 425 species of bird  populate the park).
optional: visit to tribal village & walking safari, fishing canoeing or a host of other fun activities.
ngorongoro another morning game drive in serengeti, departing after lunch for  ngorongoro via olduvai gorge for a brief visit of the museum.
ngorongoro - after breakfast descend down to the crater floor for day crater tour, returning to ngorongoro camp for lunch.
the park is famous for its  big game and great scenic beauty whose entire landscape is dominated by mt
you will have either at masai mara or serengeti the chance to experience the ‘great migration’ and some 1.5 millions of wildebeest an zebras on the move.
fb - - day 12: manyara - arusha-nairobi - time at leisure in the morning until your departure transfer to kilimanjaro airport for departure or to arusha airport for your flight to zanzibar for beach extension.
- - optional extensions: beach vacation in mombasa or zanzibar.
end of our services.
on your way along the lakeshores you will see hippos socializing lazily in the shallow waters or hiding in dense papyrus forest.
the birdlife is also abundant, with  flamingoes, pelicans, hornbills and plenty of forest species.
budget camping in kenya  || || tanzania camping tours  || bird watching
in the morning you drive to lake manyara national park.
dinner and overnight at  at serengeti .
besides the  flamingos that the lake is famous for, there are approx 400 other species of  birds visiting the lake.
in the evening we chauffeur you to the airport and bid you bon voyage as you catch your flight home.
you will also have the option of visiting a local maasai village (us$20  per person).
hire ||tanzania luxury safaris || tanzania family safaris || tanzania game safari | | luxury tours in uganda | | mount ruwenzori h iking | | serengeti camping tours || southern tanzania holidays ||
it is located in a depressed valley where the red and brown cliffs of the western wall of great rift valley seem to rise up out of the lake itself.
while on the way, you have chances to visit maasai local village (manyata) and take some photos of really maasai with their culture attires.
as only very few of  those migrate in and out of the crater with its 2000 ft. high walls, you can  expect to see lions, elephants, giraffes, zebras, hippos, flamingos, jackals,  rhinos, antelopes, many birds and other species.
while the lions may be shy (visitors who spot them are lucky indeed), manyara includes a variety of habitats, home to a variety of big game and a rich assortment of birdlife.
lake nakuru/nairobi - another morning game drive in nakuru, then depart via nairobi for amboseli national park with pinic lunch on the way.
enroute enjoy a picnic lunch on the shores of lake victoria.
you pass through green savannah with elephants and  giraffs roaming around through a stretch of land which is rarely visited by  travellers to reach central serengeti.
take your  time to say kwaheri to simba and his friends.
the lake on the floor of the crater supports wading hippos and a myriad of birdlife.
afternoon game drive - your safari begin in the nairobi in the morning and drive to the floor of the rift valley - to maasai mara game reserve arriving mara camp in time for lunch.
springs rising from the base of the escarpment provide a welcome water supply.
also, many species of game can be found in the park including the introduced rothschild's giraffe, black and white rhino, waterbuck, reedbuck, lion, buffalo, leopard, baboon and many species of plains game.
approx transit time: 4 hrs meal plan: {b, l, d} day 9.
lots of elephants, giraffe, buffalo, zebra and a variety of  antelope inhabit the park as well as a variety of monkeys and a large  population of hippos.
telephone: 254 -20-  316645/2179167/782806 fax:254-20- 318298 cell phone:254 733 725823, 254  722 802513 .
dinner and overnight at the camp.
- you will also have the option of visiting a local maasai village (us$20 per person).
activity: morning & afternoon game drives - optional: visit to tribal village & walking safari - a full day of game drives around serengeti.
the park is famous for its big game and great scenic beauty whose entire landscape is dominated by mt kilimanjaro.
don't be surprised to see maasai herders and their livestock, especially on the crater rim; the conservation area protects both wildlife and maasai.
your camp lies in the heart of  the private 24,000 acre sweetwaters game sanctuary.
meal plan: {b, l, d} day 12.
- - day 5: serengeti national park accommodations: serengeti campsite meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner
- end of our services.
you will have dinner and overnight at nanyuki  budget hotel, fb day 3: sweetwaters- lake nakuru
overnight at ngorongoro simba which providing a wonderful view towards the crater.
- meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 3.
day 3: maasai mara national reserve accommodation choices: tented camp meal plan: full board - breakfast, lunch & dinner activity: morning and afternoon game drive optional: visit to tribal village & walking safari morning and afternoon game drives will lead you to some of africa's  largest lion prides, herds of zebra, antelopes, buffaloes, wildebeest,  giraffes, cheetahs, and hyenas.
afternoon game drive - amboseli national park provides the classic hollywood image of africa.
drop at your hotel or at the airport for onward flight.
ngorongoro crater tour - after breakfast you will descend into the crater for a wonderful game drive (with a picnic lunch) inside the ngorongoro crater on world heritage site holding a permanent population of more than 30 000 animals.
- approx transit time: 6 hrs - meal plan: {b, l, d} - - day 5.
- game drives are flexible, with the option of going out with picnic lunch boxes to spend entire day in the the park, or you can choose to have early morning and late afternoon game drives.
the resulting  100 square mile depression, surrounded by a 2000 foot volcanic rim, contains  water and forage necessary to support most of the familiar african wildlife.
overnight at  the camp.
optional activity include souvenir shopping, farewell dinner etc.
day 9: lake manyara national park accommodations: lake manyara campsite meal
the ngorongoro crater was formed  millions of years ago by the collapse of a long extinct volcano.
the main buildings and luxury accommodation are round in form, built to perfection, painted white and thatched with a grass roof in the traditional style of the local tribe, the sukuma.
fb - - day 9: serengeti – olduvai gorge - ngorongoro - one early morning game drive after tea/coffee which is the best time to see the animals as they get out from their hide for the morning preys or return from their night hunt.
after breakfast descend down to the crater floor for day crater tour,  returning to ngorongoro camp for lunch.
fb day 12: manyara - arusha-nairobi time at leisure in the morning until your departure transfer to  kilimanjaro airport for departure or to arusha airport for your flight to  zanzibar for beach extension.