the masai mara is one of kenya’s most visited national reserves,  famous for its vast, open plains and the annual migration which is typically  present between july and october.
a popular option is to round off a safari with a break on the coast.
contact us to talk  through the options.
- in our view, tanzania is less mainstream and offers a far better wildlife experience but kenya offers greater diversity, better cultural exchanges and generally has a more sophisticated safari industry.
kenya’s lakes each have their own distinctive highlights including  the flamingos of nakuru, steam jets at bogoria and the fishing and water sports  on lake victoria, the source of the nile.
we recommend... a good review of our kenya map section, more detailed descriptions of the prime safari spots in kenya, some suggestions on types of safaris in kenya, a brief overview on travel and getting around kenya, a current listing of our preferred camps and lodges and kenya's seasons through the year, some examples of our safaris for this and next season kenya safari menu highlights | maps | safari spots | safari ideas
getting around | accommodation | seasons | tours in kenya zambezi site home | botswana | zambia | zimbabwe | namibia tanzania | kenya last updated 19 january, 2012 call uk: +44 1548 830059 | usa: +1 347 7081794 canada:
contact us to talk through the options.
getting around | accommodation | seasons | tours in kenya zambezi site home | botswana | zambia | zimbabwe | namibia tanzania | kenya contact last updated 19 january, 2012 call uk: +44 1548 830059 | usa: +1 347 7081794 canada: +1 647 6941402 | australia: +61 2 84172176 uk head office africa house, modbury, devon, pl21 0qj e-mail: info@zambezi.co.uk african head office the heights, kariba, zimbabwe e-mail: info@zambezi.com © copyright, 1996-2012.
*see simplified notes on the migration, the "real story" about the migration, how to plan a migration safari - other favoured spots are amboseli for elephants, laikipia and the northern frontier district for wilderness and adventure.
the main attractions are prolific game, warm welcoming people operating a  selection of small and personalised camps and lodges...with amazing weather to  boot.
- the masai mara is one of kenyas most visited national reserves, famous for its vast, open plains and the annual migration which is typically present between july and october.
- to get the most out of kenya it's best to combine two or more of the national parks and reserves for a true sense of the contrasting terrain and habitats.
the main attractions are prolific game, warm welcoming people operating a selection of small and personalised camps and lodges...with amazing weather to boot.
+1 647 6941402  | australia: +61 2 84172176 uk head office africa house, modbury, devon, pl21 0qj e-mail:  info@zambezi.co.uk
in our view, tanzania is less mainstream and offers a far better wildlife  experience but kenya offers greater diversity, better cultural exchanges and  generally has a more sophisticated safari industry.
the safari industry is mature so despite a dent in the aftermath of the 2007 elections kenya is once again very much a top safari spot!
samburu and tsavo tend to be popular but busy, whilst other lesser known areas include meru and shaba.
travel advice to kenya... essential "migration" resources on this site tanzania home | tanzania maps | kenya home | kenya maps serengeti-mara map | migration maps | how the migration really works how to plan a migration safari | safaris this season - kenya has been one of africa's most popular destinations for both first timers and experienced safari goers alike.
if you're looking for an insider's insight then just contact us.... -
*see simplified notes on the migration, the  "real story" about the migration, how to plan a migration safari other favoured spots are amboseli for elephants, laikipia and the northern  frontier district for wilderness and adventure.
essential "migration" resources on this site tanzania home  |   tanzania maps  |  kenya home   | kenya maps serengeti-mara map  |   migration maps   |  how the migration really works how to plan a migration safari   | safaris this season kenya has been one of africa's most popular destinations for both first  timers and experienced safari goers alike.
- kenyas lakes each have their own distinctive highlights including the flamingos of nakuru, steam jets at bogoria and the fishing and water sports on lake victoria, the source of the nile.
if you're an adventurer then  take a closer look at lake turkana.
we recommend... - a good review of our kenya map section, - more detailed descriptions of the prime safari spots in kenya, - some suggestions on types of safaris in kenya, - a brief overview on travel and getting around kenya, - a current listing of our preferred camps and lodges and - kenya's seasons through the year, - some examples of our safaris for this and next season kenya safari menu highlights | maps | safari spots | safari ideas
home | contact kenya - east africa kenya menu maps of kenya highlights safari spots safari ideas getting around accommodation seasons ...safaris this year ...
if you're looking for an insider's insight  then just contact us....
samburu and tsavo tend to be  popular but busy, whilst other lesser known areas include meru and shaba.
to get the most out of kenya it's best to combine two or more of the  national parks and reserves for a true sense of the contrasting terrain and  habitats.
if you're an adventurer then take a closer look at lake turkana.
the safari industry is mature  so despite a dent in the aftermath of the 2007 elections kenya is once again  very much a top safari spot!