morning will be spent at  leisure and after early lunch you will be transferred to the airstrip for your  scheduled flight to our comfortable, tented camp in the mara, mara governors  camp.
various vaccinations and malaria  prophylactics are recommended.
governors safari camp.
mammals too are plentiful, particularly bohor reedbuck, waterbuck, buffalo, warthog and the rare rothchild's giraffe, whilst anyone tiring of the lakeside spectacle will find more than enough birds and other wildlife in the surrounding scrub and woodland.
we will also head out on game drives into tsavo west national park itself  to enjoy the wealth of mammals, birds and other wildlife that abounds here.
e-mail: info@mbangosafaris.com,  safaris@mbangosafaris.com member of: east africa natural  history society, east africa wildlife society, kenya professional safari guides association, kenya  association of tour operators, kenya tourism federation, kenya museum society and eco-tourism society of kenya .
days: day 1: days 2 & 3: days 4 & 5: day 6 & 7: days 8 - 11: day 12: location: arrive nairobi.
- unlimited game viewing drives.
there are additional activities on offer for those who wish, the most popular being a hot air balloon ride or a masai village visit, a truly magical experience.
lunch, dinner and  overnight for the two days atfinch hattons camp, full board.
an undoubted highlight of our stay at tsavo will be the opportunity to visit the crystal clear waters of the mzima springs.
the masai mara  game reserve is probably the most famous in all of africa.
this is a classic east african park watched over by the  distant snow-capped peak of mount kilimanjaro.
contact us for friendly travel advice.
birdlife is once again abundant and we will no doubt find a wide  selection of the 400 species that have been recorded here.
tsavo west national park.
the sanctuary itself was established in 1985 and protected 3 rhino in an area of less than 1 square mile.
cloud is likely in the afternoons, but does not usually bring rain at  this season, although do not rule it out!
the mara region has been inhabited by humans for at least 2,000 years, the last 200 years by the masai.
the sanctuary  itself was established in 1985 and protected 3 rhino in an area of less than 1  square mile.
nakuru is one of the better places in africa to find leopard and the park is also a very important rhino sanctuary.
this is a classic east african park watched over by the distant snow-capped peak of mount kilimanjaro.
tsavo west, when combined with tsavo east,  covers over 20,000 square kilometers creating one of africa's largest  conservation areas.
indeed it is here  (weather and dust permitting) that we hope to see that classic east african  scene of elephants and giraffes striding across the plains backed by the snowy  peak of kilimanjaro; this is one of kenya's most sought after photographic  destinations so bring plenty of film (or memory cards!).
after breakfast we will move west to amboseli national park.
lake nakuru is a soda  lake and host to one of the great ornithological spectacles of the world.
it is  raising grassland, watered by the mara river and covering an area of 1,680  square kilometres.
food and accomondation included in the tour price.
on arrival at lake naivasha we  will check in at loldia house for two nights, beautifully situated on shores of  the lake.
mbango safaris have experience of operating tours in east africa  & beyond.
for example, in the 1970s the tsavo ecosystem alone supported an estimated 6,000 to 8,000 rhino, but by 1989 poaching had reduced this to a mere 20 individuals!
- birds and 2 million large herbivores and predators.
some to look out for  include bateleur, red-billed hornbill, greater blue-eared glossy starling,  tacazze sunbird, bare-faced go-away bird, diederic and black cuckoos and  white-fronted bee-eater.
the birdlife is equally  diverse, although often takes second place to the spectacle of the mammals.
other mammals to look  out for include white-bearded wildebeest, thompson's gazelle, warthog, black  rhino and spotted hyena.
its acacia-dotted plains and dry rolling  grasslands support a wealth of game including plenty of elephant, masai  giraffe, burchell's zebra, cape buffalo and waterbuck.
its acacia-dotted plains and dry rolling grasslands support a wealth of game including plenty of elephant, masai giraffe, burchell's zebra, cape buffalo and waterbuck.
predators such as cheetah and lion do occur in amboseli but are somewhat wary as they are still persecuted by the surrounding farmers.
full details will be sent to you on booking, but we recommend that you visit your foreign office to discuss your travel plans as soon as possible.
in the local (maa) language mara means  'spotted', a reference to the patches of bush and trees that dot the  plains.
the park is a wonderfully atmospheric place, where you can really enjoy the sights and sounds of the rift valley in a classic bush setting.
we will then check into the luxurious finch hattons camp, our base for the next 2-nights of the tour.
mammals too are plentiful, particularly bohor reedbuck, waterbuck,  buffalo, warthog and the rare rothchild's giraffe, whilst anyone tiring of the  lakeside spectacle will find more than enough birds and other wildlife in the  surrounding scrub and woodland.
we will visit totally different areas from the expansive  tsavo national park with it’s unique wildlife and bird life as well to the  famous masai mara game reserve with great game viewing area, surrounded by  yellow barked acacia’s and the red clad masai’s people dotted across  the plains, vast herds of antelopes, zebras share their home with prides of  lions to lake nakuru national park with hundreds of birds species including the  famous pink wash of flamingos.
indeed, the lions of tsavo are descendants of the legendary man-eaters (the ghost and the darkness) who brought the building of the nairobi to mombasa rail road to a standstill at the beginning of the last century.
pink-backed and white pelicans swim  in the shallows and feeding amongst them are yellow-billed and marabou storks,  sacred ibis, african spoonbills, and an almost complete range of east african  ducks, waders, terns and gulls.
the area is part of what is now  referred to as the serengeti - mara ecosystem, being joined to the huge  serengeti national park in tanzania.
this is a luxury tented camps and lodge safari, and  therefore suitable for anyone of any age, without any great necessity for  extreme fitness.
the following day we will visit the flamingo fringed lake nakuru national park.
tsavo is also home to the ngulia  rhino sanctuary.
on arrival at lake naivasha we will check in at loldia house for two nights, beautifully situated on shores of the lake.
after enjoying the animals and birds we will return to camp late morning for brunch and a siesta before heading out again for an afternoon game drive.
here we will be based for three nights and this evening head out on a  game drive to enjoy the wildlife of kenya's top game reserve.
we will visit totally different areas from the expansive tsavo national park with its unique wildlife and bird life as well to the famous masai mara game reserve with great game viewing area, surrounded by yellow barked acacias and the red clad masais people dotted across the plains, vast herds of antelopes, zebras share their home with prides of lions to lake nakuru national park with hundreds of birds species including the famous pink wash of flamingos.
in the local (maa) language mara means 'spotted', a reference to the patches of bush and trees that dot the plains.
some to look out for include bateleur, red-billed hornbill, greater blue-eared glossy starling, tacazze sunbird, bare-faced go-away bird, diederic and black cuckoos and white-fronted bee-eater.
the mara region has been inhabited by humans for at least  2,000 years, the last 200 years by the masai.
we will explore amboseli on morning and afternoon game  drives from thetortilis luxury camp, our base for the next two nights of the tour.
hundreds of thousands of greater and lesser flamingoes (occasionally up to 2  million) traditionally form a carpet of shimmering pink that stretches as far  as the eye can see around the lake-shore.
all accommodation and meals are included except for dinner on arrival in nairobi and lunch on the last day back to nairobi.
- specialist naturalist guide.
ultimate east africa safari | discover kenya safari | karibu kenya safari | discover tanzania safari | wild tanzania safari kenya explorer safari.
at 10 am transfer to the airstrip and leave the masai mara.
this is a luxury tented camps based safari, covering all aspects of general  wildlife including watching both mammals and birds but with more emphasis on  wildlife.
in order to book a  place on this holiday, you will need to contact us.
upon arrival in  nairobi you will be meet by our airport representative and be transferred to  norfolk hotel at the outskirts of the city.
booking terms | links | photo gallery | tour reports | news mbango safaris east africa ltd, lang'ata shopping mall, lang'ata  court road, p.o. box 8914 - 00100, nairobi, kenya.
days 8 - 11: masai mara game reserve.
dinner and overnight for the two days atloldia house, full board.
it is raising grassland, watered by the mara river and covering an area of 1,680 square kilometres.
today ngulia sanctuary covers 38 square miles (62 square  kilometres) and is home to 57 rhino, more than half of which were born there.
it is a long drive that will take us back to nairobi for lunch before heading north west into the rift.
upon arrival in nairobi you will be meet by our airport representative and be transferred to norfolk hotel at the outskirts of the city.
indeed, lake nakuru national park was the setting for the award winning classic film out of africa.
food and accomondation  included in the tour price.
from this uniquely aquatic viewpoint we can watch hippos  swimming underwater along with crocodiles and various fish.
morning will be spent at leisure and after early lunch you will be transferred to the airstrip for your scheduled flight to our comfortable, tented camp in the mara, mara governors camp.
we  will then check into the luxurious finch hattons camp, our base for the next  2-nights of the tour.
friendlier inhabitants, however, include a wealth of birdlife - an amazing 600 species have been recorded here - including ostrich, kori bustard, saddle-billed stork, black-breasted snake-eagle, magpie shrike, carmine bee-eater, woodland kingfisher, scarlet-chested sunbird and many many more.
this morning we will make the long drive to tsavo west national park, arriving around lunch time.
the masai mara holds some of the largest concentrations of animals in the world, especially in august when huge herds of white-bearded wildebeest and burchell's zebra, pursued by their attendant predators, migrate into the reserve from the adjacent serengeti.
here we will be based for three nights and this evening head out on a game drive to enjoy the wildlife of kenya's top game reserve.
breakfast and  morning to be spent at leisure at the camp.
during our stay in tsavo we will visit the ngulia rhino sanctuary to try and  find, one or two of the rhino that live here, as well as a host of colourful  birds such as lilac-breasted roller, superb starling and beautiful sunbird.
it is a long drive that will take us back to nairobi for  lunch before heading north west into the rift.
this is a luxury tented camps and lodge safari, and therefore suitable for anyone of any age, without any great necessity for extreme fitness.
the costs are not included in the tour cost, however, and must be booked in advance so please contact the mbango safaris office on 00 254 20 600 14 54 for a price and more information.
this is another of africa's great wildlife  spectacles and, whilst nothing is certain in the world of wildlife watching, we  hope to have timed it just right and witness the breathtaking sight of the mara  grasslands filled as far as the eye can see with huge herds of wildebeest and  zebra.
tortilis luxury camp.
the birdlife is equally diverse, although often takes second place to the spectacle of the mammals.
the piercing call of the african fish eagles is  a familiar sound at nakuru and just one of numerous birds of prey that patrol  the park.
the area is part of what is now referred to as the serengeti - mara ecosystem, being joined to the huge serengeti national park in tanzania.
tel: 00 254 20 - 600 14 54, 221 23 54,211 24 33 / 4.
pink-backed and white pelicans swim in the shallows and feeding amongst them are yellow-billed and marabou storks, sacred ibis, african spoonbills, and an almost complete range of east african ducks, waders, terns and gulls.
overnight atnorfolk hotel, bed and breakfast.
lake nakuru national park.
topi, coke's hartebeest, impala, eland, thompson's and grant's gazelles,  bohor reedbuck, bushbuck, kirk's dik-dik, masai giraffe, elephant and buffalo  feed amongst them stalked by all 3 big cats, lion, cheetah and leopard, along  with a variety of other predators and scavengers such as bat-eared fox, serval,  spotted hyena and black-backed jackals.
finch hattons luxury camp.
in order to book a place on this holiday, you will need to contact us.
in the camp grounds and acacia woodlands we should find  a plethora of barbets, finches, weavers, turacos, go-away-birds, glossy  starlings and kingfishers.
day 2 & 3 tsavo west national park.
for much of this august tour dry and sunny weather may be  expected, with daytime temperatures between 20-30°c, depending on the  altitude.
amboseli national park.
friendlier inhabitants,  however, include a wealth of birdlife - an amazing 600 species have been  recorded here - including ostrich, kori bustard, saddle-billed stork,  black-breasted snake-eagle, magpie shrike, carmine bee-eater, woodland  kingfisher, scarlet-chested sunbird and many many more.
lone bushes or dead trees provide lookout perches for a variety of bee-eaters and rollers, including the beautiful carmine bee-eater, whilst above them soar martial eagles, lappet-faced, african white-backed, hooded and ruppell's vultures, the latter four always on the look out for a recent kill.
amboseli sits beneath the towering snow-capped  peak of mount kilimanjaro, africa's highest mountain, and is one of the  country's most scenic reserves.
a visa is required for kenya and we will send  you application forms and details.
today ngulia sanctuary covers 38 square miles (62 square kilometres) and is home to 57 rhino, more than half of which were born there.
we will also head out on game drives into tsavo west national park itself to enjoy the wealth of mammals, birds and other wildlife that abounds here.
birdlife is once again abundant and we will no doubt find a wide selection of the 400 species that have been recorded here.
tsavo is a place of wide  horizons and undulating acacia covered red earth plains dotted with graceful  parties of giraffes and herds of elephant and zebra.
the piercing call of the african fish eagles is a familiar sound at nakuru and just one of numerous birds of prey that patrol the park.
for much of this august tour dry and sunny weather may be expected, with daytime temperatures between 20-30°c, depending on the altitude.
lunch, dinner and overnight for the two days atfinch hattons camp, full board.
lake nakuru is a soda lake and host to one of the great ornithological spectacles of the world.
- luxury 4wd safari vehicles.
various vaccinations and malaria prophylactics are recommended.
other, less frequently  seen mammals include gerenuk, fringe-eared oryx, hunters hartebeest and leopard.
other mammals to look out for include white-bearded wildebeest, thompson's gazelle, warthog, black rhino and spotted hyena.
safari destinations | conservation | general info |
predators such as cheetah and lion do occur in  amboseli
- tsavo national park eco-system - 20,000 sq km's wilderness.
254 722 524 987, 00 254 733 681 240 or email us: safaris@mbangosafaris.com with your contacts and we shall get back to you.
it has a population of over 60 black rhino, although these are very hard to see, and a healthy breeding population of white rhino which includes a large number of young animals.
today, an estimated 540  eastern black rhinoceros remain in the world and 85% of these are to be found  in kenya.
here underground spring  water, filtered by the volcanic rock of the chyulu hills, has formed a series  of forest-fringed freshwater pools into which an underwater glass observation  tank has been built.
overnight atnorfolk hotel,  bed and breakfast.
the masai mara game reserve is probably the most famous in all of africa.
from this uniquely aquatic viewpoint we can watch hippos swimming underwater along with crocodiles and various fish.
amboseli sits beneath the towering snow-capped peak of mount kilimanjaro, africa's highest mountain, and is one of the country's most scenic reserves.
topi, coke's hartebeest, impala, eland, thompson's and grant's gazelles, bohor reedbuck, bushbuck, kirk's dik-dik, masai giraffe, elephant and buffalo feed amongst them stalked by all 3 big cats, lion, cheetah and leopard, along with a variety of other predators and scavengers such as bat-eared fox, serval, spotted hyena and black-backed jackals.
in the camp grounds and acacia woodlands we should find a plethora of barbets, finches, weavers, turacos, go-away-birds, glossy starlings and kingfishers.
we will explore amboseli on morning and afternoon game drives from thetortilis luxury camp, our base for the next two nights of the tour.
a visa is required for kenya and we will send you application forms and details.
dinner and overnight for the two days atloldia house,  full board.
it is cut by only two  permanent rivers and so has a more arid feel to it than the other reserves we  will be visiting on the holiday, but is nevertheless a wonderful area for  mammals, birds and other wildlife.
- masai mara game reserve - 1, 500 sq km's of pure wilderness.
after enjoying the animals and birds we will return to camp late morning for  brunch and a siesta before heading out again for an afternoon game drive.
today we move to east africa's geological wonder, the rift valley, for two nights at the shores of lake naivasha.
our days in the mara will start with an early morning wake up call, and a  cup of tea or coffee, before we head out onto the plains shortly after dawn.
huge ground hornbills and elegant secretary birds stride across the grasslands along with kori bustards, grey crowned crane and smaller species such as temminck's coursers, wattled lapwing, rosy-breasted longclaw, yellow-shouldered widowbird and capped wheatear.
breakfast and morning to be spent at leisure at the camp.
in all the parks we visit exploration is by vehicle only,  though you will be allowed to walk in the grounds of each lodge and at various  picnic spots.
tsavo is also home to the ngulia rhino sanctuary.
it has a  population of over 60 black rhino, although these are very hard to see, and a  healthy breeding population of white rhino which includes a large number of  young animals.
all accommodation and meals are included except  for dinner on arrival in nairobi and lunch on the last day back to nairobi.
it is cut by only two permanent rivers and so has a more arid feel to it than the other reserves we will be visiting on the holiday, but is nevertheless a wonderful area for mammals, birds and other wildlife.
booking terms | links | photo gallery | tour reports | news mbango safaris east africa ltd, lang'ata shopping mall, lang'ata court road, p.o. box 8914 - 00100, nairobi, kenya.
the ngulia rhino sanctuary has played an important role in the advancement of this work and helped develop many of the monitoring and conservation methods now employed in other parts of the country.
e-mail: info@mbangosafaris.com, safaris@mbangosafaris.com member of: east africa natural history society, east africa wildlife society, kenya professional safari guides association, kenya association of tour operators, kenya tourism federation, kenya museum society and eco-tourism society of kenya .
at 10 am transfer to the airstrip  and leave the masai mara.
the ngulia rhino sanctuary has played an important role in  the advancement of this work and helped develop many of the monitoring and  conservation methods now employed in other parts of the country.
this has been a fantastic success story and rhino numbers continue to grow.
this is another of africa's great wildlife spectacles and, whilst nothing is certain in the world of wildlife watching, we hope to have timed it just right and witness the breathtaking sight of the mara grasslands filled as far as the eye can see with huge herds of wildebeest and zebra.
here underground spring water, filtered by the volcanic rock of the chyulu hills, has formed a series of forest-fringed freshwater pools into which an underwater glass observation tank has been built.
masai mara game reserve.
tsavo west, when combined with tsavo east, covers over 20,000 square kilometers creating one of africa's largest conservation areas.
the following day we will visit the flamingo fringed lake nakuru  national park.
the decline of the eastern black rhinoceros has been both rapid and shocking and, not too long ago, there was a real fear that this amazing animal may become extinct.
hundreds of thousands of greater and lesser flamingoes (occasionally up to 2 million) traditionally form a carpet of shimmering pink that stretches as far as the eye can see around the lake-shore.
this is a luxury tented camps based safari, covering all aspects of general wildlife including watching both mammals and birds but with more emphasis on wildlife.
an undoubted highlight of our stay at tsavo will be the opportunity to  visit the crystal clear waters of the mzima springs.
upon arrival in nairobi you will be transferred to  carnivore restaurant where we will take our last meal in kenya, before sadly  making our way to the airport to catch the late evening flight back home.
tsavo is home to kenya's 'red' elephants and herds of these red-earth dusted  giants are a familiar sight, along with impala, thompson's gazelle, masai  giraffe, buffalo and perhaps even our first lion or cheetah.
safari highlight: - 12 days scenic and wildlife safari in kenya.
nakuru is one of the better places in africa to  find leopard and the park is also a very important rhino sanctuary.
cellphone: 00 254 - 722 524 987, 733 681 240.
huge ground hornbills and elegant secretary birds stride across the grasslands  along with kori bustards, grey crowned crane and smaller species such as  temminck's coursers, wattled lapwing, rosy-breasted longclaw, yellow-shouldered  widowbird and capped wheatear.
today, an estimated 540 eastern black rhinoceros remain in the world and 85% of these are to be found in kenya.
full details will be sent to you on booking, but  we recommend that you visit your foreign office to discuss your travel plans as  soon as possible.
facebook, skype, msn, yahoo messenger id: mbangosafaris.
mbango safaris have experience of operating tours in east africa & beyond.
in all the parks we visit exploration is by vehicle only, though you will be allowed to walk in the grounds of each lodge and at various picnic spots.
the park is a wonderfully atmospheric place, where you can  really enjoy the sights and sounds of the rift valley in a classic bush  setting.
- daily departure throughout the year.
after breakfast we will move  west to amboseli national park.
tsavo is a place of wide horizons and undulating acacia covered red earth plains dotted with graceful parties of giraffes and herds of elephant and zebra.
for example, in the 1970s the tsavo  ecosystem alone supported an estimated 6,000 to 8,000 rhino, but by 1989  poaching had reduced this to a mere 20 individuals!
there  are additional activities on offer for those who wish, the most popular being a  hot air balloon ride or a masai village visit, a truly magical experience.
fax: 00 254 - 20 600 14 53, 222 93 54.
indeed it is here (weather and dust permitting) that we hope to see that classic east african scene of elephants and giraffes striding across the plains backed by the snowy peak of kilimanjaro; this is one of kenya's most sought after photographic destinations so bring plenty of film (or memory cards!).
- amboseli park with stunning views of mt. kilimanjaro.
the decline of the eastern black rhinoceros has been both  rapid and shocking and, not too long ago, there was a real fear that this  amazing animal may become extinct.
during our stay in tsavo we will visit the ngulia rhino sanctuary to try and find, one or two of the rhino that live here, as well as a host of colourful birds such as lilac-breasted roller, superb starling and beautiful sunbird.
cloud is likely in the afternoons, but does not usually bring rain at this season, although do not rule it out!
how to book your place.
tel: 00 254 20 - 600 14  54, 221 23 54,211 24 33 / 4.
this morning we will  make the long drive to tsavo west national park, arriving around lunch time.
indeed, lake nakuru national park was the setting for the award  winning classic film ‘out of africa’.
but are somewhat wary as they are still persecuted by the surrounding  farmers.
our days in the mara will start with an early morning wake up call, and a cup of tea or coffee, before we head out onto the plains shortly after dawn.
today we move to  east africa's geological wonder, the rift valley, for two nights at the shores  of lake naivasha.
the masai mara holds some of the largest concentrations of animals in the  world, especially in august when huge herds of white-bearded wildebeest and  burchell's zebra, pursued by their attendant predators, migrate into the  reserve from the adjacent serengeti.
lone bushes or dead trees provide lookout  perches for a variety of bee-eaters and rollers, including the beautiful  carmine bee-eater, whilst above them soar martial eagles, lappet-faced, african  white-backed, hooded and ruppell's vultures, the latter four always on the look  out for a recent kill.
© 2004 - 2011 mbango safaris east africa ltd.
tsavo is home to kenya's 'red' elephants and herds of these red-earth dusted giants are a familiar sight, along with impala, thompson's gazelle, masai giraffe, buffalo and perhaps even our first lion or cheetah.
please call us now on: 00 254 20 601 454. 00
other, less frequently seen mammals include gerenuk, fringe-eared oryx, hunters hartebeest and leopard.
indeed, the lions  of tsavo are descendants of the legendary man-eaters (the ghost and the  darkness) who brought the building of the nairobi to mombasa rail road to a  standstill at the beginning of the last century.
days 6 & 7: lake nakuru national park.
the costs are not included in the tour cost, however, and must be booked in  advance so please contact the mbango safaris office on 00 254 20 600 14 54 for  a price and more information.
upon arrival in nairobi you will be transferred to carnivore restaurant where we will take our last meal in kenya, before sadly making our way to the airport to catch the late evening flight back home.
please call us now on: 00  254 20 601 454. 00