it's surrounded by a national park which harbors various types of vegetation from lush rainforest to alpine meadow.
the park is most famous for the joy adamson's autobiography "born free", a film has since been produced based on the same book about her research and life with lions and cheetahs.
any safari can be extended to the beaches ofmombassa, or zanzibar , malindi, lamu island.
our kenya flying safaris start with a flight from london to nairobi, with regional connections in the uk also possible.
stay on the north coast or the south coast for  a true rest and relaxation beach excursion.
or allow us  to tailor-make a private charter plane to fly you from one lodge to the next.
after an early  start each day, spend a few hours on a safari game drive in the local area  viewing the wildlife.
floor koinange street nairobi,kenya tel: +254-20-2245023 tel/fax: +254-20-2245013 cell phone: +254-728-873329 after office hours: +254-722-461047 email safari consultants: sales@africansafaris.co.ke website: www.africansafaris.co.ke
we will take you straight to the bush airfield closest to your holiday destination.
african safaris and adventures is  an expert safari company and tour operator works with a number of air charter  operators, includingair kenya, mombassa air, kenya airways, prestige  airlines, safari link step aboard your own personal  aircraft at your first point of arrival in africa, be it nairobi, dar es salaam or any other centre in east  africa, and enjoy a fantastic fly-in safari.
be it the tanzanian safari, uganda gorilla tracking safari, laikipia mobile safari, mt  kenya climbing.
kenya private air charters there are schedule flying services to most of the destinations in kenya, and we can arrange these, however there are many other safari destinations that are only accessible by private charter.
check out our range ofair safari holidays in kenya, or safari  plus beach holidays combining a kenya safari plus mombasa.
and en-route, we will shield you from travel strain by taking care of the border formalities, transfers, documentation, and sundry travel irritations for you.
get onboard our daily flights to this bijou tropical heaven.
below you will find numerous flying safaris that africa safaris and adventures  runs throughout east africa.
you can join one of ourscheduled flying safaris or if you'd like, one of our experienced travel consultants can tailor-make a private charter flying safari to meet your departure date, time period, group size and budget.
often  with a large group of people coming to kenya onsafari, it may  be cheaper and logistically easier to charter aprivate aircraft .
airkenya flies daily to meru in the heart of kenya.
this is truly one of the best ways to go on a africa safari.
kenya flying safaris offer more flexibility than road safaris, so if you don't see the lodge or camp you're after here, just ask!
in spite of global warming, the still snow-capped mountain rises to 5,895m (19,335ft).
indeed some people with more time to travel prefer to see the country by road and we can also arrange this using 4x4 safari vehicles.
your safari literally begins when you take off, as your light aircraft will usually fly at a low altitude enabling you to gaze over the vast plains of east african wilderness with the possibility of sighting an array of wild animals.
you will travel in twin-engine comfort avoiding detours, check-in times, and luggage loss!
as well as warm silken sands, hot golden sunshine and foaming, shimmering ocean waves,malindi offers you elegant resorts, serene hideaways and exquisite restaurants, all nestled on the northern coastline of kenya.
a typical flying safari in kenya involves spending a night or two in each camp, lodge, hotel or beach resort before flying to the next vacation destination.
to enquire about a flying safari in africa, please fill out the form at left, or continue exploring the other safari options below: diani beach in kenya is a tropical paradise and undeniably amongst the finest beach resorts in the world.
at the end of your safari, it's a short flight to  mombassa, or onwards to zanzibar or the indian ocean islands - or back to the  uk!
as different regions in east africa tend to be diverse, this type of safaris allows the traveller to have a more complete experience of the country’s wildlife areas.
and en-route, we will shield you from travel strain by taking care  of the border formalities, transfers, documentation, and sundry travel  irritations for you.
aflying safari in kenya will often center on one or two areas, flying by light aircraft between holiday destinations to make the most of your time.
from the air you can see all the lakes of the rift valley, fromlake turkana in the north to the flamingoes, the mountains, the hills and the grasslands teeming with game, quite simply the grandness of nature.
to enquire about a  flying safari in africa, please fill out the form at left, or continue  exploring the other safari options below: diani beach in kenya is a tropical paradise and undeniably amongst the finest beach  resorts in the world.
advantages of going on a air safari in east africa: get to your lodge & safaris quicker, safer and have a better view on the way while spending more quality time when you get there...
lamu's ancient culture is drawn from many sources,  and its long exotic tale can be read in every step down the narrow streets, in  the rich carvings of the heavy wooden doors, and in the markets where life  continues unchanged since the 14th century.
spend two or three nights in each location - a superb way to take in the  region's wildlife, in style.
our kenya flying  safaris start with a flight from london to nairobi, with regional connections  in the uk also possible.
the park is most famous for the  joy adamson's autobiography "born free", a film has since been  produced based on the same book about her research and life with lions and  cheetahs.
it's surrounded by a national park which harbors various types of  vegetation from lush rainforest to alpine meadow.
air kenya flies daily to lamu, one of kenya's oldest towns on an island off the coast.
you have a choice of  going on one of ourpackage flying safaris where we make use of  scheduled local flights to fly you into a region and onto a lodge!
african safaris and adventures is an expert safari company and tour operator works with a number of air charter operators, includingair kenya, mombassa air, kenya airways, prestige airlines, safari link step aboard your own personal aircraft at your first point of arrival in africa, be it nairobi, dar es salaam or any other centre in east africa, and enjoy a fantastic fly-in safari.
or allow us to tailor-make a private charter plane to fly you from one lodge to the next.
air kenya flies three times daily into the masai mara year  round.
the  aircraft and the pilot will remain with you throughout the safari, taking you  from lodge to lodge at your convenience.
there's a network of airstrips  across in kenya so most national parks and lodge accommodation can be reached.
at your destination, you are ensured optimal room  allocation, guiding and activities...
in east africa, air transfer by light aircraft is also widely used for  travel between the main wildlife regions ofmasai mara, serengeti and  ngorongoro crater.
below you will find numerous flying safaris that africa safaris and adventures runs throughout east africa.
a  luxury that means one is not restricted by scheduled times of arrivals and  departures.
positioned on the slopes of mount kenya, nanyuki is famous for themount  kenya safari club the "club" of the rich and famous now  under management of the fairmont hotels group.
amboseli, popular for its rich abundance of elephant, lion and cheetah, is made up of five main wildlife habitats and lake amboseli, an often dry lake bed.
often with a large group of people coming to kenya onsafari, it may be cheaper and logistically easier to charter aprivate aircraft .
our clients can fly at a moments  notice or linger longer if a few more hours are needed not to rush breakfast.
flying  safaris contact us kenya flying safaris a kenya flying safari, commonly known as air safaris in kenya are a fantastic alternative if you’  have a short travel time or want totour kenya in the easiest  way, using light aircrafts to make travel easy.
air kenya flies three times daily into the masai mara year round.
a flying safari is the best way to get immersed  in the sheer vastness and grandeur of this continent.
the aircraft and the pilot will remain with you throughout the safari, taking you from lodge to lodge at your convenience.
a flying safari is the best way to get immersed in the sheer vastness and grandeur of this continent.
return to your safari lodge for some well earned  relaxation, followed by a second game drive later in the day.
from the air you can see all the  lakes of the rift valley, fromlake turkana in the north to the  flamingoes, the mountains, the hills and the grasslands teeming with game,  quite simply the grandness of nature.
flying safaris in kenya uganda tanzania involves flying by light aircraft to various safari lodges, exploring different  regions of a country or countries.
replace repetitivebush travel with  more stunning and panoramic views!
mombasa & diani has so much to offer from white sandy beaches, to hot night clubs, experience kenya's finest beaches in kenya's largest coastal town.
as well as warm silken sands, hot golden sunshine and foaming,  shimmering ocean waves,malindi offers you elegant resorts,  serene hideaways and exquisite restaurants, all nestled on the northern  coastline of kenya.
your safari literally begins when you take off, as your light  aircraft will usually fly at a low altitude enabling you to gaze over the vast  plains of east african wilderness with the possibility of sighting an array of  wild animals.
from this moment on we'll take care of you and all your travel arrangements.
our clients can fly at a moments notice or linger longer if a few more hours are needed not to rush breakfast.
there's a network of airstrips across in kenya so most national parks and lodge accommodation can be reached.
flying safaris are becoming increasingly popular  in africa, with daily scheduled flights direct from nairobi mombasa malindi  arusha and kampala international airport onto the bush strips of the private  lodges.
the number of flights to this area has increased following the opening of meru national park.
amboseli is  famous for its big game and scenery of majestic snowcap of mount kilimanjaro,  africa's tallest mountain which glistens over this breathtaking destination.
kenya flying safaris offer more flexibility than road safaris, so if you  don't see the lodge or camp you're after here, just ask!
flying safaris in kenya uganda tanzania involves flying by light aircraft to various safari lodges, exploring different regions of a country or countries.
airkenya flies to lewa downs and nanyuki and from either of these two destinations one can be transferred by road to laikipia.
there's an excellent range of accommodation available in the main locations throughout kenya, from hotel-style lodges to small, exclusive retreats, mobile camps, permanent safari camp, lodge safaris.
aflying safari in kenya will often center on one or two areas, flying by light aircraft  between holiday destinations to make the most of your time.
you have a choice of going on one of ourpackage flying safaris where we make use of scheduled local flights to fly you into a region and onto a lodge!
the number of flights to this area has increased following the  opening of meru national park.
at the end of your safari, it's a short flight to mombassa, or onwards to zanzibar or the indian ocean islands - or back to the uk!
mombasa & diani has so much to offer  from white sandy beaches, to hot night clubs, experience kenya's finest beaches  in kenya's largest coastal town.
a typical flying safari in kenya involves spending a night or two  in each camp, lodge, hotel or beach resort before flying to the next vacation destination.
this is not to say that that our safaris are restricted to flying only.
air safaris allow you more flexibility to experience different holiday destinations over a short period of time and the “bird’s eye view” from the plane as you gaze over africa’s magnificent scenery can be simply stunning, making the flying safari theultimate african safari option.
mount kilimanjaro is one of africa's most impressive sights; it is africa's tallest mountain.
a magical place of great natural beauty, lamu  is steeped in history, from its rolling sand dunes to the depths of the indian  ocean's sparkling waters.
airkenya flies daily into diani beach from wilson airport.
a kenya flying safari, commonly known as air safaris in kenya are a fantastic alternative if you’ have a short travel time or want totour kenya in the easiest way, using light aircrafts to make travel easy.
kenya private  air charters there are schedule flying services to most of  the destinations in kenya, and we can arrange these, however there are many  other safari destinations that are only accessible by private charter.
african safaris & adventures p.o.box 5176,00100 gpo college house 1st
a luxury that means one is not restricted by scheduled times of arrivals and departures.
spend two or three nights in each location - a superb way to take in the region's wildlife, in style.
in  spite of global warming, the still snow-capped mountain rises to 5,895m  (19,335ft).
get onboard our daily flights to this bijou tropical  heaven.
be it the tanzanian safari, uganda gorilla tracking safari, laikipia mobile safari, mt kenya climbing.
the masai mara is kenya's most famous and most visited reserve, it offers breathtaking views (as seen in the film 'out of africa' with meryl streep and robert redford) and an extraordinary density of animals including the "big five" lion, elephant, rhino, leopard and buffalo.
the sense of freedom that it gives is unparalleled.
air safaris allow you more flexibility to experience different holiday  destinations over a short period of time and the “bird’s eye  view” from the plane as you gaze over africa’s magnificent scenery  can be simply stunning, making the flying safari theultimate african  safari option.
with an air safari in africa you can see more, from a different perspective and never feel rushed.
airkenya flies daily to samburu, a magical  haven of beauty on kenya's northern frontier, home to an astonishing population  of wildlife including several species unique to the region like the reticulated  giraffe, grevy's zebra, gerenuk and the blue legged ostrich.
all aircrafts in kenya tanzania uganda and zanzibar island adhere to stringent  safety regulations and servicing, while the "bush pilots" are some of  the most skilled aviators in the world.
the coastal resort ofmalindi and watamu are world leaders in the accessibility, beauty, diversity of marine life which lives just off-shore on barracuda and north reef coral reefs and turtle and whale islands.
return to your safari lodge for some well earned relaxation, followed by a second game drive later in the day.
airkenya flies daily to samburu, a magical haven of beauty on kenya's northern frontier, home to an astonishing population of wildlife including several species unique to the region like the reticulated giraffe, grevy's zebra, gerenuk and the blue legged ostrich.
with an air safari in africa you can  see more, from a different perspective and never feel rushed.
stay on the north coast or the south coast for a true rest and relaxation beach excursion.
amboseli, popular for its rich abundance of elephant, lion and cheetah, is made  up of five main wildlife habitats and lake amboseli, an often dry lake bed.
you will travel in  twin-engine comfort avoiding detours, check-in times, and luggage loss!
with bush strips dotted all over the country, flying is very much a part of life in kenya.
from  this moment on we'll take care of you and all your travel arrangements.
if you're looking for long lazy walks on the beach, water  sports including; deep sea diving or snorkeling with dolphins, dhow cruises,  the white sands and turquoise warm waters diani beach is waiting for you!
this airport is your gate-way to asafari in tanzania and for those who are keen on climbing mt kilimanjaro, the arrival point.
airkenya flies to lewa downs and nanyuki and from either of these two  destinations one can be transferred by road to laikipia.
we will take you straight to the bush airfield closest to your holiday  destination.
guided flying safaris provide a unique and personal experience.
flying daily, airkenya has expanded it's wings to kenya's most popular coastal towns ofmombasa & diani.
you can join one of ourscheduled flying  safaris or if you'd like, one of our experienced travel consultants  can tailor-make a private charter flying safari to meet your departure date,  time period, group size and budget.
if you're looking for long lazy walks on the beach, water sports including; deep sea diving or snorkeling with dolphins, dhow cruises, the white sands and turquoise warm waters diani beach is waiting for you!
amboseli is famous for its big game and scenery of majestic snowcap of mount kilimanjaro, africa's tallest mountain which glistens over this breathtaking destination.
replace repetitivebush travel with more stunning and panoramic views!
it is certainly very much more fun.
a magical place of great natural beauty, lamu is steeped in history, from its rolling sand dunes to the depths of the indian ocean's sparkling waters.
there's an excellent range of accommodation available in the main locations  throughout kenya, from hotel-style lodges to small, exclusive retreats, mobile  camps, permanent safari camp, lodge safaris.
flying daily, airkenya has  expanded it's wings to kenya's most popular coastal towns ofmombasa & diani.
air  kenya flies daily to lamu, one of kenya's oldest  towns on an island off the coast.
check out our range ofair safari holidays in kenya, or safari plus beach holidays combining a kenya safari plus mombasa.
as different regions in east africa tend to be  diverse, this type of safaris allows the traveller to have a more complete  experience of the country’s wildlife areas.
airkenya, dash 8 dehavilland aircraft flies this route.
the masai mara is kenya's most famous and most visited reserve, it  offers breathtaking views (as seen in the film 'out of africa' with meryl  streep and robert redford) and an extraordinary density of animals including  the "big five" lion, elephant, rhino, leopard and buffalo.
lamu's ancient culture is drawn from many sources, and its long exotic tale can be read in every step down the narrow streets, in the rich carvings of the heavy wooden doors, and in the markets where life continues unchanged since the 14th century.
indeed  some people with more time to travel prefer to see the country by road and we  can also arrange this using 4x4 safari vehicles.
in east africa, air transfer by light aircraft is also widely used for travel between the main wildlife regions ofmasai mara, serengeti and ngorongoro crater.
flying safaris are becoming increasingly popular in africa, with daily scheduled flights direct from nairobi mombasa malindi arusha and kampala international airport onto the bush strips of the private lodges.
positioned on the slopes of mount kenya, nanyuki is famous for themount kenya safari club the "club" of the rich and famous now under management of the fairmont hotels group.
at your destination, you are ensured optimal room allocation, guiding and activities...
air kenya flies daily tokilimanjaro airport in tanzania.
with bush strips dotted all over the country, flying is very much a  part of life in kenya.
any safari can be  extended to the beaches ofmombassa, or zanzibar , malindi, lamu island.
advantages of going on a air  safari in east africa: get to your lodge & safaris quicker,  safer and have a better view on the way while spending more quality  time when you get there...
the most widely used aircraft on charter runs are  the cessna 206, 210 and the 208 caravan, but twin engined kingairs or  islanders, as well as a variety of small jets, are all available to travellers  prepared to pay more for the experience or added speed.
this airport is  your gate-way to asafari in tanzania and for those who are  keen on climbing mt kilimanjaro, the arrival point.
nanyuki was founded by white settlers in 1907, a small but very lively town.
after an early start each day, spend a few hours on a safari game drive in the local area viewing the wildlife.
the most widely used aircraft on charter runs are the cessna 206, 210 and the 208 caravan, but twin engined kingairs or islanders, as well as a variety of small jets, are all available to travellers prepared to pay more for the experience or added speed.
all aircrafts in kenya tanzania uganda and zanzibar island adhere to stringent safety regulations and servicing, while the "bush pilots" are some of the most skilled aviators in the world.
airkenya flies daily toamboseli, to the south of kenya.
this is truly one of the best ways to go on  a africa safari.
the coastal resort ofmalindi and watamu are world leaders in the accessibility, beauty, diversity of  marine life which lives just off-shore on barracuda and north reef coral reefs  and turtle and whale islands.
mount kilimanjaro is  one of africa's most impressive sights; it is africa's tallest mountain.