myodyssey log-in username: password: travel agents guests remember me forgot password?
- your safari: on your safari our staff will make every effort to meet any request you have--it's your safari!
kenya tanzania safari travelers to east africa often take advantage of the amazing variety of safari destinations by planning a kenya tanzania safari.
a tour operator is especially valuable when undertaking this type of safari and can help you organize all the details for a smooth and safe safari.
the  serengeti and ngorongoro are world renown wildlife habitats and a common stop  on safari tourist itineraries; the selous and ruaha national reserves offer a  safari experience that is a window to the africa of decades past and odyssey  safaris could help ou plan your tanzania safari travel for the safari of a  lifetime to any of the safari destinations in tanzania.
safaris tanzania a safaris tanzania is similar to kenya safari travel and is generally more expensive than travel in kenya, however a safari in tanzania takes you to some of the most exceptional parks and reserves found anywhere in the africa.
please navigate to ourkenya safari page to view our kenya safari packages.
odyssey safaris offers a number of trips that feature the highlights of a kenya tanzania safari.
personal attention: our staff will work with you to create and  execute the safari of a lifetime.
- flexibility: choose your kenya safari or tanzania safari departure date and safari accommodations to fit your schedule and budget.
please  navigate to ourkenya and tanzania safari page to view the safari  packages.
all vehicles have roof access and built properly for your adventure.
oursafaris tanzania are  found here.
- personal attention: our staff will work with you to create and execute the safari of a lifetime.
sign up for a myodyssey account and save the safaris you  find on our site to your 'watch list' to make shopping and comparing easy!
our safari packages include all  expenses and many include international airfare making booking simple!
east african safari | family safaris | adventure safaris | honeymoon safaris | beach & wildlife safaris | mt kenya and mt kilimanjaro treks & safaris | volunteer/group safaris | safari holidays | luxury safari | private safari | group safaris | safari deals | safari special | travel agents | travel agents application | travel agent commission | safari testimonials | safari image gallery | safari social | links terms and condition | privacy policy | contact us
safari about us | east african destinations | travel agents | safe safari | create a custom safari | myodyssey | | luxury safari | private safaris | group safaris | | | group on redemption instructions |
on  frequently asked questions | standard booking form |   download brochure | safari enewsletter | download videos | east african  safari | family safaris | adventure safaris | honeymoon safaris | beach &  wildlife safaris | mt kenya and mt kilimanjaro treks & safaris |  volunteer/group safaris | safari holidays | luxury safari | private safari |  group safaris | safari deals | safari special | travel agents | travel agents  application | travel agent commission | safari testimonials | safari image  gallery | safari social | links terms and condition | privacy policy |
pm east african safari newsletter signups name: email: interest:  mountaineering safarisadventure safaris honeymoon safarisbeach & wildlife safarisvolunteer & group safaris family safarismountianeering safarisadventure safarimountaineering safarifamily  safarigroup safarisbest kenya safaribest of kenya safarihighlights of kenya  safarikenya safari inc.
our safari packages include all expenses and many include international airfare making booking simple!
your safari: on your safari our staff will make every effort to  meet any request you have--it's your safari!
- myodyssey: sign up for a myodyssey account and save the safaris you find on our site to your 'watch list' to make shopping and comparing easy!
the serengeti and ngorongoro are world renown wildlife habitats and a common stop on safari tourist itineraries; the selous and ruaha national reserves offer a safari experience that is a window to the africa of decades past and odyssey safaris could help ou plan your tanzania safari travel for the safari of a lifetime to any of the safari destinations in tanzania.
a tour operator is  especially valuable when undertaking this type of safari and can help you  organize all the details for a smooth and safe safari.
trek mt kilimanjaro, africa's  highest peak!
more information:highlights of kenya safari
trek mt kilimanjaro, africa's highest peak!
also don't forget to  visit oursafari image gallery.
fully customizable east african safari designed by our experts for the same price as pre-packaged safari tours.
friday 30th of march 2012 08:44:36
once in a  lifetime honeymoons safari wildlife safari and  white sand beaches
airfareaffordable highlights of kenya safari terms & conditions sign up for exclusive safari savings found only in our safari newsletters---save up to 25% on your next trip to kenya and tanzania!
safaris tanzania a safaris tanzania is similar to kenya safari travel and is generally more  expensive than travel in kenya, however a safari in tanzania takes you to some  of the most exceptional parks and reserves found anywhere in the africa.
easy, all-inclusive kenya safaris:
remember me forgot password?
a safari for the whole family safari adventures in kenya and tanzania
also don't forget to visit oursafari image gallery.
group on frequently asked questions | standard booking form | download brochure | safari enewsletter | download videos |
all vehicles  have roof access and built properly for your adventure.
- please view our safari specials for unbeatable deals on safaris to kenya and tanzania!
see all the scheduled safari options here:group safaris scheduled departure pdf our safari vehicles checkout the vehicles that will take you on your wild journey.
kenya tanzania safari travelers to east africa often take advantage of the amazing variety of  safari destinations by planning a kenya tanzania safari.
kenya safari a safari in kenya is a magical experience and kenya is the original safari  destination; from the maasai mara to the top of mt. kenya this country offers a  variety of terrain and safari wildlife.
the 8 day, 7 night package visits mt. kenya, samburu, lake nakuru and the masai mara and starts at $1,820!
affordable safari scheduled departure odyssey safaris is launching an affordable safari scheduled departure  visiting the highlights of kenya.
airfareaffordable highlights of kenya safari terms & conditions sign up for exclusive safari  savings found only in our safari newsletters---save up to 25% on your next trip  to kenya and tanzania!
exciting volunteer and small group safari about us | east african  destinations | travel agents | safe safari |  create a custom safari | myodyssey |  | luxury  safari | private safaris | group safaris |   |  | group on redemption instructions | group
odyssey safaris local guides can  organize safaris to any destination in kenya.
- view our safari packages below or choose from kenya safari, tanzania safari, or kenya and tanzania safari
the 8 day, 7 night package visits mt. kenya,  samburu, lake nakuru and the masai mara and starts at $1,820!
odyssey safaris offers a  number of trips that feature the highlights of a kenya tanzania safari.
odyssey safaris local guides can organize safaris to any destination in kenya.
view our safari packages below or choose from kenya safari, tanzania safari, or kenya and tanzania safari
- easy, all-inclusive kenya safaris:
since your web  browser does not support javascript, here is a non-javascript version of the  image slideshow: east african safari the odyssey safari advantage: fully customizable east african  safari designed by our experts for the same price as pre-packaged safari tours.
pm east african safari newsletter signups name: email: interest: mountaineering safarisadventure safaris honeymoon safarisbeach & wildlife safarisvolunteer & group safaris family safarismountianeering safarisadventure safarimountaineering safarifamily safarigroup safarisbest kenya safaribest of kenya safarihighlights of kenya safarikenya safari inc.
exciting volunteer and small group
affordable safari scheduled departure odyssey safaris is launching an affordable safari scheduled departure visiting the highlights of kenya.
please navigate to ourkenya  safari page to view our kenya safari packages.
since your web browser does not support javascript, here is a non-javascript version of the image slideshow: east african safari - the odyssey safari advantage:
flexibility: choose your kenya safari or tanzania safari departure  date and safari accommodations to fit your schedule and budget.
price1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 countrykenya tanzania kenya, tanzania - advanced search | bookmark us!
once in a lifetime honeymoons safari wildlife safari and white sand beaches
please navigate to ourkenya and tanzania safari page to view the safari packages.
oursafaris tanzania are found here.
kenya safari a safari in kenya is a magical experience and kenya is the original safari destination; from the maasai mara to the top of mt. kenya this country offers a variety of terrain and safari wildlife.
more  information:highlights of kenya safari see all the  scheduled safari options here:group safaris scheduled departure pdf our safari vehicles checkout the vehicles that will take you on your wild journey.
please view our safari specials for unbeatable deals on safaris to  kenya and tanzania!