car rental in africa discounted prices on cars for your african holiday needs click here to view and rent a vehicle in africa regional flights within africa selected routes within africa.
contact us today for a kenya safari of your choice – ready made or customized.
you may also choose to do a private budget tour , tailor made to suit your needs.
see our multi-country african safaris and tours in the next column planning your kenya safari?
a tanzania safari would include a visit of the vast  serengeti – home to over 35 species of plains animals including the big 5  – elephant, rhino, lion, leopard and buffalo.
we match your interest and budget with the best available travel services.
wildebeeste migration 2011 seychelles islands tours • day excursions in seychelles •vacation in seychelles south africa tours • guided tours south africa from cape town tanzania tours • tanzania safaris from arusha • mountain climbing and hiking in tanzania • zanzibar island tours •safari in southern tanzania • short overland safaris from arusha • budget camping safaris from arusha uganda tours •
african voyages team of experienced african travel consultants will assist you in planning and arranging your dream african vacation.
car rental in africa discounted prices on cars for your african holiday needs click here to view and rent a vehicle in africa regional  flights within africa click  here to view and book flights within africa tours and safaris
african voyages team of experienced african travel consultants will assist  you in planning and arranging your dream african vacation.
a tanzania safari would include a visit of the vast serengeti – home to over 35 species of plains animals including the big 5 – elephant, rhino, lion, leopard and buffalo.
you may also choose to do a private budget tour , tailor made to suit your  needs.
kenya safaris starting from nairobi • kenya budget safaris from nairobi • porini camps eco-friendly safaris • mountain climbing and hiking in kenya • special offers • short overland safaris from nairobi •
contact us for your tanzania safari and we shall get back to you immediately.
africa safari, kenya safari, tanzania safari, budget safaris plan your africa safari with the safari experts!
see the next column for budget safaris in tanzania.
the safari to tanzania would take you to thengorongoro crater – the largest unbroken caldera in the world.
other africa travel services from african voyages african hotels and lodges discounted rates on hotels and lodges for your african vacation.
there is no  better place to enjoy an enriching african wildlife safari experience than  tanzania.
choose from over 59  national parks and reserves!
the serengeti national park is probably the best known wildlife sanctuary in the world.
we guide you and advise you in detail so that your final decision is informed.
click here to view and book flights within africa east african beach holidays tours • mombasa island vacation •lamu island vacation • zanzibar islands vacation • seychelles islands vacation eastern africa wedding and honeymoon tours • wedding and honeymoon in kenya • wedding and honeymoon in zanzibar islands •wedding and honeymoon in seychelles egypt vacation tours • holidays in egypt ethiopia historical tours • overland ethiopia safari from addis ababa • short safari in ethiopia from addis ababa kenya tours • kenya safaris starting from mombasa •
see our  multi-country african safaris and tours in the next column planning your kenya safari?
if you are on vacation alone, we offer you the freedom to join other travelers who may wish to do a similar tour on the same dates – scheduled departures.
uganda safari starting kampala
combine your wild life african safari with a cultural tour in the same african country or in more than one country.
the maasai mara remains one  of the world’s best loved reserves – 1672 sq. kms of wide savannah  and africa’s largest population of lion.
our experienced and knowledgeable consultants will guide you throughout the planning phase of your budget safari.
we guide you and advise you in detail so that your final decision is  informed.
the safari to  tanzania would take you to thengorongoro crater – the  largest unbroken caldera in the world.
there is no better place to enjoy an enriching african wildlife safari experience than tanzania.
the serengeti national park is probably the best known wildlife  sanctuary in the world.
air safaris (fly-in) from nairobi •air safaris (fly-in) from mombasa or malindi • family-focused vacation programs • kenya bird-watching tours kenya and tanzania top class tours • top luxury tours in east africa rwanda gorilla tours • gorilla tracking in rwanda serengeti and maasai mara migration tours •
planning your tanzania safari ?
covering an area of about 260 sq km (100 sq miles), the ngorongoro crater in tanzania is home to over 30,000 animals.
we match  your interest and budget with the best available travel services.
choose from over 59 national parks and reserves!
budget safaris in kenya and tanzania safari to the  very heart the african wilderness and the show you the beauty of mother nature.
very close to the ngorongoro crater lies the olduvai gorge , the birthplace of man!
budget safaris in kenya and tanzania safari to the very heart the african wilderness and the show you the beauty of mother nature.
our experienced and knowledgeable consultants will guide you throughout  the planning phase of your budget safari.
covering an area of about 260 sq km (100  sq miles), the ngorongoro crater in tanzania is home to over 30,000 animals.
see next column for budget safaris in kenya.
other africa travel services from african voyages african hotels and lodges discounted rates on hotels  and lodges for your african vacation.
if you are on vacation alone, we offer you the freedom to join other travelers  who may wish to do a similar tour on the same dates – scheduled  departures.
combine your wild life african safari with a cultural tour  in the same african country or in more than one country.
the maasai mara remains one of the world’s best loved reserves – 1672 sq. kms of wide savannah and africa’s largest population of lion.