our short breaks start from as little as £900 pounds per person, for three nights, based on two sharing and excluding international airfares.
more info... safaris in zimbabwe an attractive and friendly country with a pleasant year round climate  although the river valleys can be hot in summer.
gorilla trekking safari in the republic of congo new for 2012 more info... the indian ocean
please call for an informal chat on 0845 0545
our african safaris are fully bonded to give you the financial security you are entitled to.
south africa, botswana, namibia, malawi and zambia are our favourites in  southern africa.
botswana | congo | indian ocean | kenya | malawi | mozambique | namibia |  rwanda | south africa | tanzania | uganda | zambia | zimbabwe contact us
our tailor made luxury safari holidays in africa offer the best value for  money without compromising on the quality of your exclusive safari experience.. kenya and tanzania are east africa’s premier safari destinations and  combine well with exotic coral fringed islands inmozambique or the island  paradises ofseychelles and mauritius.
our short breaks start from as little as £900 pounds per person, for  three nights, based on two sharing and excluding international airfares.
our safaris are designed exclusively for you; our consultants will talk  with you and jointly design a botswana, kenya or tanzania safari which will  provide you with the journey of a lifetime.
more info... malawi is the warm heart of africa, a small country in central southern africa that offers a true african experience.
as our safaris in tanzania, botswana, kenya and other safari countries , are tailored to your individual requirements we do not have specific prices.
889.the safari club air travel organisers licence, (atol 9991), is issued by the civil aviation authority in the united kingdom and provides you with the guarantee that your money is safe with us.
with magnificent well managed game reserves and intimate camps  your safari here will complement perfectly the spectacularvictoria falls, the  beautiful city of cape town or the indian ocean islands.
safari clubs eight night, excellent, self drive and flying safaris visiting the africat predator conservation project at okonjima, etosha national park and the beautiful erongo mountain nature conservancy.
let  safari club help you plan your own tailor made luxury african safari,  designed to suit your holiday timetable and personal budget.
more info... safaris in uganda uganda is a small landlocked country that has a host of unusual attractions  and a rapidly expanding tourist infrastructure.
with magnificent well managed game reserves and intimate camps your safari here will complement perfectly the spectacularvictoria falls, the beautiful city of cape town or the indian ocean islands.
atol is a financial protection scheme covering over 28 million uk consumers each year.
we have visited the the lodges and camps  ourselves and choose locations where other tourists are few and the wildlife  plentiful.
safaris south africa is proud to call itself the rainbow nation - one of the great  cultural meeting points of the african continent.
more info... kenya offers amazing scenery from pristine white beaches to snow capped mountains, game covered plains to shimmering deserts.
better still if you are planning an african safari holiday this year or next then call one of our expert safari consultants for an informal chat on the telephone -0845 0545 889 find out more about us here.
as our safaris in tanzania, botswana, kenya and other safari countries , are tailored to your individual requirements we do not have specific prices.
more info... safaris in zambia zambia is a large, attractive and friendly country that is just waking up  to the benefits of tourism for a high quality safari experience.
more info... why not try something a bit different whilst on  safari such as an  elephant back safari in botswana or a walking safari in zambia, we have  some suggestions for youhere.
our tailor made luxury safari holidays in africa offer the best value for money without compromising on the quality of your exclusive safari experience.. kenya and tanzania are east africa’s premier safari destinations and combine well with exotic coral fringed islands inmozambique or the island paradises ofseychelles and mauritius.
the construction of two brand new, sensitively designed safari lodges make this possible for the first time.
more info... south africa
if you would like a quotation or sample itinerary for a safari in tanzania,   kenya, botswana or one of africa's other superb safari destinations please  complete our simplecontact form.
let safari club help you plan your own tailor made luxury african safari, designed to suit your holiday timetable and personal budget.
if you would like a quotation or sample itinerary for a safari in tanzania, kenya, botswana or one of africa's other superb safari destinations please complete our simplecontact form.
kenya safaris kenya offers amazing scenery from pristine white beaches to snow capped  mountains, game covered plains to shimmering deserts.
as well as guided game drives in 4x4 safari vehicles we can also offer a variety of differentsafari experiences, such as: elephant-back safaris, walking safaris, hot air balloon safaris, horse riding safaris, camel safaris, canoeing safaris, mokoro safaris, fly camping and mobile safaris.
gerry green, august 2007 visit safari club on facebook © copyright 2005-2012 - safari-club.co.uk
you are here: home luxury african safari holidays let safari club take you on a safari holiday in africa for the  journey of a lifetime.
the islands of the indian ocean are as exhilarating and beautiful as any  you will find anywhere; each unique and markedly different.
uganda is a small landlocked country that has a host of unusual attractions and a rapidly expanding tourist infrastructure.
gorilla trekking safari in the republic of congo new for 2012 more info... the islands of the indian ocean are as exhilarating and beautiful as any you will find anywhere; each unique and markedly different.
our luxury african safari holidays are perfect for special occasions, perhaps an anniversary, a special birthday, a romantic honeymoon or that once in a lifetime exclusive holiday.
more info... south africa is proud to call itself the rainbow nation - one of the great cultural meeting points of the african continent.
as well as guided game drives in 4x4 safari vehicles we can also offer a  variety of differentsafari experiences, such as: elephant-back safaris, walking  safaris, hot air balloon safaris, horse riding safaris, camel safaris, canoeing  safaris, mokoro safaris, fly camping and mobile safaris.
please call for an informal chat on  0845 0545 889.
more info... why not try something a bit different whilst on safari such as an elephant back safari in botswana or a walking safari in zambia, we have some suggestions for youhere.
safari club use small, intimate, luxury safari camps and lodges in  beautiful locations in southern and eastern africa, many of which are joint  initiatives with local people.
we have visited the the lodges and camps ourselves and choose locations where other tourists are few and the wildlife plentiful.
our safaris are designed exclusively for you; our consultants will talk with you and jointly design a botswana, kenya or tanzania safari which will provide you with the journey of a lifetime.
let safari club take you on a safari holiday in africa for the journey of a lifetime.
the many national parks and game reserves boast a huge variety of wildlife  in a kaleidoscope of differing environments.
botswana | congo | indian ocean | kenya | malawi | mozambique | namibia | rwanda | south africa | tanzania | uganda | zambia | zimbabwecontact us
elsa's kopje was brilliant - we were the only guests until the last evening so they took really good care of us.
the vivid colours of flowering desert vegetation, spectacular cloud formations, newborn wildlife and few visitors make a visit to northern namibia an enjoyable safari at a time when prices are at their most competitive.
it lives within the jungles of central and west africa, like all gorillas it is highly endangeredread more everything about the holiday was just perfect.
zambia is a large, attractive and friendly country that is just waking up to the benefits of tourism for a high quality safari experience.
for more information why not visit the officialatol website.
safari club use small, intimate, luxury safari camps and lodges in beautiful locations in southern and eastern africa, many of which are joint initiatives with local people.
better still if you are planning an african  safari holiday this year or next then call one of our expert safari consultants  for an informal chat on the telephone -0845 0545 889 find out more about us here.
more info... malawi safaris malawi is the warm heart of africa, a small country in central southern  africa that offers a true african experience.
we also feature uganda and rwanda home of  the highly endangeredmountain gorilla.
our luxury african  safari holidays are perfect for special occasions, perhaps an anniversary, a  special birthday, a romantic honeymoon or that once in a lifetime exclusive  holiday.
only atol tour operators can provide peace of mind and full financial  protection.
more info... safaris in namibia
the safari club air travel organisers licence,  (atol 9991), is issued by the civil aviation authority in the united  kingdom and provides you with the guarantee that your money is safe with us.
we also feature uganda and rwanda home of the highly endangeredmountain gorilla.
our african safaris are fully bonded to give you the financial security you are  entitled to.
the western lowland gorilla is a cousin of the better known eastern mountain gorilla which is found in uganda and rwanda.
south africa, botswana, namibia, malawi and zambia are our favourites in southern africa.
£2176 per person (4x4 self drive, two sharing) £2576 per person (transfers by air) valid for travel to 31 st march 2012read more with effect from the end of may 2012 and departing weekly thereafter we are offering a fascinating gorilla trekking safari to the odzala-kokoua national park in the republic of congo.
atol  is a financial protection scheme covering over 28 million uk consumers each  year.
the many national parks and game reserves boast a huge variety of wildlife in a kaleidoscope of differing environments.
generally our prices include all meals, drinks and game activities.
an attractive and friendly country with a pleasant year round climate although the river valleys can be hot in summer.
only atol tour operators can provide peace of mind and full financial protection.