due to the high quality of service challenge africa provide, the uniqueness in  our field of travel expertise and to top it off - with pricing policies that  are highly competitive.
we want only the bestkenya and tanzania safari  experiences for our readers which has been proven for over 10 years, with the  excellence in kenya camping tours/ products and helpfultanzania camping tours,  kilimanjaro climbing tourson offer.
challenge africa safaris also welcome your feedback, suggestions and recommendations, as we are always looking to provide the bestkenya and tanzania travel experiences to our visitors.
5 day mount kenya treking mount kenya trekking tours is africas second highest mountain after kilimanjaro climbing tour in tanzania.
travelling to kenya and tanzania and its unique destinations are experiences that will live in your memory forever.
see all of challenge africa safaris kenya and tanzania landmarks and attractions, includingmasai mara budget safaris and its wildebeest migration, tanzania northern circuit, kilimanjaro climbing tours.
travelling to kenya and tanzania and its unique destinations are  experiences that will live in your memory forever.
call us and talk to our safari specialist +254 - 722 760661 challenge africa safaris is reliable, affordable and professional independent tour operator in kenya and tanzania.
4 days maasai mara and the lakes this safaris begins by an early departure from nairobi.
welcome to africa challenge africa safaris is reliable, affordable and professional  independent tour operator in kenya and tanzania.
thank you for visiting challenge africa safaris and tourism network, it is our pleasure to assist you in getting the most of yourkenya camping tours experiences of a lifetime.
experiences of a  lifetime.
7 days tanzania northern circuit.
we have included in our service directories, the best ofkenya and tanzania camping safaris, whom have been carefully selected to represent our travel services.
we have  included in our service directories, the best ofkenya and tanzania camping  safaris, whom have been carefully selected to represent our travel services.
challenge africa safaris  & tourism network have compiled a wealth of kenya camping safaris  information, to assist your kenya camping tours and travel plans for east  africa safari holiday vacation andkilimanjaro climbing.
contact us on 0722 760 661 or by e-mail at info@challengeafricasafaris.com or by post at challenge africa safaris, 1ralph bunche road, upper hill nairobi p.o. box 4473 - 00200 nairobi-kenya africa is waiting for you!
challenge africa safaris also  welcome your feedback, suggestions and recommendations, as we are always  looking to provide the bestkenya and tanzania travel experiences to our  visitors.
see all of challenge africa safaris kenya and tanzania landmarks and  attractions, includingmasai mara budget safaris and its wildebeest migration,  tanzania northern circuit, kilimanjaro climbing tours.
we want only the bestkenya and tanzania safari experiences for our readers which has been proven for over 10 years, with the excellence in kenya camping tours/ products and helpfultanzania camping tours, kilimanjaro climbing tourson offer.
mount kenya trekking tours 5 day mount kenya treking mount kenya trekking tours is africas second highest mountain after  kilimanjaro climbing tour in tanzania.
this extinct volcano is estimated to be 2.5 million years old
thank you for  visiting challenge africa safaris and tourism network, it is our pleasure to  assist you in getting the most of yourkenya camping tours
so if you have something to say that will improve our service or any kenya travel tips that can assist others, please contribute.
this extinct volcano is estimated to be  2.5 million years old get newsletters
more... kilimanjaro tour 6 days challenge africa safaris kenya and tanzania has led several groups on an  expedition up mount kilimanjaro climbing tours ...more .
kenya special safari 4 days maasai mara and the lakes this safaris begins by an early departure from nairobi.
challenge africa safaris & tourism network have compiled a wealth of kenya camping safaris information, to assist your kenya camping tours and travel plans for east africa safari holiday vacation andkilimanjaro climbing.
tanzania is part of east africa, the largest of the three three countries .read
more... kilimanjaro tour 6 days challenge africa safaris kenya and tanzania has led several groups on an expedition up mount kilimanjaro climbing tours ...more .
due to the high quality of service challenge africa provide, the uniqueness in our field of travel expertise and to top it off - with pricing policies that are highly competitive.