accommodation based on three meals a day including service.
car rental in africa discounted prices on cars for your african holiday needs click here to view and rent a vehicle in africa regional flights within africa selected routes within africa.
you may also choose to do a private budget tour , tailor made to suit your needs.
in the morning of day 6 at 0800hrs descend into the crater to observe the resident wildlife on the crater floor, at around 1300hrs you will stop for picnic lunch near lerai forest or hippo pool, then after lunch ascend the crater and walk in the adjacent rolling hills and have an opportunity to interact with the masai at a local manyatta.
a tanzania safari would include a visit of the vast  serengeti – home to over 35 species of plains animals including the big 5  – elephant, rhino, lion, leopard and buffalo.
in the morning of day 5 at 0800hrs transfer from manyara to ngorongoro, descend into the crater for full day crater tour.
african voyages team of experienced african travel consultants will assist you in planning and arranging your dream african vacation.
sightseeing as specified in itinerary.
click here to view and book flights within africa
domestic flight from serengeti to arusha .
contact us for your tanzania safari and we shall get back to you immediately.
see the next column for budget safaris in tanzania.
discover the smaller denizens of the bush on a thrilling walking safari, where you can learn the ancient skills of tracking and identifying spoor.
the safari to tanzania would take you to thengorongoro crater – the largest unbroken caldera in the world.
other africa travel services from african voyages african hotels and lodges discounted rates on hotels and lodges for your african vacation.
there is no  better place to enjoy an enriching african wildlife safari experience than  tanzania.
choose from over 59  national parks and reserves!
all meals at tarangire tree lodge.
we guide you and advise you in detail so that your final decision is informed.
overnight in ngorongoro serena lodge or similar.
see our  multi-country african safaris and tours in the next column planning your kenya safari?
day 4: lake manyara national park
day 7 – 10: serengeti national park
combine your wild life african safari with a cultural tour in the same african country or in more than one country.
dinner and overnight tarangire tree lodge.
tarangire all day game viewing activities still in tarangire national park.
in the morning after breakfast at 0830hrs transfer from tarangire to manyara for full day game viewing.
our experienced and knowledgeable consultants will guide you throughout the planning phase of your budget safari.
you have no obligation to purcharse anything.
international flights from your home to kilimanjaro international airport and  return tips to the driver guide and all not mentioned in the tour  itinerary !!!
the serengeti national park is probably the best known wildlife  sanctuary in the world.
explore all the great wildlife regions of northern tanzania: manyara, tarangire, ngorongoro and the famed serengeti.
accommodation based on three meals a day including  service.
domestic flight  from serengeti to arusha .
covering an area of about 260 sq km (100 sq miles), the ngorongoro crater in tanzania is home to over 30,000 animals.
day 2: drive arusha - tarangire national park
choose from over 59 national parks and reserves!
we match  your interest and budget with the best available travel services.
car rental in africa discounted prices on cars for your african holiday needs click here to view and rent a vehicle in africa regional  flights within africa click  here to view and book flights within africa home
relax, enjoy lunch, or shop for collectibles before your evening departure flight.
very close to the ngorongoro crater lies the olduvai gorge , the birthplace of man!
tour summary observe the more subtle nuances of wildlife behavior, expertly noted by your local guides and professional trackers.
the lake's waters sustain a bountiful avian population, including flamingoes, as well as numerous pods of hippos.
covering an area of about 260 sq km (100  sq miles), the ngorongoro crater in tanzania is home to over 30,000 animals.
see next column for budget safaris in kenya.
not included in the prices above:
we guide you and advise you in detail so that your final decision is  informed.
overnight at lake manyara serena lodge or similar.
combine your wild life african safari with a cultural tour  in the same african country or in more than one country.
spend two days exploring tarangire, one of tanzania's 'secret' wildlife havens... teeming with large populations of elephant, predators and their fleet-footed prey.
(per  person sharing)
contact us today for a kenya safari of your choice – ready made or customized.
after breakfast at 0830hrs drive from ngorongoro to serengeti national park.
see our multi-country african safaris and tours in the next column planning your kenya safari?
we match your interest and budget with the best available travel services.
sales/reservation desk will get back to you shortly all  about tours africa safari, kenya safari, tanzania safari, budget safaris plan your africa safari with the safari experts!
african voyages team of experienced african travel consultants will assist  you in planning and arranging your dream african vacation.
your skilled driver knows the serengeti and where to locate even the most elusive of animals.
day 11: depart kilimanjaro one last game viewing opportunity this morning and then fly back to arusha.
a tanzania safari would include a visit of the vast serengeti – home to over 35 species of plains animals including the big 5 – elephant, rhino, lion, leopard and buffalo.
you may also choose to do a private budget tour , tailor made to suit your  needs.
descend into the most unique caldera in the world: ngorongoro crater often called the eden of africa.
enter the great rift valley and manyara national park.
itinerary: day 1: arrival tanzania arrive at kilimanjaro international airport, meet at the airport with our staff and transfer to arusha town for a comfortable night's rest.
single room supplement period migration season us$6065 us$2122 1-jun-2010 to 31-oct-2010 remarks arrival and departure  airport transfers.
spend all these four nights at the serengeti’s kirawira tented luxury lodge or serena mbuzi mawe tented luxury.
the serengeti national park is probably the best known wildlife sanctuary in the world.
not included in the prices above: international flights from your home to kilimanjaro international airport and return tips to the driver guide and all not mentioned in the tour itinerary africa safari, kenya safari, tanzania safari, budget safaris plan your africa safari with the safari experts!
transport on safari in a 4wd vehicle with an open roof .
service of english  speaking driver guide.
if you are on vacation alone, we offer you the freedom to join other travelers who may wish to do a similar tour on the same dates – scheduled departures.
the maasai mara remains one  of the world’s best loved reserves – 1672 sq. kms of wide savannah  and africa’s largest population of lion.
you will be doing game drives while tracing the direction of the wildebeests.
the safari to  tanzania would take you to thengorongoro crater – the  largest unbroken caldera in the world.
there is no better place to enjoy an enriching african wildlife safari experience than tanzania.
day 5 – 6: ngorongoro crater
morning and afternoon daily wildlife viewing affords you the opportunity to track and photograph the 'big five'.
planning your tanzania safari ?
on your second day in tanzania, you will be picked up from the impala hotel at 0830hrs and drive to tarangire national park.
end of services tour ratesseason adult rate remarks the prices above include: arrival and departure airport transfers.
service of english speaking driver guide.
budget safaris in kenya and tanzania safari to the  very heart the african wilderness and the show you the beauty of mother nature.
in the evening ascend the crater for dinner and overnight at the lodge on the rim of the crater.
budget safaris in kenya and tanzania safari to the very heart the african wilderness and the show you the beauty of mother nature.
our experienced and knowledgeable consultants will guide you throughout  the planning phase of your budget safari.
all parks entrance fees.
other africa travel services from african voyages african hotels and lodges discounted rates on hotels  and lodges for your african vacation.
if you are on vacation alone, we offer you the freedom to join other travelers  who may wish to do a similar tour on the same dates – scheduled  departures.
the maasai mara remains one of the world’s best loved reserves – 1672 sq. kms of wide savannah and africa’s largest population of lion.