• james' africa geographic magazine article on  botswana's savute channel.
who are eyes on africa?
an african safari is the ultimate destination for honeymooners, wildlife enthusiasts, photographers, there is something for everyone.
photography tips for your safari.
www.eyesonafrica.net specializes in planning and booking your custom and personalized african safari tours to africa.
you won't find another african safari travel company with our knowledge and our passion for vacation to africa, its wildlife and its safari destinations.
begin your african safari now take a virtual african safari through our  comprehensive website.
see our digital photo safaris / photography workshops.
as african safari experts, we arrange african safaris to the finest destinations insouth africa, botswana, kenya, tanzania, zimbabwe, namibia, zambia, malawi, and seychelles islands.
the great african safari vacation adventure an african safari evokes  mystery, wonder and above all else, adventure!
client testimonials & safari photos top african safari - home          site map          currency  converter          search          links          blog          africa weather          budget safaris          photo safaris botswana safari          kenya  safari          malawi safari          mozambique safari          namibia safari          seychelles islands south africa safari           tanzania safari          zambia  safari          zimbabwe safari safari map          about us          our african safaris          scheduled safaris          rates and pricing          planning          news          faq's          photography          contact us eyes on  africa, ltd.
our recommendations fortravel insurance.
like so many  who return to vacation in africa, your first holiday safari in africa will not  be your last!
when you're ready to chat about an african safari, a holiday in africa, or if you just have questions, please feel free to contact us.
african safari with eyes on africa
www.eyesonafrica.net specializes in planning and booking your custom  and personalized african safari tours to africa.
go on african safaris and see the  amazing wildlife and beautiful scenery on safari.
an african safari is the  ultimate destination for honeymooners, wildlife enthusiasts, photographers,  there is something for everyone.
go on african safaris and see the amazing wildlife and beautiful scenery on safari.
• going to botswana?
the great african safari vacation adventure an african safari evokes mystery, wonder and above all else, adventure!
let us make your african safari an experience you will never forget!
you  won't find another african safari travel company with our knowledge and our  passion for vacation to africa, its wildlife and its safari destinations.
ourunique and memorable safaris  to africa offer views of towering dunes, dramatic mountain ranges, pristine  beaches, and vast tracts of open plains.
see africa on safari!
as african safari experts, we arrange african  safaris to the finest destinations insouth africa, botswana, kenya, tanzania,  zimbabwe, namibia, zambia, malawi, and seychelles islands.
ourunique and memorable safaris to africa offer views of towering dunes, dramatic mountain ranges, pristine beaches, and vast tracts of open plains.
for the ultimate african safari tours, our customized african safaris bring you the wonders of africa up-close and personal.
when  you're ready to chat about an african safari, a holiday in africa, or if you  just have questions, please feel free to contact us.
are you ready for a wildlife african safari vacation or a holiday in africa?
don't miss these safaris and updates!
safaris: look at our affordably-priced safaris.
our african safaris offer  adventure travel to africa.
like so many who return to vacation in africa, your first holiday safari in africa will not be your last!
our safari promise to you we love africa and we love going on a  wildlife safari!
we live and breathe africa and african safaris every day!
an africa safari always brings new adventures.
• check out our great migration routing map for kenya & tanzania.
why african safari with eyes on africa?
check out the latest okavango delta  flood update.
begin your african safari now take a virtual african safari through our comprehensive website.
the african safari company african safari  expertise eyes on africa was selected most knowledgeable regional expert  for southern africa / safaris bynational geographic traveler magazine, 20th  anniversary special issue.
there are over 6,000 photos on our website and 5,400  pages packed with africa maps and information on african safari camps, african  safari lodges, national parks and game reserves throughout africa.
client testimonials & safari photos top
for the ultimate african safari tours, our  customized african safaris bring you the wonders of africa up-close and  personal.
our african safaris offer adventure travel to africa.
let us make your african safari an experience  you will never forget!
there are over 6,000 photos on our website and 5,400 pages packed with africa maps and information on african safari camps, african safari lodges, national parks and game reserves throughout africa.
the perfect duffel bag for a safari is here.
our safari promise to you we love africa and we love going on a wildlife safari!