it is approximately the size of texas and the sands of the kalahari desert cover two-thirds of its area.
the world-renowned moremi game reserve lies within the okavango delta and is a protected haven for wildlife and the delta ecosystem.
to gain the most from your okavango  delta experience, it is recommended that you use the services of professional,  experienced tour guides, who can take you through the myriad waterways and  islands and lead you to the best game viewing, bird watching or fishing spots.
this pristine country boasts such world-renowned habitats as  chobe national park, one of africa's premier elephant refuges, and the okavango  delta, a 200-kilometer-wide paradise, whose sparkling waters spread out over  the expanse of the kalahari sands.
wildlife  attractions include large herds of elephant and buffalo, plus healthy  populations of hippo, lion, leopard, rhino, giraffe, eland, zebra, tsessebe,  waterbuck, puku, red lechwe, crocodile, sable antelope, wild dog, warthog,  baboons, impala, hyena, roan, kudu, and many others.
botswana is considered the premier african  safari destination and is certainly a place where every safari experience you  have ever dreamed about can become reality.
safari accommodations range from rustic safari camps to permanently  established luxury camps and lodges to chalets built from reeds or brick.
other national parks and game reserves in botswana include the central  kalahari game reserve, the kalahari-gemsbok transfrontier park, khutse game  reserve, makgadikgadi pans national park, and nxai pan national park.
the wide range of available activities includes safari game drives,  scenic plane flights, walking with native tribesmen, skimming past wildlife in  a dugout canoe (mokoro), motor boating along pristine rivers and channels,  horseback riding or wading through the delta on the back of an elephant.
the wife of the late  batawana chief, moremi iii, created the reserve in 1963 and it has been  expanded to 5,000 square kilomteres.
botswana is renowned for its refined and stylish safari accommodations, particularly in the heart of the okavango delta, chobe national park and moremi game reserve.
every march,  rains from angola to the north flood south down the okavango river and into  northern botswana, creating the seasonal okavango delta -- the only inland  delta of its size in the world with no outlet to the sea.
to gain the most from your okavango delta experience, it is recommended that you use the services of professional, experienced tour guides, who can take you through the myriad waterways and islands and lead you to the best game viewing, bird watching or fishing spots.
the wife of the late batawana chief, moremi iii, created the reserve in 1963 and it has been expanded to 5,000 square kilomteres.
safari accommodations range from rustic safari camps to permanently established luxury camps and lodges to chalets built from reeds or brick.
accommodations to suit every preference amid botswana’s elegant ecosystems and astounding beauty are accommodations that allow visitors to go on safari and still enjoy amenities such as bathrooms, beds and comfortable, spacious tents.
breathtaking game lands and diverse habitats botswana is known as one of the best safari sites in africa in part because nearly 20 percent of its land is set aside for national parks and reserves.
top return to safari planning
eyes on africa was selected most  knowledgeable regional expert for southern africa / safaris by national geographic traveler magazine, 20th anniversary special issue.
you can explore botswana’s  varied habitats -- the desert, savannah, riparian forests and the wetlands of  the okavango delta, including the game reserves of one of the wildest regions  in africa.
regardless of your personal preference, all accommodations in botswana seek to  achieve the perfect balance between comfort and ambiance without compromising  the enjoyment of the natural bush.
there is no development in this area; it remains a natural wilderness with varied game populations.
several exclusive safari camps are located in moremi.
regardless of your personal preference, all accommodations in botswana seek to achieve the perfect balance between comfort and ambiance without compromising the enjoyment of the natural bush.
botswana – a spectacular paradise for safari botswana safaris offer adventure travelers extraordinary travel experiences in diverse and unspoiled natural environments.
every march, rains from angola to the north flood south down the okavango river and into northern botswana, creating the seasonal okavango delta -- the only inland delta of its size in the world with no outlet to the sea.
the world-renowned moremi game reserve lies within the okavango delta and  is a protected haven for wildlife and the delta ecosystem.
accommodations to suit every preference amid botswana’s  elegant ecosystems and astounding beauty are accommodations that allow visitors  to go on safari and still enjoy amenities such as bathrooms, beds and  comfortable, spacious tents.
mid-may to mid-september, when the water levels are neither too high nor  too low, is one of the best times to visit in order to experience the  okavango’s dynamic flood season.
botswana – a spectacular paradise for safari return tosafari planning botswana – a spectacular paradise for safari botswana safaris  offer adventure travelers extraordinary travel experiences in diverse and  unspoiled natural environments.
eyes on africa, an african safari company, boasts an extremely  knowledgeable team of staff members, who are passionate about every aspect of  travel to africa, including its wildlife and safari destinations.
chobe national park, located in northeastern botswana, is the country’s second main tourist attraction.
top           return to safari  planning african safari - home          site map          currency  converter          search          links          blog          africa weather          budget safaris          photo safaris botswana safari          kenya  safari          malawi safari          mozambique safari          namibia safari          seychelles islands south africa safari           tanzania safari          zambia  safari          zimbabwe safari safari map          about us          our african safaris          scheduled safaris          rates and pricing          planning          news          faq's          photography          contact us eyes on  africa, ltd.
botswana is considered the premier african safari destination and is certainly a place where every safari experience you have ever dreamed about can become reality.
several exclusive safari camps are located  in moremi.
the wide range of available activities includes safari game drives, scenic plane flights, walking with native tribesmen, skimming past wildlife in a dugout canoe (mokoro), motor boating along pristine rivers and channels, horseback riding or wading through the delta on the back of an elephant.
chobe national park, located in northeastern botswana, is the  country’s second main tourist attraction.
geographically, botswana is located just north of south africa.
when you're ready to plan your african safari, a holiday in africa, or if you just have questions, please feel free to contact us toll free at 800-457-9575 or visit our web site athttp://www.eyesonafrica.net/contactus.htm and complete an information request form.
from the desert to the delta, all of the immense ecosystems of botswana are awe-inspiring.
the  kalahari, also known as kgalagadi, is a sandy desert with sparse vegetation and  a complex system of pans and riverbeds beneath the dunes, offering visitors an  incredible wilderness experience.
it is approximately the size of texas  and the sands of the kalahari desert cover two-thirds of its area.
mid-may to mid-september, when the water levels are neither too high nor too low, is one of the best times to visit in order to experience the okavango’s dynamic flood season.
eyes on africa, an african safari company, boasts an extremely knowledgeable team of staff members, who are passionate about every aspect of travel to africa, including its wildlife and safari destinations.
you can explore botswana’s varied habitats -- the desert, savannah, riparian forests and the wetlands of the okavango delta, including the game reserves of one of the wildest regions in africa.
botswana is renowned for its refined and stylish  safari accommodations, particularly in the heart of the okavango delta, chobe  national park and moremi game reserve.
the kalahari, also known as kgalagadi, is a sandy desert with sparse vegetation and a complex system of pans and riverbeds beneath the dunes, offering visitors an incredible wilderness experience.
wildlife attractions include large herds of elephant and buffalo, plus healthy populations of hippo, lion, leopard, rhino, giraffe, eland, zebra, tsessebe, waterbuck, puku, red lechwe, crocodile, sable antelope, wild dog, warthog, baboons, impala, hyena, roan, kudu, and many others.
when you're  ready to plan your african safari, a holiday in africa, or if you just have  questions, please feel free to contact us toll free at 800-457-9575 or visit  our web site athttp://www.eyesonafrica.net/contactus.htm and complete an  information request form.
the crystal clear waters move further into the desert each week, which means that in one visit, you can experience desert, savannah and flooded areas, all with different animal, bird and plant life populations.
breathtaking game lands and diverse habitats botswana is known  as one of the best safari sites in africa in part because nearly 20 percent of  its land is set aside for national parks and reserves.
there is no development in this  area; it remains a natural wilderness with varied game populations.
the okavango delta is botswana’s main safari attraction.
from the desert to the delta, all of the immense ecosystems of botswana are  awe-inspiring.
geographically, botswana  is located just north of south africa.
other national parks and game reserves in botswana include the central kalahari game reserve, the kalahari-gemsbok transfrontier park, khutse game reserve, makgadikgadi pans national park, and nxai pan national park.
the crystal clear  waters move further into the desert each week, which means that in one visit,  you can experience desert, savannah and flooded areas, all with different  animal, bird and plant life populations.
this pristine country boasts such world-renowned habitats as chobe national park, one of africa's premier elephant refuges, and the okavango delta, a 200-kilometer-wide paradise, whose sparkling waters spread out over the expanse of the kalahari sands.