sample our various menu of excursions to  karen blixen, nairobi museum, nairobi park, city tour and many more.
kenya office steenbok safaris and car hire sunrise plaza,1st flr, suite 1g behind bushgate/ oil libya, ruiru p.o. box 8088, 00300 nairobi tel.
making the experience memorable, not compromising quality of service.
there can be few experiences in the world more memorable and magical an encounter with mountain gorillas of east africa is one of them.
eco-tourism is an insightful,  mindful and participatory travel experience to natural and cultural  environments, assisting the well-being of the local communities.
eco-tourism is an insightful, mindful and participatory travel experience to natural and cultural environments, assisting the well-being of the local communities.
visit this page for unlimited / limited milage at the best rate saloon cars are hired out at special rate of kshs.3000/ us$46 per day.
cell:(780) 237 2299 contact:james wainaina e-mail: jwainaina@shaw.ca u.s.a. office steenbok safaris and car hire 4109 macever woods dr. acworth,ga 30101-6672 tel:404 353 6317 fax:770 974 4317
this is nature-based travel to relatively undisturbed areas with an emphasis on education and culture.(visit turkana people/ njemps, samburu etc in their indigenous homes.
we have a fleet of vehicles ranging from safari vans/4wd with pop up roofs and saloon cars.
canada office steenbok safaris and car hire c/o pride of kenya crafts 2808 41
submit link contact us safari packages kenya,travel kenya,kenya tour operator,kenya safaris,tours  operator offering kenya safaris,road safaris kenya,kenya tours,kenya air  safaris packages,tanzania lodge safaris &tanzania camping safaris,camping  safaris kenya,maasai mara safaris,samburu safaris,amboseli safaris,tsavo  safaris,lake nakuru safaris,kenya camping safaris,kenya lodge safaris,lodge  safari kenya,mt.kilimanjaro climb,mt.kenya climb,kenya car hire
french italian german spanish english select language frequently asked questions travel info on kenya uganda tanzania & zanzibar kenya lodge safaris tanzania lodge safaris zanzibar island uganda gorilla
safaris kenya balloon safaris kenya beach holidays kenya camping safaris camping tanzania safaris kenya hotels & lodges excursions kenya eco-tourism kenya cultural safaris kenya car hire kenya air safaris mountaineering transfer services travel information general conditions curios and handicrafts about steenbok safaris submitted links submit link contact us safari packages kenya,travel kenya,kenya tour operator,kenya safaris,tours operator offering kenya safaris,road safaris kenya,kenya tours,kenya air safaris packages,tanzania lodge safaris &tanzania camping safaris,camping safaris kenya,maasai mara safaris,samburu safaris,amboseli safaris,tsavo safaris,lake nakuru safaris,kenya camping safaris,kenya lodge safaris,lodge safari kenya,mt.kilimanjaro climb,mt.kenya climb,kenya car hire
the safaris are operated by light aircraft scheduled services from either mombasa or nairobi.
on the other hand, you're in for authentic adventure in the bush.
for those who require full day outing lake nakuru and many more are on offer.
travel to africa with the best african company!
while in the park all transfers and game drives are  operated by tour custom mini buses with pop up roof for better viewing and ease  in photography of the wildlife.
for those  who require full day outing lake nakuru and many more are on offer.
254 20 2432452/3 cell: 254 733 775763, 254 721 221664 e-mail: info@steenboksafaris.com
sample our various menu of excursions to karen blixen, nairobi museum, nairobi park, city tour and many more.
note, we believe in personalised services.
looking for real  adventure safari, camping safari is it!.
one can combine kenya and tanzania.
there can be few  experiences in the world more memorable and magical an encounter with mountain  gorillas of east africa is one of them.
camping safari cater for budget/ luxury travelers.
while in the park all transfers and game drives are operated by tour custom mini buses with pop up roof for better viewing and ease in photography of the wildlife.
mt. kilimanjaro mt. kenya mt. meru make an order from our various artifacts from our shop ranging from soapstone, batiks, basketry, banana fibre items, musical instruments, jewellery, wood carvings, traditional artifacts, kangas/kikoys..try us to bring a touch of africa to your home...
zanzibar sample our various menus of safaris to kenya and tanzania.
visit www.prideofkenyacrafts.com wonders of africa east african history pride of kenya crafts "bring a touch of africa to your home" incredible offer!
this is nature-based travel to relatively  undisturbed areas with an emphasis on education and culture.(visit turkana  people/ njemps, samburu etc in their indigenous homes.
mt. kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in africa and one of the largest extinct volcanoes.
a avenue, edmonton, alberta, t6t 1m5, canada tel:(780)752 8064 (hse) tel:(780) 484 8454(work)
we offer camping safaris in kenya and tanzania.
contact:pete muthoga e-mail:steenboksafaris@gmail.com travel to africa with the best african company!
budget/luxury lodge safaris in >>
hire the rav 4 for kshs.4500 (us$65) .
the safaris are operated by light aircraft scheduled services from  either mombasa or nairobi.
private safaris and group safaris are available.
camping safari cater for budget/  luxury travelers.
on the other hand, you're in for authentic adventure in the  bush.
looking for real adventure safari, camping safari is it!.
it is 5896m. mt.kenya is 5199m and the africa second