physical  requirements easy/flexible our walking activities  are usually short and optional.
natural habitat adventures natural habitat adventures & wwf •
natural habitat adventures
we can best serve you if natural habitat  adventures’ travel desk makes these reservations for you as they are  intimately familiar with the special requirements of these programs and can  arrange the most efficient and cost-effective travel.
important information this comprehensive itinerary is designed to show travelers the very best wildlife destinations these two countries have to offer.
all rights reserved ·web design by havoc · powered by enso - world map - guides & staff - traveler resources - blogs - about us - contact us - media room - partners - jobs at nha - travel consultants - sitemap - privacy policy - foundation
experience classic african safari ambience and service at nha luxury  mobile camp explore five of africa’s most renowned game-viewing hot spots on one  inclusive itinerary
the secluded zambia safari vast  and wild, zambia is an undiscovered safari gem, where it is still possible to  experience africa as it once was.
we will have two different expedition leaders on this trip, one for kenya, and another tanzania, to allow each guide to impart expert knowledge about his respective country to our guests.
not included travel to and from start and end point of trip, premium alcoholic beverages, some gratuities, passport and visa fees, optional activities, items of a personal nature (phone calls, souvenirs, etc.), airline baggage fees, airport and departure taxes, optional travel insurance, and required medical evacuation insurance.
included internal scheduled and light aircraft flights, accommodations, meals from  dinner day 1 to lunch final day, non-alcoholic drinks at camps and with  meals, house alcoholic beverages, services of nha expedition leaders, local  guides, and camp and lodge staff, some gratuities, airport transfers on day 1  and final day, permits & entrance fees, and all taxes.
important information this  comprehensive itinerary is designed to show travelers the very best wildlife  destinations these two countries have to offer.
we can best serve you if natural habitat adventures’ travel desk makes these reservations for you as they are intimately familiar with the special requirements of these programs and can arrange the most efficient and cost-effective travel.
natural habitat adventures po box 3065 boulder, co, usa 80307 international (303) 449-3711 toll free (800) 543-8917 find us on facebook get the latest on all of our adventures and blogs on our official facebook page.
ultimate kenya & tanzania safari - new trip experience a  collection of some of the most renowned wildlife reserves in africa kenya  and tanzania; the very words evoke a bygone era of romance and adventure  – seas of golden grass swaying from blue horizon to blue horizon, nights  spent staring into crackling campfires beneath skies starry beyond imagination,  beholding the timeless drama of life and death, between predator and prey,  unfolding yet again on one of earth’s last, great, wild stages.
physical requirements easy/flexible our walking activities are usually short and optional.
adventure collection »
the region’s most sought-after safari expedition leaders enhance the  entire safari experience location of adventure group size limit approximately 12 travelers a very important feature of  our trips is the limited group size as nature expeditions are best experienced  with smaller sized groups of travelers.
this  world still exists and is waiting to be discovered once more, by you, on our  ultimate kenya & tanzania safari.
included internal scheduled and light aircraft flights, accommodations, meals from dinner day 1 to lunch final day, non-alcoholic drinks at camps and with meals, house alcoholic beverages, services of nha expedition leaders, local guides, and camp and lodge staff, some gratuities, airport transfers on day 1 and final day, permits & entrance fees, and all taxes.
other adventures you might enjoy the great namibia wildlife safari namibia is africa's most diverse destination and this specialized wildlife safari focuses on these unique features with an emphasis on the country's spectacular wildlife.
please call us at  1-800-543-8917.
getting there & getting home you must  arrive in nairobi, kenya before 6:30pm on day 1 and may depart arusha, tanzania  anytime after 5pm on the final day.
we do, however, recommend that travelers who participate in these programs be of an adventurous spirit, as they will often enjoy the very closest of animal encounters and safari vehicles can sometimes offer a bumpy ride.
we do, however, recommend that travelers who  participate in these programs be of an adventurous spirit, as they will often  enjoy the very closest of animal encounters and safari vehicles can sometimes  offer a bumpy ride.
we will have two different  expedition leaders on this trip, one for kenya, and another tanzania, to allow  each guide to impart expert knowledge about his respective country to our  guests.
the secluded zambia safari vast and wild, zambia is an undiscovered safari gem, where it is still possible to experience africa as it once was.
visit facebook nha partner blogs » kayaking the river of wine »
not  included travel to and from start and end point of trip, premium  alcoholic beverages, some gratuities, passport and visa fees, optional  activities, items of a personal nature (phone calls, souvenirs, etc.), airline  baggage fees, airport and departure taxes, optional travel insurance, and  required medical evacuation insurance.
other adventures you might enjoy the great namibia wildlife  safari namibia is africa's most diverse destination and this specialized  wildlife safari focuses on these unique features with an emphasis on the  country's spectacular wildlife.
explorers' corner website » asia360º travel co.
getting there & getting home you must arrive in nairobi, kenya before 6:30pm on day 1 and may depart arusha, tanzania anytime after 5pm on the final day.
please call us at 1-800-543-8917.
location of adventure - experience classic african safari ambience and service at nha luxury mobile camp - explore five of africa’s most renowned game-viewing hot spots on one inclusive itinerary - the region’s most sought-after safari expedition leaders enhance the entire safari experience kenya & tanzania, east africa group size limit approximately 12 travelers a very important feature of our trips is the limited group size as nature expeditions are best experienced with smaller sized groups of travelers.
starting from $13,895 x to friend's name friend's email from your name your email ultimate kenya & tanzania safari - new trip experience a collection of some of the most renowned wildlife reserves in africa kenya and tanzania; the very words evoke a bygone era of romance and adventure – seas of golden grass swaying from blue horizon to blue horizon, nights spent staring into crackling campfires beneath skies starry beyond imagination, beholding the timeless drama of life and death, between predator and prey, unfolding yet again on one of earth’s last, great, wild stages.
this world still exists and is waiting to be discovered once more, by you, on our ultimate kenya & tanzania safari.
discovering our planet together newsletter signup - destinations - guides & staff - traveler resources - blogs - about us - contact request catalog reservations (800) 543-8917 african safaris view other regions polar bear tours african safaris american adventures galapagos cruises & tours arctic & northern adventures latin american adventures asia & pacific adventures family travel adventures antarctica & expeditions photography expeditions voluntourism extensions world map trip details - overview - itinerary - accommodations - extensions - comments - slideshow - dates & fees newsletter signup 14 days /
gaiam website natural habitat adventures © 2011 ·
dog sledding the ultima thule » made in rajasthan nha travel family » africa safari planner!