accommodations: can make your choice of  safari lodges/hotels.
approx  transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 4.
serengeti national park.
after breakfast take a picnic lunch with you descend 670m into the crater floor for game viewing, breaking for lunch at the lerai picnic site.
breakfast and depart for tarangire arriving for lunch.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 6: ngorongoro crater tour today you leave serengeti national park with picnic lunch.
the great wildebeest migration moves from the serengeti national park in tanzania…read more tour name: mountain gorilla treks/safari uganda.
amboseli | ngorongoro | serengeti  | lake manyara| tarangire.
lithuanian litas (ltl)moroccan dirham (mad)mauritian rupee (mur)mexican peso  (mxn)malaysian ringgit (myr)norwegian krone (nok)nepalese rupee (npr)new  zealand dollar (nzd)omani rial (omr)peruvian nuevo sol (pen)philippine peso  (php)pakistani rupee (pkr)polish zloty (pln)qatari riyal (qar)new romanian leu  (ron)russian ruble (rub)saudi riyal (sar)swedish krona (sek)singapore dollar  (sgd)slovenian tolar (sit)slovak koruna (skk)thai baht (thb)new turkish lira  (try)trinidad & tobago (ttd)new taiwan dollar (twd)ukrainian hryvnia (uah)
board 1400hrs shuttle  bus to nairobi arriving approximately 1900hrs.
accommodations: can make your choice of safari  lodges/hotels.
serengeti national park depart after breakfast and take picnic lunch with you as you proceed for serengeti with a brief stop at olduvai gorge the historical site, picnic lunch and proceed arriving serengeti for late afternoon game drive.
duration: 10 days | 9 nights:parks to visit:lake nakuru/masai  mara/serengeti/ngorongoro/lake manyara .accommodations:can make your choice of  safari lodges/hotels.
approx transit time: 4 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 8.tarangire
amboseli national park .
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 7.
blessed with a permanent water supply, masai mara has a permanent population of plains game.
amboseli / ngorongoro / serengeti/  lake manyara.
full day in serengeti with  early morning and late afternoon game drives in the vast serengeti plain.
the rocky outcrops commonly known as ‘kopjes’ in the eastern part  of the park are of scenic beauty and occasionally cats can be seen lazing on  them.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari  minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
optional early morning  optional balloon excursion to experience a birds-eye view of the vast mara.
after breakfast you depart for arusha arriving for lunch at arusha impala hotel.
the park contains vast herds of wildebeest, zebra, gazelle and other antelopes.
read more mt kilimanjaro climbing asstm 042 :6 days/5 nights:  mt.kilimanjaro climbing : machame
tour code: assea 034: tour duration: 9 days | 8  nights: parks to visit:
after breakfast take  a packed lunch with you and continue with game viewing on serengeti park.
dinner and overnight at tarangire sopa lodge/similar.
summed up as 'one of the most unique areas in the world',serengeti contains the largest remaining concentration of plains game in africa, on a scale, which has no parallel any where in the world.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and your driver guide.
the term serengeti means endless  plains in maasai language.
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 3: masai mara tour full day of game drives.
morning game drives in the vast serengeti plain.
read more nairobi excursions & city tours nairobi safaris: nairobi tours : nairobi excursions : holidays nairobi :  nairobi short safaris assn 007: sheldrick elephant orphanage (daily at 11.00  a.m - 12.00p.m).in thepark is the animal orphanage where sick, wounded and  abandoned animals are cared for and rehabilitated into the park, as well as an  educational centre featuring a safari walk.
tanzania is 4wd land cruiser/land  rover.
amboseli/lake manyara national park morning  game drive and proceed for namanga border town, pick up namanga border town,  crossover to tanzania arriving arusha at 1200hrs, lunch at arusha impala hotel.
the term serengeti means endless plains in maasai language.
this park is normally the scene of the annual  migration of wildebeest and zebra that occurs between the kenyan mara and the  serengeti.
after breakfast, leave lake manyara for serengeti via olduvai gorge, with game drive and picnic lunch enroute.
tour code: assea 035 tour duration: 8 days | 7 nights: parks to visit:
summed up as 'one of the most unique  areas in the world',serengeti contains the largest remaining concentration of  plains game in africa, on a scale, which has no parallel any where in the  world.
in the central plains  there are carnivores like leopard, lion, hyena and cheetah.
dinner and overnight at amboseli serena lodge/similar.
lake manyara national park, famous for its tree climbing lions and large flocks of flamingoes.
approx transit time: 2 hrs meal plan: {l,d} day 2: masai mara safaris.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.. safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari  minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 3.
dinner and  overnight at keekorok lodge/similar.
afternoon proceed to ngorongoro conservation area, enroute game  viewing arriving at ngorongoro sopa lodge/similar for dinner and overnight.
the park contains vast herds of wildebeest, zebra, gazelle and other  antelopes.
wildebeest  migration safaris masai mara,wildebeest migration safaris serengeti,wildlife  migration masai mara serengeti kenya tanzania: serengeti tanzania and masai  mara kenya wildlife migration trips tours:wildlife lodge safari tours masai
meals and overnight at serengeti serena lodge/similar.
the  ngorongoro crater, one of africa's most magnificent wildlife arenas, is  approximately 19 km/12 miles across and its prairies are a haven for an  estimated 30,000 large mammals, including lion, leopard, cheetah, elephant,  hyena, hippo, wildebeest, baboon, gazelle and the endangered black rhino.
dinner and overnight at  serengeti sopa lodge/similar.
canadian dollar (cad)swiss franc (chf)chilean peso (clp)chinese yuan (cny) colombian peso (cop)serbian dinar (csd)czech koruna (czk)danish krone (dkk) estonian kroon (eek)egyptian pound (egp)euro (eur)fijian dollar (fjd)british  pound (gbp)hong kong dollar (hkd)honduran lempira (hnl)croatian kuna (hrk) hungarian forint (huf)indonesian rupiah (idr)new israeli sheqel (ils)indian  rupee (inr)icelandic krona (isk)japanese yen (jpy)south korean won (krw)kuwaiti  dinar (kwd)kazakhstani tenge (kzt)sri lankan rupee (lkr)lithuanian litas (ltl)
read more asstm 042 :6 days/5 nights: mt.kilimanjaro climbing : machame route: day 1: machame gate (1,800m) to machame camp (3,000m).
after lunch have  a rest for one hr, then proceed with your game viewing following the move of  the migrants on the southwest of the park.
tour duration: 3 days |2 nights: parks to visit: bwindi impenetrable national park.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 3: masai mara tour full day of game  drives.
early morning  game drive followed by breakfast,after your northern tanzania game experience,  you take another scenic drive crossing the beautiful great rift valley to the  colorful villages of mto wa
cross the border arriving arusha for lunch at  impala hotel.
the abundance of herbivores includes wildebeest, zebra, gazelle, topi, buffalo, and hartebeest, to name but a few.
this park is  normally the scene of the annual migration of wildebeest and zebra that occurs  between the kenyan mara and the serengeti.
approx transit time: 2  hrs meal plan: {l,d} day 2: masai mara safaris.
afternoon proceed to ngorongoro conservation area, enroute game viewing arriving at ngorongoro sopa lodge/similar for dinner and overnight.
assa-001 : 2 days | 1 night : day 1.
accommodations: can make your  choice of safari lodges/hotels.
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
dinner and overnight at serengeti sopa lodge/similar.
after breakfast take a  picnic lunch with you descend 670m into the crater floor for game viewing,  breaking for lunch at the lerai picnic site.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 8.
board the afternoon (1400 hours)
read more tour name: lakes and masai mara safari kenyasafari code: asj 058:tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: lake nakuru/lake naivasha/maasai mara.
the abundance of herbivores includes wildebeest, zebra, gazelle, topi,  buffalo, and hartebeest, to name but a few.
this beautiful park is at the base of the great  rift valley escarpment and comprises of forest, woodland, grasslands, and  swamps.
ngorongoro crater / lake manyara morning  descend the famous ngorongoro crater for a day of superb game viewing.
around 1230 and 1300 break for your lunch.
after breakfast you depart for  arusha arriving for lunch at arusha impala hotel.
all meals and overnight at amboseli serena lodge/similar.
early morning (6:30am) and late afternoon (1500hrs) game viewing drive inside the park.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
approx transit time: 2 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 9.
arriving maasai mara at 1100 hours.
ngorongoro crater trip.
depart nairobi in the morning and drive through maasailand to the foothills of snow-capped mt. kilimanjaro.
elevation gain:  1,200 meters hiking time: 5 to 6 hours distance: 10 kilometers .
tour  duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: lake nakuru/lake   naivasha/maasai mara.
here we also find the masaai giraffe.
approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 7.
breakfast and depart for tarangire arriving for  lunch.
the crater is 14.5km.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle  and driver guide.
the wildebeest migration is one of the last big migrations in the animal world and one of the most breath-taking events earth!
discover the seronera river which flows through the park, providing habitats for a variety of birds, mammals and reptiles.
depart nairobi in the morning and proceed to amboseli national park at the foot of the mighty snow-capped mt. kilimanjaro, africa's highest peak,arrive in time for lunch .afternoon game drive inside the beautiful park.
breakfast at lodge and leave with picnic lunches for full day game drives in this spectacular game reserve, all with superb photographic opportunities.
read more wildlife migration masai mara the great wildebeest migration safaris kenya tanzania:
arriving nairobi at 1830hrs.
dinner and overnight at sarova lion hill lodge/similar.
board the afternoon (1400  hours)
route: day 1: machame gate (1,800m) to machame camp (3,000m).
tour  duration: 3 days |2 nights: parks to visit: bwindi impenetrable national park.
close by is the sheldrick elephant orphanage, where infant elephant and rhino (orphaned because of poaching…read more tour name: cormorant safari kenya tanzania tour code:asms 001:tour duration: 10 days | 9 nights:parks to visit:lake nakuru/masai mara/serengeti/ngorongoro/lake manyara .accommodations:can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
the park contains five distinct vegetation zones and is of scenic beauty dinner and overnight at kirurumu tented lodge/similar.
morning game drives in the vast  serengeti plain.
early morning game drive followed by breakfast,after your northern tanzania game experience, you take another scenic drive crossing the beautiful great rift valley to the colorful villages of mto wa mbu and makuyuni.
dinner and overnight at ngorongoro sopa  lodge/similar.
ngorongoro crater tour.
read more lodge safaris tours kenya tour name: lakes and masai mara safari kenyasafari code: asj 058:
the reserve boasts a plethora of wildlife -…read more tour name: bush & beach safari tour kenyacode: aswb 001:tour duration: 10 days |9 nights:parks to visit: nairobi | masai mara | lake nakuru | beach.
arusha/nairobi after breakfast, depart for arusha for lunch and board 0200pm shuttle back to nairobi.
it is your exciting crater safari today before you drive to lake manyara in the later afternoon .dinner and overnight at lake manyara serena lodge/similar.
amboseli / ngorongoro / serengeti/ lake manyara.
approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 6.
board 1400hrs shuttle bus to nairobi arriving approximately 1900hrs.
red-clad maasai warriors tend their herds of  cattle among the wildlife, admirably unmoved by the presence of large  predators.
read more nairobi safaris: nairobi tours : nairobi excursions : holidays nairobi : nairobi short safaris assn 007: sheldrick elephant orphanage (daily at 11.00 a.m - 12.00p.m).in thepark is the animal orphanage where sick, wounded and abandoned animals are cared for and rehabilitated into the park, as well as an educational centre featuring a safari walk.
the park contains five distinct  vegetation zones and is of scenic beauty dinner and overnight at kirurumu  tented lodge/similar.
approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 7:
cross the border arriving arusha for lunch at impala hotel.
depart nairobi in the  morning and drive through maasailand to the foothills of snow-capped mt.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 3.amboseli/ngorongoro depart after breakfast and  drive to namanga border town.
full day in serengeti with early morning and late afternoon game drives in the vast serengeti plain.
varied bird species can be seen here including eagles, ducks, geese, egrets, vultures, secretary birds, ibis, stork, herons, kites, pelicans, cranes and guinea fowl.
moroccan dirham (mad)mauritian rupee (mur)mexican peso (mxn)malaysian ringgit  (myr)norwegian krone (nok)nepalese rupee (npr)new zealand dollar (
approx  transit time: 4.5 hrs meal plan: {l,d} day 2.
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of  vehicle and driver guide.
early morning and late  afternoon game viewing drive inside the park.
nzd)omani  rial (omr)peruvian nuevo sol (pen)philippine peso (php)pakistani rupee (pkr) polish zloty (pln)qatari riyal (qar)new romanian leu (ron)russian ruble (rub) saudi riyal (sar)swedish krona (sek)singapore dollar (sgd)slovenian tolar (sit) slovak koruna (skk)thai baht (thb)new turkish lira (try)trinidad & tobago  (ttd)new taiwan dollar (twd)ukrainian hryvnia (uah)united states dollar (usd) venezuelan bolivar (veb)south african rand (zar) into uae dirham (aed) neth ant gulden (ang)argentine peso (ars)australian dollar (aud)bulgarian lev  (bgn)bahraini dinar (bhd)brunei dollar (bnd)bolivian boliviano (bob)brazilian  real (brl)botswana pula (bwp)canadian dollar (cad)swiss franc (chf)chilean peso  (clp)chinese yuan (cny)colombian peso (cop)serbian dinar (csd)czech koruna (czk) danish krone (dkk)estonian kroon (eek)egyptian pound (egp)euro (eur)fijian  dollar (fjd)british pound (gbp)hong kong dollar (hkd)honduran lempira (hnl) croatian kuna (hrk)hungarian forint (huf)indonesian rupiah (idr)new israeli  sheqel (ils)indian rupee (inr)icelandic krona (isk)japanese yen (jpy)south  korean won (krw)kuwaiti dinar (kwd)kazakhstani tenge (kzt)sri lankan rupee (lkr)
afternoon game drive in the park.
dinner and overnight at tarangire sopa  lodge/similar.
lake nakuru national park depart nairobi in the morning and drive to the dramatic rift valley arriving at the pink lake for lunch at lodge.
afternoon you proceed to nabi hill gate were you enjoy your picnic lunch before proceeding to the malanja depression entering the ngorongoro conservation area.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 6.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and  driver guide.
approx transit time: 8 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 4.
we pick you for transfer to jkia airport for your flight out approx transit time: 10 hrs meal plan: {b,l} nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry: tour name: reidbok safari kenya tanzania.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 4.
safari transport mode: transport is in a customized 7 seater  safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
afternoon game drive.
early morning game drive in manyara.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 3.amboseli/ngorongoro depart after breakfast and drive to namanga border town.
at a depth of 610 meters/2,000 feet, this crater, created by the collapse of an extinct volcano, contains a "lost world" of wildlife.
aprox 1.3 million wildebeest,  250,000 gazelles and 200,000 zebras have been recorded sharing the short grass/  water which is the source of food for the millions of animals in this south  area.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus in kenya with pop up roof, 4x4 landcruiser/land rover in tanzania.
dinner and overnight at the serengeti sopa lodge/similar.
the park covers 12,944km2 of open plains making it one of the largest in the world.
the  term serengeti means endless plains in maasai language.
lunch and afternoon game drive.
approx transit time: 10 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 5: serengeti safari early morning and late afternoon game drives at the serengeti national park which at 14,763 sq kms is the largest national park in tanzania.
dinner and overnight at mara serena lodge/similar.
departure  days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and your driver guide.
read more sweetwaters safaris : tours sweetwaters : aberdares trips : sweetwaters luxury tented camp nestled between mt. kenya to the east and the aberdares mountains to the west, sweetwaters game reserve is a privately held reserve covering some 24,000 acres.
wide and is  home to all the big five and hence the same may be seen.
today you depart for  tanzania with picnic lunches, you cross the isebania border to tanzania –  also the home of mount kilimanjaro, game drive enroute as you head to serengeti  serena lodge.
united states dollar (usd)venezuelan bolivar (veb)south african rand (zar) powered by joomlagadgets monday - friday 08:00am to 17:00pm saturday - 09:00am to 13:00pm sunday - closed (if urgent contact us on phone or by email).
nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry: convert uae dirham (aed)neth ant gulden (ang)argentine peso  (ars)australian dollar (aud)bulgarian lev (bgn)bahraini dinar (bhd)brunei  dollar (bnd)bolivian boliviano (bob)brazilian real (brl)botswana pula (bwp)
the extensive grasslands are interspersed with kopjes rocky outcrops like islands in the flat plain, each with their own wildlife communities.
maasai mara transfer to wilson airstrip for a scheduled flight to maasai mara departing at 1000 hours.
depart nairobi in the  morning and proceed to amboseli national park at the foot of the mighty  snow-capped mt. kilimanjaro, africa's highest peak,arrive in time for lunch  .afternoon game drive inside the beautiful park.
explore various areas like moro kopjes and gol kopjes.
approx transit time: 4 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 5.
read more the great wildebeest migration safaris kenya tanzania:
read more sweetwaters safari tours sweetwaters safaris : tours sweetwaters : aberdares trips : sweetwaters  luxury tented camp nestled between mt. kenya to the east and the aberdares  mountains to the west, sweetwaters game reserve is a privately held reserve
the "big five" - elephant,  buffalo, lion, leopard and rhino are quite common.
this beautiful park is at the base of the great rift valley escarpment and comprises of forest, woodland, grasslands, and swamps.
gazelles, impala, buffalo, wildebeest, the famous tree climbing lion, hyena, baboon, giraffe, hippopotamus, and a great number of smaller mammals,350 species of bird, storks and flamingoes.
after lunch have a rest for one hr, then proceed with your game viewing following the move of the migrants on the southwest of the park.
8/9 days: tours kenya/tanzania 10 days: masai mara serengeti safaris 12 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: masai mara victoria serengeti 14 days: kenya/tanzania combo 17 days: kenya/tanzania/zanzibar 21 days:safari/kilimanjaro/zanzibar 21 days wildlife explorer/beach kenya safaris tanzania safaris kenya/tanzania safaris bird watching safari kenya blogspot servalcat safaris 23°c guests online: 6guests online: 6
serengeti which literally means “endless plains” dinner and overnight at serengeti serena lodge/similar.
amboseli is a  photogenic park and hosts a great number of game and birdlife including the  lion,huge herds of elephant and the splendid cheetah.
dinner and overnight at keekorok lodge/similar.
amboseli/lake manyara national park morning game drive and proceed for namanga border town, pick up namanga border town, crossover to tanzania arriving arusha at 1200hrs, lunch at arusha impala hotel.
arusha/nairobi after breakfast, depart for  arusha for lunch and board 0200pm shuttle back to nairobi.
optional early morning optional balloon excursion to experience a birds-eye view of the vast mara.
in the central plains there are carnivores like  leopard, lion, hyena and cheetah.
the  migration can be seen on a long chain approximately 40 km heading to the south  western direction.
safari transport mode: transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
varied bird species can be seen here including eagles, ducks, geese,  egrets, vultures, secretary birds, ibis, stork, herons, kites, pelicans, cranes  and guinea fowl.
in the central plains there are carnivores like leopard, lion, hyena and cheetah.
at arusha, which is the exact center between cape town and cairo, you stop for lunch.
afternoon game drive and picnic lunch en route to lodge.
varied bird species can be seen here  including eagles, ducks, geese, egrets, vultures, secretary birds, ibis, stork,  herons, kites, pelicans, cranes and guinea fowl.
game viewing in the crater.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 4: masai mara / serengeti
early morning game  drive in manyara.
amboseli is a photogenic park and  hosts a great number of game and birdlife including the lion,huge herds of  elephant and the splendid cheetah.
serengeti which literally means “endless plains”
tanzania is 4wd land cruiser/land rover.
shuttle bus and cross the border and onwards to arrive nairobi early evening (1900 hours) and transfer to nairobi airport for flight out .
tour code: assea 035 tour duration: 8 days | 7  nights: parks to visit:
the "big five" - elephant, buffalo, lion, leopard and rhino are quite common.
tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: meru/sweetwaters/lake  nakuru/maasai mara: accommodations:can make your choice of safari  lodges/hotels.
approx transit time: 4.5 hrs meal plan: {l,d} day 2.
hippos, cheetah,  antelopes and the spotted hyena are other species commonly seen as well as  flamingoes on the crater lakes.
the reserve boasts a plethora of wildlife -… read more wildlife beach holidays kenya tour name: bush & beach safari tour  kenyacode: aswb 001:tour  duration: 10 days |9 nights:parks to visit: nairobi | masai mara | lake nakuru  | beach.
game viewing in the  crater.
enjoy early morning spectacular views of the snow-capped mountain.
late afternoon game drive inside the park to search for wild game, the park is home to plenty of game and birdlife.
amboseli is a photogenic park and hosts a great number of game and birdlife including the lion,huge herds of elephant and the splendid cheetah.
early morning (6:30am) and  late afternoon (1500hrs) game viewing drive inside the park.
this park is normally the scene of the annual migration of wildebeest and zebra that occurs between the kenyan mara and the serengeti.
lake manyara national park .
approx transit time: 4.5 hrs meal  plan: {l,d} day 2.
you stay in tents adjacent to a waterhole, which  provides for a constant procession of animals taking their turn at the precious  resource.
wide and is home to all the big five and hence the same may be seen.
departure days : daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.. safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
after lunch proceed to lake manyara to lake manyara,game viewing en route for  dinner and overnight at kirurumu tented lodge/similar.
dinner and overnight at ngorongoro sopa lodge/similar.
today you depart for tanzania with picnic lunches, you cross the isebania border to tanzania – also the home of mount kilimanjaro, game drive enroute as you head to serengeti serena lodge.
approx transit  time: 10 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 5: serengeti safari early morning and late  afternoon game drives at the serengeti national park which at 14,763 sq kms is  the largest national park in tanzania.
joomla templates and joomla  extensions by joomlavision.
read more tour name: colobus safari kenya tanzania.
morning breakfast at your hotel and depart as you traverse the great rift valley and ascend to its western rim into the maasai land.
dinner and  overnight at mara serena lodge/similar.
breakfast at lodge and leave with picnic lunches for full day game  drives in this spectacular game reserve, all with superb photographic  opportunities.
the ngorongoro crater, one of africa's most magnificent wildlife arenas, is approximately 19 km/12 miles across and its prairies are a haven for an estimated 30,000 large mammals, including lion, leopard, cheetah, elephant, hyena, hippo, wildebeest, baboon, gazelle and the endangered black rhino.
blessed with a permanent water supply, masai mara has a  permanent population of plains game.
read more echoes of the wild tour name: meru safaris : joy adamsons footsteps tour code: asmp  001:
gazelles, impala, buffalo, wildebeest, the famous tree climbing lion,  hyena, baboon, giraffe, hippopotamus, and a great number of smaller mammals,350  species of bird, storks and flamingoes.
discover the seronera river which flows through the park,  providing habitats for a variety of birds, mammals and reptiles.
departure days : daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.. safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater  safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
dinner and overnight: ngorongoro serena lodge/similar.
lake manyara national park, famous for its tree climbing lions and  large flocks of flamingoes.
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle  and driver guide.
serengeti is also famous for predators e.g. lion, cheetah, leopard, hyena and contains a wide variety of birdlife, believed to be in the region of 500 species.
morning breakfast at your  hotel and depart as you traverse the great rift valley and ascend to its  western rim into the maasai land.
serengeti is also famous for  predators e.g. lion, cheetah, leopard, hyena and contains a wide variety of  birdlife, believed to be in the region of 500 species.
arriving nairobi at  1830hrs.
depart in the morning for lake manyara arriving for lunch.
breakfast at around 0900am.
the wildebeest migration is one of the last big migrations in the animal  world and one of the most breath-taking events earth!
serengeti national park depart after breakfast  and take picnic lunch with you as you proceed for serengeti with a brief stop  at olduvai gorge the historical site, picnic lunch and proceed arriving  serengeti for late afternoon game drive.
the extensive grasslands are interspersed with  kopjes rocky outcrops like islands in the flat plain, each with their own  wildlife communities.
meals and overnight at  serengeti serena lodge/similar.
game drive and picnic lunch en route to ngorongoro sopa lodge/similar for dinner and overnight.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 6: ngorongoro crater tour today  you leave serengeti national park with picnic lunch.
close by is the sheldrick elephant  orphanage, where infant elephant and rhino (orphaned because of poaching… read more masai mara serengeti safaris tour name: cormorant safari kenya tanzania tour code:asms 001:tour
breakfast at lodge and  descend by 4wd vehicle for a half day crater tour.
amboseli | ngorongoro | serengeti | lake manyara| tarangire.
elevation gain: 1,200 meters hiking time: 5 to 6 hours distance: 10 kilometers .read more tour name: meru safaris : joy adamsons footsteps tour code: asmp 001: tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: meru/sweetwaters/lake nakuru/maasai mara: accommodations:can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
game viewing enroute to the lodge for lunch.
dinner and overnight  at ngorongoro sopa lodge/similar.
tour code: assea 040 tour duration: 8 days | 7  nights: parks to visit: lake nakuru/masai mara/serengeti /  ngorongoro / lake manyara.
after lunch at lodge you  embark on one of the most exciting game drive africa has to offer.
nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry:convert powered by joomlagadgets monday - friday 08:00am to 17:00pm saturday - 09:00am to 13:00pm sunday - closed (if urgent contact us on phone or by email).
shuttle bus and cross the border and onwards to arrive nairobi early  evening (1900 hours) and transfer to nairobi airport for flight out .
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.
tour code: assea 040 tour duration: 8 days | 7 nights: parks to visit: lake nakuru/masai mara/serengeti / ngorongoro / lake manyara.
at a  depth of 610 meters/2,000 feet, this crater, created by the collapse of an  extinct volcano, contains a "lost world" of wildlife.
depart in the  morning for lake manyara arriving for lunch.
breakfast at lodge and descend by 4wd vehicle for a half day crater tour.
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/beach hotels.
red-clad maasai warriors tend their herds of cattle among the wildlife, admirably unmoved by the presence of large predators.
ascend back to lodge for lunch.
dinner and  overnight: ngorongoro serena lodge/similar.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 5.
the migration can be seen on a long chain approximately 40 km heading to the south western direction.
you stay in tents adjacent to a waterhole, which provides for a constant procession of animals taking their turn at the precious resource.
at arusha, which is the exact  center between cape town and cairo, you stop for lunch.
accommodations: safari lodges/hotels as indicated in the itinerary.
early morning and late afternoon game viewing drive inside the park.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.. safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
approx transit time: 2 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 8: lake manyara / arusha /nairobi.
aprox 1.3 million wildebeest, 250,000 gazelles and 200,000 zebras have been recorded sharing the short grass/ water which is the source of food for the millions of animals in this south area.
com air safari packages kenya assa-001 : 2 days | 1 night : day 1.
tour code: assea 034: tour duration: 9 days | 8 nights: parks to visit:
it is your  exciting crater safari today before you drive to lake manyara in the later  afternoon .dinner and overnight at lake manyara serena lodge/similar.
wildebeest migration safaris masai mara,wildebeest migration safaris serengeti,wildlife migration masai mara serengeti kenya tanzania: serengeti tanzania and masai mara kenya wildlife migration trips tours:wildlife lodge safari tours masai mara:
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/beach  hotels.
the  park covers 12,944km2 of open plains making it one of the largest in the world.
we pick you for transfer to jkia airport for your flight out approx  transit time: 10 hrs meal plan: {b,l} nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry: tour name: reidbok safari kenya tanzania.
enjoy early morning  spectacular views of the snow-capped mountain.
afternoon game drive inside the beautiful park to view  thousands of pink flamingos and numerous wild game including the rhinos.
after breakfast take a packed lunch with you and continue with game viewing on serengeti park.
enjoy early morning spectacular views of the  snow-capped mountain.
dinner and overnight at serengeti sopa  lodge/similar.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7  seater safari minibus in kenya with pop up roof, 4x4 landcruiser/land rover in  tanzania.
approx transit time: 10 hrs meal plan: {b} nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry: tour name: reedbuck safari kenya tanzania.
maasai mara transfer to  wilson airstrip for a scheduled flight to maasai mara departing at 1000 hours.
approx  transit time: 4 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 5.
hippos, cheetah, antelopes and the spotted hyena are other species commonly seen as well as flamingoes on the crater lakes.
the great wildebeest  migration moves from the serengeti national park in tanzania… read  more uganda gorilla safaris treks tour name: mountain gorilla treks/safari uganda.
afternoon at leisure.
after lunch proceed to lake manyara to lake manyara,game viewing en route for dinner and overnight at kirurumu tented lodge/similar.
dinner and overnight at  amboseli serena lodge/similar.
covering some 24,000 acres.
the rocky outcrops commonly known as ‘kopjes’ in the eastern part of the park are of scenic beauty and occasionally cats can be seen lazing on them.
all meals and overnight at  amboseli serena lodge/similar.
lake nakuru national park depart nairobi in the  morning and drive to the dramatic rift valley arriving at the pink lake for  lunch at lodge.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater  safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
ngorongoro crater / lake manyara morning descend the famous ngorongoro crater for a day of superb game viewing.
late afternoon game drive inside  the park to search for wild game, the park is home to plenty of game and  birdlife.
explore various areas like  moro kopjes and gol kopjes.
afternoon you  proceed to nabi hill gate were you enjoy your picnic lunch before proceeding to  the malanja depression entering the ngorongoro conservation area.
dinner and overnight at serengeti serena lodge/similar.
after lunch at lodge you embark on one of the most exciting game drive africa has to offer.
game  drive and picnic lunch en route to ngorongoro sopa lodge/similar for dinner and  overnight.
dinner  and overnight at sarova lion hill lodge/similar.
after breakfast, leave lake manyara  for serengeti via olduvai gorge, with game drive and picnic lunch enroute.
afternoon game drive inside the beautiful park to view thousands of pink flamingos and numerous wild game including the rhinos.