plan to bring with you: two cameras, and their accessories including, batteries, several speeds of film and dust-proof bags.
we have a team of fluent speaking english,  french, and germany.
there is duty free allowances of 200 cigarettes, 50 cigars or 250 grammes of tobacco, and one pint of spirits.
most of the following equipments are needed for your climbing, and some for safaris; and these include: sleeping tent, mattresses, sleeping bag, water/wind proof jacket, warm jacket, rain clothes, sweater, warm trouser, long warm underwear, climbing boot, walking shoes (hiking), pairs of cotton socks, hiking short, a t-shirt, baseball cap, hat, gloves, water bottle (+3litres), flashlight, small bag, rucksack( for your belongings to be carried by porters), walking sticks, sun glasses, anti-diarrhea drug, anti-altitude drug, water filter/iodine tablets, watch, camera/camcorder.
tipping | equipment | miscellaneous | climate temperatures in northern tanzania range from 55-75 degrees fahrenheit.
they can also be obtained on arrival at the major international airports and at the namanga gate on the tanzania/kenya border personal effects, including cameras, binoculars, may be brought in free of duty.
there are no restrictions on  the amount of foreign currency that may be brought into tanzania or kenya, and  no currency declaration is required.
please be advised that we provide sleeping tents and mattresses
avoid  wearing expensive jewelry, walking in the dark, deserted lanes and streets.
anti-malaria medication is strongly recommended when  traveling to east africa.
photography when one takes a picture of the people, they feel offended.
the official languages of tanzania are kiswahili and english, and in kenya is english.
for safaris:-driver:15usd, and a cook:5usd.
tanzania and kenya are the safest countries in east africa.
however in particulararusha and nairobi , they experience colder  weather in months of june and july.
its is advisable to obtain them prior to your departure as several airlines insist on them prior to departure.
the unit of currency in tanzania and kenya is shilling, available in notes and coins.
there are no restrictions on the sale and consumption of alcoholic drinks in east africa.
tanzania some of the international airlines operating to tanzania include: klm royal dutch airlines/northwest airlines (from amsterdam/jfk in new york) to dar-es-salaam and kilimanjaro, swissair (from zurich) to dar-es-salaam.
generally, the more expensive the hotel or restaurant, the better and safer the food will be.
security tanzania and kenya are the safest countries in east africa.
moi international airport in mombasa is just on the outskirts of the city.
health and immunization modern medical services are available in big cities and towns.
but import and export of tanzanian and kenyan currency is illegal.
most  visitors do require visas with the exception of citizens of certain  commonwealth countries.
electricity tanzania and kenya use the uk/european standard power supply of 220/240  voltages.
sensible walking shoes, a hat to keep off the sun, and sunglasses are essential too.
keep an eye on your purses, wallets, handbags, and cameras.
please be advised that we  provide sleeping tents and mattresses miscellaneous other information will be explained when you get  pre-departure briefing in our office.
most major african and european airlines also service this route.
kiswahili is spoken and understood by the great majority of both  two nationals.
there are plenty of imported beers, wines and spirits in  many places.
so it is extremely important to ask them before doing so.
moi international airport in mombasa is just  on the outskirts of the city.
sensible walking shoes, a hat to keep off the sun, and sunglasses  are essential too.
its is advisable to obtain them prior to your departure  as several airlines insist on them prior to departure.
food  and drinks generally, the more expensive the hotel or restaurant, the better and safer  the food will be.
a custom's bond may be demanded from those bringing in video, camcorders, radios, tape recorders, and musical instruments to ensure the goods are re-exported.
however, just as any other country, you have to be cautious of your surrounding.
the major international airport in nairobi, jomo kenyatta, is half an hour drive from the city centre.
most visitors do require visas with the exception of citizens of certain commonwealth countries.
tipping the recommended ones per day (from the whole group) are: climbing:- chief  guide: 16usd, each assistant guide: 12usd, and each porter :7usd.
there are no restrictions on the amount of foreign currency that may be brought into tanzania or kenya, and no currency declaration is required.
one shilling is divided into 100 cents.
however, we do suggest to bring with you battery-operated appliances if possible.
if you want to use u.s. appliances you will need a voltage converter as well as a plug converter.
another international airport is eldoret,  situated in the rift-valley town that bears the same name passports/visa's you must be in possession of a current passport that remains valid for at  least six(6) months beyond your scheduled departure date from tanzania.
language the official languages of tanzania are kiswahili and english, and in kenya  is english.
however, we do suggest to bring with you  battery-operated appliances if possible.
there is a wide usage of and understanding of english language,  particularly, in the town centers.
never accept food or drinks from strangers.
however in particulararusha and nairobi , they experience colder weather in months of june and july.
but pack a sweater, it can be cold in the evening/morning.
the recommended ones per day (from the whole group) are: climbing:- chief guide: 16usd, each assistant guide: 12usd, and each porter :7usd.
avoid wearing expensive jewelry, walking in the dark, deserted lanes and streets.
british airways (from gatwick) to dar-es-salaam.
our food range from local to international food, prepared by  skilled and trained chefs.
it never get really cold in tanzania and kenya, so lightweight clothing is the norm.
tanzania can also be reached via african gateways served by air tanzania corporation, air zimbabwe, egypt air, ethiopian airlines, kenya airways and south african airways.
off course you can pay more if you are  particularly impressed and less if you are not.
anti-malaria tablets are recommended to be taken a  few days prior to your arrival, during your stay and for a short period after  returning home.
kenya some of the international airlines operating to kenya include: klm (from ny to amsterdam to nairobi, kenya airways which flies eight times a week from heathrow to nairobi, four of the flights are direct and the rest are via amsterdam.
off course you can pay more if you are particularly impressed and less if you are not.
we have a team of fluent speaking english, french, and germany.
there are plenty of imported beers, wines and spirits in many places.
a light jacket/sweater may be needed in the evening at higher altitudes.
visitors buying local handicrafts must keep their sales  receipts for presentation to customs officials on departure.
tanzania can  also be reached via african gateways served by air tanzania corporation, air  zimbabwe, egypt air, ethiopian airlines, kenya airways and south african  airways.
never accept food  or drinks from strangers.
as the few number of those speaking other language other  than english is concerned, we highly recommend to be notified at least two  months prior to your safari.
currency the unit of currency in tanzania and kenya is shilling, available in notes  and coins.
shopping tanzania and kenya use the uk/european standard power supply of 220/240  voltages.
however visitors are advised to bring their own medicines with them.
visitors from countries infected with cholera and yellow fever must produce international vaccination certificates.
there are no restrictions on the sale and consumption of alcoholic  drinks in east africa.
most major african and european airlines also service this  route.
a custom's bond may be demanded from those bringing in video, camcorders,  radios, tape recorders, and musical instruments to ensure the goods are  re-exported.
so it is  extremely important to ask them before doing so.
but import and export of tanzanian and  kenyan currency is illegal.
| kilimanjaro climbing | tanzania itineraries | kenya itineraries | uganda itineraries | tanzania & kenya combo | |  safari & trek photos | our safari vehicles | africa camping safari | africa  safari testimonial | packing list for safari | | tanzania safari lodges |  kenya safari lodges | tanzania safari special | kenya safari special | african  safari special | | contact us | terms & conditions | privacy policy | copyright  © 2011 good earth tours & safaris.
anti-malaria tablets are recommended to be taken a few days prior to your arrival, during your stay and for a short period after returning home.
international airlines tanzania some of the international airlines operating to tanzania  include: klm royal dutch airlines/northwest airlines (from amsterdam/jfk in new  york) to dar-es-salaam and kilimanjaro, swissair (from zurich) to  dar-es-salaam.
another international airport is eldoret, situated in the rift-valley town that bears the same name you must be in possession of a current passport that remains valid for at least six(6) months beyond your scheduled departure date from tanzania.
we require that all clients arrange personal travel insurance to cover their medical, property, and other personal risks for the duration of their safaris.
foreign currency in cash or traveler's cheques may be exchanged at banks, authorized dealers and at the bureau de change at the international airports, major towns and border posts.
as the few number of those speaking other language other than english is concerned, we highly recommend to be notified at least two months prior to your safari.
they can also be  obtained on arrival at the major international airports and at the namanga gate  on the tanzania/kenya border customs personal effects, including cameras, binoculars, may be brought in free of  duty.
| climate | international airlines | international airports |  passports/visa's| customs | currency | | health/immunization |  insurance  |language | security | electricity | shopping | | food & drinks |  clothing| photography |
however, just  as any other country, you have to be cautious of your surrounding.
on safari, short sleeve shirts/blouses, and shorts are ideal.
design bybrian  zhang.
you can get your driver to ask for you.
visitors buying local handicrafts must keep their sales receipts for presentation to customs officials on departure.
we provide bottled water for the trips as it is generally recommended to drink only bottled water, which is readily available, everywhere.
anti-malaria medication is strongly recommended when traveling to east africa.
foreign currency in cash or traveler's cheques may  be exchanged at banks, authorized dealers and at the bureau de change at the  international airports, major towns and border posts.
you can get your driver to ask  for you.
there is duty  free allowances of 200 cigarettes, 50 cigars or 250 grammes of tobacco, and one  pint of spirits.
modern medical services are available in big cities and towns.
if you want to use u.s. appliances you will need a voltage converter  as well as a plug converter.
a light jacket/sweater may be needed in the evening at higher  altitudes.
clothing it never get really cold in tanzania and kenya, so lightweight clothing is  the norm.
kenya some of the international airlines operating to kenya include:  klm (from ny to amsterdam to nairobi, kenya airways which flies eight times a  week from heathrow to nairobi, four of the flights are direct and the rest are  via amsterdam.
firearms and pocketknife require special permits.
kiswahili is spoken and understood by the great majority of both two nationals.
if climbing, needless to say, warm clothing is essential.
we provide bottled water for the trips as it is  generally recommended to drink only bottled water, which is readily available,  everywhere.
visitors from  countries infected with cholera and yellow fever must produce international  vaccination certificates.
for  safaris:-driver:15usd, and a cook:5usd.
when one takes a picture of the people, they feel offended.
temperatures in northern tanzania range from 55-75 degrees fahrenheit.
however  visitors are advised to bring their own medicines with them.
the major international airport in nairobi, jomo kenyatta, is half an  hour drive from the city centre.
| contact us | terms & conditions | privacy policy | copyright © 2011 good earth tours & safaris.
tanzania and kenya use the uk/european standard power supply of 220/240 voltages.
equipment most of the following equipments are needed for your climbing, and some for  safaris; and these include: sleeping tent, mattresses, sleeping bag, water/wind  proof jacket, warm jacket, rain clothes, sweater, warm trouser, long warm  underwear, climbing boot, walking shoes (hiking), pairs of cotton socks, hiking  short, a t-shirt, baseball cap, hat, gloves, water bottle (+3litres),  flashlight, small bag, rucksack( for your belongings to be carried by porters),  walking sticks, sun glasses, anti-diarrhea drug, anti-altitude drug, water  filter/iodine tablets, watch, camera/camcorder.
our food range from local to international food, prepared by skilled and trained chefs.
there is a wide usage of and understanding of english language, particularly, in the town centers.
design bybrian zhang.
plan to bring with you: two cameras, and their accessories including,  batteries, several speeds of film and dust-proof bags.
insurance we require that all clients arrange personal travel insurance to cover  their medical, property, and other personal risks for the duration of their  safaris.
on safari, short sleeve shirts/blouses, and  shorts are ideal.