whether its mount kenya trekking safaris, mount kilimanjaro climbing safaris, wildebeest migration safaris, or a combination of kenya and tanzania adventure vacations, our travel style sums up thereal adventures of east africa travel.
adventure panorama safaris is different because: 1) safari transportation: ....enabled to maximize photography.....and comfort while travelling...
our safari adventures are meant to provide a 360 degrees holiday experience.
we therefore take you to roads less travelled to find real africa adventure and safari experience.
2) safari group size: smallest groups.....maximum adventures.....
our greatest safari concern..... we always salute and treat our customers with greatest heart of concern.
whether you choose kenya budget adventure, kenya budget camping, kenya lodge safari, tanzania budget camping, or tanzania lodge safari, we will ensure that your accommodation during the safari captures the essence of that locality.
we therefore take you to roads less travelled to  find real africa adventure and safari experience.
we encourage you to try local meals as part of your adventure during your safaris.
our  safari prices are budget  because we visit off the beaten truck safari  destinations, offering a one-on-one travel which is the best way to experience  all the adventure destinations as we keep our budget low.
we therefore balance our travellers in small groups to all our adventure destinations to enhance flexibility and maximum safari experience.
our greatest safari concern..... we always salute and  treat our customers with greatest  heart of concern.
home | contact us | about us | destination | travel tips | links |booking info kenya highlights - kenya cultural tours - kenya balloon safaris - kenya budget safaris - kenya marine safari - kenya lodge safaris - mount elgon trekking - mount kenya climbing - nairobi excursions
3 days tanzania budget tours 4 days tanzania budget tour 5 days tanzania budget tours 6 days tanzania budget tour 7 days tanzania budget tours safari assurance : why we lead in  kenya safaris,tanzania safaris, kenya adventure safari, tanzania adventure  safaris adventure panorama safaris invites you to  east africa with a new adventure travel perspective.
best safari experience.
kenya, tanzania and uganda  areeast africa travel destinations full of great travel experience accompanied  with resort hotels, budget camping sites,adventure safari tents, luxury lodges  and controlled environments with cultural tourism.
the landcruisers are fixed with sensitive radio calls with high frequency for instant communication and excellent terrain performance.
we are a company of local professionals dedicated to showing the real east africa adventures in a sustainable manner.
our offers in kenyacultural tours or kenya adventure safaris, tanzania budget adventures or tanzania lodge safaris and all uganda adventure safaris are organized to cater for all budget adventure safari travellers and luxury lodge holiday lovers for the best of kenya safaris, tanzania adventures anduganda vacations.
the savings is therefore returned to you.
our offers in kenyacultural tours or kenya adventure safaris, tanzania budget  adventures or tanzania lodge safaris and all uganda adventure safaris are  organized to cater for all budget adventure safari travellers and luxury lodge  holiday lovers for the best of kenya safaris, tanzania adventures anduganda  vacations.
we offer a diverse range of safari accommodations and hence different adventure styles.
our safari prices are budget because we visit off the beaten truck safari destinations, offering a one-on-one travel which is the best way to experience all the adventure destinations as we keep our budget low.
kenya, tanzania and uganda areeast africa travel destinations full of great travel experience accompanied with resort hotels, budget camping sites,adventure safari tents, luxury lodges and controlled environments with cultural tourism.
unless on a special safari request, we dont use lavish hotels or provide expensive western style meals custom safari enquiry hotline: +254 725 881 811 kenya volunteer programs - volunteer in teaching - community healthcare - volunteer in economic empowerment - volunteer in environmental care - community support initiative - hiv/ aids and orphans - volunteer with children - volunteer in youth program - school construction - medical internship - kenya volunteer expedition - the host community sitemap panorama safari guarantee daily safari departures kenya wildebeest migration best kenya budget tours - 3 days kenya budget tours - 4 days kenya budget tour - 5 days kenya budget tours - 6 days kenya budget tour - 6 days kenya cultural tours - kenya responsible safaris - family adventure tours kenya -
the panoramic kenya tours adventure panorama safaris titan complex, mezzanine floor, chaka road, hurlingham e-mail: info@adventurepanoramasafaris.com telephone: +254202473085 mobile phone number: +254725881811, +254731616881 http://www.adventurepanoramasafaris.com
in kenya, we use specially customized safari vans with pop-up roofs, sliding side windows for full length photography, and fixed with hfr communication for office up-dates and big five location.
adventures found in kenya  compared to those found in tanzania give a great variation of real africa  safari satisfaction.
we know you are great  adventure and safari people.
we know that getting to your safari destination  is half the safari fun.
we encourage you to try local meals as part of  your adventure during your safaris.
in tanzania,  our safaris are done in 4 *4 safari landcruisers fixed with strong suspension  to endure the hardest tanzania safaris and adventure destinations.
unless on a special safari request, we dont use  lavish hotels or provide expensive western style meals custom safari enquiry hotline: +254 725 881 811 kenya volunteer programs
whether you choose kenya budget adventure, kenya budget camping, kenya lodge  safari, tanzania budget camping,  or tanzania lodge safari, we will ensure  that your accommodation during the safari captures the essence of that  locality.
our meals are delicious and fresh, straight  from the farms.
adventure  panorama safaris is different because: 1) safari  transportation: ....enabled to maximize photography.....and  comfort while travelling...
our meals are delicious and fresh, straight from the farms.
- kenya car hire - kenya flying safaris - budget adventure safaris kenya - train services kenya - kenya voluntary project - best of kisumu tours tanzania highlights - mount meru trekking - mount kilimanjaro climbing - tanzania balloon safari - tanzania budget camping safaris - tanzania luxury lodge safaris - tanzania adventure safaris special safaris via kenya - budget:
the savings is  therefore returned to you.
5) traveller's foods ....professional cuisine....fantastic meals...
the  landcruisers are fixed with sensitive radio calls with high frequency for  instant communication and excellent terrain performance.
in kenya, we use specially customized safari vans with  pop-up roofs, sliding side windows for full length photography, and fixed with  hfr communication for office up-dates and big five location.
we cater for both  vegeterians and non-vegeterians.
adventures found in kenya compared to those found in tanzania give a great variation of real africa safari satisfaction.
unbeatable safari prices.....for the best adventure experience.
our safari  adventures are meant to provide a 360 degrees holiday experience.
we therefore  balance our travellers in small groups to all our adventure destinations to  enhance flexibility and maximum safari experience.
6)safari value and flexibility ......
at adventure panorama safaris, we consider safari size first.
in tanzania, our safaris are done in 4 *4 safari landcruisers fixed with strong suspension to endure the hardest tanzania safaris and adventure destinations.
2)  safari group size: smallest groups.....maximum adventures.....
we cater for both vegeterians and non-vegeterians.
4)our safari accommodation ......
your safari choice.....our provision....
we know you are great adventure and safari people.
we know that getting to your safari destination is half the safari fun.
we offer a diverse range of safari accommodations and hence different  adventure styles.
whether its mount  kenya trekking safaris, mount kilimanjaro climbing safaris, wildebeest  migration safaris, or a combination of kenya and tanzania adventure vacations,  our travel style sums up thereal adventures of east africa travel.
tanzania via kenya - uganda chimp safari - uganda gorilla tracking - uganda white water rafting - lodge: tanzania via kenya kenya and zanzibar combined - zanzibar excursions - kenya zanzibar lodge safaris - kenya zanzibar budget safaris kenya and tanzania combined - kenya tanzania budget safaris - kenya tanzania lodge safaris - tanzania $ kenya safari vans suggested accommodations best tanzania budget tours safari assurance : why we lead in kenya safaris,tanzania safaris, kenya adventure safari, tanzania adventure safaris - 3 days tanzania budget tours - 4 days tanzania budget tour - 5 days tanzania budget tours - 6 days tanzania budget tour - 7 days tanzania budget tours adventure panorama safaris invites you to east africa with a new adventure travel perspective.