day 6 departure after breakfast drive to nairobi, kenya's colourful capital city.
the innovative design of these tents, with their hexagonal shape, walk-in structure and en-suite separate toilet and shower areas, allow for a sense of space, unmatched views, and privacy.
day 4: masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids  tented camp after breakfast, drive to the masai  mara national reserve offering wonderful scenery and plenty of game.
the tour guides are dedicated and committed individuals who love what they do and seek to share their knowledge and passion with their guests.
african safaris  and adventures representative will re-confirm your onward flight, and assist  you at check-in.
transfer to your hotel.
our safaris use "meru-style" tents for the mobile camping sites.
our wildlife itineraries provide superb encounters with the wildest, most diverse, remote and scenic areas in each country.
african safaris and adventures in africa - kenya safaris, tanzania safaris and uganda gorilla treks.
this afternoon after  your lunch you will be transferred by the lodge vehicle to treetops lodge.
african safari and adventure safaris  combine permanent safari camps with private, luxury mobile camps that are  pre-erected prior to guests' arrival.
saying goodbye to the aberdares region, drive via nyahururu to lake nakuru national park, famous as the home to thousands of greater and lesser flamingo.
our luxurious range ofkenya , tanzania uganda safaris that take advantage of  unique locations, taking tourists on spectacular journeys through remote  wilderness areas to enjoy the most outstanding wildlife viewing in africa.
these wilderness safaris are expertly  guided and hosted throughout by an experienced and fully trained professional  guide, ensuring a seamless interpretation of a diversity of african safari  experiences.
it is  perhaps the only region left in kenya where the visitor may see animals in the  same super-abundance as existed a century ago.
it is perhaps the only region left in kenya where the visitor may see animals in the same super-abundance as existed a century ago.
with a wide variety of over a 100 top lodges, luxury camps and private game  reserves to choose from, this quality of accommodation, activities and luxury  safaris means that there is something for everyone wanting to come to africa  from honeymoon to family safaris.
floor koinange street nairobi,kenya tel: +254-20-2245023 tel/fax: +254-20-2245013 cell phone: +254-728-873329 after office hours: +254-722-461047 email safari consultants: sales@africansafaris.co.ke website: www.africansafaris.co.ke
dinner and overnight at lake nakuru lodge.
we offer two styles of wilderness lodge safaris - wilderness luxury tented lodge safarisand custom designed lodge safaris.
every itinerary can be altered to fit your interests; days can be  changed, added or deleted.
african safaris and adventures is a family ran safari  company and tour operator that specializes in tailor madeholidays to  east africa.
meals and overnight at siana intrepids tented camp  (ldbb).
dinner and overnight at treetops hotel/mountain lodge (ldbb).
allcamping safaris are "non-participation" (meaning all cooking and camp work is performed by the safari staff) with old-style 'out-of-africa' safari comforts and amenities provided.
saying  goodbye to the aberdares region, drive via nyahururu to lake nakuru national  park, famous as the home to thousands of greater and lesser flamingo.
both safari types provide guests with the original kenya safari atmosphere of an unhurried, life-changing journey.
the luxury lodges & camps are set up largely in private safari concession areas - with some select camps in national parks, allowing guests to experience a variety of interesting and unique activities, wildlife, and environments.
afternoon game drive until sunset.
after breakfast you will drive to the aberdares region, a beautiful mountain range in the central highlands of kenya.
day 1: nairobi - jacaranda hotel arrival at jomo kenyatta airport, met and assisted by african safaris and adventures representative.
on arrival in your lodge you will check in and have lunch at the outspan  hotel, which serves as the base hotel for treetops lodge.
these camps are always located in private areas, away from any crowds or public areas, and in exclusive wildlife areas.
lodge and camping safaris in africa as well as beach holidays and mountain climbing african safaris & adventures p.o.box 5176,00100 gpo college house 1st
lodge and camping safaris  in africa as well as beach holidays and mountain climbing make a reservation home | about us | why us | contact us | link exchange |   travel agents | kenya hotels | tanzania hotels |  uganda hotels | zanzibar  hotels | sitemap |  photo gallery| tanzania safaris  | kenya safaris   |uganda safaris  | kenya-tanzania safaris  | zanzibar holidays| honeymoon | maps | kenya  | tanzania| uganda | zanzibar | african safaris & adventures
predominantly lodges from the wilderness & leading lodges of africa, are used  in our custom designed safari tours.
transfer to your hotel or  jomo kenyatta airport for your onward arrangements.
african safaris and adventures is a leading luxury safari lodge company in kenya uganda tanzania africa and operates quality wilderness safaris.
we will customize an unforgettable kenya wildlife safari experience for you to the most impressive and untouched wildlife and game reserve  areas in kenya, likemasai mara, amboseli, samburu, lake nakuru,  tanzania serengeti, ngorongoro, and lake manyara.
day 4: masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids tented camp after breakfast, drive to the masai mara national reserve offering wonderful scenery and plenty of game.
meals and overnight at siana intrepids tented camp (ldbb).
on arrival  you will check in then have lunch followed with afternoon game drive in the  park until sunset.
this afternoon after your lunch you will be transferred by the lodge vehicle to treetops lodge.
each safari is unique and will immerse you in east  african wildlife, astonishing landscape and tribal culture that few tourists  see or experience.
allcamping safaris are  "non-participation" (meaning all cooking and camp work is performed  by the safari staff) with old-style 'out-of-africa' safari comforts and  amenities provided.
whole day in masai mara with morning and afternoon game drives.
the tour guides are dedicated and committed individuals who  love what they do and seek to share their knowledge and passion with their  guests.
african safari and adventure safaris combine permanent safari camps with private, luxury mobile camps that are pre-erected prior to guests' arrival.
every itinerary can be altered to fit your interests; days can be changed, added or deleted.
the park also provides sanctuary for rothschild giraffe, rhino and leopard.
african safaris and adventures representative will re-confirm your onward flight, and assist you at check-in.
arrive for lunch at your lodge.
our luxurious range ofkenya , tanzania uganda safaris that take advantage of unique locations, taking tourists on spectacular journeys through remote wilderness areas to enjoy the most outstanding wildlife viewing in africa.
the guide remains with the group throughout the safari, ensuring that there is a consistent and detailed interpretation tailored to your specific interests.
zanzibar safaris zanzibar hotels african safaris and adventures is a leading luxury safari  lodge company in kenya uganda tanzania africa and operates quality wilderness safaris.
transfer to your hotel or jomo kenyatta airport for your onward arrangements.
our  wildlife itineraries provide superb encounters with the wildest, most diverse,  remote and scenic areas in each country.
the luxury lodges & camps are set up  largely in private safari concession areas - with some select camps in national  parks, allowing guests to experience a variety of interesting and unique  activities, wildlife, and environments.
whether you are looking for5 star luxury  safaris, a honeymoon safari, mountain treks, a basic  walking safari, afamily holiday or an enticing combination of  safari and beach, our specialist advice will help you plan the perfect holiday  to meet your needs, interests andbudget.
on arrival in your lodge you will check in and have lunch at the outspan hotel, which serves as the base hotel for treetops lodge.
we are of the most comprehensive safari lodge  operators with exceptional lodges, safaris and game reserves in east  africa’s most breathtaking wilderness locations.
whole day in masai mara with morning and  afternoon game drives.
both  safari types provide guests with the original kenya safari atmosphere of an  unhurried, life-changing journey.
rest of the day is spent at  leisure in nairobi overnight at jacaranda hotel (bb) day 2: aberdares national park - treetops  lodge
we are of the most comprehensive safari lodge operators with exceptional lodges, safaris and game reserves in east africa’s most breathtaking wilderness locations.
day 5: masai mara national g.r - siana intrepids tented camp early morning optional balloon ride with champagne-style breakfast.
day 5: masai mara  national g.r - siana intrepids tented camp early morning optional balloon  ride with champagne-style breakfast.
on arrival you will check in then have lunch followed with afternoon game drive in the park until sunset.
the  innovative design of these tents, with their hexagonal shape, walk-in structure  and en-suite separate toilet and shower areas, allow for a sense of space,  unmatched views, and privacy.
our focus is to help you choose the style of safari that  suits you.
day 3: lake nakuru n.p - lake nakuru lodge breakfast in the lodge then you will be transferred by the lodge  vehicle to outspan where you will check out and collect your luggage.
after breakfast you will drive to the  aberdares region, a beautiful mountain range in the central highlands of  kenya.
predominantly lodges from the wilderness & leading lodges of africa, are used in our custom designed safari tours.
we will customize an unforgettable kenya wildlife safari experience for you to the most impressive and untouched wildlife and game reserve areas in kenya, likemasai mara, amboseli, samburu, lake nakuru, tanzania serengeti, ngorongoro, and lake manyara.
the tent interiors create a sense of stepping  back in time, 'out-of-africa'-style, with flowing linens of heavy, pure cotton,  full-sized beds, and "old brass" finishes our scheduled african  safaris feature frequent, scheduled departures, each accommodating groups of up  to 18 guests only (guaranteed with a minimum of 2 guests), thus ensuring a  personalized experience.
the guide remains with the group throughout the safari, ensuring  that there is a consistent and detailed interpretation tailored to your  specific interests.
these camps are always located in private  areas, away from any crowds or public areas, and in exclusive wildlife areas.
day 1: nairobi - jacaranda hotel arrival at jomo kenyatta airport, met and assisted by african safaris and  adventures representative.
each safari is unique and will immerse you in east african wildlife, astonishing landscape and tribal culture that few tourists see or experience.
rest of the day is spent at leisure in nairobi overnight at jacaranda hotel (bb) day 2: aberdares national park - treetops lodge
day 6 departure after breakfast  drive to nairobi, kenya's colourful capital city.
african safaris and adventures in africa - kenya  safaris, tanzania safaris and uganda gorilla treks.
the tent interiors create a sense of stepping back in time, 'out-of-africa'-style, with flowing linens of heavy, pure cotton, full-sized beds, and "old brass" finishes our scheduled african safaris feature frequent, scheduled departures, each accommodating groups of up to 18 guests only (guaranteed with a minimum of 2 guests), thus ensuring a personalized experience.
the park  also provides sanctuary for rothschild giraffe, rhino and leopard.
meals and overnight at siana  intrepids tented camp (ldbb).
with a wide variety of over a 100 top lodges, luxury camps and private game reserves to choose from, this quality of accommodation, activities and luxury safaris means that there is something for everyone wanting to come to africa from honeymoon to family safaris.
day 3: lake nakuru n.p - lake nakuru lodge breakfast in the lodge then you will be transferred by the lodge vehicle to outspan where you will check out and collect your luggage.
we offer two styles of wilderness lodge safaris - wilderness luxury tented  lodge safarisand custom designed lodge safaris.
whether you are looking for5 star luxury safaris, a honeymoon safari, mountain treks, a basic walking safari, afamily holiday or an enticing combination of safari and beach, our specialist advice will help you plan the perfect holiday to meet your needs, interests andbudget.
these wilderness safaris are expertly guided and hosted throughout by an experienced and fully trained professional guide, ensuring a seamless interpretation of a diversity of african safari experiences.
african safaris and adventures is a family ran safari company and tour operator that specializes in tailor madeholidays to east africa.
our focus is to help you choose the style of safari that suits you.