mount kenya climbing commands a fleet of safari mini buses and land  cruisers.
we strongly subscribes to the promotion of  ecotourism and sustainable form of tourism.
we carefully select and  analyze destinations to which we go and offer the best eco-destinations in east  africa, where you will not only get in touch with nature but also with the  local communities.
our safaris ensure that you are back to nature and enhance local african culture.
e-mail:  info@mountkenyaexpeditions.com or mtkenyaexpd@gmail.com kenya safari : tanzania safari : mount kenya climbing : mount  kilimanjaro trekking :
climb mount meru : kenya tanzania safari : masai mara camping tours
at least you will be happy that you are imparted with the local knowledge in terms of cultural diversity, landscapes and obviously what kenya, tanzania and uganda are to offer.
mount kenya climbing expeditions lead the way in a new trend and more exciting safari travel with the emphasis on ecotourism, a more informative, adventurous, diverse and intimate safari experience.
mount kenya climbing expeditions lead the way in a new trend and more  exciting safari travel with the emphasis on ecotourism, a more informative,  adventurous, diverse and intimate safari experience.
all rights reserved.
for each of our programs, we carefully select first class and superior hotel accommodation, which are strategically located and offer friendly service and modern facilities.
kenya safaris, safaris kenya, safaris, tanzania safaris, uganda safaris,  gorilla tracking uganda, beach safaris, mt climbing africa, mount kenya  climbing: mount kenya climb, trekking mount kenya hiking mount kenya climbing expeditions home | contact us | about us | travel tips  |links mount kenya climbing | mount kilimanjaro climbing | mt meru climbing | mt  longonot |  oldonyo lengai  hiking |  loita hills walking |  trekking  chyulu hills kenya lodge  safaris about mount kenya climbing expeditions mount kenya climbing expeditions: we are an indigenous kenyan owned and run company with a desire to  providing exceptionally adventurous tour packages and expedition in east  africa.
we strongly subscribes to the promotion of ecotourism and sustainable form of tourism.
we too encourage our visitors to  also support our locals.
mount kenya climbing commands a fleet of safari mini buses and land cruisers.
for all our trips, we guarantee window-seating for each passenger.
kenya safaris, safaris kenya, safaris, tanzania safaris, uganda safaris, gorilla tracking uganda, beach safaris, mt climbing africa, mount kenya climbing: mount kenya climb, trekking mount kenya hiking mount kenya climbing expeditions home |
tel: +254 20 2244068 / 317656, fax: +254 20 317656, cell phone: +254 722 884748 website: www.mountkenyaexpeditions.com
we work with local as well as international lodge/hotel chains with high standards, such as serena hotels, sopa lodges, sarova hotels, fairmont hotels, wilderness lodges amongst other classic lodgings.
this ensures that each of our traveller best  enjoy their holidays in luxury and comfort.
besides, mount kenya climbing expeditions support the local communities in  each location of our safari circuits.
our services cover the whole of kenya, tanzania and uganda with  our centrally based head office in nairobi, kenya and representative offices in  arusha and kampala.
for the discerning adventure traveller, we plan your african journey, whether you choose a pre-arranged tour or a customized safari for a group of friends or family.
besides, mount kenya climbing expeditions support the local communities in each location of our safari circuits.
© copyright 2010 mount kenya climbing expeditions.
in all the places we go, we contribute to conservation of our precious environment.
for each of our programs, we carefully select first class and  superior hotel accommodation, which are strategically located and  offer friendly service and modern facilities.
e-mail: info@mountkenyaexpeditions.com or mtkenyaexpd@gmail.com kenya safari :
mount kenya  climbing expeditions commits our resources in contributing to local nature  conservation, supporting conservation bodies and being actively involved to  preservation and conservation of africa's unique environment.
for the discerning adventure traveller, we plan your african journey,  whether you choose a pre-arranged tour or a customized safari for a group of  friends or family.
at least you will  be happy that you are imparted with the local knowledge in terms of cultural  diversity, landscapes and obviously what kenya, tanzania and uganda are to  offer.
our services cover the whole of kenya, tanzania and uganda with our centrally based head office in nairobi, kenya and representative offices in arusha and kampala.
we work with local as well as  international lodge/hotel chains with high standards, such as serena hotels,  sopa lodges, sarova hotels, fairmont hotels, wilderness lodges amongst other  classic lodgings.
mount kenya climbing expeditions commits our resources in contributing to local nature conservation, supporting conservation bodies and being actively involved to preservation and conservation of africa's unique environment.
besides, each  driver/guide has cell phone connection which will enable him to contact us at  any given moment.
it's our policy to ensure we empower the local people in conserving our environment as well as making them better off economically.
mount kenya climbing expeditions does welcome you to be part of our family  of adventure travel to east africa for that exciting and memorable safari  holiday.
mount kenya climbing is one of kenya's finest tours, safaris and travel  companies, specializing in adventure expeditions, short excursions, extended  safaris, specialist and tailor-made travel and safaris,  hotel and safari  lodge bookings.
each of the vehicles is fitted with vhf radio communication to help us get in  touch with each driver/guide anytime in any location.
contact us | about us | travel tips |links mount kenya climbing | mount kilimanjaro climbing | mt meru climbing | mt longonot | oldonyo lengai hiking | loita hills walking | trekking chyulu hills african sermon safaris about mount kenya climbing expeditions mount kenya climbing expeditions: we are an indigenous kenyan owned and run company with a desire to providing exceptionally adventurous tour packages and expedition in east africa.
p.o. box 51322 - 00200, nairobi, kenya.
mount kenya climbing is one of kenya's finest tours, safaris and travel companies, specializing in adventure expeditions, short excursions, extended safaris, specialist and tailor-made travel and safaris, hotel and safari lodge bookings.
we too encourage our visitors to also support our locals.
our safaris ensure that you are back to nature and enhance  local african culture.
when you use our services, you are sure that local experienced kenyans will offer you unsurpassed on-the-ground expertise and with fresh itineraries that are well researched and thought out.
mount kenya climbing expeditions does welcome you to be part of our family of adventure travel to east africa for that exciting and memorable safari holiday.
the company contributes part of it proceeds to the local poor  people especially in samburu and masai land.
each of the vehicles is fitted with vhf radio communication to help us get in touch with each driver/guide anytime in any location.
when you use our services, you are sure that local  experienced kenyans will offer you unsurpassed on-the-ground expertise and with  fresh itineraries that are well researched and thought out.
tel:  +254 20 2244068 / 317656, fax: +254 20 317656, cell phone: +254 722 884748 website: www.mountkenyaexpeditions.com
this ensures that each of our traveller best enjoy their holidays in luxury and comfort.
we carefully select and analyze destinations to which we go and offer the best eco-destinations in east africa, where you will not only get in touch with nature but also with the local communities.
besides, each driver/guide has cell phone connection which will enable him to contact us at any given moment.
it's our policy to ensure we empower the  local people in conserving our environment as well as making them better off  economically.
tanzania safari : mount kenya climbing : mount kilimanjaro trekking :
you will definitely attest that our service is beyond imagination as  we will carefully take you as one of our long lost old friend, a magical touch  of africa's hospitality!
the company contributes part of it proceeds to the local poor people especially in samburu and masai land.
in all the places we go, we  contribute to conservation of our precious environment.
you will definitely attest that our service is beyond imagination as we will carefully take you as one of our long lost old friend, a magical touch of africa's hospitality!