breakfast, short drive back to the cooler mount kenya area and sweetwaters, game drive to the lodge for lunch, afternoon game drive, overnight sweetwaters luxury tented camp.
serengeti national park.
pick up from your nairobi hotel at 0400hrs and transfer to  the airport for early morning 0630hrs  flight to entebbe, arrive entebbe  airport at 0720hrs,meet,safari briefing and depart for the south with stops at  the craft village at the uganda equator for pictures and shopping.
full day in samburu with game drives .search for  the rare liver red reticulated giraffe, grevy's zebra, beisa oryx, blue flanked  somali ostrich, vulturine guinea fowl, longneck gerenuk.
with  picnic lunch you later start 30 minutes - 8 hours trek to find the mountain  gorillas in bwindi.
the great wildebeest migration moves from the serengeti national park in tanzania…read more tour name: mountain gorilla treks/safari uganda.
accomodation on bed/breakfast basis.
depart mara after  breakfast and proceed to nairobi for lunch.
morning  breakfast at  resort/camp followed by briefing by park ranger guides.
dinner  and overnight at ngorongoro sopa  lodge/serena lodge.
transits time  8 -10hrs.
maasai mara transfer to wilson airstrip for a scheduled flight to maasai mara departing at 1000 hours.
afternoon at leisure or take optional boat rides or you can visit the hells gate national park for game drive.
accommodations: can make your choice of safari  lodges/hotels.
pick up namanga border  town.
breakfast at manyara and depart for tarangire arriving for lunch at lodge.
duration: 10 days | 9 nights:parks to visit:lake nakuru/masai  mara/serengeti/ngorongoro/lake manyara .accommodations:can make your choice of  safari lodges/hotels.
meal plan:  {b,l,d} day 17.
varied bird species can be seen here including   eagles, ducks, geese, egrets, vultures, secretary birds, ibis, stork,   herons, kites, pelicans, cranes and guinea fowl.
read more the great wildebeest migration safaris kenya tanzania:
sweetwaters game reserve.
read more sweetwaters safari tours sweetwaters safaris : tours sweetwaters : aberdares trips : sweetwaters  luxury tented camp nestled between mt. kenya to the east and the aberdares  mountains to the west, sweetwaters game reserve is a privately held reserve
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 10.
this  beautiful park is at the base of the  great rift valley escarpment and  comprises of forest, woodland,  grasslands, and swamps.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 17.
this beautiful park is at the base of the great rift valley escarpment and comprises of forest, woodland, grasslands, and swamps.
gazelles, impala, buffalo, wildebeest, the famous tree climbing lion, hyena, baboon, giraffe, hippopotamus, and a great number of smaller mammals,350 species of bird, storks and flamingoes.
dinner and overnight at mara leisure luxury tented camp/keekorok lodge.
after  breakfast, we depart from the gorilla sanctuary and transfer to mbarara for  lunch, later depart for kampala with a stop over at the uganda equator and the  mpambire drum makers workshop should you wish.
game  drive enroute to the lodge.
it has a  surprisingly number of animals, all the "big five" except the  elephant can be seen here, dinner and overnight at sarova lion hill/similar.
lake nakuru national park.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari  minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
arrive nairobi,meet and transfer to  stanley hotel bed/breakfast basis.
amboseli is a  photogenic park and hosts a great number of game and birdlife including the  lion,huge herds of elephant and the splendid cheetah.
though harsh, it is blessed with species rarely found elsewhere.
dinner and overnight at keekorok lodge/similar.
dinner and overnight at  lake naivasha sopa resort/lake naivasha country club.
read more mt kilimanjaro climbing asstm 042 :6 days/5 nights:  mt.kilimanjaro climbing : machame
arrive in time for lunch at lodge.
all meals and overnight at samburu sopa lodge/similar.
breakfast at a lodge and drive to the  shoulders of mt. kenya via thomson falls arriving lake nakuru in time for  lunch, afternoon game drive at the pink lake referred so for it's thousands of  pink flamingos and other birdlife-it's a bird watchers paradise.
the park  contains five distinct  vegetation zones and is of scenic beauty dinner  and overnight at  kirurumu tented camp/serena lodge.
8hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 14.
lake manyara depart in the morning for lake manyara arriving for lunch.
late evening arrive for dinner and overnight at gorilla resort camp / mantana bwindi camp.
maasai mara national reserve.
game drive enroute to the lodge.
the tracking starts at the area where the gorillas were spotted the previous day.
safari transport mode: transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
see braving lions on  the grass, cheetah, leopards among plenty of other plains game.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and your driver guide.
afternoon (1600hrs-1830hrs) game drive inside the scenic park well  known for great concentration of wildgame.
arrive in time for lunch at lake naivasha sopa resort.
dinner and overnight at samburu sopa lodge/similar.
tarangire safari lodge.
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.
late  evening arrive for dinner and overnight  at gorilla resort camp / mantana  bwindi camp.
read more nairobi excursions & city tours nairobi safaris: nairobi tours : nairobi excursions : holidays nairobi :  nairobi short safaris assn 007: sheldrick elephant orphanage (daily at 11.00  a.m - 12.00p.m).in thepark is the animal orphanage where sick, wounded and  abandoned animals are cared for and rehabilitated into the park, as well as an  educational centre featuring a safari walk.
breakfast at hotel and later transfer to the airport  for mid morning flight to nairobi.
in the central plains there are carnivores like leopard, lion, hyena and cheetah.
lake  nakuru national park.
enjoy an hour with the gorillas and return for dinner and overnight at the gorilla resort camp/mantana bwindi camp.
game viewing in the crater.
morning (6:30am) and afternoon (1500hrs) game viewing drive inside the park.
the term serengeti means endless plains in maasai language.
lake manyara depart in the morning for lake  manyara arriving for lunch.
check out time at hotel is 10:00hrs.
kampala/bwindi national  park.
approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 21.
between meals there is optional visit to the maasai villages  for an insight to their culture if clients so wish.
arriving arusha for lunch at impala hotel afternoon proceed to ngorongoro  conservation area, en-route game viewing arriving at ngorongoro sopa  lodge/serena lodge.
meals and overnight at mara leisure luxury tented camp/keekorok lodge.
depart mara after breakfast and proceed to nairobi for lunch.
depart nairobi in the morning for samburu national reserve crossing the equator and driving through changing terrain to the rugged semi-desert regions in the northern kenya.
lake manyara national park, famous for its tree climbing lions and large flocks of flamingoes.
read more tour name: gorilla and big five safari uganda kenya tanzania tour code: assea 095: tour duration : 22 days |21 nights: parks to visit: nairobi/gorilla treks/samburu/sweetwaters/lake nakuru/lake naivasha/maasai mara/amboseli/ngorongoro/serengeti/lake manyara/tarangire.
after lunch drive to amboseli at the foothills of snow capped mt.kilimanjaro ,africa ’s highest peak.
approx transit  time: 1 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 11.
approx  transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 18.
tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: meru/sweetwaters/lake  nakuru/maasai mara: accommodations:can make your choice of safari  lodges/hotels.
dinner and  overnight at keekorok lodge/similar.
breakfast at a lodge and drive to the shoulders of mt. kenya via thomson falls arriving lake nakuru in time for lunch, afternoon game drive at the pink lake referred so for it's thousands of pink flamingos and other birdlife-it's a bird watchers paradise.
transits time 8-10hrs.
wildebeest  migration safaris masai mara,wildebeest migration safaris serengeti,wildlife  migration masai mara serengeti kenya tanzania: serengeti tanzania and masai  mara kenya wildlife migration trips tours:wildlife lodge safari tours masai
full day in samburu with game drives .search for the rare liver red reticulated giraffe, grevy's zebra, beisa oryx, blue flanked somali ostrich, vulturine guinea fowl, longneck gerenuk.
the reserve boasts a plethora of wildlife -… read more wildlife beach holidays kenya tour name: bush & beach safari tour  kenyacode: aswb 001:tour  duration: 10 days |9 nights:parks to visit: nairobi | masai mara | lake nakuru  | beach.
arriving arusha for lunch at impala hotel afternoon proceed to ngorongoro conservation area, en-route game viewing arriving at ngorongoro sopa lodge/serena lodge.
(optional visits to samburu villages).
dinner and overnight at amboseli sopa lodge/amboseli serena lodge.
read more asstm 042 :6 days/5 nights: mt.kilimanjaro climbing : machame route: day 1: machame gate (1,800m) to machame camp (3,000m).
enjoy early morning spectacular views of the snow-capped mountain.
amboseli is a photogenic park and hosts a great number of game and birdlife including the lion,huge herds of elephant and the splendid cheetah.
dinner and overnight at ngorongoro sopa lodge/serena lodge.
late afternoon game drive inside the park to search for wild game, the park is home to plenty of game and birdlife.
the park contains five distinct vegetation zones and is of scenic beauty dinner and overnight at kirurumu tented camp/serena lodge.
tour duration: 3 days |2 nights: parks to visit: bwindi impenetrable national park.
early breakfast and depart for maasai mara crossing the loita plains, view scenarios enroute including lake elementaita, mt.longonot, as well see red-clad maasai warriors tend their multi-colored herds amongst plains game.
amboseli national park.
this park is normally the scene of the annual migration of wildebeest and zebra that occurs between the kenyan mara and the serengeti.
dinner and overnight at mara leisure  luxury tented camp/keekorok lodge.
arrive kampala for overnight stay  at lake victoria serena hotel.(bed/breakfast).
this park is normally the scene of  the annual migration of wildebeest and zebra that occurs between the kenyan  mara and the serengeti.
search for wild game black manned lion for which mara is famous for, cheetah, buffalo, wildebeest, zebra, leopard, grants gazelle are quite common, even the rare rhino might come out of the thicket for you, hyenas are plentiful, extend your drive to the hippo point where schools of hippo submerge on the approach of vehicles only to surface seconds later to shot and gamble their displeasure as the crocodiles sunbathe on the river banks mouths agape.
you stay in tents adjacent to a waterhole, which  provides for a constant procession of animals taking their turn at the precious  resource.
dinner and overnight at lake naivasha sopa resort/lake naivasha country club. approx transit time: 1 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 11.
approx  transit time: 4 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} breakfast at manyara and depart for  tarangire arriving for lunch at  lodge.
the tracking starts at the area where the gorillas were  spotted the previous day.
transits time 8 -10hrs.
depart nairobi in the morning for samburu national reserve crossing the equator  and driving through changing terrain to the rugged semi-desert regions in the  northern kenya.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 19.
afternoon game drive to search for the stars of samburu.
approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 9.
after breakfast, we depart from the gorilla sanctuary and transfer to mbarara for lunch, later depart for kampala with a stop over at the uganda equator and the mpambire drum makers workshop should you wish.
read more tour name: gorilla and big five safari uganda kenya  tanzania tour code: assea 095: tour duration : 22 days |21 nights: parks to visit:  nairobi/gorilla treks/samburu/sweetwaters/lake nakuru/lake naivasha/maasai  mara/amboseli/ngorongoro/serengeti/lake manyara/tarangire.
search for wild game black manned lion for which  mara is famous for, cheetah, buffalo, wildebeest, zebra, leopard, grants  gazelle are quite common, even the rare rhino might come out of the thicket for  you, hyenas are plentiful, extend your drive to the hippo point where schools  of hippo submerge on the approach of vehicles only to surface seconds later to  shot and gamble their displeasure as the crocodiles sunbathe on the river banks  mouths agape.
the term serengeti means  endless plains in maasai language.
after lunch  at the lakeview hotel in mbarara, proceed through the beautiful evergreen  mountain country referred to as the “little switzerland”.
depart after breakfast and take picnic lunch with you as you proceed for serengeti with a brief stop at olduvai gorge the historical site, picnic lunch and proceed arriving serengeti for late afternoon game drive.
assa-001 : 2 days | 1 night : day 1.
all meals and overnight at amboseli sopa lodge/amboseli serena lodge.
after breakfast, depart for arusha for lunch and board 0200pm shuttle back to nairobi.
after lunch drive to amboseli at  the foothills of snow capped mt.kilimanjaro ,africa ’s highest peak.
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
approx transit time: 5 hrs meal  plan: {b,l,d} day 12.
joomla templates and joomla  extensions by joomlavision.
lake manyara national park,  famous for its tree climbing lions  and large flocks of flamingoes.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 8.
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 15.
read more tour name: lakes and masai mara safari kenyasafari code: asj 058:tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: lake nakuru/lake naivasha/maasai mara.
approx  transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 9.
depending on your flight time,transfer to the airport for your flight home/next destination.
arrive in time for lunch at lake  naivasha sopa resort.
read more echoes of the wild tour name: meru safaris : joy adamsons footsteps tour code: asmp  001:
after lunch at the lakeview hotel in mbarara, proceed through the beautiful evergreen mountain country referred to as the “little switzerland”.
meet and transfer to stanley hotel.
depending on your flight time,transfer to the airport for  your flight home/next destination.
arrival at jomo kenyatta international  airport .
pick up from your nairobi hotel at 0400hrs and transfer to the airport for early morning 0630hrs flight to entebbe, arrive entebbe airport at 0720hrs,meet,safari briefing and depart for the south with stops at the craft village at the uganda equator for pictures and shopping.
approx transit time:
arrive kampala for overnight stay at lake victoria serena hotel.(bed/breakfast).
gorilla treks bwindi national park uganda .
it has a surprisingly number of animals, all the "big five" except the elephant can be seen here, dinner and overnight at sarova lion hill/similar.
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle  and driver guide.
pick up namanga border town.
game viewing in  the crater.
dinner and overnight at  serengeti sopa lodge/serena lodge.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
afternoon game drive to search  for the stars of samburu.
arriving maasai mara at 1100 hours.
arrival at jomo kenyatta international airport .
8/9 days: tours kenya/tanzania 10 days: masai mara serengeti safaris 12 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: kenya/tanzania safaris 13 days: masai mara victoria serengeti 14 days: kenya/tanzania combo 17 days: kenya/tanzania/zanzibar 21 days:safari/kilimanjaro/zanzibar 21 days wildlife explorer/beach kenya safaris tanzania safaris kenya/tanzania safaris bird watching safari kenya blogspot servalcat safaris 16°c guests online: 3guests online: 3
meal plan: {b,l,d} day 13.
depart after breakfast and take picnic lunch with you as you proceed  for  serengeti with a brief stop at olduvai gorge the historical site,  picnic  lunch and proceed arriving serengeti for late afternoon game  drive.
the wildebeest migration is one of the last big migrations in the animal  world and one of the most breath-taking events earth!
elevation gain:  1,200 meters hiking time: 5 to 6 hours distance: 10 kilometers .
all meals and overnight at samburu sopa  lodge/similar.
breakfast at lodge and leave with picnic lunches for a full day game drive inside the park.
approx transit time: 4 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 20.tarangire national park .
tour  duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: lake nakuru/lake   naivasha/maasai mara.
dinner and overnight at serengeti sopa lodge/serena lodge.
close by is the sheldrick elephant  orphanage, where infant elephant and rhino (orphaned because of poaching… read more masai mara serengeti safaris tour name: cormorant safari kenya tanzania tour code:asms 001:tour
8hrs meal plan:  {b,l,d} day 14.
full day in serengeti with early morning and late  afternoon game drives in the vast serengeti plain.
afternoon at leisure or take optional boat rides or you  can visit the hells gate national park for game drive.
approx transit time: 5 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 12.
approx transit time: 10 hrs day 22.out.
elevation gain: 1,200 meters hiking time: 5 to 6 hours distance: 10 kilometers .read more tour name: meru safaris : joy adamsons footsteps tour code: asmp 001: tour duration: 7 days | 6 nights: parks to visit: meru/sweetwaters/lake nakuru/maasai mara: accommodations:can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
breakfast at hotel and later transfer to the airport for mid morning flight to nairobi.
gazelles, impala, buffalo, wildebeest, the famous tree  climbing lion, hyena, baboon,  giraffe, hippopotamus, and a great number  of smaller mammals,350 species of bird, storks and flamingoes.
game viewing enroute to mara sarova game camp lodge for lunch.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle  and driver guide.
maasai mara  national reserve.
the wildebeest migration is one of the last big migrations in the animal world and one of the most breath-taking events earth!
all meals and overnight at  amboseli sopa lodge/amboseli serena lodge.
read more wildlife migration masai mara the great wildebeest migration safaris kenya tanzania:
arriving nairobi at approximately 1830hrs.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day  10.
route: day 1: machame gate (1,800m) to machame camp (3,000m).
breakfast, short drive back to the  cooler mount kenya area and sweetwaters, game drive to the lodge for lunch,  afternoon game drive, overnight sweetwaters luxury tented camp.
tour  duration: 3 days |2 nights: parks to visit: bwindi impenetrable national park.
close by is the sheldrick elephant orphanage, where infant elephant and rhino (orphaned because of poaching…read more tour name: cormorant safari kenya tanzania tour code:asms 001:tour duration: 10 days | 9 nights:parks to visit:lake nakuru/masai mara/serengeti/ngorongoro/lake manyara .accommodations:can make your choice of safari lodges/hotels.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and driver guide.
breakfast at lodge and descend by 4wd vehicle for a half day crater tour.
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/beach hotels.
read more lodge safaris tours kenya tour name: lakes and masai mara safari kenyasafari code: asj 058:
ascend back to lodge for lunch.
morning breakfast and proceed for lake naivasha a gem in the necklace of rift valley lakes.
the reserve boasts a plethora of wildlife -…read more tour name: bush & beach safari tour kenyacode: aswb 001:tour duration: 10 days |9 nights:parks to visit: nairobi | masai mara | lake nakuru | beach.
morning breakfast and proceed for lake naivasha  a gem in the necklace of rift valley lakes.
nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry: gorilla treks uganda and wildlife safari tours kenya tanzania monday - friday 08:00am to 17:00pm saturday - 09:00am to 13:00pm sunday - closed (if urgent contact us on phone or by email).
you stay in tents adjacent to a waterhole, which provides for a constant procession of animals taking their turn at the precious resource.
accommodations: safari lodges/hotels as indicated in the itinerary.
see braving lions on the grass, cheetah, leopards among plenty of other plains game.
arrive nairobi,meet and transfer to stanley hotel bed/breakfast basis.
enjoy an hour with the gorillas and  return for  dinner and overnight at the gorilla resort camp/mantana bwindi camp.
with picnic lunch you later start 30 minutes - 8 hours trek to find the mountain gorillas in bwindi.
breakfast at lodge and leave with picnic lunches for a full day  game drive inside the park.
com air safari packages kenya assa-001 : 2 days | 1 night : day 1.
morning (6:30am)  and afternoon (1500hrs) game viewing drive inside the park.
in the central plains there are carnivores  like  leopard, lion, hyena and cheetah.
nb:indicate the safari code on your inquiry: gorilla treks uganda and wildlife safari tours kenya tanzania office hours monday - friday 08:00am to 17:00pm saturday - 09:00am to 13:00pm sunday - closed (if urgent contact us on phone or by email).
wildebeest migration safaris masai mara,wildebeest migration safaris serengeti,wildlife migration masai mara serengeti kenya tanzania: serengeti tanzania and masai mara kenya wildlife migration trips tours:wildlife lodge safari tours masai mara:
read more nairobi safaris: nairobi tours : nairobi excursions : holidays nairobi : nairobi short safaris assn 007: sheldrick elephant orphanage (daily at 11.00 a.m - 12.00p.m).in thepark is the animal orphanage where sick, wounded and abandoned animals are cared for and rehabilitated into the park, as well as an educational centre featuring a safari walk.
approx transit time: 4 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 16.
accommodations: can make your choice of safari lodges/beach  hotels.
enjoy early morning  spectacular views of the snow-capped mountain.
full day in serengeti with early morning and late afternoon game drives in the vast serengeti plain.
varied bird species can be seen here including eagles, ducks, geese, egrets, vultures, secretary birds, ibis, stork, herons, kites, pelicans, cranes and guinea fowl.
meet and greet, transfer to sarova stanley hotel for overnight stay.
(optional  visits to samburu villages).
dinner and overnight at amboseli sopa  lodge/amboseli serena lodge.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7  seater safari minibus in kenya with pop up roof, 4x4 landcruiser/land rover in  tanzania.
between meals there is optional visit to the maasai villages for an insight to their culture if clients so wish.
ascend back to lodge for  lunch.
maasai mara transfer to  wilson airstrip for a scheduled flight to maasai mara departing at 1000 hours.
departure days:daily departures with exclusive use of  vehicle and driver guide.
dinner and overnight at tarangire sopa lodge/tarangire safari lodge.
though harsh, it is blessed with species rarely found  elsewhere.
arriving nairobi at approximately  1830hrs.
meals and overnight at mara  leisure luxury tented camp/keekorok lodge.
the great wildebeest  migration moves from the serengeti national park in tanzania… read  more uganda gorilla safaris treks tour name: mountain gorilla treks/safari uganda.
departure days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and  driver guide.
afternoon at leisure.
approx transit time: 6 hrs meal plan: {l,d} day 7.
early breakfast and depart for maasai mara  crossing the loita plains, view scenarios enroute including lake elementaita,  mt.longonot, as well see red-clad maasai warriors tend their multi-colored  herds amongst plains game.
covering some 24,000 acres.
afternoon (1600hrs-1830hrs) game drive inside the scenic park well known for great concentration of wildgame.
kampala/bwindi national park.
game viewing enroute to mara sarova game camp lodge  for lunch.
samburu game reserve.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater  safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
safari transport mode: transport is in a customized 7 seater  safari minibus(2 wd/4 wd) with pop up roof.
afternoon game drive.
morning breakfast at resort/camp followed by briefing by park ranger guides.
safari transport mode:transport is in a customized 7 seater safari minibus in kenya with pop up roof, 4x4 landcruiser/land rover in tanzania.
breakfast at  lodge and descend by 4wd vehicle for a half day crater tour.
lunch and afternoon game drive.
late  afternoon game drive inside the park to  search for wild game, the park  is home to plenty of game and  birdlife.
after breakfast, depart for arusha for lunch and  board 0200pm shuttle back to nairobi.
approx transit time: 3 hrs meal plan: {b,l,d} day 18.
departure  days: daily departures with exclusive use of vehicle and your driver guide.
dinner  and overnight at tarangire sopa  lodge/
read more sweetwaters safaris : tours sweetwaters : aberdares trips : sweetwaters luxury tented camp nestled between mt. kenya to the east and the aberdares mountains to the west, sweetwaters game reserve is a privately held reserve covering some 24,000 acres.