there was a dramaticxbox price drop in may 2002, and now the  invidual xbox console costs only$149.99.
the xbox controller has  built-in vibration feedback, most of its buttons are fully analog for precision  control, and it houses the ports for the xbox memory cards.
if you're considering to get a hdtv or are interested in  home cinema systems with dolby digital surround sound, we recommend to have a  look atsonystyle.com.
clearly, the value of any video  game system is determined by the quality of the games for it.
can i connect my xbox to a pc monitor?
can i get a steering wheel for the xbox?
if you like driving  games, then you already know that real bliss can be enjoyed with a dedicated  steering wheel.
right: snowtiger poses on the rather large xbox box.
however, an xbox mod chip is now available that circumvents this  problem.
if you don't have a dvd player yet, then the dvd kit is a good investment.
bundle offers that contain console,  games and accessories usually can save you some money, compared to buying the  items individually.
yes it can - however, you need to buy thexbox dvd movie playback kit which includes the hardware and the driver, and also an infrared dvd remote control.
the xbox controller is included  when you buy an xbox console.
if a question related to buying the xbox online is not answered in this faq, please feel free tosend your inquiry to us.
do i need to buy a memory card?
the choice were  to buy should be decided upon the particular bundle, and perhaps the individual  retailer's shipping conditions.
bundle offers that contain console, games and accessories usually can save you some money, compared to buying the items individually.
xbox games buy xbox games list all xbox games top 20 best xbox games upcoming xbox games xbox coupons/discounts discount xbox games used xbox games rent xbox games xbox video games by category:
psr newsletter for webmasters about site map feedback legal notice navigation: buy xbox xbox specs
however, an xbox mod chip is now available that circumvents this problem.
the prices for the actual xbox console don't differ that much.
are the uk and u.s. xboxes compatible?
naturally, with time more and more powerful graphics cards and faster cpus are being developed, and thus it is only a matter of time until pc hardware and corresponding pc computer games exist that can outperform the xbox hardware.
with the  xbox dreambox converter you can connect your favourite playstation or  playstation 2 controller to your xbox console.
without it, the xbox does not play dvds  but uses its dvd drive only for the games.
click here toread more about controller s. xbox controller s can i use my playstation 2 controller with the xbox?
the accessory manufacturer madcatz offers anxbox steering wheel and other manufacturers have announced their plans to offer steering wheels too.
click here for the latest shopping news for the  xbox 360.
this is an american version of the  smaller japanese controller.
naturally, with time more and more  powerful graphics cards and faster cpus are being developed, and thus it is  only a matter of time until pc hardware and corresponding pc computer games  exist that can outperform the xbox hardware.
one of the launch games, thexbox shooting game "halo" has certainly set new standards for its genre.
yes -  although the cpu of the xbox is slower than some high-end pcs, andpc video cards  are being developed that match the power of the nvidia graphics in the xbox,  the xbox may still produce better and faster graphics because it is not slowed  down by the pc operating system environment.
the typical range, includingxbox cables and adapters (quite popular in this range is the controller extension cable!), bags and cases, controllers, steering wheels...
yes - there is a special xbox vga adapter available that enables to connect your xbox console to any vga monitor.
can i get a real rgb signal out of my xbox?
since the xbox (and the box it comes in) is fairly large, expect additional costs for shipping.
which retailer to buy from?
the newcontroller s is available now and costs the same as the regular xbox controller.
psreporter.com lists only reputable online retailers.
you can email snowtiger atsnowtiger@psreporter.com.
it supports vibration function  plus features a memory card slot for saving game data.
right: snowtiger poses on the rather  large xbox box.
if you don't have a  dvd player yet, then the dvd kit is a good investment.
you can only play games developed specifically for the xbox.
unlike the ps2, the xbox's memory  card is not an essential item, and in fact you may never need one.
if you like driving games, then you already know that real bliss can be enjoyed with a dedicated steering wheel.
can i play pc games on the xbox?
yes - although the cpu of the xbox is slower than some high-end pcs, andpc video cards are being developed that match the power of the nvidia graphics in the xbox, the xbox may still produce better and faster graphics because it is not slowed down by the pc operating system environment.
one of the launch games, thexbox shooting game "halo" has certainly  set new standards for its genre.
microsoft sources say that it will not be  included in xbox bundles.
similarly, you cannot use pc peripherals  on the xbox.
can i use my playstation 2 controller with the xbox?
it supports vibration function plus features a memory card slot for saving game data.
however, many games feature multiplayer options,  and the real fun begins when you play with or against a human opponent, making  a second controller a good investment.
the choice which system to buy is ultimately a personal one.
unlike the ps2, the xbox's memory card is not an essential item, and in fact you may never need one.
perhaps you want to check out othervideo game systems on our bundles page for gameboy advance, dreamcast, nintendo64, and psone.
for the techies:  please note that the xbox cannot playback dvd movies in progressive scan.
since the xbox (and the box it comes in) is fairly large,  expect additional costs for shipping.
the choice  which system to buy is ultimately a personal one.
in terms of graphics and power, they can't match the xbox, but they have other advantages.
find the xbox controller cord a tad short?
snowtiger™  loves fighting games (especially with girls in cat-suits...)
this page answers frequently asked questions (faq) and may help you decide which items are essential and what to look out for.
the prices for the actual xbox console don't  differ that much.
the xbox extension cable extends the length of the xbox controller cord by 2 meters.
you cannot play us games on auk console and vice versa.
the austrian snowtiger (tm) is impressed with the hdtv output of dead or  alive 3.
the xbox has been released with a long list of excellent games, and this list is growing rapidly.
about the austrian snowtiger™: he is our new xbox mascot ("i'm so ...cuuuuute!") and will be seen more prominently on psreporter.com.
for the techies: please note that the xbox cannot playback dvd movies in progressive scan.
if a question related to  buying the xbox online is not answered in this faq, please feel free tosend  your inquiry to us.
find  the xbox controller cord a tad short?
please note that the xbox does not have separate audio outputs - it has only one combined av port.
read more about the great debate here:xbox vs gamecube vs ps2.
some retailers sell xbox bundles  with the dvd kit included.
do i need to buy a controller?
similarly, you cannot use pc peripherals on the xbox.
adventure games family games fighting games platform games puzzle games rpg - role playing games shooting games simulation games sports games strategy games official xbox magazine xbox hardware xbox shopping faq buy xbox console xbox accessories xbox controller s xbox controllers xbox steering wheel xbox arcade stick xbox memory card xbox bag/case xbox cable/adapters xbox extension cable xbox vga adapter xbox rgb scart cable xbox dvd movie kit xbox steering wheels xbox mod chip xbox other accs list all xbox accessories subscribe online - save 75%!!
thus,  anxbox memory card is really only useful to transport your saved game data to  another xbox, eg.
although the xbox has a usb socket, the plug is slightly different  (and non-standard) and wont fit.
but now there is a solution!
psreporter.com lists only reputable  online retailers.
the standard xbox only comes with standard a/v  (rca) cables.
the controller s is different from the japanese  controller as it has a longer cable (almost 10 ft) and the springs in the  triggers are different.
yes it can - however, you need to buy  thexbox dvd movie playback kit which includes the hardware and the driver, and  also an infrared dvd remote control.
yes - there is a special  xbox vga adapter available that enables to connect your xbox console to any vga  monitor.
are there extension cords available for the xbox controller?
the standard rca one that comes with the xbox or a  special one to get higher quality video signals and the digital audio.
what about sony playstation 2 and nintendo gamecube?
there was a dramaticxbox price drop in may 2002, and now the invidual xbox console costs only$149.99.
the accessory manufacturer madcatz offers anxbox steering wheel  and other manufacturers have announced their plans to offer steering wheels too.
if you already have a good dvd player at home, you  don't really need to spend the extra money for the dvd kit.
you need to purchase thehigh definition av cable.
it is difficult to obtain a japanese controller in the u.s. the cable that connects the controller to the xbox has a  safety-release built-in, so you won't pull your xbox off the table when you  trip over the controller cable (as i frequently do).
please note that the xbox does not have  separate audio outputs - it has only one combined av port.
list xbox console online retailers xbox games
you need a special  xbox cable either way, ie.
read  more about component video and hdtv for the xbox in ourxbox rgb scart article.
there are also a large number of excellent racing games, sports games and many other games available.
same goes for dvds because of the dvd region  encoding.
what kind of accessories exist for the xbox?
we have dedicated  a separate article to this issue: ourxbox rgb scart faq deals with component  video, ntsc/pal issues and rgb scart.
without it, the xbox does not play dvds but uses its dvd drive only for the games.
does the xbox have hdtv support?
some retailers sell xbox bundles with the dvd kit included.
click here toread more about controller s. xbox  controller s
microsoft sources say that it will not be included in xbox bundles.
snowtiger eats austrian skiers - they are hard to come by these days.
when visiting a friend.
with the xbox dreambox converter you can connect your favourite playstation or playstation 2 controller to your xbox console.
you need the advanced a/v cable or the hd cable if you want to get dolby digital sound, because only these cables have a socket to connect an optical digital audio cable.
you need the advanced a/v cable or the hd cable if you want to  get dolby digital sound, because only these cables have a socket to connect an  optical digital audio cable.
if you already have a good dvd player at home, you don't really need to spend the extra money for the dvd kit.
does the xbox have better graphics than a high-powered pc?
does the xbox have good games?
(neither can the playstation 2 nor most stand-alone dvd players).
the xbox controller is included when you buy an xbox console.
the  japanese xbox controller is designed for smaller hands and is compatible with  us xbox consoles.
the controller s is different from the japanese controller as it has a longer cable (almost 10 ft) and the springs in the triggers are different.
however, many games feature multiplayer options, and the real fun begins when you play with or against a human opponent, making a second controller a good investment.
in terms of graphics and  power, they can't match the xbox, but they have other advantages.
you cannot play us games  on auk console and vice versa.
the ps2 and the gamecube are very powerful video game consoles.
the xbox has been  released with a long list of excellent games, and this list is growing rapidly.
you can only play games developed  specifically for the xbox.
the choice were to buy should be decided upon the particular bundle, and perhaps the individual retailer's shipping conditions.
same goes for dvds because of the dvd region encoding.
what about the xbox controller s?
the austrian snowtiger (tm) is impressed with the hdtv output of dead or alive 3.
if you're considering to get a hdtv or are interested in home cinema systems with dolby digital surround sound, we recommend to have a look atsonystyle.com.
the xbox console has a  large 8 gb harddisk built-in, which is used to save game information etc.
snowtiger™ loves fighting games (especially with girls in cat-suits...)
you need a special xbox cable either way, ie.
xbox info xbox shopping faq considering to buy an xbox?
shopping at any of the listed sites is safe.
snowtiger™  recommends halo, max payne and dead or alive 3 as his favorite xbox games.
right: snowtiger™ is unimpressed and  presents us his backside.
this page answers frequently asked questions (faq) and may help you decide  which items are essential and what to look out for.
this is an american version of the smaller japanese controller.
the japanese xbox controller is designed for smaller hands and is compatible with us xbox consoles.
although the xbox has a usb socket, the plug is slightly different (and non-standard) and wont fit.
if you  wish to play dvds from other countries, refer to ourdvd region codes  information.
the typical range,  includingxbox cables and adapters (quite popular in this range is the  controller extension cable!), bags and cases, controllers, steering wheels...
overview buy xbox accessories welcome
you need to purchase  thehigh definition av cable.
thus, anxbox memory card is really only useful to transport your saved game data to another xbox, eg.
the standard xbox only comes with standard a/v (rca) cables.
the xbox is not compatible with games developed for the pc and vice versa.
gamecube find the xbox price a little bit steep?
clearly, the value of any video game system is determined by the quality of the games for it.
the xbox controller has built-in vibration feedback, most of its buttons are fully analog for precision control, and it houses the ports for the xbox memory cards.
right: snowtiger™ is unimpressed and presents us his backside.
we thank our mascot, the austrian snowtiger™ who kindly agreed to model for our xbox photo shoot.
we have dedicated a separate article to this issue: ourxbox rgb scart faq deals with component video, ntsc/pal issues and rgb scart.
xbox games playstation 2
it is difficult to obtain a japanese controller in the u.s. the cable that connects the controller to the xbox has a safety-release built-in, so you won't pull your xbox off the table when you trip over the controller cable (as i frequently do).
we thank our mascot, the austrian snowtiger™ who kindly  agreed to model for our xbox photo shoot.
if you wish to play dvds from other countries, refer to ourdvd region codes information.
snowtiger™ recommends halo, max payne and dead or alive 3 as his favorite xbox games.
playstation 2 playstation 2 ps2 shopping faq buy ps2 console buy pstwo console buy ps2 games ps2 accessories ps2 mod chips copy ps2 games microsoft xbox xbox shopping faq buy xbox console xbox games xbox accessories xbox mod chips gamecube buy gamecube gamecube games accessories cheats / used rent video games used video games ps2 cheats psone cheats dreamcast cheats nintendo64 cheats cheat links news/features news playstation 3 xbox 360 news buy magazines pc gaming pc accessories community forums links advertising win a ps3 or xbox 360!
the ps2 and  the gamecube are very powerful video game consoles.
the standard rca one that comes with the xbox or a special one to get higher quality video signals and the digital audio.
read more about the great  debate here:xbox vs gamecube vs ps2.
a great accessory for owners of both systems.
: official xbox magazine subscription the great debate: xbox vs gamecube vs ps2 xbox games buy xbox games list all xbox games top 20 best xbox games upcoming xbox games xbox coupons/discounts discount xbox games used xbox games rent xbox games xbox video games by category: adventure games family games fighting games platform games puzzle games rpg - role playing games shooting games simulation games sports games strategy games official xbox magazine xbox hardware xbox shopping faq buy xbox console xbox accessories xbox controller s xbox controllers xbox steering wheel xbox arcade stick xbox memory card xbox bag/case xbox cable/adapters xbox extension cable xbox vga adapter xbox rgb scart cable xbox dvd movie kit xbox steering wheels xbox mod chip xbox other accs list all xbox accessories home ps2 cheats ps2 console ps2 games ps2 accessories ps2 mod chips gamecube console gamecube games gamecube accessories site map newsletter feedback for webmasters privacy disclaimer
(snowtiger watched the winter olympics with great interest).
can the xbox play dvd movies?
a great accessory for  owners of both systems.
the newcontroller s is available now and costs the  same as the regular xbox controller.
the xbox console has a large 8 gb harddisk built-in, which is used to save game information etc.
the xbox is not compatible with  games developed for the pc and vice versa.
read more about component video and hdtv for the xbox in ourxbox rgb scart article.
click here for the latest shopping news for the xbox 360.