search intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 fastest & easiest xbox 360 and playstation 3 controller mods - home -
jul 8, 2011 8 comments matthew is now a member of intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 jul 8, 2011
because it was the cheapest out of all of them " jul 21, 2011 bob walker replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off  automatically'  "i didn't think bgr sold pre-modified controllers...just  the kit you intall yourself.
sure don't see the option on their website."
" jul 21,  2011 bob walker replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting  off automatically'  "did you buy the controller from this site  (intensafire.com) or from the non-affiliated intensafirestore.com?
matthew's blog pre installed mod ps3 shuts off automatically i bought a pre installed intensafire mod for ps3
sure don't see the option on their  website."
mine was pre installed too" jul 13, 2011 tony replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off automatically' "me too i just got mine today and it does the same thing, i be playing a game then 5 mins into a game it shuts off on me" jul 12, 2011 matthew replied to aaron evans's discussion 'service and delivery issues with intensafire' "is the intensafire pre installed supposed to shut off automatically without holding the left on/off button or should i send it back before my warranty expires " jul 11, 2011 blog post by matthew pre installed mod ps3 shuts off automatically i bought a pre installed intensafire mod for
i've emailed the folks on this site several times already and they  responded each time, so they are already way…" jul 21, 2011 darren whaling replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off  automatically'  "fuck i wish u wrote that a few days ago i ordered one of  the ones u install yourself off intensafirestore.com,  do u  think it will still work because im putting it in myself?
i had a very bad experience with the other site.
join intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 welcome to intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3
and it works great except for it shuts off automatically sometimes while im playing jul 8, 2011 0
comments matthew posted a discussion pre installed shutting off automatically i just bought a pre installed intensafire for
that's why i asked where  these guys purchased from.
but i bought it off bgrmods
and when it starts to dim off on te led i just hit the…" jul 21, 2011 bob walker replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed  shutting off automatically'  "no idea.
your  symptoms are the same as i had last year on a pre-modded controller i bought  from intensafirestore.com, which is not the same as…" jul 21,  2011 matthew replied to mike yabz's discussion 'problem with intensafire'   "yeah same here i just tap the back of the controller and it comes back  on.
badges | report an issue | terms of service hello, you need to enable javascript to use intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3.
but ive decided not too because in assuming they all are like that.
sign up or sign in xbox 360 intensafire © 2012 created by team intensafire.
view all matthew has not received any gifts yet give a gift matthew's page latest activity tony replied to matthew's discussion 'pre  installed shutting off automatically'  "yea mine was from this site thats  why i b postin on this site.. they told me its defect an to send it back in an  theyll fix it.. sent her in a few days ago anticipatin her return" jul  22, 2011 matthew replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting  off automatically'  "idk where i saw it
but ive decided not too because in assuming they all are like  that.
i bought a pre  installed intensafire mod for ps3
and it works great except for it shuts off automatically sometimes while im playing posted on july 8, 2011 at 1:56pm comment wall you need to be a member of intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 to add comments!
and it works great except for it shuts off  automatically sometimes while im playing jul 8, 2011
i've emailed the folks on this site several times already and they responded each time, so they are already way…" jul 21, 2011 darren whaling replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off automatically' "fuck i wish u wrote that a few days ago i ordered one of the ones u install yourself off intensafirestore.com, do u think it will still work because im putting it in myself?
mine was pre installed too" jul 13, 2011 tony replied to  matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off automatically'  "me too i  just got mine today and it does the same thing, i be playing a game then 5 mins  into a game it shuts off on me" jul 12, 2011 matthew replied to  aaron evans's discussion 'service and delivery issues with intensafire'   "is the intensafire pre installed supposed to shut off automatically  without holding the left on/off button or should i send it back before my  warranty expires " jul 11, 2011 blog post by matthew pre installed mod ps3 shuts off automatically
and it keeps turning off while i'm playing?
and when it starts to dim off on te led i just hit the…" jul 21, 2011 bob walker replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off automatically' "no idea.
your symptoms are the same as i had last year on a pre-modded controller i bought from intensafirestore.com, which is not the same as…" jul 21, 2011 matthew replied to mike yabz's discussion 'problem with intensafire' "
replies i just bought a pre installed intensafire for ps3
please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.
gifts received matthew has not received any gifts yet give a gift matthew's page latest activity tony replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off automatically' "yea mine was from this site thats why i b postin on this site.. they told me its defect an to send it back in an theyll fix it.. sent her in a few days ago anticipatin her return" jul 22, 2011 matthew replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off automatically' "
started this discussion.
" jul 21, 2011 bob walker replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off automatically' "did you buy the controller from this site (intensafire.com) or from the non-affiliated intensafirestore.com?
i had a very bad experience with the other  site.
ps3 and it keeps turning off while i'm playing?
my page - community - videos - photos - news - product info - xbox 360 - xbox 360 v3.0 - xbox 360 reviews - speed settings - playstation 3 - playstation 3 how to use - playstation 3 reviews - illuminating thumbsticks - sitemap - store - xbox 360 3.0 - xbox 360 3.0 board only - d pads - thumbsticks - illuminating thumbsticks - t8 screwdriver - ps3 intensafire - support - support forums - where's the glue - 360 install instructions - 360 install tips - faq for xbox 360 - ps3 install instructions - ps3 compatibility - tech support - returns - warranty - contact us - matthew - 22, male - benton, ks - united states - share on facebook share on facebook share twitter - blog posts (1) - discussions (5) - photos - photo albums - videos matthew's discussions pre installed shutting off automatically 8
idk where i saw it but i bought it off bgrmods because it was the cheapest out of all of them " jul 21, 2011 bob walker replied to matthew's discussion 'pre installed shutting off automatically' "i didn't think bgr sold pre-modified controllers...just the kit
that's why i asked where these guys purchased from.
intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 fastest & easiest xbox 360 and playstation 3 controller mods home playstation 3 how to use playstation 3 reviews xbox 360 3.0 board only d pads share on facebook share on facebook share twitter blog posts (1) pre installed shutting off automatically 8 replies i just bought a pre installed intensafire for ps3 and it keeps turning off  while i'm playing?
last reply by tony jul 22, 2011.
jul 21, 2011 matthew replied to matthew's discussion ' pre installed shutting off automatically' "i bought mine from bgrmods and they said they were sorry and that i neededto send it back and they would send me a new one.
jul 21, 2011 matthew replied to matthew's discussion ' pre installed shutting off automatically'  "i bought mine from bgrmods and  they said they were sorry and that i neededto send it back and they would send  me a new one.
yeah same here i just tap the back of the controller and it comes back on.