just another thing as well on topic; surely more revenue from advertisers should benefit us in the way of a cheaper live subscription?
i liked the old blades too.
sucks to be a paying-for 360 user right now.
you dont have to watch them you know, i mean to view them, you have to physically click into them.
he speaks about himself in the  third-person.
the more they add, the more it costs them.
on  evenings and weekends he might be batman.
they are looking at a newe pricing model i believe.
i mean just look at what status they achieved in the space of 10 odd years.
are gamers just getting a but peeved over nothing again?
"with the growth of xbox live, advertisers no longer have to choose between digital and tv advertising - we're offering the impact of tv and the interactivity and addressability of digital in one platform," microsoft's ross honey, general manager of xbox live entertainment and advertising, told gamasutra.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
sky pays lot of money to buy rights to various channels and to show films etc.
lol i predicted this would happen, m$ loves dem ads.
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
cause im a little bit sensible enough to look beyond the ads >.< anything and everything to attack in this age.
i get what your saying, there is nothing worse than intrusive advertising (hello cvg & trials lol) but i don't think that's what you get on live, sure its visible, but its not taking up the whole screen and you do need to clik into it (which means your interested in it) to actually view them.
and who the hell pays £50 a year for live??
got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
agreed, just because sky advertises with subscriptions does not mean that it's right!
adverts... that is why they invented the mute button....
especially when i pay a tv licence, and subscription to virgin media and get ad's anyhow..
they took on the sony-dominated gen and by the next, they are a major player.
next were'll have to pay for xbox antivirus £30 a year.i dont think m$ are in it for the gamers any more
some people seem to have issue though, which is fair enough, but the point you made about sky is correct.
have you entertained the thought that maybe it was the plan all along?
doesn't really suck, im not going to be spitting my dummy out over a few ads.
"as more and more industry leaders like espn work with us to help monetize their content on xbox live, tv media buyers win with the ability to extend their standard tv spots to this highly engaged consumer audience."
i love how its a paid for service (like the bbc) and there is going to be lots of adverts
they'd better start reducing the cost of live with all these adverts currently on the service, with more on the way - it's a joke.
i get that people dont like it, but for me, there are far more concerning issues to worry over about our favourite hobby than whether adverts appear on xbox live.
i dunno, but maybe back in '06 i would try and justify the moves of microsoft
then i'm going to have to consider switching back to my ps3 for online shenanigans.
earlier this month a linkedin profile revealed that microsoft aims to  'further monetize' xbox live subscribers and has developed a plan to implement  its new strategy by holiday 2012.
"with the growth of xbox live, advertisers no longer have to choose  between digital and tv advertising - we're offering the impact of tv and the  interactivity and addressability of digital in one platform," microsoft's  ross honey, general manager of xbox live entertainment and advertising, told gamasutra.
you are, as usual, the voice of reason.
every year you're degrading your service to the point spam sites would be better off than live.
people either accept or dont , cause it's here to stay.
i mean usually when you pay for membership online it usually removes the advertisements all together (tv is completely different since thats up to the actual channels not the suppliers) yet we don't seem to get anything bar the use of multiplayer gaming and access to apps that require futher spending to use.
as long as their not invasive then its fine.
also it ironic that candvg are saying this as they have more and more adverts on their site....and they are more intrusive (shrugs) doesn't bother me really.
i couldnt agree more, they are in the business of making money, and i dont find the adds intrusive, they dont bother me at all.
the price of live hasnt went up since ive been using it and they have added tonnes of new content and partnerships compared to what there was at the beginning.
i love how its a paid for service (like the bbc) and there is going to be lots of adverts or, its like sky
psn will not be free forever though, sony are losing money hand over fist and this is one commodity they can make new revenue streams.
i was just thinking "that's what my 360 needs - more adverts!" and ms have delivered.
lol, ironically you made them sound fun.
now advertisers can annoy and alienate larger groups of people with terrible adverts, yay!
and people dont go all sony on me, you mark my words, they will be following ms example next gen, i would bet anything they are kicking themselves they didnt do it from the start of this gen.
hence the introduction of ps plus.
i cant for life of me defend ms on this stance, as think it's deplorable, but hey they're a business and their prerogative.
to tell you the truth my main dislike with the 360 is the console booting up to an avatar, i truly despise being forced to have one.
sign up hereusername by tamoor hussain for computerandvideogames.com microsoft is to introduce tv-style 15-30 second ads to a wider range of xbox live media apps.
sky doesn't have the greatest reputation, and definitely not the kind of company microsoft should be aspiring to.
it's when they get to the stage where you have 30 second unskippable adverts between operations that will make me annoyed.
although it would be nice is m$ passed some of the extra ad revenue back to its subscribers by lowering the price of live subscriptions.
the problem with that plan dodo is that they went in full force and didn't balance it out.
going forward, the platform holder is planning to integrate these ads into content from providers including espn, last.fm, manga entertainment, gamespot and muzu.tv.
i don't care i'll just vote with my wallet and not use things that advertise ridiculously, if it's just a few i'll do what i always do with adverts, ignore them and continue to buy the products i always have based on service.
if they start getting less game related (lynx??!)
@kirankara you don't think ms are paying to have these different partners on live?
the prominence of adverts on xbox live hasn't gone down well with players, many of whom pay a fee for access to the gold tier of the service.
sony have done a pretty good job with keeping a balance between the two.
or should i say hike-rosoft as they seem to like to hiking the price whilst reducing the benefits you actually enjoy... f**k you ms.
but now they're just spinning the drain.
i just pay no attention to adverts on xbox live and i only watch the videos every now and then.
and use my 360 only for playing games, they're not too much of a problem for me, personally.
for the last few years now, ive never paid more than £30 for live and though some people will rage at the thought of having to pay this, to me, it doesnt really matter.
i hate being subjected to advertising myself, but i accept that the presence of advertising is a "neccessary evil", if you see what i mean.
whose stupid idea was that?
well i moaned about it because of how they present it like an exciting new feature and we should be happy.
and in history videogames have had ad's directly inside the game.. that didnt bother me either..
earlier this month a linkedin profile revealed that microsoft aims to 'further monetize' xbox live subscribers and has developed a plan to implement its new strategy by holiday 2012.computerandvideogames.com tamoor plays anything and everything but really likes fighting games.
ms isnt paying for those things, and just increasing revenue further or, its like sky and you have hundreds of adverts?
"as more and more industry leaders like espn work with us to help  monetize their content on xbox live, tv media buyers win with the ability to  extend their standard tv spots to this highly engaged consumer audience."
not you in particular kira, just in general and also with this site.
register or log in not got an account?
personally hate ads with a passion, whether theyre in background, or directly preceding a video etc etc. would be fuming myself i love how its a paid for service (like the bbc) and there is going to be lots of adverts or, its like sky
read more 40 comments so far... ironically, i deal with fewer ads on the free psn.
the most i've ever paid is £27.
you're right, but surely there's limits.
soon they will have tv ads between games on cod, they probably needed some more money after the console sales dropped 50%.
read more recommended links
360 microsoft is tomorrow's update really 'like getting a new console'?xbox live needs to learn from onlive - or risk falling behind opinion: andy robinson thinks microsoft should go on the rob...
http://i40.tinypic.com/i751yq.jpg a new low for microsoft.
going forward, the platform holder is planning to integrate these ads into  content from providers including espn, last.fm, manga entertainment, gamespot  and muzu.tv.
i'm not sure that it was their plan all along but once they put netflix on xbox live and saw the popularity and potential for the xbox to be something else other than a gaming console, they took the idea and ran it into the ground.
this is exactly what we've all been demanding, right guys?
the prominence of adverts on xbox live hasn't gone down well with players,  many of whom pay a fee for access to the gold tier of the service.
i try kes, i try, but its really hard on this site .
big difference between sky paying hundreds of millions a year for content, and ms having some apps, which in turn generate revenue for them anyway.
it's just sad that they are doing this to their consumers.
it is a kick in the teeth paying £50 per year for live, £35 for cod elite and the cost of the game and the console.
on evenings and weekends he might be batman.
this really isn't a big deal, it just seems to me that we love to moan aboutanything, nowadays.
there seems to be a very thin line between silver and gold packages these days.
this is great news, now instead of watching game trailers and the like hassle free i can sit through 15-30 second ads, plus the ads that already are littered all over the dashboard all with the privilege of a paid for service.
the commercials were first introduced as part of the last major  xbox live dashboard update and are currently displayed in apps such ufc, tmz,  and crackle.
but, if they put them in front of game trailers and tghe like you will be subject to them still because you want to watch the trailer, also, they have the ones that are situated on xbox live dashboard when you're going through content.
just a theory i heard on a gaming podcast.
they are quick to add new ways to advertise and kinect but anyhting else seems to take a long time.
i agree people moan and whinge far too much in general, and need to pull heads out arses, gaming is a business afterall (some dude earlier going on as if it's his god given right to play games,and that gaming's too expensive, therefore piracy was justified etc etc, was worst example ive ever sen of self righteousness), but dont think the sky/live analogy works well due to expenses involved on behalf of sky and ms being vastly different.
the ads are a bit annoying, but seeing as i don't bother with any of the other crap on there like movies, music, social networking etc.
posted on wednesday 25-apr-2012 12:24 pm microsoft introducing more tv-like ads on xbox live wider range of apps will now play commercials share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 40 by tamoor hussain for computerandvideogames.com microsoft is to introduce tv-style 15-30 second ads to a wider range of  xbox live media apps.
this is why i play ps3 because it is free, it does not have everything live has but all i want is to play games
now, it seems to be a rare sight to hear about microsoft announcing anything new in terms of exclusive games.
use gaming to get into people's living rooms and then remove all need for any other device by pushing every form of media onto the xbox.
if they paying netflix money etc then i cant imagine would be lots, as it's in interest of them to have apps on live, as they generate income that way.
just my 2 cents though.
but now they've got too comfortable and are making stupid moves and wasteful investments on kinect and the ' other entertainment services' when they've completely forgot about the exclusives and the core games that helped them achieved their status.
okay so we're still seeing adverts even though we have to pay for xbox live?
i know, it's very questionable.
i pay £96 a month for sky, and i still have adverts, i pay the equivalent of £2.50 a month for live (if i shop smart for the subscription) and i kind of expect some sort of advertising.....
even if i watch a movie off of anytime through my skybox, i still have to sit through 2/3 ads before the movie starts.
and you have hundreds of adverts?
he speaks about himself in the third-person.
still, it does get on my tits a bit having to scroll through about four ad-saturated pages just to get to the games tab.
yeah but we can cross advert chat...
"advertisers no longer have to choose" oh no... the plight of the ad guys really sticks it in the heart..
i really expect to see adblock as being a feature of xbox platinum or live+ at e3.
computerandvideogames.com tamoor hussain editorial assistant tamoor plays anything and everything but really likes fighting games.
yes, its handy to have all these great features but at the end of the day, i bought a games console for gaming first and other features second.
where is my £30 actually going?
what was once a very simple wysiwyg is now a padded out and convoluted looping sales pitch.
personally, i only use my 360 for gaming, so i rarely even notice a dashboard ad, but when many commenters point out that an increase in advertising should lead to a reduction in the cost of xbl gold, i find it impossible to disagree.
i bet you it goes up.
i won't be suprised if their e3 conference this years lacks any bar halo 4.
i really, really resent having to pay to play part of a product for which i have already payed over £35.