so you killed your family.
instead of it continuing with kratos or the greek gods, have something else in another time, like norse mythology.
they both shoot people ......it all adds up, die hard/red dead crossover confirmed!
sign up hereusername
and bruce, ever heard of personal taste or opinion?
you  won't regret it. -
gamesradar cvg home /
q. e. feckin' d. should update the story cvg.
do gamers really want the vita to be full of ps3 ports?...
i'll be picking this up for sure! -
fops in black eyeliner have not.
on the basis thatthe christian god, looking at history, is the true 'god of war' ps3 ·
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
guess i have plenty to do w/ my 2 kinects ,just figure i comment anyway.
a milking we will go , a milking we will go, cause were bringing back the dead so a milking we will go .
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
if so, nice one i'm honestly surprised no one caught it thank you ;d red dead redemption on vita.
i hope its this http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45zo9cb4zl4
sarcasm regarding yesterday's dmc preview and its clueless remarks comparing gow with ng3?
got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com sony is teasing a playstation reveal scheduled for next thursday, and we're pinning our hopes on a new god of war game.
no other hack n' slash game aside from the awesome castlevania: lords of shadow is even worth mentioning, so move aside and make way for the king of the hack n' slash genres return...
action sony this is our list, but what do you want to see?
i absolutely love the god of war universe.
greek mythology has captured the imagination for millenia.
here's hoping for god of war: thor.
if we're talking new settings, then i want one where, at some point, i get to kill the pope.
bring on god of war iv!!!
hopefully it is and hopefully it'll be a different setting maybe?
screw kratos i'm bored of his whingy antics.
evidence of an imminent god of war 4 reveal has been piling up for some time now.
walking the streets looking for posse.
the unannounced game has appeared ona number of cvs and been listed by multiple retailers.
if so, nice one i was thinking rdr and the picture could also be fro that time.
i'll play god of war as long as they keep makin em.
thor sounds a bit like 4....
that vengeance dies hard john marston was a cowboy
register or log in not got an account?
this click looks fabulous... can't wait to play it!
i love the god of war series.
i hope it is a new god of war i love these games, would be interesting to see where they could take it aswell now it better be god of war 4 for ps3 and a god of war for vita maybe the vita version is an interqual to show how we get to god of war 4.
the image's filename has found to be called 'gowa_fb' god of war announcement facebook, yeah?
everything about this game is breathtaking! - boobr
god of war is sony's most beloved franchise, god of war iii is probably the best game ever made and has set records as the most critically acclaimed and best-selling game in the genre of all time, god of war iv will be magnificent.
this same retailer also said a kart racing game based on the littlebigplanet franchise was on the way, and we allknow how that turned out.
oh come on we all know its "wrath of the titans:the movie:the game:hd:ps3 edition" or could it be a spartacus themed game, the recent series was subtitled vengeance.
maybe some people prefer gow?
few sequels there then eh, be careful to not spill that milk while you're dancing.
maybe some people like both?
the witcher 2 is going to  be as good as an rpg can get! - krisk7
bruce willis is john mcclane john mcclane likes vengeance
recently a retailer attending sony's invite-only destination playstation event teased an imminent god of war reveal through twitter.
enough with this series i'm sure you'd be saying that if it was a nintendo exclusive.
gamesradar robust, challenging and action-packed combat...
rdr vita would be fantastic news!
3 is one of the best games available on the ps3.
an outstanding title -  offers a uniquely tough take on role-playing. - cvg
yes no. bruce willis is john mcclane john mcclane likes vengeance
gow3 is possibly my favourite game of this gen, (other than dark souls).
should update the story cvg.
it's obviously a sony-funded ps3 exclusive shenmue 3.
epic always said they'd love to bring it to ps3...
40 comments so far...
in mine, you're a close minded clod.
-  fearmemortals dedicate your next 30-hour gaming binge to the witcher 2.
they should move onto another time period.
pc news: banned origin users can now play offline -  http://t.co/pxzvhruz http://t.co/1iup7toe via @cvg_uk retweet
one of the best rpgs you'll play this year. -
ready at dawn, the studio behind the numerous excellent psp god of war titles, recently is currently working on a new project, although it'sbelieved to be for next-gen systems a playstation vita entry in the series could be on the cards too.
he seeked redemption
god of war 4, revenge of the gods.
i just hope it's 1080p @ 60 fps.
what's wrong, bored and got nothing to play on your two kinects?
enough with this series a vita entry would be perfect.
the witcher 2 is awesome.
the characters, the story, the gameplay, the gore eveything !
devil may cry & ninja gaiden were never good and are dead now, god of war is the pinnacle of the genre as it by miles has the best combat, story, graphics, boss fights, difficulty curve, set-pieces, pacing, ost, fun, depth etc,... god of war represents perfection in the genre that none of the other games can come close too.
no not really being playing kinect sports 2, dance central 2, mass effect 3,fruit ninja ,gun-stringer,also will be playing sky rim w/ kinect bug free unlike the ps3 version .
hopefully if it is a gow, it's starting something new like cvg's idea a while ago.
this is a must-buy for me! -  wwinterj a huge, complex and expertly written rpg. - oxm
with more detail and scale.
red dead redemption on vita.
why would anyone want god of war when it's just a dim witted version of devil may cry?
the witcher 2 is just stunning.
enough with this series enough with you.
and gore, more gore please ! god of war on vita.
it is obviously "kinectimals 2: move edition".
that means that it is also a crossover with back to the future considering the time difference.