it most likely is the adhesive, a non-permanent…" jul 19, 2011 patrick mason replied to gage biddy's discussion 'please  help'  "please make sure none of your connection points are touching.
" jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to  pedro's discussion 'where to buy intensafire from?'  "ebay would be your  best bet, i believe that it is currently out of stock here due to a new  revision coming soon to make sure there is not faulty intensafires put up for  sale.
the  three on the right side of the intensafire control the right trigger, they are  all independent and should not be touching each other at all."
please include more  information as well if you run into any other errors.
please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.
" jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to anthony gurrieri's  discussion 'slow auto's!?'
"ebay would be your best bet, i believe that it is currently out of stock here due to a new revision coming soon to make sure there is not faulty intensafires put up for sale.
sign up or sign in xbox 360 intensafire © 2012 created by team intensafire.
this is the first we have heard  of this issue and common sense from installing more than 50, points the finger  at the adhesive.
jun 22, 2011 patrick mason replied to hungry sage's discussion 'intensafire 2.0 keeps syncing' "that could of caused an issue with allowing you to see it enabled or not, regardless it should have worked unless installed incorrectly.
i could  further analysis it and try to spot the problem for you." jun 6, 2011
jun 9, 2011 patrick mason replied to john edwards's discussion 'sync help' "make sure with the q-tip and nail polish remover that you thoroughly clean the pins on the sync module."
the alternative is to find a custom firing rate yourself in custom mode.
i personally  don't like the razer onza, i don't find anything about it special besides the  d-pad mod which you…" jun 13, 2011 patrick mason replied to frederik c hansen's discussion 'help with cg'  "glad to hear, if you have  any further problems, feel free to post them and i'll reply as soon as possible  with hopefully a way to successfully fix it."
" jun 15, 2011 patrick mason replied to gamer4life's discussion 'will intensafre work on the razer onza?'
i personally don't like the razer onza, i don't find anything about it special besides the d-pad mod which you…" jun 13, 2011 patrick mason replied to frederik c hansen's discussion 'help with cg' "glad to hear, if you have any further problems, feel free to post them and i'll reply as soon as possible with hopefully a way to successfully fix it."
"i found a video on how to do it from the  maker of intensafire.
"they are not installed in mexico, on a food table, or done half assed.
jun 8, 2011 patrick mason replied to jason's discussion 'drop shot mod?'
i would double check the sync module and ensure that no other points are making contact besides the one that…" jun 22, 2011 patrick mason replied to tweety bird's discussion 'left analog stick' "make sure none of the connection points are touching, glue or solder.
"it looks as if it could and that razer onza is just a shell, but you can't be sure unless you open one and check it out.
"i suggest opening up the controller, and seeing if  anything came loose.
"i suggest opening up the controller, and seeing if anything came loose.
replies i have done at least 40 xbox 360 intensafire modifications, all with a soldering iron, of all the controllers i have personally done, i have only managed to have 1 faulty controller.
i could further analysis it and try to spot the problem for you." jun 6, 2011 more... comment wall you need to be a member of intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 to add comments!
"it looks as if it could and that razer onza is just a  shell, but you can't be sure unless you open one and check it out.
like how to mod your own controller to do bxb.also, how much would you pay for a bxb modded controller?continue started jul 26, 2010 xbox 360 soldering tutorial 10
gifts received patrick mason has not received any gifts yet give a gift patrick mason's page latest activity patrick mason and tweety bird are now friends jul 20, 2011 patrick mason commented on sam pham's blog post 'my intensafiire isn't working right' "make sure none of the other pins on the sync module are touching with glue, only the center one."
join intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 welcome to intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3
possibly try contacting bgr or…" jun 7, 2011 patrick mason replied to rob weissbach's discussion 'help (installation problem??)'
jun 8, 2011 patrick mason replied to jason's  discussion 'drop shot mod?'
- photos - photo albums - videos patrick mason's friends patrick mason's discussions bxb just wondering if there's any bxb tutorials out there.
it most likely is the adhesive, a non-permanent…" jul 19, 2011 patrick mason replied to gage biddy's discussion 'please help' "please make sure none of your connection points are touching.
"did you install with glue or  solder?
the three on the right side of the intensafire control the right trigger, they are all independent and should not be touching each other at all."
intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 fastest & easiest xbox 360 and playstation 3 controller mods home playstation 3 how to use playstation 3 reviews xbox 360 3.0 board only d pads share on facebook share on facebook share twitter blog posts patrick mason's discussions bxb just wondering if there's any bxb tutorials out there.
i would double check the sync module and ensure that no other points are making  contact besides the one that…" jun 22, 2011 patrick mason  replied to tweety bird's discussion 'left analog stick'  "make sure none  of the connection points are touching, glue or solder.
it has come to my…continue started this discussion.
jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to rackman's discussion 'ps3 controller mod quit working...'
also, could you take a picture of your inside controller?
" jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to chris's discussion 'intensafire v2.0  issue'  "double check to make sure that none of the surrounding pins are  touching."
" jun 16, 2011 patrick mason replied to tweety bird's discussion 'left analog stick'   "was this installed yourself or bough pre-mod?
this is the first we have heard of this issue and common sense from installing more than 50, points the finger at the adhesive.
if not, you could of just burnt it out, maybe time for the  newer versions soon?
search intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 fastest & easiest xbox 360 and playstation 3 controller mods - home -
"i found a video on how to do it from the maker of intensafire.
"this is normal, it happens in mw2 too, from  what i've heard, it is best to just turn it off when using autos.
here's the link.. http://www.youtube.com/user/bgrmods#p/u/0/kdi1uwe1exi you'll have to do some more research to find out how to do it.
" jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to chris's discussion 'intensafire v2.0 issue' "double check to make sure that none of the surrounding pins are touching."
badges | report an issue | terms of service hello, you need to enable javascript to use intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3.
view all patrick mason has not received any gifts yet give a gift patrick mason and tweety bird are now friends jul 20, 2011 patrick mason commented on sam pham's blog post 'my  intensafiire isn't working right'  "make sure none of the other pins on  the sync module are touching with glue, only the center one."
if not, you could of just burnt it out, maybe time for the newer versions soon?
please include more information as well if you run into any other errors.
the  alternative is to find a custom firing rate yourself in custom mode.
jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to joel velez's discussion 'intensafire v1.3 stopped working!!'
jun 9, 2011 patrick  mason replied to john edwards's discussion 'sync help'  "make sure with  the q-tip and nail polish remover that you thoroughly clean the pins on the  sync module."
last reply by intensafire.com editor may 20, 2011.
" jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to pedro's discussion 'where to buy intensafire from?'
" jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to anthony gurrieri's discussion 'slow auto's!?'
"did you install with glue or solder?
possibly try contacting bgr  or…" jun 7, 2011 patrick mason replied to rob weissbach's  discussion 'help (installation problem??)'
here's the link.. http://www.youtube.com/user/bgrmods#p/u/0/kdi1uwe1exi   you'll have to do  some more research to find out how to do it.
jul 20,  2011 patrick mason replied to joel velez's discussion 'intensafire v1.3  stopped working!!'
" jun 15, 2011 patrick mason replied to gamer4life's discussion 'will intensafre work on  the razer onza?'
jul 20, 2011 patrick mason replied to rackman's  discussion 'ps3 controller mod quit working...'  "they are not installed  in mexico, on a food table, or done half assed.
jun 22,  2011 patrick mason replied to hungry sage's discussion 'intensafire 2.0  keeps syncing'  "that could of caused an issue with allowing you to see it  enabled or not, regardless it should have worked unless installed incorrectly.
my page - community - videos - photos - news - product info - xbox 360 - xbox 360 v3.0 - xbox 360 reviews - speed settings - playstation 3 - playstation 3 how to use - playstation 3 reviews - illuminating thumbsticks - sitemap - store - xbox 360 3.0 - xbox 360 3.0 board only - d pads - thumbsticks - illuminating thumbsticks - t8 screwdriver - ps3 intensafire - support - support forums - where's the glue - 360 install instructions - 360 install tips - faq for xbox 360 - ps3 install instructions - ps3 compatibility - tech support - returns - warranty - contact us - patrick mason - male - fresno, ca - united states - share on facebook share on facebook share twitter - blog posts - discussions (103)
"this is normal, it happens in mw2 too, from what i've heard, it is best to just turn it off when using autos.
" jun 16, 2011 patrick mason replied to tweety bird's discussion 'left analog stick' "was this installed yourself or bough pre-mod?
like how to mod your  own controller to do bxb.also, how much would you pay for a bxb modded  controller?continue started jul 26, 2010 xbox 360 soldering tutorial 10 replies i have done at least 40 xbox 360 intensafire modifications, all with a  soldering iron, of all the controllers i have personally done, i have only  managed to have 1 faulty controller.