publisher ea adds: "featuring a mysterious tale of intrigue, danger and dark magic on the island of gallows end, players will encounter shadowy characters and new enemies, and will experience a host of new side quests, treacherous battles and exciting new challenges."
this click  blastoff: wow, this is a really beautiful game.
youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - ps vita - resident evil 6 - resident evil 6 - max payne 3 - max payne 3 top reviews - ssx review: ea's classic gets back on board - the last story review: as fun as wii games are going to be in 2012 - asura's wrath review: a glory to behold - but more anime than game - lumines electronic symphony vita review: a familiar trip - everybody's golf vita review: fun, but under par on innovation staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards @roblastcav future - media with passion - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap!
the kingdoms of amalur: reckoning 360 reviews kingdoms of amalur: reckoning review kingdoms of amalur review: rolston playing game 9 more latest news - kingdoms of amalur: reckoning story dlc arrives next month - release round-up: kingdoms of amalur guide, darkness 2 review features & interviews kingdoms of amalur: reckoning guide: essential tips for dominating amalur update:
- report this post reply with quote budge on 29 feb '12 said: nice, this game is a gem, shame i'll be deep into me3 when this dlc is released.
twoshoes: can't  wait to get my hands on this.
it intertwines with numerous side quests, multiple dungeons to explore and a colorful cast of characters - new enemies, dungeons, items - multiple new enemies and enemy variants, a new dungeon type: dverga fastings, three new twists of fate, eight new armor sets, eight new shields and 18 new unique weapons - the ultimate player housing - gravehal keep is more than just player housing, it's a massive estate with multiple buildings and a full retinue of retainers, each with their own back stories, side quests, perks and quirks - tons more to explore - the legend of dead kel dlc adds in more than 15% of additional land to traverse and explore in the already massively expansive world that is amalur watch in hd
mattl: excited about playing the last story! regalado: can't wait to play this...
poppy28: beautiful looking game.
smashboxlemon: this looks amazing - looking forward to playing it!
cvg home / posted on wednesday 29-feb-2012 12:36 pm kingdoms of amalur:
to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 5 a story-focused dlc pack for kingdoms of amalur: reckoning is set to launch on march 20 for xbox 360, ps3, origin and steam.
no comments yet, be the first!
that urban legend isn't true btw.
the graphics look really impressive - can't wait!
this looks incredible!
mattl: excited about playing the last story! regalado: can't wait to play  this...
here's the full feature list: - an epic new questline - the legend of dead kel is only part of the story of gallows end.
if you're still on the fence about picking up a copy of the uk chart-topping game, you might want to cast your eyes over our kingdoms of amalur review round-up.
poppy28: beautiful  looking game.
twoshoes: can't wait to get my hands on this.
email: news@cvg.co.uk - batman's cape gets a staring role in hitman: absolution - medal of honor: warfighter dev calls 2010?s taliban controversy "a frustrating rough patch" - as ps vita hits 1.2 million sales, sony's uk vp outlines what they need to succeed - uncharted:
spending too much recently and i know if i buy it i'll hoover up all the dlc like the idiot i am.
computer and video games -
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store 1st week uk vita sales fall well short of psp, 3ds - report -http://t.co/qouldu2v retweet this click blastoff: wow, this is a really beautiful game.
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
the graphics look really impressive -  can't wait!
- icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international - digitalfuture © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
computerandvideogames.com cvg staff recommended links from the web comments 5 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote iplayvideogames on 29 feb '12 said: the title makes it sound like it's based on the urban legend that kel from kenan and kel died of a heroin overdose.
here are the alternatives... - pes 2012 dlc brings transfer updates next week - leaked game memo details ea problems, confirms no march stock - mass effect 3: inside the new normandy cvg store kingdoms of amalur: reckoning from £34.85 simply games no information £34.85 amazon marketplace uk in stock £35.95 sendit.com
- report this post reply with quote the bossman on 29 feb '12 said: ii enjoyed the demo, i think i'll also wait for a complete edition though.
reckoning story dlc arrives next month ea details
no information £37.95 cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube
oh no i was just about to buy this game, i'll wait for a complete edition as looking on my xbox backlog account thingy i have spent £200+ on dlc not to mention a whole lot on god and arcade - report this post reply with quote niknak106 on 29 feb '12 said: defintootly buying this.
new and extended kingdoms of amalur guides, tips and cheats popular now - 1 medal of honor exec producer nearly quit over taliban controversy - 2 diablo 3 beta key giveaway - update - 3 medal of honor: warfighter - more details arrive send us your news got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
titled the legend of dead kel, it will grant players access to gallows end, "a gigantic new continent to explore where players claim ownership of a vast personal estate and experience new weapons, twists of fate and other perks against new enemies".
onm: an engaging tale of swords and sorcery.
the legend of dead kel share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
nintendo-gamer: lively combat... fun scenario design!
golden abyss easter egg - wipeout 2048?s future: "new features, new ways to play, things we didn't get time to do" - metal gear solid 5, starhawk beta tips & ps vita competition: the weekly playstation news round up 24/2/12 - hideo kojima's project ogre might involve actual ogre - killzone 3 multiplayer goes free to play - metal gear solid 5 named by musician - ps vita started life as "a piece of glass with wires hanging out and a dualshock glued to it" - mechwarrior online exclusive trailer - world of warplanes: soviet warplanes make their debut in new clip and images - playstation 3 players get first call of duty elite content - limbo: not so scary if you bring a flashlight like in this funny video - hbo go coming to xbox 360 april 1 - square enix readies quantum conundrum for european distribution - ghost recon online trailer offers intel on recon class - mario party 9 release date march 11, new trailer has story and wiggler battles - ps vita sells 1.2 million worldwide - jet set radio hd release date officially set for this summer on xbla/psn/pc get more from cvg - blizzard hit as activision cuts 600 staff - sim city 5 to be announced next week - rumour - diablo 3 beta key giveaway - update - 1st week uk vita sales fall well short of psp, 3ds - report - japanese devs should stop copying the west - acquire - gamestop keen on game acquisition - report - zone of the enders hd collection launches this autumn - mass effect 3: pre-order at game?
- report this post reply with quote dicky1993 on 29 feb '12 said:
this looks  incredible!
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close
posted on wednesday 29-feb-2012 12:36 pm kingdoms of amalur: reckoning story dlc arrives next month ea details
1st week uk vita sales fall well short of psp, 3ds -  report -http://t.co/qouldu2v retweet
register or log in not got an account?