if you missed monday's shock news, cvg exclusively reported that the firm's  highly anticipated xbox 360 rpg mass effect has been pushed back to september.
i only have 7 medi packs and 4 adv medi packs?
kotor online (being made by bioware; a seperate district.
this rumor is utter bunk thanks to the extra crap added onto it.
i refuse to pay for a game, pay for live and then pay a monthly fee to play it.
i've read that article and it didn't convince me that it hasany basis.
getting a bit bored of wow.
so please bio, don't be stupid.
and essentially there wouldnt be so much work involved as it would be an evolution rather than a game built from scratch, for me the ui, game and character mechanics were spot on in kotor 2 the skills systems and character development
we know you are more than capable of both, so there really is no need for this.
maybe even the best mmorpg off of star wars!
actually if anyone agrees with me and doesn't want this to be developed into an mmo, sign this
submit article to n4g submit article
completely agree with soulchimaera.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
i rather pay or for a band new xbox game than that.
so stop worrying, all of you, this rumor is a load of b*****ks!!!!
i think that this new is a desire made real if we think in the more number of players.
i do not like the idea of it being on-line.
kotor is one of our favourite star wars games ever and the thoughts of an online mmo is, frankly, too much to take in.
by the way, we have launched a wiki knowledge base that will be continuously enriched with information about biowares's upcoming next-generation mmo.
it'll be worse than wow...
sign up hereusername by gavin ogden for computerandvideogames.com bioware has formed a new online team to create a star wars: knight of the old republic massively multiplayer online game, egm reports.
who says the 360 doesn't have rpgs?
believe me lets pray to the lord all together...
you kotor fans have nothing to worry about.
it doesn't hinder anything!
nooooooooo don't turn it into another pay monthly game.
in a mmo whos in your party?
http://www.petitiononline.com/mod_perl/ ... 0kotormo&1
i am actually looking forward to this news, unlike the 6 people that hate this news.
mass effect will bring in more money than they could possibly wish for.
the sad thing about most mmorpgs is that they're just glorified co-op sp games (like nwn), but with lots of strangers running around.
the  current pc-exclusive dragon age is coming to ps3 and the ds currently in  development at the mega-studio looks to be from the baldur's gate franchise.
please pull your head out of your butt and get into the real world.
anyways the point is its there company not yours if they want to make a kotor mmorpg then they will they don't give a s**t about who doesn't want to see it made because they know that they will make millions if they make it so sit there and cry because it is deffenitly going to be made.
hopefully this is true kotor is one of the best games on the xbox if not the best and this would be a great games on the xbox360 and hopefully soon to follow on the pc the timeframe is perfect they dont hav a specific guidline it gives the devs lots of freedom look what they did with the first kotor classic this one will definetly b a great game my only worry is storage and space for the devs to work with i jus hope they have a base thats full of content then post the things they couldnt include on the game for online play on xbox live content so we can get a good feel of the game this is great news lets just hope that this news will be announced by bioware oh god!
today, despite of some coments here, the solo rpgs are dead.
i need a replacement for wow. lol, thats true, well, they should make it for the pc anyway, most games are made for the pc as the pc is almost considered as a next-gen type console thing, umm that came out a bit wrong.
wow is boring and anything else is gay!
me i love kotor 1 & 2 would love if they would keep it sp and not mp
more importantly, the license for baldur's gate as a franchise is still owned by interplay - the same interplay thatstill owe bioware money for unpaid royalties for baldur's gate ii - and the forgotten realms license is with atari.
only because i don't want to see it turn into one of those games that gets to like kotor xvi where the game will be the same as the last on with just a new face and new names.
please, if anyone is developing this as an mmo, please just drop the idea and make a normal sequel game.
i liked the first two as they were...
some people don't have people to spoil them mate, i'm skint i can't afford £8.99 a month, would you believe it.
mmo's rarely have a decent story or anything like that... and if its pay montly i'll never by a title by bioware ever...
payin to play the game and online after buying it?
you like a for a game that might take you 4 months or .
but im just givin my 2 cents worth on kotor iii
the only part that's likely true is a kotor mmo, but we've been expecting that the bioware mmo is kotor for years now.
i desperately hope this news isn't true.
if you missed monday's shock news, cvg exclusively reported that the firm's highly anticipated xbox 360 rpg mass effect has been pushed back to september.
an mmo could never be as good as a sp rpg.
i want kotor 3 singleplayer please.. looking fwd to mo news on this one......could be a killer game
these games will all be out when they're done.
this is coming from someone who has played mmos, the community is generally horrible, the gameplay is almost as bad, and they don't have a thing on single player rpgs.
so if they get finished with mass effect, they'll move that district onto another project (or split up the current team, and move so-and so to work on one project, and so and so to work on another project. )
this does sound like a dream come true....but pleasssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee please ffs dont make the lightsabers all goofy it will destroy your game pc · xbx · rpg activision a star is born... got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
just make the next game in the series.
a 10 year old who thinks hes so great and knows everything about the game.
bioware have been adamant that dragon age is a pc game.
anything bioware touches, will turn to gold.
if there is a kotor mmorpg making by bioware.
i don't know why people are saying 'no' to this???
no further details were reported in the rumour section of the us magazine but we've taped our fingers crossed.
but i do not like the idea for the same reason why some else said about it.
it'll be the best mmo ever.
actually, kotormmofowin proves my point.
but if anyone one can sort out this genre then obsidian would be one of the two possible companys i would like to see do it (thq the other one).
not that i think on-line game is bad idea.
secondly, if it would be only mmo then i'd say 'hell no! '.
i loved the kotor games but making it into a mmo would ruin it for me.
not to mention additional fees to it.
i am a huge fan of the kotor games and would love to see a kotor mmo.
kotor is one of our favourite star wars  games ever and the thoughts of an online mmo is, frankly, too much to take in.
bioware's owned by ea.
if they discover the new game ways, then, they will love the online and they never will play conventional games in the future.
and with the mmo problem, i personaly do not know anything about mmo.
however, bioware totally rocks!
but i played number 2 before number one (mistake i know) and am just about to finish number one now but am stuck on the last fight with malak!
didn't you know that each district will be developing at the same time, those titles?
if done correct, then only 6 people will probably protest it.
so i do not have have anything wrong with it, but i loved the way kotor i & kotor ii was made.
posted on wednesday 25-apr-2007 9:16 am kotor mmo in development?
also dragon age (also mentioned in the rumor) is also a brand new ip.
they're all rumours at the moment but we'll keep you updated with any announcements.
while bioware are creating a new mmorpg (they've opened new offices specifically for this project)
bioware's online team tipped to be working on massively multiplayer  knights of the old republic console title share
omg please make a kotor mmo!!!!!!!!!!
jade empire 2, perhaps?
kotor 3: (being made by yet another district.
possibly the only game i'd get the 360 for gone in a puff fof smoke because of greed.
kotoriii could be immense, but an mmo would be your biggest mistake ever.
strong though how theyre really pushed for time on mass effect, and there talking about a mmo kotor game?
being made by a seperate district of bioware; no resources ('cept money) being drained.
rest of us dont need your bs..
and so will mass other people!
no further details were reported in the rumour section of the us magazine
first of all, i think this news stinks.
"stop being cheap", how rude is that?
i think kotor would suck as an mmo becuase in mmo's all you do is try to be better than your friends but if there was a seperate kotor based mmo thats fine but kotor is ment to be a sigle playernot ment to be a frikin mmo im a big fan kotor as any of you
they have enough money from kotor, and jade empire, and nwn and nwn2, and baldur's gate to pool in ths type of move.
thay will take up a lot of time, plus we might have to pay phantasy star like money to play it.
just do not make the same with kotor ii.
bioware are totally done with baldur's gate.
i have not played an on-line game.
its true that most of the current mmorpgs tend to be quite shallow in game content, reyling instead on player interaction to satisfy gamers needs.
with the multiplayer mode thing, it's not a bad, but i would rather have a single mode to go with it.
kotor is a dazzling timeline for the sw universe, and, with an sw galaxies being almos ancient, this is the time for the bioware rumor made real, i think.
everyone is welcome to visit the kotor mmo wiki at http://kotor.mmolab.com .
i don't understand why six people say no?
i'm getting tired of all the other mmos.
if this is done right this could be the best mmo ever made!
i loathe mmorpgs with a passion, and the thought of one of my favourite developers wasting their skills, time, and money on some pos on-line game when they could be making a proper rpg (i.e. kotor 3, *single player only*) instead is a highly unpleasant one.
these rumors are nearly complete rubbish.
but i want a singleplayer kotor 3!
it's a much safer option, mmo's always turn out to be disasters.
i'd love to see you 6 in the game, sitting in the corner, holding up 'sayno to kotor online' while millions of others walk you by and ignore you.
something i've noticed is all the people saying no to this are most likely thinking this is a substitute for kotor 3, it's not, this is a completely separate game, an online version of kotor that will have hardly anything to do with the characters already in the kotor games, kotor 3 will still be made and by obsidian, though it's not official yet it's not that hard to see that obsidian think that sw: kotor is a goldmine, sw kotor
resources taken: money. )
no doubt we'll be charged a ridiculous recurring fee on a monthly basis.
the first two were brilliant.
theres even guilds already forming.www.kotor3mmo.com anyone who is posting that they shouldn't make kotor an mmo needs to grow up.
computerandvideogames.com
yes, on-line could be great, and yeah
i am thinking a mix of wow,guild wars and eve online (gotta have space battles in it ffs) also kinda of off topic a little
i will pay what ever monthly
that's how big mmo's of a great genre are.
please stop being cheap.
and more importantly, the whole thing about baldur's gate pretty much consigns the rumor to the rubbish heap.
because you're all seeming like idiots.
you sit at your computer and talk about how this would ruin the other two games but tell me how would it ruin them its not like when the game comes out those two games will change.
however, i have few things i do not like about it.
mmorpgs are the domain of developers who are too lazy/talentless to come up with good storyline ideas and write decent dialogue.
the magazine also reports on a few other bioware-related rumours.
etc were and still are better than any other ive come across so far, with the possible exception of fallout 2 which would be an equal.
i played star wars galaxies for some crazy reason and i met probably 5 decent people - everyone else was really rude and disrespectful.
what right do you have to tell them not to make a game that so many people want to see made.
any tips of how to beat his ass down?
you can find more here.
well, thats what i don't understand, if they are making kotor online, it won't take over the kotor sp games, its separate, it won't have anything to do with kotor 1, 2 or 3 (when it gets made), it will be a separate story with hardly any relation to the sp games, so it won't matter if they make it because, it won't take over the original kotor games we all know and love, so thats why i don't see why people won't give it a chance, the point is if you don't want to play it, then don't, it's a as simple as that, it's just star wars in the old republic, in my opinion, they should make more games in the kotor era and not just leave it to a sp rpg trilogy (i hope for a trilogy), anyway thats my daily rant over, lol.
register or log in not got an account?
personally i think that the single player kotor should stop at 2.
even if ea were to force their hand and make them put it on consoles, it wouldn't be ps3-exclusive.
i think you should do both.
ok yeah, they could use the time it would take for to make this for something else but, there are gonna be the millions of people who play online games (like me) that wants to play kotor online, quite frankly it actually takes longer to make a single player rpg than it does to make an mmo, so time wise doesn't really matter as much, just think of it this way, its another kotor game that just happens to be online, and if its better than swg and wow then i imagine it could be the best online game that could ever of been made, just because you don't want to pay money to play a game after you've already bought it doesn't mean it isn't good, or because you might not have a fast enough broadband to play it, it is just after all another game and swg is getting on now and there needs to be another sw mmo thats gonna take over swg, and sw kotor online is definitely the way to go.
i'd like to see your proof that they aren't making it, normally i don't listen to rumors either, but when bioware have heard the rumor and not deny it, thats when i decided that they may be making it, so unless you have proof stated by bioware they are not making a sw kotor online, then i think you shouldn't post such a bold statement that you have no idea is true.
please make a kotor mmo!!!
the kotor games were excellent, and if obsidian were able to transfer that kind of quality onto the online world then it would be a major coup.
although i love kotor, i would much rather have a brand new single player rpg that has absolutely nothing to do with star wars than a kotor mmorpg.
there's not many signatures because it hasn't got any publicity, i think.
stargate worlds and kotoronline will jus tbe the topping of the cake.
if this story is true, i've just lost all interest.
they've said it before again and again.
email: news@cvg.co.uk from £69.99amazon marketplace uk in stock £69.99 © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
online will be different, the story is practicaly made by the player and will be just basically a revamped swg, but in the kotor era, where there are more sith and more jedi, so i say definitely yes, this is what i have wanted since i first played kotor 1, and also the people who don't want this, quite simply put, "don't play it" duh.
there's so much untapped potential.
kotor mmo would be the best thing ever.
kkthnx kotor mmo lovin guy i really like the news of kotor iii a lot.
they're all rumours at the moment but we'll keep you updated with any  announcements.
kotor 3 will contribute to that as well.
even if it was a single player version as long as it was bioware that done it i would be over the moon!
i think someone should setup a poll and let ppl vote on what they want...
mass effect: sp game..
it will not be based on the star wars universe, it's going to be a brand new ip.
no one can really affect the world, however.
i want single player...only!!!
please keep it single player bioware or atleast make it so that online is optional!
please help blame world of warcraft!
the people who says no to the idea of a mmo on kotor prefering the conventional rpg, is because they have never played online yet.
that's just not how ea roll.
dragon age: (another seperate district being made by bioware.
we will taste the best star wars experience ever.
why would you outsource a game to your competitor's studios?
you can find more here.computerandvideogames.com 38 comments so far...
even if this mmorpg isn't "instead of" kotor 3, it will still use up time and resources that could have gone into developing at least one single player game instead.
the current pc-exclusive dragon age is coming to ps3 and the ds currently in development at the mega-studio looks to be from the baldur's gate franchise.
to  stumbleupon close comments 38 by gavin ogden for computerandvideogames.com bioware has formed a new online team to create a star wars: knight of the  old republic massively multiplayer online game, egm reports.
when i heard this rumour it practically wrecked my day.
i would spend hours just listening to their stories and backgrounds.
to reddit  submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article
i can't wait for this news to be true.
but we've taped our fingers crossed.
so i really would just wish that you not that i hate this at all, but i real wished that who ever created kotor ii restore it to the way it was met to be played alittle more than kotor iii.
they have more than enough talent and money to work on all those.
i have been waiting for kotor 3 since i quit galaxies.
i thought that the best part of the past games was interacting with the rest of your party.
if there were a singleplayer part, at least as good as the earlier games and an mmo side of the game, i'll say ok.
love the kotor universe and if this was done properly but for pc aswell this would rock.
this was a game i really wanted to hear about.
i have had dreams about it!
lets hope this is true