am i still horribly out of shape that i can't run for more than three seconds or my overweight friend outrunning me?
btw when does it come out?
order xbox world magazine here and have it delivered straight to your door, or purchase a digital copy from the us app store or uk app store.
- report this post reply with quote gmcb007 on 15 dec '11 said: killer new info on gta v???
read more recommended links from the web comments 15 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote budge on 15 dec '11 said: sounds good and i'm chuffed that the manuscripts, radio and tv stations return because i loved searching for them in aw.
difference is aw is not about zombies or a horror game.
american nightmare has a lot weight on its shoulders, but i can't see how it's going change things, but it'll be decent.
but i cant wait to get this!
read more recommended links
for the full eight-page feature on alan wake's american nightmare pick up xbox world magazine issue 113, which also includes an exclusive look at rainbow six patriots.
on their plans for aw2 as well.
- report this post reply with quote agent75 on 15 dec '11 said: not had a chance to play alan wake yet, but from what i've read/heard, it's a mixed bag.
fixes more stuff - ratchet & clank hd classics trilogy confirmed.
although it still relies on the same combat mechanics as the original game,  enemies now respond to alan's light-based attacks in different ways that force  him to switch up his tactics.
in his absence fans of the writer have re-imagined him as a candyman of  sorts, the legend goes that alan vanished into the woods of bright falls and  returned as mr scratch, a maniacal serial killer.
according to the mag, alan wake's american nightmare draws  thematic and narrative inspiration from pulp action-adventures such as from  dusk 'til dawn and other quentin tarantino/robert rodriguez material.
it also reminds me i haven't played the dlc for the original yet, i should really remedy that.
register or log in not got an account?
microsoft working on 'aaaa' game get more from cvg - microsoft: 'no next-gen xbox at e3' - modern warfare 3 'content collection 1' launch trailer - ghost recon: future soldier trailer details hostage mission - rocksmith shreds down under - soul calibur 5 update improves online play next week - modern warfare 3: four extra dlc drops planned - award-winning indie title 'closure' dated for psn - neogeo x handheld confirmed for uk - £500 - skyrim update 1.5 brings kill cams - ratchet & clank trilogy confirmed - us nintendo downloads: game gear vc arrives cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - mass effect 3 - resident evil 6 - max payne 3 - elder scrolls v:
fortunately,xbox world magazine has delivered a sprawling eight-page feature chalk-full of details on the flannel-clad writer's newest nightmare.
the xbla follow-up is a return to alan wake's open-world roots, featuring a  hub structure which will see players returning to locations multiple times  during the story.
i sold my 360 a while back
watch in hd  no comments yet, be the  first!
hopefully a release date.
- report this post reply with quote black mantis on 15 dec '11 said: looking forward to this
a new crossbow weapon which can pierce through  the darkness protecting enemies has been introduced, along with and uzis,  military-grade rifles and a nailgun, which alan can use to overwhelm his foes.
the game is described as "significantly bigger than any  episode of the original game.
its a story-driven action game in the psychological thriller genre - report this post reply with quote gmcb007 on 15 dec '11 said: looking forward to this
- what's on the psn store this week: 14/3/12 - resident evil chronicles hd ps3 screens - mass effect 3 ending: 'fans' raise over $37, 338 for charity to get it changed - xbox 720 won't be announced at e3 or "anytime soon," says microsoft - ratchet & clank: hd collection confirmed and dated by sony - ghost recon: future soldier - wikipedia ain't got nothing on this fact-filled new trailer - skyrim's 1.5 patch brings extra-stylish killin' to pc; consoles soon to follow - baldur's gate returns this summer with baldur's gate: enhanced edition - wasteland 2 kickstarter eclipses $1m in opening days - max payne 3 trailer and screens get up close and brutal - transformers prime announced as nintendo exclusive - diablo iii release date confirmed for may - because 'triple-a' just isn't good enough?
- icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international - digitalfuture © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
no comments yet, be the first!
he speaks about himself in the third-person.
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store news: skyrim update 1.5 brings kill cams - http://t.co/pxzvhruz http://t.co/07wc2uxl via @cvg_uk retweet this posted on thursday 15-dec-2011 11:11 am alan wake's american nightmare: first details evil alan roams the open-world...
- report this post reply with quote master baihu on 15 dec '11 said: day 1 buy!
skyrim - battlefield 3 top reviews - mass effect 3 review: an unforgettable end to an epic sci-fi trilogy - ssx review: ea's classic gets back on board - binary domain review: a brave attempt to innovate in a tired genre - asura's wrath review: a glory to behold - but more anime than game - syndicate review: play it in co-op - or don't play it at all staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards @roblastcav future - media with passion - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap!
while i'm not a supporter of developers releasing full games as download only titles i'm really looking forward to this.
computer and video games -
fortunately,xbox world magazine has delivered  a sprawling eight-page feature chalk-full of details on the flannel-clad  writer's newest nightmare.
email: news@cvg.co.uk - skyrim 1.5 ps3 update patches in new kill cams.
13 more latest news - alan wake's american nightmare hits xbox live - alan wake's american nightmare launch trailer features & interviews alan wake's american nightmare: 'our inspiration is quentin tarantino...
computerandvideogames.com tamoor hussain editorial assistant tamoor plays anything and everything but really likes fighting games.
since saving alice, his perpetually in danger other half, and confining himself to the 'dark place' beneath cauldron lake alan has become an urban-legend.
this x1,000,000 i don't care what people say, alan wake is my favourite xbox game ever!
" american nightmare takes place two years after the events of the original game.
- report this post reply with quote rawanz on 15 dec '11 said: i'm not really an xbox player.
probably just a trailer analysis.
according to the mag, alan wake's american nightmare draws thematic and narrative inspiration from pulp action-adventures such as from dusk 'til dawn and other quentin tarantino/robert rodriguez material.
during the game players will learn what became of alice, as well as alan's agent barry, after the events of the first game through new manuscript pages, tvs and radios, xbox world reveals.
posted on thursday 15-dec-2011 11:11 am alan wake's american nightmare: first details evil alan roams the open-world... share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 15 by tamoor hussain for computerandvideogames.com alan wake might be the talk of the town but little is known about his  re-emergence on xbox live arcade.
share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 15 by tamoor hussain for computerandvideogames.com alan wake might be the talk of the town but little is known about his re-emergence on xbox live arcade.
gaming hit a brick wall years ago, mass lack of imagination.
although it still relies on the same combat mechanics as the original game, enemies now respond to alan's light-based attacks in different ways that force him to switch up his tactics.
for the full eight-page feature on alan wake's american nightmare pick up  xbox world magazine issue 113, which also includes an exclusive look at rainbow  six patriots.
during the game players will learn what became of alice, as well as alan's  agent barry, after the events of the first game through new manuscript pages,  tvs and radios, xbox world reveals.
however,what is the killer new info on gta5 from the cover of xbox world?
roll on more alan wake.
- report this post reply with quote master baihu on 15 dec '11 said: not had a chance to play alan wake yet, but from what i've read/heard, it's a mixed bag.
like all good urban myths uttering mr scratch's name a few too many times  is rumored to summon him, and since things have a way of mysteriously coming  true in alan's world, the evil doppleganger has manifested and is on his way to  finish alice off, leaving a trail of bodies and video evidence of his murderous  activities for alan to find.
- report this post reply with quote mmmmgrolsch on 15 dec '11 said: sounds frigging awesome!
- report this post reply with quote killerkeiron123 on 17 dec '11 said: killer new info on gta v???
order xbox world magazine here and have it delivered straight to your  door, or purchase a digital copy from the us app store or uk app store.
loved alan wake, and im sure this will be just as awesome!
can't wait for this new episode, should shed some light (intended!)
let's just hope that alan's writing is a bit better this time, eh? - report this post reply with quote metallicorphan on 15 dec '11 said: looking forward to this
this is more action-oriented' oskari 'ozz' hakkinen gives us the low-down...
its out now related content - alan wake's american nightmare xla · action microsoft reviews alan wake's american nightmare review: a new beginning for alan review a series starter or a season finale?
- report this post reply with quote stonecoldmc on 15 dec '11 said: sounds frigging awesome!
- report this post reply with quote varo_92 on 15 dec '11 said: killer new info on gta v???
in his absence fans of the writer have re-imagined him as a candyman of sorts, the legend goes that alan vanished into the woods of bright falls and returned as mr scratch, a maniacal serial killer.
since saving alice, his perpetually in danger other half, and confining  himself to the 'dark place' beneath cauldron lake alan has become an  urban-legend.
on evenings and weekends he might be batman.
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
but i will be buying one back just for this game good thing i still got money on my live account!
may 16th release date - datura: move mystery reveals gameplay, trailers and new info.
- lego batman 2: dc super heroes ps3 preview - lego batman 2 dc super heroes ps3 screens and trailer - twisted metal, fifa street, max payne 3 - ps3 release date news 15/3/12 - max payne 3 new ps3 screens:
- report this post reply with quote coulson1990 on 15 dec '11 said: i'm alan wake...
popular now - 1 mass effect 3 complete scanning guide - and how to get the best possible ending - 2 mass effect 3 guide: all the character deaths - and how they can be avoided - 3 neogeo x handheld confirmed for uk - £500 send us your news got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
did you see that head come apart?
on  evenings and weekends he might be batman.
he speaks about himself in the  third-person.
the xbla follow-up is a return to alan wake's open-world roots, featuring a hub structure which will see players returning to locations multiple times during the story.
like all good urban myths uttering mr scratch's name a few too many times is rumored to summon him, and since things have a way of mysteriously coming true in alan's world, the evil doppleganger has manifested and is on his way to finish alice off, leaving a trail of bodies and video evidence of his murderous activities for alan to find.
the game is described as "significantly bigger than any episode of the original game.
it's dated as the february issue so probably mid january.
but when you look at stuff like resident evil, silent hill and dead rising, the amount of stuff that's out there, people are getting a bit sick of this genre, more so resident evil which i think capcom had ruined.
" american nightmare takes place two years after the events of the original  game.
i hope is not another f**king trailer analysis....
a new crossbow weapon which can pierce through the darkness protecting enemies has been introduced, along with and uzis, military-grade rifles and a nailgun, which alan can use to overwhelm his foes.
- report this post reply with quote ladycroft142 on 15 dec '11 said: