by andy robinson for computerandvideogames.com the next xbox console is codenamed 'project ten' and will release next year, the latest rumour report claims.
it's not as if most people bother with the current integration.
i'm sure the sony fans here now are wondering how the f*ck that happened, same here.
i can see the 720 coming out in 2013, next year is too early.
setting it up and streaming all the stuff off it is a doddle, although you don't want to do it with a wireless connection on either device - the input lag on the menus in media centre is awful.
what is that gonna do to m$ commitment to pc gaming and games for windows?
i would have thought 2013
fair enough on tp, it's decent, a nice solid 8/10 for me.
the first thing i thought was 'why the hell is he playing mw2 before realising it was mw3.
the pookie of the jammy dodgers realm; it's the biscuit man, it's calling to me, i can't help it man....
isn't that releasing on 360?
but the 360 could go on for a few more years, but it seems microsoft wants to beat sony to it, plus it'll want to take on the wii head on.
in which case it is being rushed.
so whatever competition you've started....i'm in.
rumours are a new perfect dark will hit for 10's launch
now it's all separated content with rare great games that are rarely replayable and now a bunch of deathmatch and capture the flag/zone/hill variations all being played on a box that can connect to other things.
but if a x720, or xbox 10, or nextbox, or xbox loop, or xbox infinite, or whatever they are gonna call it- came out tomorrow, i'd buy it.
microsoft's sdk will surely make their platform easier than sony's to develop for again though.
a christmas 2013 release date would givethe wii u 12-18 months unchallenged (depending on when they launch) as the most powerful console on the market by some margin, which i really can't see happening.
its all well and good saying ' i'm happy with this gen, we don't need a new console bla bla' but technology moves on at the end of the day.
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 47 by andy robinson for computerandvideogames.com the next xbox console is codenamed 'project ten' and will release next  year, the latest rumour report claims.
but the 360 could go on for a few more years, but it seems microsoft wants to beat sony to it
but that would need more open architecture, proper adoption of usb and the ability to playback most video and audio codecs, which would seem to be something they're very reluctant to do.
sure the machine is in the post, so to speak, but halo 4 is in the way.
please no, nintendo weakened tp's impact by being so cynical.
http://troll.me/images/defiant-fat-kid/i-want-chicken-and-biscuits-now.jpg i've got no idea what the story is about because i haven't read it, i just sensed the offer of biscuits.
come with a remote and 2 controllers so you dont con me out another £40
register or log in not got an account?
"what i'm hearing is [the next xbox is] going to come out  for holidays next year, meaning that they would almost have to announce this at  ces, wouldn't they?
it would be nice for the next xbox to :- 1) still have games on disc
( as does ps3) 3) have a lot more ram and a much larger hd to allow more games to be installed, faster data access and assist with graphics.
trouble is, we'll all have to put up with the first year of the new consoles having mostly rubbish titles on them.
if you own a 360 and you bought that anyway, you have no one to blame for that but yourself.
but it is time to move on.
does anyone else think thats a couple of years too late?
it's quite funny all the playing of video files though.
i also hope that ms will not repeat their rrod problem with the new console.
i'd rather wait longer and be safe than get it early and regret it.
they would need to allow a web browser...
i don't know what your talking about.
halo 4 would be the best game for the system.
6) be more reliable upon release than the 360.
thurrott claimed he's been told the next xbox will feature "embedded  microsoft silverlight", which is speculated to run the previously announced xbox live tv platform.
i also hate the idea of cloud gaming (some of the rumors are suggesting this) coming to next big thing.
i'll leave my true opinions of tp out of this as i tend to p**s a lot of younger nintendo fans off when i go for the hatchet job.
sign up hereusername
why release your big game on 360 in autumn and then release your next console mere months later?
i'll wait for the slim version.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
i'd rather wait a year and a half - maybe two - and see what a new console offers.
he added: "they're going the apple route where they want this thing to integrate very tightly with windows 8 and windows phone, which is a problem with the current xbox."
this is one of two reasons why i'm not buying new xbox 360 paraphernalia or a xbox 360 slim (the other reason being that i simply don't actuallyneed to).
i imagine a tiny percentage of these are legal.
they're going the apple route where they want this thing to integrate very tightly with windows 8 and windows phone, which is a problem with the current xbox."
its basically the same game repolished from two years ago.
twilight princess is my favourite zelda.
i hope they do release the 720 next year, waiting until 2013 would only give sony the chance of releasing first, not to mention giving the wii u a free run for a year.
but you could imagine there could be overlap, it depends.
i'll raise you a packet of midget gems it doesn't come out until at least november 2013.
personally think that would be bigger and as epic said "this is the end of delta squads story".
ps1, originally a nintendo project (read about it, due to cd drive), ps2, a more powerful ps1 with the same controller, ps3, a move powerful ps2 with the same controller...
but you could imagine there could  be overlap, it depends.
that is very wise - but could you really wait that long when amazing exclusives start rolling out?
thurrott hasn't got a prediction right in a fair while, so even though much of what he says is logical (they'd be crazy not to integrate all their products and services, for one), i'll be taking this rumour with a quarry-ful of salt.
i'm not going to announce specifically or talk about timing.
the feature no-one wants.
and everything will be microsoft brand: no choice, locked down.
makes more sense to make it a launch title imo.
technology reporter paul thurrott makes the claim in the windows weekly video show, in which he claims microsoft will be "going the apple route" with its next console.
mind you, the streaming options and ability of ps3 to be a media hub have obviously not escaped ms's attention.
it better be able to play hd mkv's or it's a dud as a media device, same for wii u and ps4.
we should start a pool and see who wins a decent wedge (or a pack of jammy dodgers).
i think everyone will be desperate to get their console out by christmas 2012 - just before the world ends
they could pull a twilight princess.
yeah more halo.. why not 360 microsoft are you ready to go entirely digital?if
its going to be interesting next e3.
microsoft has long spoken of its ten-year plan for xbox 360, which launched  in late 2005, but that doesn't rule out a successor launching during the  period, according to european xbox boss chris lewis,who said in august: "we think we're a little over halfway with the life cycle of the  console, but that's not to say there won't be an overlap.
xbox 720 cans pre-owned, we all lose opinion: don't declare war on the used game market, says james jenkins got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
the integration doesn't surprise me in the slightest.
you'd also be a dope for buying the overpriced monstrosity.
they will want too much control over it to make it a decent windows-integrated multimedia hub... i.e. no point.
sob, have a heart people.
we're not being specific about the next generation at  this stage.
i mean rushed to compete with nintendo.
maybe halo 4 releases for the 360 in 2012 and the new system comes out in 2013 a little more polished with the start of a new gears of war as a launch title.
like anyone with any common sense, i'll be waiting to see what the hardcore - non kinect - games are like before picking one up.
id be p**sed if i just dropped nearly £300 to buy the new mw3 console, only to have it for a few months b4 the next xbox comes out
it's been worked on on 360 for years and to switch out now would put the game back at least a year.
[ source: windows weekly ] andy robinson acting editor andy has written about video games for ten years for publications such as  pc zone, t3, the sunday mirror and of course, cvg.read more recommended links
the speculation / rumours around using arm based cpus seems pretty exciting though having a single core for different game functions (e.g. 4 to 8 cores) could end up being pretty weak compared to - say - sony's speculated 32 core ps4 cell processor.
if microsoft wants to clamp, stamp and lock devices and software exclusively to its platforms they'll have to do a better job than apple - day 1 - to get me to consider forking out for a new steering wheel, or doing anything along the lines of converting all my itunes & ipod music / movie s**t over.
2013 - still the most likely for release in my opinion, and would make the most logical sense, let the xbox 360 go out with a bang with halo 4, then move on.
gaming as a whole seems to get distracted and ends up going a different route that i wanted with each generation.
i hate you svd_grasshopper how about, let sony release theirs then steal all the good ideas from it add it with your good ideas and humiliate them god i should work for microsoft ot: it has to have blu ray discs : windows 8 would be sweeeeet :
but the xbox 360 has been such a brilliant console that i'm looking forward to seeing what the next one is like.
regarding the previous rumor (xbox using arm processor, smaller, cheaper), other sites reporting on this also reported that the next xbox was scheduled for a 2015 release.
[ source: windows weekly ]computerandvideogames.com andy has written about video games for ten years for publications such as pc zone, t3, the sunday mirror and of course, cvg.read more 47 comments so far...
the claims somewhat match with a rumour from earlier this week, which claimed the next xbox will run a version of windows and feature a zune hd-like hardware platform.
i'm looking forward to wiiu.
it would also being a great way of starting the new trilogy on the new console.
thurrott claimed he's been told the next xbox will feature "embedded microsoft silverlight", which is speculated to run the previously announced xbox live tv platform.
ps1, originally a nintendo project (read about it, due to cd drive), ps2, a more powerful ps1 with the same controller, ps3, a move powerful ps2 with the same controller... i can't wait to see what microsoft come up with for the next generation.
the 360 was, however, rushed to beat ps3 out of the door.
ps2 still had lots of life in it.
an e3 2012 release followed by a launch window of somewhere between christmas 2012 and summer 2013 would make more sense.
but apple products don't integrate with windows 8 or windows phone!
hence all the design flaws, lack of quality control testing and the rrod that followed.
2014 - had nintendo not announced the wii u this would not have surprised me, but if nintendo releases the wii u in summer 2012, as far as console power is concerned, this would leave microsoft playing second fiddle to nintendo for the best part of 18-30 months???
launching both consoles within the same month would be fantastic in my opinion.
this still doesn't make sense to me.
who cares, the current gen do all i need...
i'm not going to  announce specifically or talk about timing.
but i'll wait and see on that one.
place your bets (just don't let that el mag fella near the biscuits ).
or the feature they fear may take the sheen off the paid-for content.
and if you didn't own a 360, until this point, then why do you care when the next one is coming out.
i'm actually more interested in whether microsoft stick with physical media of some kind - whether disc or memory card based, plus whether peripherals are open / free to use across platforms and whether microsoft's gpu will remain amd / ati or go imgtec.
there is still plenty of life in the 360 yet.
7) not come out for another 2 years, there's still lots of life in the existing xbox 360.
obviously ms have planned/are talking about a 2013 release or that rumour wouldn't keep coming up.
the current 360 is still great and can still manage and wow us with games like batman ac, and other upcoming games like halo cea, rayman origins, assassins creed: revelations, me3 etc... like cell fish put it, i'll wait a couple years to see what its like and if any good, i'll get the slim version...if there's one.
its just that given the current situation this sounds a bit weird.
i think ms have missed a trick with halo 4 myself; it should be a launch title for the new machine and would help them hit the ground running.
" saber interactive ceo, matthew karch, who's currently heading up the halo:  combat evolved anniversary single-player campaign, told cvg last month he'd be  "shocked" if microsoft doesn't launch its next-gen console before  sony.
that might mean a return to pc gaming only for me then.
( i truly hope it isn't going the "apple" route with drm downloaded software/games etc, i want a physicality with my games).
would have to strongly disagree with that, especially after seeing the console version of bf3 and mw3.
that's my rumour... that we'll expect to hear something  about that." he added: "they're going the apple route where they want this thing to  integrate very tightly with windows 8 and windows phone, which is a problem  with the current xbox."
i'm sort of smelling a rushed release here.
then they'll charge you for a system upgrade when a new version of windows comes out.
but i hope it has powerful gpu,cpu,ram,i would like m$ to use xc sd 64gb the cases would be the size of a ds case,maybe not.
provided this is true at least.
you can forget about 64gb sdxc though - unless the prices come down to a couple of quid as opposed to the £70 odd they cost now!
tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
classic sony, look back at their thieving history in gaming, i dont think they have actually brought anything to the party?
it would be disaster for many gamers who already own piles of 360 games and those who do not have fast internet to download something that's taking lots of hdd space.
posted on wednesday 9-nov-2011 12:34 pm xbox 720 'going the apple route', out 2012, claims new report next xbox to integrate "very tightly" with windows 8, says  reporter share this
i've also said previously that halo 4 would be a great title to launch a new console with.
id probably say the ps3 was delayed because they knew nintendo had something big up their sleeve i.e. motion control, and they wanted to steal the idea, hence the crappy six axis thing.
whatever you do don't let him near the biscuit tin,years of psychotherapy would be down the drain.
you do realize that sony was actually developing the move years before nintendo did the wii right?
i do like iplayer and br playback on my ps3, but ultimately i just want a top games console.
though i expect double the ram.
microsoft has long spoken of its ten-year plan for xbox 360, which launched in late 2005, but that doesn't rule out a successor launching during the period, according to european xbox boss chris lewis,who said in august: "we think we're a little over halfway with the life cycle of the console, but that's not to say there won't be an overlap.
the xbox 360 is 6 years old, it'll be 7 when this comes out (if true).
should be interesting either way.
should have mentioned.
blu ray or equivalent and a fat hdd (that you can change yourself without getting your console banned) should be fine.
that would be like the contestants from the biggest loser being locked in the dark in a room full of cream-cakes i can see the 720 coming out in 2013, next year is too early.
just can't see it 2015 - similar to above.
i've found that my 360 and ps3 play the same stuff, but maybe that's just the files i have.
however if sw battlefront 3 is involved, i may have to rethink halo 4 would certainly make next xbox's launch a lot easier.
going the 'apple route' would mean dumping windows - unfortunately, ms will never do that.
the claims somewhat match with a rumour from earlier this week, which  claimed the next xbox will run a version of windows and feature a zune hd-like  hardware platform.
would definitetly expect a reveal of some kind.
i would like to see sony & m$ get together and agree on a release window for the next consoles.
also what about halo 4?
which leaves sony (nintendo is too simplistic for my tastes from what i've seen so far)...and i avoid buying sony products at every chance.
if consoles simply do not have that major jump in game quality and quantity that i personally want in ai, physics and animation, i won't even give a seconds thought in dismissing them.
i would like to continue with ms's console line but if it doesn't have backwards compatibility with my xbox 360 games library, then i may decide not to go with ms.
both companies are terrified the other will get one up on them so they will both have their next gen consoles prepared.
we're not being specific about the next generation at this stage.
" saber interactive ceo, matthew karch, who's currently heading up the halo: combat evolved anniversary single-player campaign, told cvg last month he'd be "shocked" if microsoft doesn't launch its next-gen console before sony.
i just hope they are not going to make next xbox a disc free console.
we, the actual consumers, are probably quite happy to stay with the current gen, but ms and sony won't care, and they'll release regardless.
2) have a true quantum leap in graphics, issue there is that the current xbox produces great visuals.
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
windows 8 must surely be coming out early to mid 2012 to boost microsoft's ambitions in the tablet market.
let the pc fanboys rage all they like, i'm satisfied with what i've got.
having just upgraded to the slim version and kinect, i don't plan on getting the next box straight away.
i've never really got the media hub stuff about the ps3 to be honest.
also, someone mentioned twilight princess; you mean port a previous gen game with no upgrades whatsoever to the new format when it was ready to ship 2 years earlier?
great cube game, poor wii title.
id be p**sed if i just dropped nearly £300 to buy the new mw3 console, only to have it for a few months b4 the next xbox comes out i predict it will come out in summer 2013
we've been trying to ween him off the crumbs since the poor mite was 11.
assuming sony havent released the ps4 by then, giving nintendo potentially a full 3 years as having the most powerful console????
i think they'll never kill halo 4 and we won't see 10 until dec 2013 at the very earliest.
better kinect interface : more going on at the dashboard :be shiny black and bigger than 320gb hardrive :
technology reporter paul thurrott makes the claim in the windows weekly  video show, in which he claims microsoft will be "going the apple  route" with its next console.
id be p**sed if i just dropped nearly £300 to buy the new mw3 console, only to have it for a few months b4 the next xbox comes out why would you buy that, particularly if you already own a 360.
but i wouldn't complain, and wouldn't rule it out.
so windows kinect suffing ill buy that
ironically, ps3 was delayed because of politics in the bluray conglomerate so they needn't have panicked.
they can stick with the same controller for me as well, although i doubt they will.
(unless it was crap) for some reason i think microsoft are gonna make the console as underpowered as they can get away with.
i mean release on 360 and the new xbox at the same time.
4) have bluray compatibility out of the box, and not some dodgy add on.
i'm more than happy with my x360 for a few more years.
although i do use media centre extender, so maybe that's the difference.
the gap between the capabilities of pc and consoles at the moment is huge (a point illustrated perfectly by battlefield 3), and its going to get bigger yet again in early 2012 when nvidia release their kepler cards and amd release their 7000 series cards.
would also help the game developers.
too much focus on kinect is the only thing that could ruin it.
2012 - bit soon perhaps going off what we know
aint going to happen.
that doesn't mean its the end for gears of war and with all the improvements on gameplay i can't wait to see what's next, especially on a new system with aother generation of the unreal engine.
and to be honest, neither does the release date.
i'd like to see what cvg can dig up.
hmmm, if these 'rumours' are true, then it would perhaps explain the release of halo 4, ac 3 or whatever, (and possibly fable 4 and alan wake 2) etc that said 2012 seems abit rushed, i was thinking more 2013.
allow you to carry your gamer tag and gamerscore over.
i think we can take phenomenal graphics and great online features as a given.
my brother also got modern warfare 3 on launch day and shouted me in to have a look at it.
unless it involves pass the parcel, that's s**t
i remember the days when single player games were amazing and fun adventures that you could go back to many times and when multiplayer was having a blast with your mates around the tv.
if they end up just being something of a social hub for technology and online gaming, they can bugger off.
you waited five years to get a 360, why rush out and get the next system?
the best was when someone accused me of being a sony fanbitch with no clue of nintendo's accomplishments a few years back.
take a look at ps2, some of the consoles best titles came out near the unnecessary release of ps3.
not to mention the 360 (and ps3) are dinosaurs as far as the hardware inside them goes, not far off a generation old, and are incapable of playing games at true 1080p.
2012 holiday season launch is hardly possible, more likely 2013 summertime.
there is too much conflicting with this rumour.