- report this post reply with quote richomack360 on 20 apr '12 said: i have to confess, i am a big halo fan - but can't but feel slightly "meh" about the latest announcement it's odd, i didn't like reach, didn't rush out to buy the ce rehash and not excited by halo 4....
microsoft studio 343 industries is now in the hot seat, and it has promised to address the unanswered questions around the fates of the series' protagonist, master chief, and his artificial intelligence companion cortana.
microsoft studios corporate vice president phil spencer said: "we are beginning a new saga with halo 4 and embarking on a journey that will encompass the next decade of halo games and experiences.
off topic forum store fresh evidence points to an imminent announcement for new  ps3 exclusive fighter playstation all-stars battle royale:http://t.co/xrfbtsin retweet
you had halo ce last year, then reach the year before that, then odst the year before that.
- report this post reply with quote mrpirtniw on 17 apr '12 said: call of what now?
- report this post reply with quote imaduck on 17 apr '12 said: well jen seeing as the "forerunners" and all that ancient s**t has been there all along but sidelined by more immediate problems, seems pretty certain that dealing with those roots of the whole series will be on the table now, it's pretty much guaranteed in fact.
fantastic news then!
latest clue couldn't be more blatant if it tried.
the tagline 'revenge solves everything' is genius! - appyday
but i'm waiting for call of duty mw17 should be out at the same time.
youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - mass effect 3 - resident evil 6 - max payne 3 - elder scrolls v: skyrim - battlefield 3 - assassin's creed revelations - saints row:
- report this post reply with quote mrpirtniw on 18 apr '12 said: millions of fans worldwide have been eagerly awaiting the opportunity to step back into the boots of master chief is this the adhd generation??????
im really looking forward to it - flyfletch this game has officially hit #1 on my "must buy" list -
bump this thread in december, when microsoft and 343 announce halo elite dlc subscription season passes.
it's the first halo game not to be developed by series creator bungie.
this click pumped up for this, looks  awesome - winner2
- witcher 2 xbox 360 review: darker than skyrim, sexier than mass effect - better than both?
- icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
johnkara awesome trailer - looking forward to seeing more of this! - aawells07
- report this post reply with quote themopfrommars on 17 apr '12 said: can't wait.
- report this post reply with quote jentario on 17 apr '12 said: let's finish the fight!....again
also, new multiplayer 'details' get more from cvg - timesplitters 4: 'we've seen it running,' claim sources - new uefa euro 2012 screenshots feature england - crytek: next-gen used games block 'would be absolutely awesome' - crysis 3: the best-looking game we've ever seen - pes 2013 first details: series 'returning to its roots' - new littlebigplanet karting screenshots - gorgeous ssx 'tricky' dlc screenshots, character and concept art - uefa euro 2012 review: fifa ditches the discs - and much of the content - rayman origins 2 'leaks via survey' - prototype 2 review round-up:
yeah, i got the halo 4 synopsis from frank o'connor.
billed as the first chapter of a brand new halo saga that will no doubt span multiple xbox console generations
what with the 360 being the platform of choice for cod as well, this will mean some serious software sales for the platform in the lead up to christmas.
- prototype 2 review: a superbly polished world of destruction cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube
- report this post reply with quote dicky1993 on 17 apr '12 said: no not november, my bank will be broke!
potential art is nasty - thanks sony but my ps vita is just a £250 frobisher says
the tagline 'revenge solves everything' is  genius! - appyday wowzers
! - humanhead cvg home /
this game has tons of potential - kolbitosfruitjuice needless to say, this game will be awesome - rub3z watch the debut trailer now!
@general-gaming: if i may divert your attention to mario, zelda, sonic, final fantasy, metal gear, dynasty warriors, street fighter, resident evil, silent hill (and many, many more)- they can truly show you what it is to milk a franchise.
- kinect star wars review: forget the dancing videos - this is kinect's best game since launch staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards @roblastcav future - media with passion future digital gamesradar - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap!
http://i2.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/newsfeed/000/213/218/1323144111001.jpg - report this post reply with quote gmcb007 on 18 apr '12 said: millions of fans worldwide have been eagerly awaiting the opportunity to step back into the boots of master chief is this the adhd generation??????
- report this post reply with quote nexus 6 on 17 apr '12 said: it's a new fight.
register or log in not got an account?
i heard about this game called call of duty, what is it about?
posted on tuesday 17-apr-2012 4:01 pm
- report this post reply with quote black mantis on 17 apr '12 said: halo's been my fps of choice since 10 years ago, so cod was always going to snubbed in my house, no matter what.
- report this post reply with quote themopfrommars on 17 apr '12 said: hey, wait a minute, isn't every month call of duty month?
machine - fifa 2012 euro dlc interview: producer sebastian enrique answers all your questions - ps vita gets skype: info and video guide - office quote "fatal1ty doesn't talk to girls" - crysis 3 ps3 video interview: the new story, setting and gameplay explained - crysis 3 ps3 preview: looks that kill - crysis 3 ps3 gameplay trailer - prototype 2: 8 vital survival tips: our guide to staying alive - call of duty black ops 2 set in the future - pes 2013 info & trailer: total controls overhaul, autmun release date - zwei:
http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-qddnwpouoku/txnmk4iuxfi/aaaaaaaaaoi/hyll3shs4jg/s1600/clint-eastwood-disgusted-gif.gif - report this post reply with quote paul on 18 apr '12 said: yeah yea money money can you smell the money better be good then - report this post reply with quote davidvm on 19 apr '12 said: interesting move by microsoft.
- report this post reply with quote general-gaming on 18 apr '12 said: millions of fans worldwide have been eagerly awaiting the opportunity to step back into the boots of master chief is this the adhd generation??????
might be a good time for sony to finally release the last guardian or something else equally special, otherwise it's going to be a cold winter for the ps3.
- report this post reply with quote nexus 6 on 17 apr '12 said: let's finish the fight!....again - report this post reply with quote general-gaming on 17 apr '12 said: milk that fight!!!
"millions of fans worldwide have been eagerly awaiting the opportunity to step back into the boots of master chief, and with halo 4 leading the charge, we're confident 2012 will be the most successful year in xbox history.
halo 4 gets official november 6 release date microsoft "embarking on a journey that will encompass the next decade of halo games" share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 19 by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com confirming earlier reports, microsoft has announced a tuesday, november 6 worldwide release date forhalo 4.
- report this post reply with quote stonecoldmc on 17 apr '12 said: going up against cod, they must be confident.
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - blog - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store fresh evidence points to an imminent announcement for new ps3 exclusive fighter playstation all-stars battle royale:http://t.co/xrfbtsin retweet this click pumped up for this, looks awesome - winner2
no comments yet, be the first!
29 more latest news 4 more - new halo 4 screenshots and concept art - halo 4 gets official november 6 release date features & interviews halo 4: 'we're definitely not making mirror's edge in the halo universe' 343 on the risks and responsibility of making halo popular now - 1 crytek: next-gen used games block 'would be absolutely awesome' - 2 3ds system update now live, adds patch support - 3 forza 4 top gear car pack detailed send us your news got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
master chief makes very little difference as you play what is essentially the same thing.
email: news@cvg.co.uk - resident evil creator shinji mikami returns to survival horror with zwei.
fat chance, says crytek - darksiders ii avatar items will freak out your friendslist - soulcalibur v fitted for tekken dlc - crysis 3 announcement trailer welcomes you to the jungle - ex call of duty strategist opens robotoki studio - littlebigplanet 2 welcomes journey and escape plan dlc - agricultural simulator: historical farming trailer contains some bloody handsome tractors - skype revealed for playstation vita: free app available now - call of duty: black ops 2 doing future warfare?
the third - modern warfare 3 - fifa 12 - bioshock: infinite top reviews - uefa euro 2012 review: fifa ditches the discs - and much of the content - prototype 2 review: a superbly polished world of destruction - trials evolution review: the best game on xbox live arcade.
computer and video games -
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
- report this post reply with quote illage2 on 18 apr '12 said: good glad to see it coming out this year.
wowzers! - humanhead
there's a new main enemy alongside the covenant (minor enemies) which will probably (but hopefully not) be the forerunners.
oh well related content - halo 4 360 · action microsoft buy from £38.85 previews halo 4: first look at 343's 'dramatically different' halo preview first footage looks familiar - but is there more than meets the eye?
im  really looking forward to it - flyfletch this game has officially hit #1 on my  "must buy" list -
thanks for the refresher anyway.
johnkara awesome trailer - looking forward to  seeing more of this! - aawells07
computerandvideogames.com tom ivan recommended links from the web comments 19 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote benthomasfoster on 17 apr '12 said: thats good an all
this game has tons of potential - kolbitosfruitjuice needless  to say, this game will be awesome - rub3z watch the debut trailer now!
set four years after the events of halo 3, "master chief returns to confront his destiny and face an ancient evil that threatens the fate of the entire universe", according to the publisher.
definitely gained my interest - christian-shaffer this game looks amazing!!
shinji mikami's new horror game - prototype 2 review - first crysis 3 gameplay trailer - john romero on ghost recon commander - lone survivor review - fez programmer "probably" won't work with polytron again - epoch review - 3ds firmware update due this week - the witcher 2 tops uk chart - new super mario bros 2 announced for 3ds - pro evolution soccer 2013 trailer unveils konami's next pitch-hero sim - crysis 3 on wii u?
someones sarcasm detector is broken.
" 343 industries recently told us it already has "a definite story arc in mind" forhalo 5 and 6.