that's what they plan for and that's why games are not a hell of a lot more expensive than they are.
he  grumbled about this as he made his purchase.
that's how free trade works.
good point david, but there are a few gaps in your argument.
he was asked if would he like a new copy or a secondhand one, that was ten quid cheaper.
however as i was driving home i passed a number of car sales  garages.
so we're alright with it for now... computerandvideogames.com
to bring this back to your car comparison: once you drive away in a  second-hand car, it doesn't cost the original manufacturer a penny.
if you've bought a copy you should be able to do what you want with it, including selling all of it on.
it was developed alongside the main game, they advertised it as part of the main game at e3 and then ultimately they left it off the disc to punish pre-owned gamers and leave offline gamers with no way of getting it even if they bought new.
he grumbled about this as he made his purchase.
the options are to charge to unlock the multiplayer on a preowned game, or for them to start charging per month for all people to play their individual game online.
obviously he chose the latter and was told that he'd have to buy an online pass to play over xbox live.
if anything, knowing our favourite publishers who just love money, they'll just use it for further expolits.
those 3 or 4 people aren't playing at the same time!!
first off, developers have to pay for servers to run online games,  which costs money.
cvg says: xbw hit the nail on the head, there's a strong argument to  be made for having to charge so sustain servers for multiplayer games.
in fact, they'll still make money from you when you buy new parts for your second-hand car.
sometimes bonus dlc is something devs have been working on since the game went gold
i was in my local games shop, when i overheard a young lad asking the  assistant for a copy of battlefield 3.
first off, developers have to pay for servers to run online games, which costs money.
the gaming industry shouldn't get any special treatment when it comes to second hand games.
truth is the difference between the games industry and other industries is just that the games industry has found a way to try and get money out of second hand buyers and some publishers are happy to exploit it.
it's all well and good saying that the game preowned market should be treated like any otherproduct, but the multiplayer element is not just a product but aservice too.
so we're alright with it for now...computerandvideogames.com 11 comments so far...
i have no problem in developers making money from the games however they already have the full price tag when the first person purchased it.
i'm pretty sure second-hand cars have been sold for many years.
xbw says: good point david, but there are a few gaps in your  argument.
it doesn't matter that they can fiddle with some code and thus artificially limit customers' access to their product - be it first or second hand.
i don't think that purchasers of these used vehicles, myself included, have had to pay the original manufacturers any money to have the engine start, the wheels to turn or for it to be driven out of the county.
these publishers need to get real.
xbw says: good point david, but there are a few gaps in your argument.
no other service would work that way.
what makes the gaming  industry different from others?
register or log in not got an account?
so, battlefield 3; fair enough, servers are expensive.
allowing games to be sold and bought again but putting charges in for certain features is probably the best solution anyone will ever come up with, a compromise that should at least satisfy both sides of the argument.
the article mentions what ought to be the overriding point in this argument: most other industries have a second hand market.
this week david anderson got in touch to draw an interesting comparison between the used video game market and the used car market and ask why customers are being charged for features that are part of the original package when buying used.
buying second hand to play a game offline, directly p2p with no server assistance, or any other useage that doesn't require the developer to provide a service at a cost to them is fine and can all be deemed the "product".
manufacturers have the ability to gain a little extra money from selling used cars through their own dealerships, not just independents.
but outside of that is a service, with the amount of effort that goes into making games these days, it's not fair to the developers and is ever more unsustainable.
as i said before, these companies price their games and budget their work and resources (both pre and post release) around the model of diminishing online play (overall).
i've always thought games developers are well within their rights to  try and make money from secondhand games, considering how much work goes into  developing modern games.
the problem arises when single-player games start using online passes, but so far we can't think up any examples of significant content being locked away behind online passes um catwoman dlc for arkham city?
publishers and the developers sell the game at a fixed price knowing that most people's use of the online services will diminish over time.
i've stated it many times before and i'll state it here as well: the computer/video games & it software industry-at-large should be treated the same way every other industry is.
to have your letter featured on cvg's mailbox, drop us a line.
this led me to the question: should the gaming industry be allowed to  charge for features in the original product just because you choose to buy used?
or should it work like the used cars market?
i can't shake the feeling you're sitting on the fence on this issue a bit rather than criticising publishers and sticking up for your readers.
that was pretty much the same system.
share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
we're not totally behind the 'online pass' system, but can see the sense behind it if the game in question justifies the expense.
i'm in favour of pre-owned games, due to the fact that buying a video game means we own our copy of it and have the right to do what we want with it, including selling it.
the game companies are acting like petulant, spoiled children that want everything their way.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
the preowned market encourages higher use with no extra cash to pay for the service.
three or four people could potentially play the same copy of battlefield 3 (for example) online, but without the online pass system dice would only get the cash from one of them.
also when you buy an online pass you aren't even necessarily getting dedicated servers, you don't even know if you'll like the multiplayer of the game or whether it still has an online community because you don't get a chance to try it and if you're a 360 owner you've also got to pay for xbox live gold as well (which as far as i understand is also supposed to be covering 'online server maintenance costs').
you can also buy many other  secondhand goods with no contribution to whoever made them in the first place.
also, the sale of a car through an independent dealer costs the manufacturer nothing at all, so unless you are comparing it to a single-player only experience then it doesn't mean the same thing.
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
i've always thought games developers are well within their rights to try and make money from secondhand games, considering how much work goes into developing modern games.
developers and publishers get no cash whatsoever from the resale of their games.
i think this is especially important in the current economic climate.
if that copy then gets sold on, their server usage doesn't diminish as expected without the additional revenue, and they start to lose money.
no other industries do this.
dragon age with  locked quests for preowned buyers?
it's perfectly legal, supports the bricks and mortar shops and is at worst a transfer of ownership.
i think this is especially important in the current  economic climate.
would you like to make a counter-argument to the points me and others are making cvg/xbw?
i was in my local games shop, when i overheard a young lad asking the assistant for a copy of battlefield 3.
they have to, otherwise they would either have to continue to provide this service with no revenue stream to pay for it, or they would charge per month as per the mmo model.
gamers that get their game pre-owned might still buy dlc, they'll be a lot more likely to buy any sequels new and the publishers have already been paid once for the online maintenance costs of any copy by the original buyer who got it new, i.e. pre-owned doesn't increase the number of copies so it can't increase the number of players potentially playing online at any one point.
however as i was driving home i passed a number of car sales garages.
in fact,  they'll still make money from you when you buy new parts for your second-hand  car.
no, there shouldn't be a charge to unlock features if you bought pre-owned, end of story in my book.
dragon age with locked quests for preowned buyers?
obviously he chose the latter  and was told that he'd have to buy an online pass to play over xbox live.
what makes the gaming industry different from others?
not only that these people help keep the online side of the game alive.
we're not totally behind the 'online pass' system, but can see the sense  behind it if the game in question justifies the expense.
this week david anderson got in touch to draw an interesting comparison  between the used video game market and the used car market and ask why  customers are being charged for features that are part of the original package  when buying used.
to bring this back to your car comparison: once you drive away in a second-hand car, it doesn't cost the original manufacturer a penny.
i wouldn't be that bothered about buying an online pass if it was a little cheaper 8 quid is a bit much, i used to enjoy browsing pre owned games, now i have to search every inch of the box to make sure it dosent have a pass, and if it does i then have to look for new, and once i realise the new copy is usually bout a tenner more i put the game back go home and find it cheaper than pre owned on amazon or ebay for brand new.
he was asked if would he like a new copy  or a secondhand one, that was ten quid cheaper.
the problem arises when single-player games start using online passes, but so far we can't think up any examples of significant content being locked away behind online passes, it's all bonus dlc.
the analogy isn't appropriate.
i have also noticed ever since with the online pass system has been in place, some new games (sealed) are cheaper than second hand games.
this led me to the question: should the gaming industry be allowed to charge for features in the original product just because you choose to buy used?
three or four people could potentially play the same copy of  battlefield 3 (for example) online, but without the online pass system dice  would only get the cash from one of them.
the catwoman sections of arkham city's the obvious example.
second hand is the proper word, once you get past the corporate b*****ks.
what a load of f**king b*****ks!!
i don't  think that purchasers of these used vehicles, myself included, have had to pay  the original manufacturers any money to have the engine start, the wheels to  turn or for it to be driven out of the county.
grow up and get real.
sign up hereusername by cvg staff for computerandvideogames.com on last week's mailbox roger sandbakk asked if we really need yet another mario and zelda from nintendo.
you can also buy many other secondhand goods with no contribution to whoever made them in the first place.
it might annoy you as a customer, but you would be far more annoyed if you were in their shoes - paying out for people to play games online when they haven't paid you anything.
'should we be charged for features in the product because we buy used?'
they do not deserve special treatment and they should not receive any either.
if publishers want to be petty about 'online server maintenance costs' then i can be petty too.
i think the current model of allowing used games to play single-player for free and charge for an online pass is fair.
just because you can do something doesn't mean you should nor that you have the legal right to do so.
preowned, what a s**t word.
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 11 by cvg staff for computerandvideogames.com on last week's mailbox roger sandbakk asked if we really need yet another  mario and zelda from nintendo.
and they started burning discs, a lot of the time it isn't and bonus dlc is just a nice way of saying 'content we're holding back because we don't give a damn about our customers'.
cvg says: xbw hit the nail on the head, there's a strong argument to be made for having to charge so sustain servers for multiplayer games.
however, it's obviously understandable that developers are annoyed by it as they don't earn any money for it, and of course in their eyes, if the pre-owned game market didn't exist, everyone would have to buy new copies.
the  problem arises when single-player games start using online passes, but so far  we can't think up any examples of significant content being locked away behind  online passes, it's all bonus dlc.
that said, i would argue that it is not necessarily the purchaser of the used game that is in the wrong, and it is the retailer middle-man who owes the developers a cut of their profits.
on smaller games maybe its ok within reason, but on massive profit earners ie bf3, fifa, whats the point? got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
playing a used game single-player costs them nothing (well...arguably it does them out of some sales), but to continue to use online services without the developer seeing any money is wrong.