"do u no how to install hs mode i can't figure it out" feb 23 jr scire replied to jr scire's discussion 'is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?'
sorry i meant to post this here:i bought it and  installed it (soldered) and realized that i should have bought the hs version  for installers with the extra modes
please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.
the only place i've seen is on ebay a 1 store."
sign up or sign in xbox 360 intensafire © 2012 created by team intensafire.
but im sol for right now.
i had to do a little voodoo to mine thought you guys might like this.…see more feb 1 5 comments blog posts by jr scire jan 31 - is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?
i had to do a  little voodoo to mine thought you guys might like this.…see more feb 1
if the rules have changed about this i am unaware of  it."
" feb 2 gamerepaircom replied to jr  scire's discussion 'is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like  drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?'  "as far as i know you have to  buy the hs version pre-installed in a controller by a select group of companies  that carry the hs mod.
if the rules have changed about this i am unaware of it."
feb 1 gamerepaircom replied tojr scire's discussion 'is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?'
i hope that makes sense.
5 replies sorry i meant to post this here:i bought it and installed it (soldered) and  realized that i should have bought the hs version for installers with the extra  modes but im sol for right now.
jr scire is now a member of intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 jan 31
jr scire's blog is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?
"unfortunately you can only buy the hs version with bgrmods and the board has to be a cg you can see what the cg controller's look like here http://gamerepairlive.com/index.php?/topic/32-xbox-360-wireless-controller-versions/ .
intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 fastest & easiest xbox 360 and playstation 3 controller mods home playstation 3 how to use playstation 3 reviews xbox 360 3.0 board only d pads share on facebook share on facebook share twitter blog posts jr scire's apps jr scire's discussions is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the  standard intensafire 3.0?
join intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 welcome to intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3
"thanks, so cg ones are newer from what i've read and i wanted to by a mw3 controller anyway.
gifts received jr scire has not received any gifts yet give a gift jr scire's page latest activity kasek esy replied to jr scire's discussion 'is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?'
intensafire 3.0?'  "that sucks, all those controllers cost way mare than  if i just install it myself.
feb 2 gamerepaircom replied to jr scire's discussion 'is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?'
replies sorry i meant to post this here:i bought it and installed it (soldered) and realized that i should have bought the hs version for installers with the extra modes but im sol for right now.
feb 2 jr scire replied to jr scire's discussion 'is there a  way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard
i bought it and installed it (soldered) and realized that i should have bought the hs version for installers with the extra modes but im sol for right now.
where can i get the hs version?
search intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 fastest & easiest xbox 360 and playstation 3 controller mods - home -
is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the  standard intensafire 3.0?
is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?
badges | report an issue | terms of service hello, you need to enable javascript to use intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3.
feb 2 jr scire replied to jr scire's discussion 'is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?'
can i program the board with to add extra modes at all?
feb 1 gamerepaircom replied  tojr scire's discussion 'is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs  like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?'  "unfortunately you can  only buy the hs version with bgrmods and the board has to be a cg you can see  what the cg controller's look like here http://gamerepairlive.com/index.php?/topic/32-xbox-360-wireless-controller-versions/ .
view all jr scire has not received any gifts yet give a gift jr scire's page latest activity kasek esy replied to jr scire's discussion 'is  there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard  intensafire 3.0?'  "do u no how to install hs mode i can't figure it  out" feb 23 jr scire replied to jr scire's discussion 'is there a  way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard
my page - community - videos - photos - news - product info - xbox 360 - xbox 360 v3.0 - xbox 360 reviews - speed settings - playstation 3 - playstation 3 how to use - playstation 3 reviews - illuminating thumbsticks - sitemap - store - xbox 360 3.0 - xbox 360 3.0 board only - d pads - thumbsticks - illuminating thumbsticks - t8 screwdriver - ps3 intensafire - support - support forums - where's the glue - 360 install instructions - 360 install tips - faq for xbox 360 - ps3 install instructions - ps3 compatibility - tech support - returns - warranty - contact us - jr scire - male - san diego, ca - united states - share on facebook share on facebook share twitter - blog posts - discussions (3) - photos - photo albums - videos jr scire's discussions is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?
the only  place i've seen is on ebay a 1 store."
"that sucks, all those controllers cost way mare than if i just install it myself."
can i…continue started this discussion.
"as far as i know you have to buy the hs version pre-installed in a controller by a select group of companies that carry the hs mod.
sorry i meant to post this here:i bought it and installed it (soldered) and realized that i should have bought the hs version for installers with the extra modes
last reply by kasek esy feb 23.
posted on january 31, 2012 at 1:17pm comment wall you need to be a member of intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 to add comments!
can i program the  board with to add extra modes at all?
- is there a way to add the extra 5 modes from the hs like drop shot to the standard intensafire 3.0?
you cannot upgrade…" feb 1 jr scire posted a discussion
intensafire 3.0?'  "thanks, so cg ones are newer from what i've read and i  wanted to by a mw3 controller anyway.