one thing you should know from the start is that our game series is based strictly on the world seen in the comics; in fact, the story seen in our game is officially canon to the comic books.
telltale writer and designer jake rodkin said in a post on the ps blog:  "one major way that the game differs from previous telltale offerings is  that your decisions, through action and dialog that you choose, will have huge  repercussions on how you experience the story of the game, but more on that  later.
point and click? - report this post reply with quote el mag on 23 apr '12 said: i'm still unclear as to what type of game this even is.
- gamesaid 2012 video - gt academy 2012:
i have been looking forward to this game for ages.
but it's only dated as "april" and 360 owners have to buy each episode separately for 400 points.
they better bring it out for xbla soon.
" check out the first walking dead gameplay in this developer diary.
"chances are that you've either read the original the walking dead comic books (if you haven't, what are you waiting for?!)
- report this post reply with quote dwhlufc on 25 apr '12 said: i think he's referring to the awful jurassic park and average sam & max games.
microscopia - things:
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - blog - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store pc news: company of heroes 2 'briefing' on may 7 - http://t.co/pxzvhruz http://t.co/k9qxw6tl via @cvg_uk retweet this posted on monday 23-apr-2012 4:54 pm - cvg home / - playstation / - news the walking dead dated, priced first entry in telltale's new episodic series arriving this week share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 12 by cvg staff for computerandvideogames.com telltale games will release the first walking dead episode, 'a new day,' this wednesday on psn.
each entry in the episodic series will cost 4.99  eur/£3.99, or you'll be able to pre-purchase the entire five-episode  season for 19.99 eur/£15.99, which will also give you a an exclusive ps3  premium theme.
the walking dead dated, priced first entry in telltale's new episodic series arriving this week share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 12 by cvg staff for computerandvideogames.com telltale games will release the first walking dead episode, 'a new day,'  this wednesday on psn.
related content 4 more -
one thing you should know from the start is that our game series is based  strictly on the world seen in the comics; in fact, the story seen in our game  is officially canon to the comic books.
- report this post reply with quote freds1 on 23 apr '12 said: i'm still unclear as to what type of game this even is.
what do you mean sordid.
a beginner's guide - the debate: will touchscreen gaming take over?
- report this post reply with quote tykerd3 on 24 apr '12 said: is this game coming out on xbox?
or you've seen the tv show.
shadow of the colossus design process - cave shooter akai katana out next week - diablo 3 to sell 3.5 million in 2012 says analyst - star wars: the old republic on sale for star wars day - assassin's creed 3 gets dirty with ben franklin - star wars battlefront iii canceled by lucasarts "psychopaths" according to dev - new twisted pixel game to be announced at e3 - the elder scrolls online trailer released - gamesaid raises £174,000 for children's charities in the uk - ragnarok odyssey and orgarhythm coming to north american vitas - family guy: back to the multiverse xbox 360 game shows up on amazon - minecraft creator harshly criticizes ea over their "indie bundle" get more from cvg - 5 gaming heroes that are actually horrible b**tards - the elder scrolls online announcement trailer - why black ops 2 could be activision's pre-emptive strike on respawn - miyamoto 'doesn't see vita as a very strong product' - company of heroes 2 details: new engine, 'true sight' and snow - first elder scrolls online screens: it definitely looks like an mmo.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fsohtpdq ...
each entry in the episodic series will cost 4.99 eur/£3.99, or you'll be able to pre-purchase the entire five-episode season for 19.99 eur/£15.99, which will also give you a an exclusive ps3 premium theme.
- report this post reply with quote dicky1993 on 23 apr '12 said: explain is this just like the tv series?
not as bad as waiting for the next weekly tv episode though your friend owes you a drink at least - report this post reply with quote denim114 on 24 apr '12 said: i swear this game is meant to be coming out on xbla.
ive been looking forward to it for a while, and there is no mention of xbox anywhere
the seasons tend to run for 5 episodes at 4 hours a time.
so about 20 hours gameplay for £15.
bloody bargain if you ask me.
t'is a point and click, here's a gameplay video.
now - 1 5 gaming heroes that are actually horrible b**tards - 2 mass effect 3 complete scanning guide - and how to get the best possible ending - 3 first elder scrolls online screens: it definitely looks like an mmo.
telltale writer and designer jake rodkin said in a post on the ps blog: "one major way that the game differs from previous telltale offerings is that your decisions, through action and dialog that you choose, will have huge repercussions on how you experience the story of the game, but more on that later.
the long block - introducing edge 241 - the elder scrolls online announced - saints row: the third - enter the dominatrix announced - ballistic se review - keith vaz renews attack on violent games - team ico details
we interview 2011 winner jann mardenborough - black ops 2 zombies mode promising eight players, team play modes and "bigger worlds" - battleship ps3 review - elder scrolls online announcement trailer released - the friday game:
computer and video games -
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
- next-gen xbox 'already in manufacturing stages' - elder scrolls online: first details - jaffe: 'god of war ascension isn't watered down by multiplayer' - the elder scrolls online mmo announced - creative assembly's alien game coming to 'future generation consoles' cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - max payne 3 - call of duty: black ops 2 - mass effect 3 - resident evil 6 - elder scrolls v: skyrim - assassin's creed revelations - battlefield 3 - saints row:
i'll more than likely end up getting this, but as kfd says i'd rather wait and buy them all at once.
computerandvideogames.com cvg staff recommended links from the web comments 12 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote puddlejumper92 on 23 apr '12 said: fairly sure it will also launch on xbox live for 400msp.
computerandvideogames.com
email: news@cvg.co.uk - black ops 2, ipad mini and the samsung galaxy s3: the network round up 27/4/12 - hitman: absolution screens show new disguises and a tragic accident - 6 black ops 2 zombie modes we want - crysis 3 ps3 screens: more hot bow action - assassins creed 3:
re=related credit goes to voodoo for the link.
ive been looking forward to it for a while, and there is no mention of xbox anywhere - report this post reply with quote divinebeetle on 24 apr '12 said: this game caught my eye on steam, no idea what their previous games are like though?
- report this post reply with quote thelastdodo on 24 apr '12 said: is this game coming out on xbox?
not sure about the season pass though.
here's how... - the walking dead dev diary offers first ever gameplay footage - be a character in the walking dead game popular
or you've seen the tv  show.
the third - uncharted 3: drake's deception - pes 2011 top reviews - sniper elite v2 review: its got guts - but fails as a shooter - uefa euro 2012 review: fifa ditches the discs - and much of the content - prototype 2 review: a superbly polished world of destruction - ridge racer unbounded review: a series reboot that's slow off the grid - silent hill downpour review: promising ideas buried by lack of focus staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards @roblastcav future - media with passion future digital gamesradar - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap! - icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
- report this post reply with quote wheresmymonkey on 25 apr '12 said: i'm interested, but given the somewhat sordid track record of episodic gaming content, i will decide whether to buy this or not once *all* the five (so-far) planned episodes have been released.
posted on monday 23-apr-2012 4:54 pm
- report this post reply with quote the_kfd_case on 23 apr '12 said: i'm interested, but given the somewhat sordid track record of episodic gaming content, i will decide whether to buy this or not once *all* the five (so-far) planned episodes have been released.
he better buy me the game for saying that!
the walking dead ps3 · shoot 'em up telltale games latest news - the walking dead dated, priced - wanna be a zombie in the walking dead?
telltale make great game series at reasonable prices.
"chances are that you've either read the original the walking dead  comic books (if you haven't, what are you waiting for?!)
send us your news got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
register or log in not got an account?