have a read of our new xbox 360 dashboard review for our impressions.computerandvideogames.com tamoor plays anything and everything but really likes fighting games.
ok where do i sign up for adds?!
apart from the fact since they got rid of the blades everything has become ridiculously brighter than white with each subsequent xmb update (which as a daily migraine sufferer this is not good), the very first thing you see upon booting up is an advert for possibly the worst game of all time...
the first method involves blocking the domain through your  router, which will throw up a 404 if you try and access it from a pc.
read more 42 comments so far...
if it was free then its understandable.
personally i don't mind ads that much anyway, as long as they're for game content on the 360.
the same microsoft that will accuse you of moving the 360 or placing it in a location with "microscopic vibrations" and will simply refuse to believe you if your 360 is abnormally loud or scratching your discs (with no possibility of repair or disc replacement)?
don't think ms can ban anyone for settings on their router, but you never know with these companies!
if this keeps up next gen i don't think i'll bother getting the next ms console unless something rapidly changes between now and then.
every single tab is plastered with adverts (most of which have nothing to do with gaming), and yet the essential things the console uses (like er, i don't know, games tabs) are buried and very difficult to see, and are also a quarter of the size of the adverts.
but i spend such a small amount of time navigating the dashboard, i don't really care too much.
currently it's the new friends list and party menus which are more of a pain to navigate around.
so the whole thing is a moot point, as no one has been sued and sony leave the scene alone now even though it's pretty lively.
i don't think it is against the tos.
i'm guessing doing this workaround will give you a blank tile in the bottom corner of some sections, to me that makes absolutely zero difference.
i absolutely despise the new dashboard.
now finding anything that has to do with gaming is, though.
and by a company that'd rather sue its own customers and attack the homebrew community rather than allow them to have any kind of control over their own hardware.
register or log in not got an account?
i have a pc to do multiple things - emulators, play music/video files, operating systems, my consoles are ultimately for playing my games on.
http://www.thirdschism.com/articles/noo ... thday-xbox
the fact the adverts appear at all on live is disgusting.
don't recall any intrusive adverts though... or maybe i'm not paying attention.
so you'll have a go at ms for selling ad space on live.
would i prefer no ads?
this really needs doing, the new dash is a f**king travesty.
alternatively you can use opendns, a free service which can block specific  sites.
i'll sit tight on this until it's confirmed to be safe (and see whether ms ban everyone for daring to take control of their own experience)
get it and the new dash becomes a hell of a lot easier to use.
does anyone know if doing this is against their tos?
so we got a choice, a paid for service with ads.
wait so you'll have a go at ms for selling ad space on live.
watch in hd  1 comment have a read of our new xbox 360 dashboard review for our impressions.
you can hold a pint in one hand, fag in the other and still start your game up
stick the disc in the tray and play the bloody game, jesus wept....
and never admits to defects within its hardware and only offers a 3 month warrenty on its consoles.
but the difference is as simple as this: for right or for wrong sony done these things in defence.
try searching for 'ign strategise' on bing.
then i wanted to change my motto to 'dashboard=gashboard', but i couldn't find how to change it.
since i have kinect i'm loving it.
he speaks about himself in the third-person.
don't get me wrong sony have broken more consumer rights laws than you can shake a stick at.
now i'm not saying that i agree with their methods (you probably can guess my stance from the links), but it's still defence.
i don't pay for xbl, i sold my xbox 360 two years ago and stuck with steam and psn.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
the rest of the tiles are useful, such as the bbc i-player, web browser and online store and there is no advertising whatsoever.
ms screw their customers as default and not as the result of being attacked.
good for them, but it really doesn't bother me enough to attempt this.
it's never going to catch on ms.
ninty may not have the most powerful console, and true there is a rubbish skip load of shovelware for their machine, but they sure know how to design a menu system and not p*** off their customers.
you pay for the service, you should not have to tolerate adverts.
i get what you're saying, and if the above happened it would be a step too far for a subscription service.
do you mean the same microsoft that only acknowledged the "three red lights error" (or rrod as ms hate it to be commonly known as) after essentially being forced into it by various governments, courts, and consumer watchdogs eighteen months after reports of it first emerged?
i'm not going to go down the road of listing all the faults of ms and their breaches of consumer rights with the xbox platform alone (unless that's really what you want).
i pay for cvg via my subscription of gamesmaster & edge magazines, even though 90% of their content is published here on cvg as 'news' a month later
i'm whoring this out again.
but that's another story!
why can't they just have all the marketplace items in one place and use a simple menu system like the second dashboard update ( the nice blue one)
however, if i like the game ill normally upgrade to the paid ad-free version.
easier just to block the add servers from your router.
i just flicked through the dashboard, and there are ads for peugeot in the bottom right corner of three of the sections.
of course, but they're less intrusive than ads you see in papers, tv etc.
the rest are ads for content within that section, which as far as i can see is fair enough.
granted, your example above is annoying, especially if the advert is for the same game as the one in the trailer - preaching to the choir so to speak.
the new one is like a god dam cheap porn site spammed with unappealing buy
the biggesst thing the dash really is is an advert for kinect.
until it actually starts to get in the way of me finding and getting what i want, there are far bigger issues in this industry to get p**sed at - drm, the quality of games out of the box, pricing, not enough games using dedicated servers, on disc dlc, the value of dlc and god, the way one time codes are used in games like arkham or ea's annual releases likes fifa, nfs etc.
tbh, the only time ill tolerate ads is on a free android game ive downloaded.
i haven't even noticed ads at all to be honest.
fat tony: you haven't noticed them?
you will see all kinds before you get to your games and it's a tad annoying.
as a paying gold account user i shouldn't have to see any adverts whatsoever, let alone ones that are completely irrelevant like deodorant, car ads, etc.
mmm... feeling really thirsty now, actually.
i do like lovefilm and iplayer, but i don't actually want to be 'sold' anything that's not game related.
the same microsoft that have, in the majority of cases, renamed the e74 error to e82 on the slim and provide only the standard warranty nowadays?
that's the one thing about the dash i don't like microsoft will profit but the only thing gamers get is cloud saving which should be in with the subscriptions anyway not paid for by adverts.
considering the 360 is a games console i would have thought that should be the very first thing you would see and take priority over everything else no?
i do like the new kinect integration though.
can't say i've really taken any notice of them as i had a quick look around using kinect then jumped into my game of fifa, which frustratingly then wouldn't connect to the ea servers, so not sure if that's ms or ea's fault.
it wasn't exactly an uphill struggle without kinect, was it?
i must say i'm very surprised at the reaction here, but fair play to those who feel taken advantage of.
every other online service i can think of uses the mantra "if its free there'll be adverts, if you pay for the service we remove the ads" á la spotify.
it's not a problem for me in it's current state, but i can see why people find it annoying to some degree.
use at your own  risk folks.
funnily enough, i never thought i'd say it but out of all the current consoles i think the wii has the best ui currently.
on  evenings and weekends he might be batman.
he speaks about himself in the  third-person.
as a free silver account user i would expect to see some advertising, but as a gold member (for now) this is absolutely ridiculous.
most of the scene now use two ps3's.
no wonder microsoft are losing footing with all their online services to the likes of google and facebook when their thinking is so backwards.
but still have a ps3 a console that has had features removed for the sake of profit, has had games with ads actually in them while it loads.
i hate the dashboard in general.
go to web content filtering settings and set the filtering level to  'none', and under 'manage individual domains', put rad.msn.com and select  'always block' and then click 'add domain'.
i can get everything set up for a game of whatever while i still rummage around looking for the controler and making myself a cup of tea.
if anyone knows where the video archive is or how i alter my profile or who i can punch in the face about this, please let me know.
360 users seem quite fond of the new-look dashboard, but one major gripe on the forums points to the prominence given to adverts, and in particular how they take priority over the games and content.
its a bit rich if they are charging for the service too.
360 users seem quite fond of the new-look dashboard, but one major gripe on  the forums points to the prominence given to adverts, and in particular how  they take priority over the games and content.
i had a quick flick through and can't say the ads got in my way - i actually don't remember any of them apart from that bird from ign, and i assumed it was those s**tty gameplay videos they do.
the very first tile you see is the games tile, which as a games console first and foremost i would expect to see.
'777 it's quite intrusive man.
read more recommended links
like some sort of idiotic ape, its just a massive pain in the arse.
email: news@cvg.co.uk from £37.00amazon marketplace uk in stock £37.00 from £33.99amazon marketplace uk in stock £33.99 from £31.99amazon marketplace uk in stock £31.99 © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
if they start becoming intrusive then it might be an issue but at the moment it doesn't really bother me.
if you're going to play the evil coroporation card it pays to think about the ones that you're currently backing.
the ads would annoy me more if they hadn't at least sorted out that when you boot up, it finally starts you on the "start disc in tray" option so you can just press a and get going if you don't want to check the store or anything.
so microsoft are already the only ones in the industry charging for services everybody else provides for free, but now they're putting adverts on said service?
here's how to do it (using this method will require you to re-download  title updates): sign up for a free opendns account.
if you feel that strongly about it then don't pay for an xbl gold account.
the tos only covers modifications made to the console and the live service it's self.
to be honest i'm surprised that you haven't read my many rantings about my support for anon and geohot on this very site; like here: http://forums.computerandvideogames.com/viewtopic.php?f=21&t=131488&hilit=+hack#p2017258 here: http://forums.computerandvideogames.com/viewtopic.php?f=21&t=126985&hilit=hack&start=15#p1942792 and here: http://forums.computerandvideogames.com/viewtopic.php?f=21&t=123911&hilit=hack&start=15#p1890113 so trust me, as a ps3 linux user and a member of the ps3 modding scene i probably know more than you on the subject.
this is yet another reason not to cave in to ms blatant extortion scheme, and since online gaming on my xbox 360 means nothing to me, i really don't perceive myself to be at a loss.
xbox 360 users work out how to block dashboard ads naughty, naughty naughty, naughty bl**dy hell some of us are adults you know not
clear system cache (note that you'll have to re-download any title updates for  any games you play after doing this).
maybe it's where i am or service provider or summit?.
this may be part of the reason why people are viewing the ps3 as an upgrade.
yes, but you don't pay for cvg or to watch any of its movies.
or maybe i was playing a game...
i thought i've give it a few days of trying to use it before i hated it, and now i really do hate it.
if the wii u doesn't play films etc, i'll be more than happy.
this really annoyed me in the last couple of xmb's and has been getting steadily worse and is a major reason why i took the decision not to renew my gold account when it runs out very soon.
here's how to do it (using this method will require you to re-download title updates): we haven't tried any of this, so we can't guarantee that it works or that it doesn't mess with your online gaming/other network services.
it was just an example of the vids really.
tacky video adverts everywhere.
i could easily ignore the ads if it wasn't for the features that seem to have vanished.
add a network for your current ip address.
having gaming about the 4th option along is a bit odd, but i guess if you play a few xbla titles and you've got the game in your drive, you'll be able to get to it from the 'quick play' section, or whatever it's called.
really this should have been the announcement of platinum as a £40 a year service that blocks the ads and because they're using adverts knock the rrp price of gold down to £20-30, for that i wouldn't mind adverts.
i like the way it moves, but the arrangement is a bit all over the place.
you may need to clear your hard drive cache before ads disappear  entirely: system settings -> storage -> hard drive -> press y ->
this isn't me 'bending over for the man' or anything like that, just a difference in priorities i suppose.
anybody else see how backwards this is?
the issue is charging a sub and still having ads.
which is precisely what i'm doing (i.e. not paying for a gold account).
360 microsoft review: it's good to txt1214
i tried looking for the ign strategise about skyrim last night (now that i've got skyrim cheap) but the video archive has just vanished.
i thought it was made for playing skyrim and only skyrim, who knew there was adverts wait
google puts several ads in gmail, youtube and no one complains.
sign up hereusername by tamoor hussain for computerandvideogames.com networking-savvy gamers have figured out a way to disable the adverts in the latest xbox 360 dashboard overhaul.
one for psn access, and one for modding.
i get the same as the latter on my ps3 in places, and i really don't care about that either.
i'd rather not have any of the other s**t on consoles.
it's when they're unrelated i get annoyed.
they've totally buried indie games though - you have to go through about three button presses just to get to them.
searching for a solution, the proactive users on reddit have taken matters into their own hands and blocked 'rad.msn.com', the server microsoft uses to beam ads to the 360.
i feel deprived all i remember seeing is an image of kelly brooks cleavage- that i can live with.
when this generation of consoles started i was all for ms new console, having owned an original xbox beforehand and loved every minute of it, but its clear their priority's have changed, shoving s*** kinnect down your throat and a million, streaming, bandwidth sucking adverts in your face.
on your xbox, go to system settings -> network settings -> (your  connection) -> configure network -> dns settings -> manual, and enter  the opendns ip addresses for the primary and secondary dns servers:  208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220.
use at your own risk folks.
you can hold a pint in one hand, fag in the other and still start your game up /\/\
at least with the ps3 when you first boot the machine up it starts on the "games" tab and the other tabs are all relevant and have no advertising, which is the way it should be.
computerandvideogames.com tamoor hussain editorial assistant tamoor plays anything and everything but really likes fighting games.
the "games" section on the ui is now in the middle of the scroll bar at the top - says it all really.
or a free service with no ads.
so unless i buy kinect and spend all my time drooling thinking 'ooo fingys moving magic ooo!'
although i simply won't watch short vids on cvg because of it.
i'll give it a read myself later, but it's seems that they wouldn't actually be able to do anything to stop me, would they, i'm not tampering, or altering the hardware or the software, i can block this site like i can block any site since i'm in control of my router (except when sky feels like telling me i'm not, but f**k them)
i agree the wii does have the best interface (i actually can't stand the flow of the xmb, and not having a proper 'mini xmb' in game, plus it's not viewable against certain themes, and ms are putting more and more focus on non gaming content) because, no matter what people think of it, it's the only pure games console out there.
as it is i personally don't find them intrusive as they take a split second to skip past and it's not like (as far as i'm aware) they pop up at other times, or inside your game library etc.
if you've got one of microsoft's consoles, this little lot should make you very happy this year.
it just vomits up a load of random s**t.
go to advanced settings and next to 'domain typos', check the box  'enable typo correction' if it's not already checked and apply.
i just want to play games not sift through lynx ads and pics of jessie chobot from ign (though of course iwould, natch )
anyone want a can of cuke?
i pay for magazines that are full of ads, so i really don'e see why people get upset by them.
searching for a solution, the proactive users on reddit have taken  matters into their own hands and blocked 'rad.msn.com', the server microsoft  uses to beam ads to the 360.
it does not cover anything about configuring your router to block adverts.
that's pretty s**tty, although i guess if you have kinect you can 'bing' it.
we haven't tried any of this, so we can't guarantee that it works or that  it doesn't mess with your online gaming/other network services.
posted on friday 9-dec-2011 12:39 pm xbox 360 users work out how to block dashboard ads naughty, naughty share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 42 by tamoor hussain for computerandvideogames.com networking-savvy gamers have figured out a way to disable the adverts in  the latest xbox 360 dashboard overhaul.
it's not the only reason i sold the machine, but this is not the time or the place for the list.
its funny how both the wii and ps3 are free to use online too, yet the only system (360) people actually pay a subscription to play online and use some other features (like the sky player) is rammed to the s***load with non related adverts.
on evenings and weekends he might be batman.
got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
as aposed to ms that has added features with each revision, has extended its warrenty pretty much indefinately to faults with the hardware they owned up to and has given the homebrew community the tools to be able to create and sell games on the 360s marketplace.
what do you think they would do if they were attacked?
if so, you need to be educated.
i don't have kinect, that doesn't really bother me, but its just a big scrolling advert for things that i will never want.
the ads have never really bothered me.
wow adverts on my 360, s**t
ok if they are starting to go ad supported then the gold subscription should be scrapped and live be free for all to play mp.
i pay for plenty of things that still have ads, it's just the way of the world now unfortunately - at least they're not ads in front of content - i.e watch a 30 second ad in order to watch a 30 second trailer, á la cvg.
i hope many people use this trick to block the adverts, many people are so apathetic this days and let big companies rip them apart.
if there are adverts even after we have paid for it then microsoft must be in desprate need of money.