highlight the hard drive symbol and press y on your control pad.
if all parts of this turn to red and flash then the console cannot detect the av cable.
much of the content is free but for full xbox live arcade games, game  content downloads, most themes and pictures you will need to exchange  marketplace points for them.
xbox 360 dashboard guide  -------------------------
you can also plug in a usb keyboard but this may only be used for text input you are unable to play any games with it.
xbox 360 dashboard walkthrough for xbox 360 game name: xbox 360 dashboard format: xbox 360 submitted by: aliboy ------------------------- xbox 360 dashboard guide -------------------------
games blade ------------
as well as being able to get the latest news and updates on a  whole range or xbox 360 related topics you are able to view your friends that  are online, send and read messages to / from your friends, add new friends and  manage your profile.
2 red segments this means the  console is overheating, again ensure it is in a well ventilated area and switch  it off and unplug the console and give it time to cool before trying again.
xbox 360 walkthroughs for xbox 360 dashboard freeola games homechat forumscheatswalkthroughstips & trophiesreviewswin free gamesmyfreeola browse walkthroughs: walkthroughs home pc walkthroughs wii walkthroughs xbox 360 walkthroughs ps3 walkthroughs ps2
much of the content is free but for full xbox live arcade games, game content downloads, most themes and pictures you will need to exchange marketplace points for them.
4 red segments on the front of your 360 there is a green ring that lights up when you switch it on.
you can test these connections at  any time and also edit them or restore them to the default settings.
2 red segments this means the console is overheating, again ensure it is in a well ventilated area and switch it off and unplug the console and give it time to cool before trying again.
the system blade is like the control panel of your pc, it allows you to modify much of the settings relating to your xbox 360 such as the console settings, family settings, memory, network settings, computers, xbox live vision and initial setup console settings within the console settings there are a number of options that you can modify, these are: display modify hdtv settings and screen settings audio modify your audio options such as using 5.1 surround or switching the sound effects on/off themes - allows you to modify the dashboard appearance and colour schemes language change the language used by the xbox 360 clock allows you to modify the time and date and the format used.
you can join the game they are in if it is an open room, invite them to your game, send them a message, view the games they have played xbox live marketplace xbox live marketplace allows you to download additional content to your xbox 360 such as game demos, game and media video clips, gamercard pictures and additional themes for the xbox dashboard.
here you can download a whole range of video files and tv shows to your xbox 360.
restart the console and try again to see if it freezes after a certain time or at the same point in the game.
restart the console and try again to see if it freezes after a  certain time or at the same point in the game.
if you experience a game freezing on you there are a few things to try.
name: pete_21 entry: review post prize: gift voucher amazon £30
additional information on connecting your pc and xbox 360 can be found at http://www.xbox.com/pcsetup -------------
it also includes some of the downloaded content  that you have obtained from xbox live marketplace such as live arcade games,  demos and trailers.
you can also subscribe to the xbox live gold service in this section using either a pre-paid card or your credit card.
this option allows you to run the initial setup that happens when you use your 360 for the fist time.
friends list shows a list of all your friends, starting with those that are currently online and also shows their gamerscore, gamer picture and their status online (ranging from playing a specific game, watching a movie, listening to music or if they are away from their console).
there are a range of options available to you when you select a friend.
the guide button is the big button on the centre of your control pad with the x symbol.
there are a range of options available to you  when you select a friend.
some games allow the download of additional contents from  marketplace such as additional weapons, vehicles, maps, characters.
the problem usually relates to the power supply, overheating or a fault with one of the hardware components.
forgotten  your password?
there is usually a new arcade title  release every week.
the games blade contains information relating to the games you have played and can play via your xbox 360.
most games support high definition, contain in game achievements and some also contain some form of multiplayer.
some gamers have found problems with some games not starting, or stopping during play and locking up on them.
the problem usually  relates to the power supply, overheating or a fault with one of the hardware  components.
the xbox live blade contains options relating to your xbox live account.
login or create a free account.
there are four blades which make up the  360's dashboard – these are xbox live, games, media and system.
you  can also access .wmv files from your pc using either media connect or playing  them in windows media player 11.
i'll take each in turn and explain a little about what they contain.
with the microsoft xbox live vision camera it acts very much in the same way as a webcam, newly added features allow for video chats with your friends, the ability to take a gamerpicture that only your friends can see and some xbox live arcade games like uno allow you to see yourself and opponents in game.
there is a  wide range of retro arcade classics that can be downloaded such as frogger,  pac-man, paperboy, gauntlet and defender.
the games blade contains information relating to the games you have played and  can play via your xbox 360.
these demos allow you to play at least a single offline mission or some form of  online play to experience what the final version of the game may be like.
it also includes some of the downloaded content that you have obtained from xbox live marketplace such as live arcade games, demos and trailers.
the network settings allows you to set up connections with your home network or pc to allow you to connect to xbox live and to share content between your home pc.
xbox 360 walkthroughs for xbox 360 dashboard freeola games
highlight the hard drive symbol  and press y on your control pad.
4 red segments on the front  of your 360 there is a green ring that lights up when you switch it on.
if possible try the game in  another console or try another copy of the game in your console to determine if  the game or your console is faulty.
if you download  any videos from xbox marketplace then they will be accessible from here.
make sure the disk is clean and scratch free.
the network settings allows you to set up  connections with your home network or pc to allow you to connect to xbox live  and to share content between your home pc.
make sure that you have it connected and if it is connected remove it and try again if it still doesn't work try another cable then as a last resort contact microsoft's xbox support to see about getting your console fixed.
the 360 has been known to throw a wobbler from time to time and stop working so here are a list of some possible problems and how they could be resolved.
this just lists all of the games that you have played on your xbox 360.
one thing that proves useful is that  you can view pictures from a digital camera and at the same time play music  from your ipod.
the  gold service allows you to play multiplayer games against other gamers across  the globe.
gamerpoints are awarded in most 360 games and live arcade  games for obtaining certain achievements during the game.
the 3 red lights will flash.
i use an external hard drive for all my mp3's and photographs so that i can access them and play them through the 360 this makes showing high resolution pictures to friends and family much easier than being huddled around a pc monitor.
voucher name: spoonbeast entry: game cheats claim your prize!
here you can download a whole range of video files and tv shows to  your xbox 360.
auto 0ff - turns off console after 6 hours of inactivity screensaver enables screensaver to dim screen after 10 minutes of inactivity
if possible try the game in another console or try another copy of the game in your console to determine if the game or your console is faulty.
they can also leave negative reputation if you  abandon a game early or use foul language or unsporting behaviour during games.
little extras ------------- external devices
if you have a pc running windows xp media edition you can also extend some of these features in this section.
it displays the game, the number of saves, downloads and achievements relating  to the game and the gamerscore you have obtained from the game.
messages will  last for 30 days before the system automatically deletes them.
your reputation rating is based on what other gamers think of you, the more people enjoyed playing with you then the better your reputation.
the xbox 360 will play any of your audio cd's and also mp3's streamed from your  pc or an external device such as an mp3 player or external hard drive.
make sure that you have it connected and if it is connected remove it  and try again – if it still doesn't work try another cable then as a last  resort contact microsoft's xbox support to see about getting your console  fixed.
this section contains your gamercard, messages, friends list and the xbox live marketplace.
achievements this section lists all of the achievements you have obtained for all of the games you have played and the total that you could have obtained if you managed to get the full amount from each game.
latest winners hall of fame see who's online update your profile free web site cheap domain names free internet access best uk broadband broadband speed test freeola home help & support contact us site map your trolley free sign-upmyfreeola login walkthroughs home xbox 360 walkthroughs xbox 360 dashboard walkthroughs just lurking around?
xbox live vision camera
this  section allows you to view and movie files you have on your 360 hard drive.
features include playing music, additional movie files, viewing photographs, pausing live tv and getting movies on demand.
using the music  player you can also create your own music playlists.
if it is the hard drive try removing it and ensuring it is  connected properly and there is no dust at the connectors.
you may also listen to  your own music during a game on the 360, just press the guide button on the  centre of your control pad and access the music player to select the music you  wish to play.
the xbox 360 will also play dvd movies and  with the additional hd-dvd add on it will play hd-dvd movies.
this  section contains any of the live arcade games you have downloaded via xbox live  marketplace – both free demos and full games are included here.
forgotten your password?
you can also change your online status, voice settings, setup  a private chat, access the music player and change your theme, vibration  settings and notifications using the guide buttons menu.
you can also subscribe to the xbox live gold  service in this section using either a pre-paid card or your credit card.
they can also leave negative reputation if you abandon a game early or use foul language or unsporting behaviour during games.
locale sets which region the xbox 360 is being used in start up allows you to have your console either play the disk inserted on startup or always go to the dashboard first.
this  allows you to view the pictures in a slide show on your television.
content is added to the marketplace almost on a daily basis so it is worth checking every few days for any new demos or content for your favourite games.
if you have been playing for a while then unplug and retry when the console has had time to cool down.
the xbox live blade contains options relating  to your xbox live account.
auto 0ff - turns off console  after 6 hours of inactivity screensaver – enables screensaver to dim  screen after 10 minutes of inactivity remote control – set which remote to  use on your 360 system info – contains the xbox 360's serial number and id  family settings this section allows you to limit what a child can do on the  xbox 360 – this includes limiting xbox live activity and preventing them  from playing games and movies that have a particular rating memory
the guide button is the big button on the centre of your control pad with the x  symbol.
these may be text, voice or picture messages.
you can also change your online status, voice settings, setup a private chat, access the music player and change your theme, vibration settings and notifications using the guide buttons menu.
again if you are  unable to resolve the errors then contact microsoft's customer support for  additional help or to get your console repaired.
try other games in your console to see if they do a similar thing.
you could win free games just by chatting.
subscriptions to  the gold service are usually sold in 1 month, 3 months or 12 months  subscriptions.
marketplace  points marketplace points allow you to buy some of the additional content from  xbox live marketplace.
mobile & flash games ------------
gamercard your gamercard shows your  reputation and the number of gamerpoints that you have collected from the games  you have played.
this allows you to stream content directly from a pc running windows media player.
common devices such as wireless adapters, digital cameras, hard drives and mp3  players can be connected to your 360.
content  is added regularly and most demos offer at least one level to be played through  fully.
if you download any videos from xbox marketplace then they will be accessible from here.
gamercard your gamercard shows your reputation and the number of gamerpoints that you have collected from the games you have played.
game freezing another common problem with some 360's is that the game will freeze after a certain amount of time spent playing or at a certain point in the game.
you can also rip music from a cd and store it on your 360's hard drive.
if you get the 3 red lights on the system then you'd be better off calling microsoft's xbox helpline but one thing worth trying first is to clear the systems cache as this has been known to sort some problems gamers have had with certain games.
there are four blades which make up the 360's dashboard these are xbox live, games, media and system.
name: dragonkazuma entry: review post prize: saints row: the third name: pete_21 entry: review post prize: gift voucher amazon £30 voucher name: davidm4 entry: review post prize: gift voucher amazon £30 voucher call of duty 4: mode...
if it still doesn't work then contact microsoft's xbox  support to see about getting your console fixed.
the message area lets you view the messages that have been sent to you  from your friends.
atari st cd32 cdi game gear jaguar lynx mega cd megadrive neo  geo pocket saturn snes nes xbox 360 dashboard (xbox  360) click on a star to rate this game.
the  demos section contains all of the demos you have downloaded from xbox live.
remote control set which remote to use on your 360 system info contains the xbox 360's serial number and id family settings this section allows you to limit what a child can do on the xbox 360 this includes limiting xbox live activity and preventing them from playing games and movies that have a particular rating memory this section allows you to view the memory devices associated with your 360 and the contents of these devices.
if all  parts of this turn to red and flash then the console cannot detect the av  cable.
contact us | help & support | site map | terms & conditions | customer forums visit getdotted.com for more»
cheats (0) walkthroughs (1) tips & trophies (0) chat & reviews (0) submit your own xbox 360 walkthroughs and you could win a free computer game!
gamerpoints are awarded in most 360 games and live arcade games for obtaining certain achievements during the game.
with an mp3 player you can connect it and  play the music through your 360.
media blade ------------
system blade -------------
the demos section contains all of the demos you have downloaded from xbox live.
most 360 owners  will probably be aware of most if not all of these features but hopefully some  of you will find parts of it useful.
achievements this section lists all of the achievements you  have obtained for all of the games you have played and the total that you could  have obtained if you managed to get the full amount from each game.
one thing that proves useful is that you can view pictures from a digital camera and at the same time play music from your ipod.
they are usually to do with the dvd drive or  the hard drive.
if you get the 3 red  lights on the system then you'd be better off calling microsoft's xbox helpline  but one thing worth trying first is to clear the systems cache as this has been  known to sort some problems gamers have had with certain games.
i'll take  each in turn and explain a little about what they contain.
----------------- xbox live blade -----------------
again if you are unable to resolve the errors then contact microsoft's customer support for additional help or to get your console repaired.
you can also redeem your marketplace points here.
walkthroughs psp walkthroughs ds & 3ds walkthroughs enter a walkthrough games homepage win free games
it displays the game, the number of saves, downloads and achievements relating to the game and the gamerscore you have obtained from the game.
the next step  would be to contact microsoft's customer support to see about getting your  console repaired.
to clear the cache go to the system blade and select memory.
the xbox 360 dashboard is like the operating system on your pc – it allows  you to modify your console settings and use specific features of the console as  well as letting you play your favourite 360 and xbox games.
clearing the xbox  360's system cache
clearing the xbox 360's system cache
running this again may change some of your current settings though  so be careful.
messages will last for 30 days before the system automatically deletes them.
from here you can copy, delete and move content from the memory devices.
the media  blade allows you to access your music, photographs and video files either from  a cd, your home pc or external devices.
this option  allows you to run the initial setup that happens when you use your 360 for the  fist time.
most games support high definition, contain in game  achievements and some also contain some form of multiplayer.
make sure the power supply is connected properly, that your console  is in a well ventilated area and doesn't feel to hot at the back too touch.
make sure the disk is clean and  scratch free.
this section contains any of the live arcade games you have downloaded via xbox live marketplace both free demos and full games are included here.
you can also play xna games here.
the xbox 360 will also play dvd movies and with the additional hd-dvd add on it will play hd-dvd movies.
the xbox 360 will play any of your audio cd's and also mp3's streamed from your pc or an external device such as an mp3 player or external hard drive.
friends list  shows a list of all your friends, starting with those that are currently online  and also shows their gamerscore, gamer picture and their status online (ranging  from playing a specific game, watching a movie, listening to music or if they  are away from their console).
the gold service allows you to play multiplayer games against other gamers across the globe.
make sure the power supply is connected properly, that your console is in a well ventilated area and doesn't feel to hot at the back too touch.
xbox.com sign into xbox.com using your xbox live e-mail and password and a range of options become available to you.
remove and reconnect the hard drive.
using the music player you can also create your own music playlists.
with the microsoft xbox live  vision camera it acts very much in the same way as a webcam, newly added  features allow for video chats with your friends, the ability to take a  gamerpicture that only your friends can see and some xbox live arcade games  like uno allow you to see yourself and opponents in game.
you  can also play xna games here.
this section allows you to view and movie files you have on your 360 hard drive.
choose your nickname inmyfreeola or sign up here.
features include playing music, additional  movie files, viewing photographs, pausing live tv and getting movies on demand.
the media blade allows you to access your music, photographs and video files either from a cd, your home pc or external devices.
this section  allows you to view the memory devices associated with your 360 and the contents  of these devices.
xbox.com sign into  xbox.com using your xbox live e-mail and password and a range of options become  available to you.
the xbox 360 dashboard is like the operating system on your pc it allows you to modify your console settings and use specific features of the console as well as letting you play your favourite 360 and xbox games.
common devices such as wireless adapters, digital cameras, hard drives and mp3 players can be connected to your 360.
using the guide button you  can switch the console on, play your own music during games, check to see which  friends are online during games and communicate with them or join their game,  you can return to the dashboard from the game or shut down the console itself  using the button.
the 360 has been known to throw  a wobbler from time to time and stop working so here are a list of some  possible problems and how they could be resolved.
this allows you to view the pictures in a slide show on your television.
extended abilities are possible if you are running windows xp media edition.
this allows you to stream content directly from a  pc running windows media player.
homechat forumscheatswalkthroughstips & trophiesreviewswin  free gamesmyfreeola browse walkthroughs: walkthroughs home pc walkthroughs wii walkthroughs xbox  360 walkthroughs ps3 walkthroughs ps2 walkthroughs psp  walkthroughs ds & 3ds walkthroughs enter a walkthrough games homepage  win free games  latest winners   hall of fame  see who's online  update your  profile free web site  cheap domain names   free internet access  best uk broadband   broadband speed test freeola home help &  support contact us site map your trolley free sign-upmyfreeola login walkthroughs home  xbox 360 walkthroughs  xbox 360  dashboard walkthroughs just lurking around?
these demos allow you to play at least a single offline mission or some form of online play to experience what the final version of the game may be like.
the next step would be to contact microsoft's customer support to see about getting your console repaired.
dreamcast game boy nintendo 64 playstation ------------ 32x 3do amiga amiga 1200 atari st cd32 cdi game gear jaguar lynx mega cd megadrive neo geo pocket saturn snes nes xbox 360 dashboard (xbox 360) click on a star to rate this game.
some gamers have found problems with some games not  starting, or stopping during play and locking up on them.
additional information on connecting your pc and xbox 360 can be found at  http://www.xbox.com/pcsetup -------------
locale – sets which region the xbox 360 is being used in  start up – allows you to have your console either play the disk inserted  on startup or always go to the dashboard first.
submit your own xbox 360 walkthroughs and you could win a free  computer game!
chat | cheats | walkthroughs super smash bros.
chat | cheats | walkthroughs hitman 2: silent ass... chat | cheats | walkthroughs shenmue 2 chat | cheats | walkthroughs the getaway chat | cheats | walkthroughs call of duty:... battlefield 3 assassin's creed:... fifa 12 saints row: the... freeola's free computer game walkthroughs offers thousands of free pc game walk throughs and strategy guides, free xbox game walk throughs, free ps2 game walk throughs and the chance to win £30 worth of amazon vouchers to spend on anything you like!
if you experience a game  freezing on you there are a few things to try.
1 red segment this error relates to a known hardware error and the console should display the error on the screen.
all formats------------ nintendo ds  & 3ds nintendo wii pc games playstation 3 sony psp xbox 360 ------------
i use an external hard drive for all my mp3's  and photographs so that i can access them and play them through the 360 –  this makes showing high resolution pictures to friends and family much easier  than being huddled around a pc monitor.
extended abilities are possible if you are  running windows xp media edition.
you can order points via xbox live marketplace using a  credit card or purchase a pre-paid card from most game retailers and enter the  code on the card to redeem your points.
if  you have been playing for a while then unplug and retry when the console has  had time to cool down.
clicking on any of the games you have played here will display the achievements you have been awarded and those that you still need to get.
gamecube gba playstation 2 xbox ------------
there is usually a new arcade title release every week.
the message area lets you view the messages that have been sent to you from your friends.
with an mp3 player you can connect it and play the music through your 360.
cheats (0) walkthroughs (1) tips & trophies (0) chat & reviews (0)
you can  also rip music from a cd and store it on your 360's hard drive.
using the guide button you can switch the console on, play your own music during games, check to see which friends are online during games and communicate with them or join their game, you can return to the dashboard from the game or shut down the console itself using the button.
clicking on any of  the games you have played here will display the achievements you have been  awarded and those that you still need to get.
if it is the hard drive try removing it and ensuring it is connected properly and there is no dust at the connectors.
xbox 360 dashboard walkthrough for xbox 360 game name:   xbox 360 dashboard format:  xbox 360 submitted by: aliboy -------------------------
then press x, x, left bumper, right bumper, x,  x.
the xbox live vision option allows you to change the settings associated with your xbox live vision camera such as the lighting conditions to give you a clearer image when using the camera.
if it still doesn't work then contact microsoft's xbox support to see about getting your console fixed.
choose your nickname inmyfreeola or  sign up here.
this section allows you to view pictures from your home  pc or an external device such as a digital camera or external hard drive.
this links directly to the video marketplace, part of the xbox  marketplace.
this links directly to the video marketplace, part of the xbox marketplace.
from here you can copy, delete and move content from the  memory devices.
then press x, x, left bumper, right bumper, x, x. you should receive a message saying maintenance will be performed which will clear the systems cache.
xbox live vision the xbox live vision option allows you to change the settings  associated with your xbox live vision camera such as the lighting conditions to  give you a clearer image when using the camera.
as well as being able to get the latest news and updates on a whole range or xbox 360 related topics you are able to view your friends that are online, send and read messages to / from your friends, add new friends and manage your profile.
you can also access .wmv files from your pc using either media connect or playing them in windows media player 11.
they are usually to do with the dvd drive or the hard drive.
game freezing another common  problem with some 360's is that the game will freeze after a certain amount of  time spent playing or at a certain point in the game.
3do  amiga amiga 1200
if you have a pc running windows xp  media edition you can also extend some of these features in this section.
most 360 owners will probably be aware of most if not all of these features but hopefully some of you will find parts of it useful.
marketplace points marketplace points allow you to buy some of the additional content from xbox live marketplace.
you can also plug in a usb keyboard but this may only be used  for text input – you are unable to play any games with it.
subscriptions to the gold service are usually sold in 1 month, 3 months or 12 months subscriptions.
you can test these connections at any time and also edit them or restore them to the default settings.
the system  blade is like the control panel of your pc, it allows you to modify much of the  settings relating to your xbox 360 such as the console settings, family  settings, memory, network settings, computers, xbox live vision and initial  setup console settings within the console settings there are a number of  options that you can modify, these are: display – modify hdtv settings and  screen settings audio – modify your audio options such as using 5.1  surround or switching the sound effects on/off themes - allows you to modify  the dashboard appearance and colour schemes language – change the language  used by the xbox 360 clock – allows you to modify the time and date and  the format used.
content is  added to the marketplace almost on a daily basis so it is worth checking every  few days for any new demos or content for your favourite games.
a quick guide and overview of the xbox 360 dashboard.
-----------------  xbox live blade -----------------
try other games in your console to see if  they do a similar thing.
your reputation rating is based  on what other gamers think of you, the more people enjoyed playing with you  then the better your reputation.
all formats------------ nintendo ds & 3ds nintendo wii pc games playstation 3 sony psp xbox 360 ------------ mobile & flash games ------------
it is  possible to connect a few external devices to your 360 via the usb slots.
this section allows you to view pictures from your home pc or an external device such as a digital camera or external hard drive.
you can join the game they are in if it is an open  room, invite them to your game, send them a message, view the games they have  played xbox live marketplace xbox live marketplace allows you to download  additional content to your xbox 360 such as game demos, game and media video  clips, gamercard pictures and additional themes for the xbox dashboard.
gamecube gba playstation 2 xbox  ------------
dreamcast game boy nintendo 64 playstation ------------ 32x
this section contains your gamercard, messages,  friends list and the xbox live marketplace.
this allows you to manage the connections between your 360 and your home pc.
content is added regularly and most demos offer at least one level to be played through fully.
you should receive a message saying maintenance will be performed which will  clear the systems cache.
running this again may change some of your current settings though so be careful.
it is possible to connect a few external devices to your 360 via the usb slots.
you may also listen to your own music during a game on the 360, just press the guide button on the centre of your control pad and access the music player to select the music you wish to play.
you can order points via xbox live marketplace using a credit card or purchase a pre-paid card from most game retailers and enter the code on the card to redeem your points.
3 red segments the well known hardware error, this means that some part  of the hardware isn't working.
some games allow the download of additional contents from marketplace such as additional weapons, vehicles, maps, characters.
1  red segment this error relates to a known hardware error and the console should  display the error on the screen.
hopefully this guide has talked you though most of the  important features of the xbox 360 dashboard and provided you with some helpful  information.
this allows for some nice in game features.
hopefully this guide has talked you though most of the important features of the xbox 360 dashboard and provided you with some helpful information.
there is a wide range of retro arcade classics that can be downloaded such as frogger, pac-man, paperboy, gauntlet and defender.
to clear the  cache go to the system blade and select memory.
3 red segments the well known hardware error, this means that some part of the hardware isn't working.