this is clearly a sign of ms further enforcing the importance of kinect  in its operations going forward.
zavvi no information £14.95 the hut no information £14.95 your shape: fitness evolved 2012
it's also good for universal intuitiveness.
computer and video games -
[ source: kotaku ] computerandvideogames.com mike jackson recommended links from the web comments 8 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote benthomasfoster on 10 dec '11 said: got me scared there.
according to kotaku, microsoft has confirmed that anyone wishing  to publish their content on xbox will need to include controls for that little  sensor bar before it's given a green light.
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store news: street fighter x tekken vita characters will cost £16 on consoles -http://t.co/pxzvhruz http://t.co/1ls17ang via @cvg_uk retweet this posted on saturday 10-dec-2011 7:52 pm kinect functionality required in all xbox apps ms makes motion and voice controls mandatory share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 8 by mike jackson for computerandvideogames.com microsoft has made kinect voice and motion control a necessary requirement
a brilliant reinvention of a tired series - mass effect 3 review: an unforgettable end to an epic sci-fi trilogy - ssx review: ea's classic gets back on board - binary domain review: a brave attempt to innovate in a tired genre - asura's wrath review: a glory to behold - but more anime than game staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards @roblastcav future - media with passion - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap! - icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international - digitalfuture © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
the number of new services on offer and the quality of the interface are astounding.
more latest news 21 more - kinect for windows released - kinect tech coming built into laptops features & interviews kinect's 2012 line-up: has xbox motion gaming finally grown up?
insisting that a group of their customers isn't sidelined and that their new product is properly integrated into their existing systems?
zavvi no information £19.95 the hut no information £19.95 cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube
witcher 2 assassins of kings - new elements trailer - street fighter x tekken:
no, kinect ain't great as a game controller by itself and it is definitely overpriced
related content - kinect 360 · platformer microsoft reviews xbox kinect review marks and sensors 405
people on here, and a lot of gamers in general actually, act as if any changes to consoles that don't involve beefing up hardware specs or frame rates are the work of the devil, pedophiles and bobby kotick working together in some kind of coven.
it's been an absolute joy to use the new gui with kinect voice commands; it is genuinely state of the art which ain't bad on a console that's on it's seventh birthday.
oh and i bet my 30 hours spent in dark souls that everyone who put a negative comment on here has not used kinect with the latest update and are therefore officially talking out of their arse.
for all new xbox apps.
it means that ms have minimum requirements for the user interface that the developer must meet.
just now you can blame it on their kinect focus... - report this post reply with quote davidvm on 11 dec '11 said: sometimes people on this forum are on daily mail levels.
- report this post reply with quote petrolhead on 11 dec '11 said: this is the no 1 reason why i use my ps3 more now than ever.
according to kotaku, microsoft has confirmed that anyone wishing to publish their content on xbox will need to include controls for that little sensor bar before it's given a green light.
- report this post reply with quote kippdynamite on 11 dec '11 said: are small devs - like the people who made castle crashers - going to want to bother with stuff like this?
email: news@cvg.co.uk - assassin's creed 3, mass effect 3 endings and scanning guide, plus an ipad 3 review: weekly network round up 16/3/12 - skyrim 1.5 ps3 update patches in new kill cams.
get more from cvg - hironobu sakaguchi: the father of final fantasy on reinventing the rpg - 'i haven't played a smartphone that comes close to the quality of decent console games' - mario party 9 review: a big improvement - but it can't live with nintendo's best - sleeping dogs: a risky gamble - game of thrones sword fighting - portal 2 wins bafta game of the year award - rayman origins 3ds delayed - us news round-up: metal gear sells 31m, and sfxt dlc gets hefty price tag - black ops: zombies ios gets new map and weapons - metal gear franchise hits 31 million sales - ninja gaiden 3: first dlc screens cvg store forza motorsport 4 from £22.99 amazon marketplace uk in stock £22.99 sendit.com
fixes more stuff - ratchet & clank hd classics trilogy confirmed.
- report this post reply with quote mogel94 on 10 dec '11 said: still refuse to buy a kinect no matter how hard they try to shove it down my throat.
kinect should not be forced upon you, it should be optional, just like move on ps3.
so what they are doing is making sure kinect users have an experience that is consistent and well designed.
- report this post reply with quote target renegade on 11 dec '11 said: oh dear.
popular now - 1 mass effect 3 complete scanning guide - and how to get the best possible ending - 2 hironobu sakaguchi: the father of final fantasy on reinventing the rpg - 3 10 impressive pc digital download games send us your news got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
i've had a 360 since 2007 and enjoyed it but if this happens i'll be leaving xbox for good.
register or log in not got an account?
apps requiring kinect functionality doesn't mean users need to have kinect.
no information £24.95 zavvi
roster updates detailed in capcom's dlc schedule - lollipop chainsaw trailer offers guitar heroes ripe for dismemberment - yakuza dead souls - see unlockable costumes and karaoke in exclusive video - shenmue hd has been ready to go for "well over a year" [rumor] - mass effect 3: rare weapons are yours for the earning in first n7 challenge weekend - the walking dead video game teaser trailer rises, makes a mess of our clean floor - dead or alive 5 - fighting ladies trailer - rumor: elder scrolls mmo to be announced this may - resident evil: operation raccoon city getting free dlc in april
no information £24.95 kinect sports from £14.95 sendit.com no information £14.95
posted on saturday 10-dec-2011 7:52 pm kinect functionality required in all xbox apps ms makes motion and voice controls mandatory share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 8 by mike jackson for computerandvideogames.com microsoft has made kinect voice and motion control a necessary requirement  for all new xbox apps.
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
this is clearly a sign of ms further enforcing the importance of kinect in its operations going forward.
the new xbox dashboard arrived  earlier this week, bringing with it revamped apps for all the previously  available xbox services such as netflix.
- what's on the psn store this week: 14/3/12 - resident evil chronicles hd ps3 screens -
fine the exclusives are drying up but, that started ages before kinect came along.
but it is a great way to navigate menus and get more from your console experience.
think of the children, won't somebody please think of the children.
just now you can blame it on their kinect focus...
may 16th release date - datura: move mystery reveals gameplay, trailers and new info.
- lego batman 2: dc super heroes ps3 preview - lego batman 2 dc super heroes ps3 screens and trailer - twisted metal, fifa street, max payne 3 - ps3 release date news 15/3/12 - max payne 3 new ps3 screens:
- report this post reply with quote ianson on 11 dec '11 said: sometimes people on this forum are on daily mail levels.
these new apps now adopt menus in line  with the dashboard itself, bringing an intuitive sense of unity to the whole  system.
we try out this year's kinect games - and come away impressed...
youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - mass effect 3 - resident evil 6 - max payne 3 - elder scrolls v: skyrim - battlefield 3 top reviews - fifa street review:
i fought your tatile was implying that the user had to hav kinect to access likes of youtube ect.
did you see that head come apart?
microsoft are desperate to find something to do with their waste of plastic by the looks of it.
- report this post reply with quote alan666 on 10 dec '11 said: the new dash seems to work pretty well when using kinect, the only issue with it though is that you have to keep your hand in place for to long while the circle fills in for it to accept the instruction, it seems to take about five seconds but that takes to long when it takes less than a second to click when using the normal gamepad, just some edit function would be ok where you can adjust the amount of time it takes.
that attitude is no more informed than someone who half reads a report on brain waves and video games and goes into a righteous rage.
if a new console, game or service comes out no one complains about it bein "rammed down their throat" bit, apparently ms making a unified kinect ready experience is somehow a bad thing.
from £13.89 sendit.com
no information £13.89
microsoft aren't forcing you to buy it or use it, they're just making sure developers are including functionality for it for the people who have splashed out on one and in such are rewarding their customers by ensuring full functionality of the product.
the new xbox dashboard arrived earlier this week, bringing with it revamped apps for all the previously available xbox services such as netflix.
these new apps now adopt menus in line with the dashboard itself, bringing an intuitive sense of unity to the whole system.