steam seems to be the go to platform for indie games nowadays.
i do wish they had kept with their early plan of having it open world though.
i won't be hesitating to get it.
that hurt like a bullet to the heart or an arrow to the knee .
email: news@cvg.co.uk from £14.85zavvi
your gonna be a few ms pts short.
god bless, one and all.
posted on thursday 29-mar-2012 12:06
last year co-creator phil fish suggested that the title had been heavily influenced by classic nintendo games.
we know its not out on the 18th.
31 comments so far... seems odd microsoft aren't marketing this like crazy or putting it in one of those xbla promotions.
here's xbox.com's fez description: gomez is a 2d creature living in a 2d world.
computerandvideogames.com
i get the feeling that it will be good!
it is still going to sell bucket loads but still i'd like to have seen it get some hefty promotion.
tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
also: alan wake was a great game.
@conkers fair enough then, i stand corrected.
i've got a few spare, might pop down the offie..
if i can refer you to here: viewtopic.phpf=4&t=116955 it should cover everything, glad to see my influence is paying off .
register or log in not got an account?
i would have scored it a 7.5 out of 10.
by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com polytron has announced a friday, april 13 release date for 2d platform puzzler fez.
and the music at the end of each chapter was genius.
this is going to be the best game released on live this year, yes, even better than trials (but just by a wee bit).
unearth the mysteries of the past and discover the truth about reality and perception.
also i enjoyed alan wake
i'll be buying this day one for sure!
explore a serene and beautiful open-ended world full of secrets,  puzzles and hidden treasures.
its made by just two guys, so its a properindie game, and i would implore everyone to at least try the demo, its the least you could do .
it's hard not to always think of stonecold's avatar...
£16 for 2100 ms points, download both fez and trials, have a few ms points left over and you should have the best gaming investment since the orange box!
fez is a different kettle of fish though.
unearth the mysteries of the past and discover  the truth about reality and perception.
i remember seeing you demand this game aaaaages back, stonecold- think you left a link to some gameplay footage and that was it-
i know next to nothing about the game but it looks too intriguing for me to pass up.
reasonably priced too.
explore a serene and beautiful open-ended world full of secrets, puzzles and hidden treasures.
i thought it looked awesome.
this looks interesting...
you don't seem to have budgeted for wrecked there?
sign up hereusername
yeah, bung it on other devices too such as ios, android etc!
lookin forward to gettin this.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
watch in hd  no comments yet, be  the first!
it's like playing a cartoon!!
loving the platforming genre again at the moment, all thanks to the incredibly underrated rayman returns, which is absolute brilliance...
dont go conkers, this place is full of moany, whiners (sorry guys ), we need some more random upbeat posts.
when the  existence of a mysterious 3rd dimension is revealed to him, gomez is sent out  on a journey that will take him to the very end of time and space.
just remember, the last game stonecold got excited about was the very average alan wake!!!
so don't get your hopes up too high!!
you sat behind me in the office ?
now i can rest easy knowing trials is best, i already knew that of course, but now you saying it has reassured me.
is this coming to pc as well or just xbl?
i shall be buying this and trials.
the only arcade games i've been interested in for ages.
when i like a game, i really do go all out guns blazing for it (see alan wake & fez to confirm my long, protracted craziness).
use your ability to navigate 3d structures from four distinct classic 2d  perspectives.
360 microsoft review: it's the bomb!60 more top games you can download on your 360 got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
i actually enjoyed alan wake.
i'm gonna get this and trials.
how can you not buy it ?
shouldn't that date read april 11th?
change your perspective and look at the world in a different way.
you have in fact piqued my interest in this game for a long time.
last year co-creator phil fish suggested that the title had been heavily  influenced by classic nintendo games.
trials evolution, will be the best game on xbla this year.
you can probably pick it up for £15 now as well.
use your ability to navigate 3d structures from four distinct classic 2d perspectives.
i expect a review of this game at some point during the week of its release, even if its just for me .
good stonecold, good.
i only came back here to see stonecold's excitement, i am not disappointed.
however, when asked if there was any chance of it actually appearing on a nintendo console,he was less than positive.
change your perspective and look at the  world in a different way.
i would have stayed, but then you said fez was going to be better than trials...which even though purely subjective, is just plain wrong, and you cannot be allowed to perpetuate such vile untruths in the world.
ok, buy 2 x 2100 ms point cards and everyone's a winner !
is this the game that mixes 3d with 2d?
i can picture stonecold spinning round in his chair, his face gleaming with excitement, making small, child-like noises, perhaps even wetting his pants.
there are too many innocents who could be unduly influenced by your heinous propoganda.
i've still not got around to buying it actually.
i was only dissing mr wake to wind up stonecold!
indie devs seem to be keeon on making platformers which i am glad about!!
no information £14.85 © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
pm fez finally dated for xbox live arcade perspective-bending platform game arriving in april for 800 ms points share this
however, when asked if there was any  chance of it actually appearing on a nintendo console,he was less than positive.
but it did get a bit repetitive, but it's chapters were just the right length to not make it become overly so.
can you get wrecked on microsoft points these days?
alan wake was a fantastic experience, as anyone who has played it will testify too.
when the existence of a mysterious 3rd dimension is revealed to him, gomez is sent out on a journey that will take him to the very end of time and space.
buy fez people, look at my avatar!
is this the game that mixes 3d with 2d? bingo!
its been a long process and i have actually been following this game for almost 4 years!
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 31 by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com polytron has announced a friday, april 13 release date for 2d platform  puzzler fez.
originally due for release in 2009 but delayed on multiple  occasions, the xbox live arcade game will set you back 800 microsoft points  (£6.85).