it's a downloadable track and is rather hard, but very fun to try with some hilarious results on crashing.
every action - rock, bounce or subtle shift of weight - has an equal and opposite reaction.
no, best game anywhere, ever!!
does it make me miserable to actually like the dark warehouses more?
hopefully they will arrive soon (i have just had dispatch notification).
did anyone else get to gigatrack, not read the description and then after 10 minutes think 'when the hell is this track gonna end'
evolution's entirely less punishing than before, except for about ten later levels designed for veterans (abandon hope - inferno returns).
i'm sure the viewing angle is different to trials hd, making it more difficult see where the jumps are.
why don't you pay less money and play them on a big telly?
i don't even need to read that review, there's no point when we all know just how good this is gonna be.
this game has tons of potential -  kolbitosfruitjuice needless to say, this game will be awesome - rub3z watch the  debut trailer now!
i'll be picking this up tonight after football practice.
probably the perfect wednesday!
its funny how he can't pronounce "homage" properly as well edit: just noticed i said "right stick" in my original comment.
which misses out the break, which is pretty useful at points.
i'm just caning through the levels, not giving a s**t about my time at this stage (in terms of competing against friends).
well worth 1200 points.
we'll still do these spec ops missions, so long as trials evo doesn't take up the next 6 months sure - also up for 'gears' too although i could be occupied with 'trials' as well (as my points arrived today and already added ).
i also don't like the fact it says 'crash' when you crash.
the review says "it's mastered over dozens of hours, but controls with two buttons - the left stick balances your rider and the right trigger revs.
well done microsoft.
register or log in not got an account?
redlynx have found their creative vein and pumped it full of red bull.
those extreme track's will do that!
i took a day off work for this......
there is certainly a lot of potential game time to be eaten up by this.
i'm excited because trials hd was one of those very few games of late where i literally would not be able to put it down until i fell asleep, my bird at the time got well dry with the lack of attention ...
what about the bloody brake??
the tagline 'revenge solves  everything' is genius! - appyday
yeah trials evo was one of the games i never picked up the demo and i always check out a game that comes out on xbla.
well i have my copy - only just scratched the surface of this as i have only completed a few tracks of the single player - still to try any of the user created tracks, multiplayer or other games etc.
the game was improved by about 78% from that point on.
tell me about it, but i can honestly say im happy to be spending this money lol 4 days off from tomorrow.
what with this and fez in the last 5 days, we as xbox gamers are really being spoilt for arcade action!
it's more angled as opposed to more straight on.
being banging out trials hd all day to get in the groove i ordered points from the microsoft store nearly 2 weeks ago specifically for this game and they still haven't arrived yet.
anyone else played it yet?
some of the checkpoints are spaced well apart
definitely gained my interest - christian-shaffer this game  looks amazing!!
so i was riding for a while, faulting, going quite a bit back and then thinking "is this right?"
so that's why i haven't beaten your times it's bloody brilliant guys, like, bloody brilliant!
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
graphically it is better with more going on (though i do miss the closed in feel of some of hd's tracks) and the online is great fun though clearly puniches you if you ain't got the hang of it yet.
id pay £10-£15 each just to be able to have them on my little handheld!
the courses are well designed, as expected and the replay value is certainly there.
wasn't impressed by the opening music, so the first thing i did was go to the option and turn the music volume to zero.
got a few mates round last night for the chelsea game and we were on this nearly all night.
only quibble is you can only go public in a group of 2.
did anyone else get to gigatrack, not read the description and then after 10 minutes think 'when the hell is this track gonna end' aye i thought to begin with that i'd broke the track.
already have my 1200 points on my account for tomorrow.
along with accelerator on the right stick gives you the 2 buttons.
it's a game of infinite precision.
i am ecstatic it is finally here, but now i must complete fez tonight...or it'll be left in trials literal dust...
well need to get a leaderboard put up in the xbox forum, the wall of shame agreed loving the game give us an add if you have space be interesting to see how rubbish my scores are so far!
need to def**k my live account first tho supercoss matches are pure brilliance.
anyway, micro donkey all they way - this wee bike whips nearly anything on more challenging tracks and even most trials tracks.
well up for any kind of cvg leaderboard thing or joining multiplayer sessions (not sure how it works yet til i get online later), gamertag is danhalen74 send me a friend request or game invite and watch me flawlessly annihilate myself into 4th place again and again whilst using my behemoth like freakstrength to prop up the leaderboard.....
it's impossible to survive, however, the climax of every course, cartoonish post-track impacts a cathartic surprise after almost unbearable tension.
and i've received confirmation too.
why wallet is puking money.
tinge of jealousy right now
we'll still do these spec ops missions, so long as trials evo doesn't take up the next 6 months fez, witcher and this in less than a week.
my only beef is why do i have to work today when i could be home blasting through this?
points at the ready and i'm off work tomorrow.
why cant this and fez be released on the vita?!?!?!
and i'm only the tiniest way through fez!
but at the same time it's more of the same.
they arrived this morning and already added - just got to wait now for 'trials' to be available to download sold.
what a week for xbla.
i ordered points from the microsoft store nearly 2 weeks ago specifically for this game and they still haven't arrived yet.
will do genius game, really like the new camera which sits a bit further out and back than the old one and also the camera pans round giving the impression of a track with curves.
did anyone else get to gigatrack, not read the description and then after 10 minutes think 'when the hell is this track gonna end' lol, the hint is in the track's name...
best game on xbox live arcade ever?
there's a nod to limbo, black and white and sharp with saw blades (a few of its gravity shifting puzzles prove an inspiration), and a baseball field where a massive bat smashes you for a home run.
it's bloody brilliant guys, like, bloody brilliant!
it's up for download!
can't wait to get into the editor and get tracks upped......and looking forward to getting some of the users ones too.
players not after cunningly hard platinum medals will crash a lot less, making rides only as frustrating as you want them to be.
1 2 next page 55 comments so far...
sounds like the menopause.
bailout finishes ftw!
boy oh boy am i looking forward to this one and have been for ages!!!!!!
there is no point in playing the courses over and over when i don't have the phoenix evo yet (my bike of choice) so far the game seems...
well obviously the left stick isn't a button, so the review is wrong!
i'm v excited, how about we have a cvg group making tracks for eachother, send me pm with your gamertag and we'll test each others out, stonecold and bamozzy- you in?
downloading this later tonight peeps, looks fanfeckingtastic...
i know this wouldnt hold my attention for long, but if i still had a 360 i know id be tempted to buy this.
just watched the video review, who is this sue blime?
i can't wait to see how slow i am compared to everyone on else on the leaderboards and the track editor really should throw up some interesting games and tracks.
i sent a very strongly worded email complaining at the amount of time it's taken
obviously that should be right trigger.
you slaaaaaaaag it's almost depressing to think the last game was set exclusively in a scrap-filled warehouse which had players leaping over mdf planks likesome kind of stig of the jump can i just say this is the best pun i've read on cvg, well done points at the ready and i'm off work tomorrow.
how does it compare to the previous trials?
wily new ways to main you aside, there's good news for players who in the last game smacked their heads on a harsh 'pro's only' barrier.
developers redlynx hasn't changed the physics a jolt since their 2009 two million-seller trials hd, and thank god for that because it's technically perfect.
money at the ready like everybody else.
the graphics are nice and the physics have (thankfully) been left as they were.
if he's classing the left stick for balance as a button, then it's three in total.
game marketplace > a-z > trials evolution > extras > see all > trial or download1!
overall though i'm sure i'll plough hours into it and it is a bargain for 1200 points 4 players on the same system is a right laugh and just as much fun as 4 player wrecked.
should i still be here?
havn't bought a game on live arcade in a while, this is a must have though.
well need to get a leaderboard put up in the xbox forum, the wall of shame i'm v excited, how about we have a cvg group making tracks for eachother, send me pm with your gamertag and we'll test each others out, stonecold and bamozzy- you in?
only played the trial (heh) for this, but i didn't think it was as good as trials hd.
one 'bike-tality' sucks you down a pipe and pumps you ass-down on a bathroom stall, while another locks on via periscope and fires two torpedoes your way.
this isn't being very well explained but, well, it's not quite right.
cannot wait to get my hands on it.
oxm reviewer didn't seem overly impressed and only awarded it an 8 but didn't really talk about anything other than the single player....
see you online dudes!!!!
fez, witcher and this in less than a week.
loved the first one and this looks to be even better.
and i know how i'm going to spend it....though to be fair i'm just spoiling myself having got fez and witcher this week (amazing game yo) this is going to be very popular - i wonder if xbox live will go under....hope it can wait until i get my copy... cant.......wait......
the ~limbo track is genius, as is rollercoaster, gigantus and the one in the clouds.
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
lot's to do as always although the tracks are generally easier i think than in the first.
wowzers! - humanhead cvg home /
360 · action redlynx raises the (handle) bar9 more got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
deffo an improvmeent on trials hd
remember that as you tear through 57 tracks ranging from countryside rides- nothing more taxing than a few steep hills - to wooden roller coasters a mile up, a constantly rotating vertiginous playground and collapsing scaffolding that spirals up an ancient castle.
like real life, there's no jump button; getting airborne is a case of rider positioning, momentum and trajectory.
hahaha - i did the same thing yesterday and strangely enough i got a dispatch notification soon afterwards (and yes it was the easter voucher code thing and yes 4200 points).
sure am i will be downloading it in a little while and really looking forward to playing it too...
i must add some points on to my account, as i caed and bought fez with the points i'd been saving for this since last october!!
be getting it once it hits a sale though.
some last 20 seconds, some 20 minutes, day turning to dusk while you play.
he also says that you can't make your own skill games in the video review, which is also wrong, although i think he corrects himself.
im really looking forward to it - flyfletch this game has  officially hit #1 on my "must buy" list - johnkara awesome trailer -  looking forward to seeing more of this! - aawells07
off topic forum store 20% game development tax credit extended in france,  giving the uk “the green light" to introduce similar measures: http://t.co/yqsijcqo retweet this click  pumped up for this, looks awesome - winner2
sign up hereusername by ben griffin for computerandvideogames.com trials evolution is the ultimate xbox live arcade game.
i'd love to turn that off.
except gigatrack; there's an impossible jump about halfway through
can you tell me more about her like a lot of people i have my points ready and waiting to go....any ideas what time it'll be up?
really looking forward to this game.
i loved trials hd so much and after seeing all the new content, global sharing and robust editor in evo i picked it up no question.
son of a bit.. ps will get together on gears soon oh and bamozzy
"wily new ways to main you aside" - and this means what exactly ???????
it's mastered over dozens of hours, but controls with two buttons - the left stick balances your rider and the right trigger revs.
either way i can't wait to download and play this - definitely the best xbla game to date and probably better than a lot of full price big budget games too!!!
look for a track called yeti.
same thing here buddy, was it the easter voucher code thing? 4200?
that would be on the left trigger.
trial hd, at this stage, imo, is better.
i'm excited because trials hd was one of those very few games of late where i literally would not be able to put it down until i fell asleep, my bird at the time got well dry with the lack of attention
so you weren't letting her drink?
it's nice to know that despite complex design, nothing is taken too seriously.
to shift, bunny hop and throttle through fiendishly fantastic gauntlets made infinitely more exciting thanks to utterly inspired design and doubly inspired handling.