looks something like that - something with free-roaming within an office-type arena.
if ihad a choice, i would have had kotor remade, but alas, we don't always get what we want.
sign up hereusername by cvg staff for computerandvideogames.com a secret triple-a title set to be 'reborn' on xbox 360 has been cheekily teased in the latest issue of oxm uk.
look at the background.
halo ce what is known so far.
part of me is hoping jet set radio though.
highly unlikely, but would amuse me q*bert hd revolution, 64 players online and a dubstep soundtrack.
it's obviously not this
if its halo then why bother teasing us we all know its coming anyway
"how to be a complete bastard".
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
never know, it could be the original metal gear back on the msx?
meanwhile, oxm issue 71 will hit stores on march 10.
aaa exclusives are something microsoft has access to that we actually didn't even see on the original xbox.
blueprints would make more sense.
oh i would lurrrve that once we get done moving i am going to break that out again going to go ebil this time though (and steel battalion)
still love my mw3 for pc on of the last great games i ever bought before consoles became huge.
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
"the publisher was very apologetic but apparently the game just won't be  ready in time.
like counter strikes' office maybe?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/how_to_be_a_complete_bastard dr robotniks mean bean machine hd kotor?
sadly... i'm gonna get in first and call syndicate.
yo good call on syndicate man.
it looks futuristic, possibly science fiction-esque.
adrian edmonsons seminal spectrum classic 'how to be a bastard' is getting a hd remake.
experience the thrill of the hum drum life of a computer technician with microsoft office sim 3000.
*shakes fist at lonewolf for getting my hopes up*
what, you mean that bloody blueprint of a building of some sort?
but it couldn't work on consoles, could it?
let's hope whatever it is that it's out this year and it's not just another fps.
look at the graphics on the page...
the background is an architectural plan for a building entrance like a corporate headquarters with security swipe card stations to get in - sounds like syndicate to me i want crimson skies
it better be bloody good that's all i'm saying, especially after a headline like that.
http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/ ...
considering the remake is being described as being of "one of the greatest games of all time" then syndicate's probably the most obvious candidate from those mentioned so far.
"it's a real nuisance, not least since we've been trying to cover this game for months, but these things happen," oxm editor jon hicks told cvg.
"the publisher was very apologetic but apparently the game just won't be ready in time.
the blue print looks like an office plan to me.
it doesn't even say its an xbox game.
this has been confirmed via @mrjonty of oxm on twitter.
the title is very misleading unless they know something we don't!
i would sacrafice a youngling for theme hospital 2
[update: oxm editor jon hicks has since told us that, due to the game's publisher pushing back its announcement, the planned reveal "is very unlikely to appear in the magazine for the forseeable future".
i wouldn't call it one of the best games ever made though.
but surely i'm not the only other person that wants a new road rash game.
just because yeah i didn't notice that they were desk and not tables
10 would make sense for a halo 1 remake(10 years).
http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4b/syndicate_coverart.png also it has been rumoured to be in development for a while now.
man i played that game hard on my amiga 1200 ah memory's..
that even contains drawings like seen on that graphic.
that narrows it down a lot as there are really only 4 realistic options that have been mentioned here.
it's a circuit board, very similar to the one on the original box art.
halo combat evolved, without a doubt.
but remember, microsoft could also be talking about something like a game that has been rumored for quite some time based on one of the most popular arcade games ever: killer instinct!!!
i had thought deus ex due to human revolution but that's not exactly new news.
that or theme hospital?
my money would be on the former rather than the latter though.
misc got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
if all it ends up being is a halo remake or hd release of halo then... this will have to be one of the most boring reveals ever.
rare are too busy making more crappy kinect party games and tweaking the avatars to make them even less likable.
no need to thank me.
one of the best games ever  made is reborn on xbox 360."
update: publisher pushes back announcement in oxm uk share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 72 by cvg staff for computerandvideogames.com a secret triple-a title set to be 'reborn' on xbox 360 has been cheekily  teased in the latest issue of oxm uk.
" take a look at the graphics on the page.
however, there's bad news for 360 owners wishing for the full reveal of the blockbuster game any time soon - as it's been pushed back by a month.
posted on tuesday 15-feb-2011 3:58 pm secret xbox blockbuster reboot teased - but what is it?
looks like an office... don't remember seeing desks and bathrooms in halo halo, its gotta be.
or kill me when it turns out i've spoiled the news.
heres hoping ~ reborn implys its not a hd update but full blown remake with multiplayer ect the best bit about original halo was the story and the settings and finale so all is good if gameplay is changed for me it looks like the very first level in halo: ce remember, in the ship where you first fight the brutes and then go down to the elevators.. it looks like the very first level in halo: ce remember, in the ship where you first fight the brutes and then go down to the elevators..
unfortunately, it looks like readers will have to wait until oxm issue 72,  which will hit stores in april, to find out what it is - as the game's  publisher has pushed back its announcement.
it definitely looks like it could be from that game.
i know its gonna be halo ce but would love shenmue 1 & 2 on a double disc or down load halo.
it's going to be halo 1.
it looks like the very first level in halo: ce remember, in the ship where you first fight the brutes and then go down to the elevators..
unfortunately, it looks like readers will have to wait until oxm issue 72, which will hit stores in april, to find out what it is - as the game's publisher has pushed back its announcement.
elite, on the other hand, would be very exciting indeed!
and i think people need to give up on the shemnue dream.
if that background is a map from whatever game this is, then i doubt it's halo.
then again i could be right and it is actually how to be a complete bastard.
it doesn't say one of the greatest xbox games.
then again, magazines hype up these things to more than they deserve.
someone above my post guessed correctly, that what cvg have said on facebook a couple of minutes ago: that secret xbox 360 reboot....
its probably a halo collection with halo 1 and 2 with online for the 360.
i wanted to be the first hipster to call elite
sadly... you take that back!!!
i'm daring to dream again!
however, there's bad news for 360 owners wishing for the full reveal of the  blockbuster game any time soon - as it's been pushed back by a month.
it's not anything to do with halo.
well my money is on syndicate.
should we be analyzing the white dots at all?
beyond good and evil 2?
i call elite for the kinect jade empire?
so i agree with it being an office and not a hotel as i thought.
i've figured it out!
i highly doubt it will be halo, since the studio developing the new halo has said it is not a prequel, but a continuation of the halo franchise.
yay,welcome back blinx,lol...
4/co-op multiplayer.
safest bet so far i'd say.
why does everyone assume its halo ce?
someone got it right on cvg - but who was it?
c'mon wtf are rare doing with their time, it's gotta be from them.
it reads: "you will buy this magazine...
they were always exclusive to ms right?
what do you reckon it could be, readers?computerandvideogames.com 72 comments so far...
anyway, im hoping its beyond good & evil 2, we saw a tech demo not too long ago about it -- and they're are slight rumours that we're going to see an announcement for it this year.
1/hd,3d. 2/not using reach engine(hope its not cell shaded).
i don't get how people are missing what that image is.
computerandvideogames.com
*ahem* sorry, carry on.
yeah i didn't notice that they were desk and not tables
as for the background, i thought it was a circuit board at first, but zooming in i guess it could be a large room/office.
it doesn't fit the sensational headline, the remake of halo coming in hd is old news now.
mechwarrior would be awesome!
the exclusive has been nodded to on the 'next month' page of  oxm issue 70, which is in stores now.
one of the best games ever made is reborn on xbox 360."
if they'd been trying to cover the game for months, then it's most probably a game that was already shown in some form long ago.
that could be anything from the new x -com to theme bloody hospital.
perhaps i'm looking into it a bit too much...
i would p**s my self side ways if it was ff7 and an xbox 360 exclusive.
heres a video with the map in it shown at 2:31 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nz17eic4mya what about conker's bad fur day, classic game.
also i heard ea are working on a remake of it my money would be on that.
it doesn't actually state that it was an xbox game, and seeing as appears the background is the blueprints for a hotel i would say it is ubisoft redoing the original rainbow 6 or activision rebooting s.w.a.t.
any of these and i'd be a happy chappy.
which doesn't really narrow it down too much in the world of video games.
although the snes version was ok! cs_office ?
3/different developer.
register or log in not got an account?
i remember rainbow six on the ps1 used a blueprint for a map and white squares were used as the terrorist icon....could that be the magazine cover image?
but looking at the list of best selling xbox games the ones that are sci-fi are: halo ce halo 2 kotor star wars battlefront star wars battlefront ii
please be a full remake of the original perfect dark.
it could be elite as someone else has mentioned.
i'm gonna get in first and call syndicate.
although it looks more like an office with desks than a hotel.
best guess so far, but i don't think sim city would work too well on a console now.
"it's a real nuisance, not least since we've been trying to cover this  game for months, but these things happen," oxm editor jon hicks told cvg.
its chronicles of riddick: escape from butcher bay i doubt they'd make such a fuss over the halo remake as it seems to be pretty common knowledge that it is going to happen at some point.
the capitalized "will" meaning will wright.
rainbow 6 s.w.a.t counterstrike syndicate it's a blueprint for an office building judging by the workstations.
[update: oxm editor jon hicks has since told us that, due to the game's  publisher pushing back its announcement, the planned reveal "is very  unlikely to appear in the magazine for the forseeable future".
it looks futuristic, possibly  science fiction-esque.
i'm sure there was a story a couple of months ago about a trademark or something for syndicate being in discussion with the original publishers or such like.
kotor please gta san andreas or knights of the old republic it will either be jet set radio or halo.
i reckon it is more likely to be s.w.a.t than r6 though seeing that acti don't have any squad based shooters barring the zombie mode in cod.
halo 1 is more likely
yeah, i think you're bang on the money with that one.
or i'm going to p**s in their coffee.
or, and i know its a foolish hope, shenmue......
what do you reckon it could be, readers?
sadly many great games have had office buildings.
anybody else seeing hitman?
sir you blew my mind with theme hospital!
if it's a halo remake, then great, but it wouldn't be that exciting.
if microsoft is referring to a "remake" of an original xbox game, i think it could be anything from mechwarrior, to star wars: kotor, to halo: combat evolved.
aaa exclusives were something the original xbox had a lot of.
http://i.imgur.com/xgqba.jpg
think you've got the wrong buddy - brutes weren't in halo: ce!
they have also said that it is not halo.
i don't think this is halo - far too predictable.
how about the mechwarrior series?
any money that its gonna be halo ce hd remake,and that they are gonna release it november time so is this going to be that rumoured halo remake?