unopened intensafire kits may be returned within 30 days of the purchase  date for a refund of the product price.
how long will it take to receive my intensafire kit?
while we don't recommend using modded controllers on xbox live, it's our  understanding that they do not actively seek out and ban users for doing so.
refunds on opened kits will be issued at the manufacturer's discretion.
no, it probably means that you are using the wrong mode or speed setting  for the game you are playing.
share twitter facebook facebook intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 sign up
is there an instruction video available for the installation process?
yes, please view the intensafire installation video for  step-by-step instructions on installing and programming the intensafire kit.
after installing the intensafire, my controller will sometimes fire a random shot, even though i didn't pull the trigger.
however, if you play in such a way that other users file complaints against you, then you could end up getting banned just on general principles.
how can i purchase this item wholesale?
it does not work with wired controllers, only wireless.
while playing a game with the intensafire turned on, my controller  will sometimes lock up for a moment and stop functioning.
the intensafire installation video provides step-by-step  instructions for programming mode 5 for the intensafire.
during installation of this kit, caution must be taken not to damage the  chip or any components of the controller.
the mod itself does not cause this phenomenon, most games have a script or coding that notices rapid fire and reacts by stopping it or locking it up.
the intensafire installation video provides step-by-step instructions for programming mode 5 for the intensafire.
badges | report an issue | terms of service please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.
does this mean that my  mod is defective?
is there an instruction video available for the installation  process?
please view the intensafire installation instructions and warranty information for manufactuer's warranty info.
it also enables "dual rapid-fire" - usable in all xbox 360 games.
does this mean my mod is defective?
what does the  intensafire mod do?
bre software is not responsible for any  damage to yourself, your controller, or your xbox 360 console.
everything you need to install the intensafire mod is included with the  kit, including the special screwdriver and conductive glue.
the intensafire can be purchased at quantity discount rates, through our bre software online store.
it also enables "dual  rapid-fire" - usable in all xbox 360 games.
if the firing speed is too high, the game will  cause your controller to lock up briefly.
while we don't recommend using modded controllers on xbox live, it's our understanding that they do not actively seek out and ban users for doing so.
everything you need to install the intensafire mod is included with the kit, including the special screwdriver and conductive glue.
our own installation techs and other knowledgeable gamers will offer suggestions there.
this product contains a programmable option, which will allow you to create a custom fire-rate for maximum compatibility with future game releases.
please mail product, receipt, and a brief note of explanation to: intensafire rtns 352 w. bedford ave, suite 104 fresno, ca 93711
what tools & materials are required to install the intensafire  mod?
after installing the intensafire, my controller will sometimes fire  a random shot, even though i didn't pull the trigger.
what tools & materials are required to install the intensafire mod?
what is your return policy for unopened intensafire kits?
i am a video game retailer and i am interested in selling the  intensafire in my store.
this is a by-product of the mod programming.
we strongly recommend watching theintensafire installation  video as well.
also, be sure that you have attached the sync point correctly for the type of controller you are using.
bre software is not responsible for any damage to yourself, your controller, or your xbox 360 console.
if i try to install the intensafire and ruin my controller, are you going to replace my controller?
i am a video game retailer and i am interested in selling the intensafire in my store.
however, if you play in such a way that other users file complaints against  you, then you could end up getting banned just on general principles.
i've installed the intensafire, but my right trigger isn't working correctly.
i've installed the intensafire, but my right trigger isn't working  correctly.
intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 fastest & easiest xbox 360 and playstation 3 controller mods intensafire for xbox 360 frequently asked questions will this product work with both older and newer xbox 360 controllers?
ordinary household items that you will want to have on hand: scotch tape, a toothpick, a hair-dryer (for a shorter drying time).
if you are still having problems, you can try posting a picture of  the installed board to theintensafire discussion forum.
this product is designed for use in official microsoft xbox 360 controllers only.
if you are still having problems, you can try posting a picture of the installed board to theintensafire discussion forum.
no, it is normal to experience an occasional single random shot from time to time.
no, it probably means that you are using the wrong mode or speed setting for the game you are playing.
this product contains a programmable option, which will allow you to create  a custom fire-rate for maximum compatibility with future game releases.
the intensafire mod can be used with such gamer favorites as: left 4 dead, the call of duty series, the halo series, the gears of war series, and street fighter, as well as any other xbox 360 game that utilizes a 'rapid-fire' function.
if the firing speed is too high, the game will cause your controller to lock up briefly.
(shipping fees are non-refundable.)
a programmable speed settings chart is now available.
how do i set the programmable mode on my controller?
the intensafire modifies xbox 360 controllers, allowing them to control  5-mode sleeper settings (set up for different games' repetition allowances)  with a simple d-pad or sync button toggle.
opened kits will need to be returned to the manufacturer for replacement,  see above link for details.
how can i find out how fast my shooting speed is when programming mode 5 on my controller?
does this mean my mod  is defective?
the intensafire modifies xbox 360 controllers, allowing them to control 5-mode sleeper settings (set up for different games' repetition allowances) with a simple d-pad or sync button toggle.
ordinary household  items that you will want to have on hand: scotch tape, a toothpick, a  hair-dryer (for a shorter drying time).
what games are compatible with this mod?
the intensafire mod can be used with such gamer favorites as: left 4 dead,  the call of duty series, the halo series, the gears of war series, and street  fighter, as well as any other xbox 360 game that utilizes a 'rapid-fire'
there is nothing about the intensafire product itself that would cause any  damage to your controller, as long as it is properly installed.
each of the three points must be completely separate from the others, if the glue is touching at all, then the mod won't work.
there is nothing about the intensafire product itself that would cause any damage to your controller, as long as it is properly installed.
will the intensafire mod continue to work with all future games?
no, it is normal to experience an occasional single random shot from time  to time.
during installation of this kit, caution must be taken not to damage the chip or any components of the controller.
our  own installation techs and other knowledgeable gamers will offer suggestions  there.
in © 2012 created by team intensafire.
depending on the shipping method you select, us residents should normally  allow 1 - 2 weeks to receive your order shipment.
the most common installation error is gluing the three right trigger points  together.
be sure to follow all instructions carefully.
also, be sure that you  have attached the sync point correctly for the type of controller you are using.
this product works with all wireless microsoft xbox 360 controllers (cg, matrix, etc.).
yes, please view the intensafire installation video for step-by-step instructions on installing and programming the intensafire kit.
we strongly recommend watching theintensafire installation video as well.
this product is designed for use in official microsoft xbox 360 controllers  only.
can i use an intensafire modded controller on xbox live?
depending on the shipping method you select, us residents should normally allow 1 - 2 weeks to receive your order shipment.
how can i contact you by phone?
unopened intensafire kits may be returned within 30 days of the purchase date for a refund of the product price.
if i try to install the intensafire and ruin my controller, are you  going to replace my controller?
be sure to follow all instructions  carefully.
while playing a game with the intensafire turned on, my controller will sometimes lock up for a moment and stop functioning.
share twitter facebook facebook welcome to intensafire controller mods for xbox 360 and playstation 3 sign up or sign
the way to prevent it is to use the correct pre-set mode for the game you are playing, or else to experiment until you find the fastest speed that does not trigger the game to stop you.
each of the three points must be completely separate from the others,  if the glue is touching at all, then the mod won't work.
this product works with all wireless microsoft xbox 360 controllers (cg,  matrix, etc.).
the way to prevent it is to  use the correct pre-set mode for the game you are playing, or else to  experiment until you find the fastest speed that does not trigger the game to  stop you.
what if i have opened and installed it and it doesn't work?
intensafire for xbox 360 frequently asked questions will this product work with both older and newer xbox 360
the mod itself does not  cause this phenomenon, most games have a script or coding that notices rapid  fire and reacts by stopping it or locking it up.
the most common installation error is gluing the three right trigger points together.
does this mean that my mod is defective?
opened kits will need to be returned to the manufacturer for replacement, see above link for details.
please contact us at sales@intensafire.com with any questions or comments.
how can i find out how fast my shooting speed is when programming  mode 5 on my controller?
all customer service for intensafire.com is handled exclusively by email.
please view the intensafire installation instructions and warranty  information for manufactuer's warranty info.