http://assets0.ordienetworks.com/images/gifguide/clapping/busey_clapping.gif don't stare at it too long, it'll turn your s**t white.
said to be working within microsoft's xbox team.
to both of these: nope.
my ps3 fatboy, fine my ps3 slim i traded up to, after 2 years the power supply is failing, crap.
it would be most fitting!
and if ps4 is released around the same time, hopefully the consoles will both be competitavely priced talking about abysmal ps3 hardware reliability, first of all and secondly, in a xbox thread ps3 is reliable.
and that's with the heat souce placed outside the console.
i could keep going on with things like how the ps3 controller can only be charged when the ps3 is on therefore leaving out my keyboard again etc.
(don't frett double the cpu cores fx 6100, double the ram for games, quadruple the ram for the system and background processes.
also if you're going to make a beast of a machine like with the ps3 then don't be retarded and skimp out on ram!!!
so future games can go wild whilst not having to deal with multiple discs.
did i say that i have my dj hero dongle plugged in?
6- better xbox live functionality and much more entertainment like streaming tv channels...
4- less expensive (around the cost of a slim these days, so more people would buy it).
by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com the next generation xbox will launch in 2013, according to a cnet source said to be working within microsoft's xbox team.
http://i189.photobucket.com/albums/z79/stonie_uk/p1040302.jpg does that answer your question?
possible disk with large slow read files to install to hdd from disk.
let's hope the next gen is better.
in the days of consoles when you just putting a cartridge or disc into the thing and of you played, they where great.
i'm not saying games are exactly the same, because they're not, but for series games especially it's like they are running out of ideas.
but they didn;t want the same thing happening next time with there "competitors" getting a large headstart.
judging from the friendly banter on the boards these days i'd say most are f**king having one.
this is just me personally.
i don't mean to be a dick but...
i wouldn't mind the same pad as well.
it's annoying to have a wireless controller and yet you rely on the wire most of the time.
don coyner, who had guided that strategy since xbox's inception over a decade ago, and most recently served as general manager of entertainment design at microsoft, has reportedly taken on a different role at the company.
you may tire one day of thinking up inventive new usernames, but you will never tire of trolling xbox articles.
anyway that's the least of my worries next gen.
i was hoping it was going to be called something.....
what i meant was, i like to keep my things in one place and don't want to keeping putting stuff lying around on the side looking a mess.
yeah, nowt against my peers here but i'll listen to developers before forum members and the dev feedback is rather positive, to say the least.
eclipse: the gap between wii u and 720/ps4 will be a fraction of what the gap is between 360/ps3 and wii.
leave the normal folk to talk.
because it can't be the games seeing as this year was easily the best year this gen.
i hope it is as well made as the xbox360 s which is just a brilliant console, very well made, looks amazing too.
personally i am bored with this current gen
i bet sony has made s**te loads of extra sales
yeah aka ps3fannyboy aka prince_ps3 he's not new, it's the one you argued with a few weeks ago.
my 360 slim, hasn't skipped a beat in 11 months, it's as reliable as the ps3 fatboy and is much quieter then the ps3 slim, it is the best console i have owned out the lot.
but thats just plain wrong!
5- huge disc space (around 20-30 gbs)
even if there isn't a choice 2 really isn't enough.
i completely disagree.
watch in hd  1 comment [ source: cnet ]
now are consoles update, install like a pc, why not go back to the good old days of home computers.
my uncle still has his launch day 360... doesn't make them reliable just because a few people still have one working.
emma williams, who led the launch of the new xbox 360 dashboard as general manager of xbox experiences, has apparently assumed coyner's former position.
i don't want to see lack of bc, i dont want to see 2 usb ports either!!
microsoft refused to comment on a potential xbox 360 successor or personnel changes.
i think it will just transfer over like it did with the 360 from original xbox.
it's just the way i am.
only fools buy new hardware at launch because most launch titles are crap.
if sony chose to put the power brick on the outside, they may not have failed at all.
sign up hereusername
if you want to see a new console have a look at a top end pc now, and then add windows 8, and kinect hey presto xbox720.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
the pc would not be like it is today if it was not for the home computers like the amiga and atari sound and graphics capabilities of its time.
he'll sign in as english schmuppet again and you'll love him.
my most recent 360 is actually now a fully-functioning doorstop and i gotta admit its been a lot more reliable in this role than it ever was at playing games.
as for the clutter comment.
they are all stuff i use.
i'm not going to announce specifically or talk about timing.
yes i can keep p**sing about with swapping wires around all the time but there shouldn't be any need to.
don't talk about abysmal hardware without trace of irony up in here!
so sony and microsoft have a fight on their hands what in the f**k do you need an external usb adapter for the ps3 for?!
i don't care about costs of consoles if i think it's worth the money and has games then i'll buy it.
2- hd 1080p as the normal setting (most tvs use it these days).
lastly, like i said before, why does a 29 year old feel the need to constantly return to one fourm under the intention of annoying other users?
xbox 720 cans pre-owned, we all lose opinion: don't declare war on the used game market, says james jenkins got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
besides, if you were 10 years older than me then you should be embarrassed!
just sort the d pad out a bit.
in a weird way it is quite flattering to have my very own stalker...
well at least i,ve a year or so to save.
it can't be that weak, all of a sudden ms and sony seem to be falling over themselves to catch up.
so i will use it seeing as the ps3 is poorly designed in a way that the solder joints melt on the cpu and gpu chips.
while i'm excited for the next generation i can't help but think we haven't experienced all this generation has to offer yet.
it would also defeat the whole point of 'wii u' offering traditional games and control method for the 'u' part.
it's full stops, not periods!
we've got julio and fannyboy in the same thread.
you kids and your drugs...
most of that sh*t should be fired in the cupboard if you're that worried about mess.
will do exactly the same with the next big 3.
it's just an inconvenience for me and i would like the option for extra ports.
he's not new, it's the one you argued with a few weeks ago.
very tedious, especially as it's about the one thing it won't be called.
ste and i really hope nintendo have learnt alot of lessons from the wii and their recent 3ds mistakes/shortcomings.
i would even go as far to suggest that had sony and ms not cheaped out on the ram in the 360/ps3, that we would probably be looking more along the lines of a 2015/2016 release for the next gen. and given how the split memory pool has apparently hindered the ps3 aka skyrim, would expect a shared memory pool for both the next gen xbox and ps4 well the console war has been won by microsoft this console era between the 360 and the ps3,sony had it with the ps2 back in the early decade,who next?
fun for all the family fun for all the family my uncle larry used to say that about himself and wink as well.
i don't want to see hardware failure on the level of ps3 again it was abysmal.
yes i know but just because few have had their's replaced doesn't mean they aren't reliable.
a 2013 release seems quite likely though i'm not sure we'll see the ps3's successor quite so soon.
stoopid arsehole yanks!
little gimp called me a "t**t" before i had even attempted to address him with my new username.
sony do shaft you if something goes wrong, i had my consoles repaired free of charge by ms until my 3 year warranty ran out last year, free collection and return delivery, vs my friend who has had 3 blu ray drives on his original console replaced at his own cost at 100 a pop and then having to buy another ps3 slim.
but i expect to have access to every part of the game i just paid for.
just don't be a tit and accept that not everyone uses their ps3 the same as you.
now who would that be?
these days ps has twice or three times as much exclusives as the xbox, and its a shame.
i'll believe it when i see it from an official ms pr spokesman/woman.
spending a tiny little bit more and putting 4-6gb of ram instead of 2gb could significantly lengthen the lifespan of the console.
usb dongle for dj hero.
glad you are back in full force!
i just think my comments have got right up royston's microsoft loving arse and there's not room in there for both me and the rumblepak.
ms is going to call it kinectibox or something.
my uncle still has his launch day 360...
if they do launch a new console in 2013 then i seriously very much doubt they will launch it at ces in january.
learn to use periods.
so many rumours re nextbox...
i just use a controller!
so youre an older guy who frequents gaming websites and pretends to be a teenager...creepy?
as for 360 that was just a p**s take.
alls i'm saying is that it would be nice to have extra usb ports seeing as sony has made the ps3 compatible with so much stuff.
and no you're not being a dick so have no idea why you apologised for that.
the clue is in the article....
they can charge for anything else
i want to be able to carry my gt and achievement score over to the new xbox.
and a "custom" gpu based off a hd6850 card, you can pick up both a fx 6100 & a hd6850 for £229 and that's not buying in bulk like microsoft will.)
xbox's successor, the xbox 360, was launched in september 2005.
i'm sure xbox 720 will come with some kind of kinect camera straight out of the box, so nintendo will really have to get a good footing to compete and have the processing power available to continue to compete for the coming 5-6 years.
also who is going to buy a 360, which they will still be spending money on making, if they know a new machine is out a year and a half or so later?
your comments are not jokes but flamebait.
shake m$ and $ony up a little.
, no thought nothing.
i'm absolutely certain of that one.
as for sony, the mistake of making ps3 a tech heavy as it is still haunts their finances today.
no, i'm quite serious!
the difference is that you have a proven history of fanboy comments.
yeah compared to a 360 it is.
whoever makes the best hardware next gen will be the one i will buy.
or should that be full stop?
sounds like you're a cluttered freak.
erm, i appear to be 10 years older than your lil teenage self.
we're not being specific about the next generation at this stage."
3) no heat will put a stop to that, unless they go for a very weak system.
ive replaced three 360s in the time it took me to sell my 60gb ps3 and upgrade to a slim.
i don't know anyone that isn't on their 2nd ps3 unless they are recent owners.
or should i get up every 5 mins to keep swapping them all around just to send a quick message etc?
let's hope that this is true!!
its a bad business decision for several reasons.
doesn't need stupid bolt on fans, and that's with the power brick internalised,and being a smaller unit than the 'slim' 360... and that's not even counting the power brick... or the billions dollars wasted on repairing abysmal hardware and chronic flaws.
doesn't make them reliable just because a few people still have one working.
let the console wars begin.
happy with everything else!
plus with the next generation of games probably retailing at £50+ i expect to be able to play the game online without having to pay anything extra if i buy the game new.
from you lad, that's the ultimate compliment.
before buddah you went under the alias of ps3 prince.
whether or not the stand helps is another discussion for another day but it doesn't make it any worse does it.....
i thought it implemented loads of ads and launched with technical issues.
what we need: 1- around 4gb of ram- that would give the console a much longer life span and will allow much more things on screen (more enemies, bigger maps, and prettier in general).
but anyway bring em on all i say - i want full hd 1080p 60fps in all games and also maybe the extra ram would make skyrim work on ps3 (4)
let's have less of the bulls**t about how this machine is going to make me do 2 jobs to pay for it
you might not use your ps3 for anything other than playing games on your own but some of us use it for other things.
because look at the ps3 slim, such an inferior machine compared to the launch models!
so all eyes on ms at e3 2012 then.
daaaaamn, my man is screwing hahaha..
(and i could go on easily) also ea are meant to be working on a battlefield game for wii u that isn't 3.
i've had my ps3 for 5 years, hasn't broke down,
the ps3 has never, and will never be, as unreliable a brick as the 360.
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
he'd be 57 this year if the police hadn't finally shot and killed him during the chase when he made a run for mexico.
if the xbox 720 is released in 2013 and is released over a year before the ps4 then its got my vote.
yes yes yes, completely agree.
the launch models might have taken a while longer to fail than the 360, but at the end of the day, they were every bit as unreliable!
and let's hope sony release ps4 in that year as well because even though this gen is amazing and we have amazing games to play, it's time to move forwards.
well said on all points.
i do hope when it is released it is very powerful, lots of ram and a strong gpu, ai chip would be amazing and a physics chip.
the xbox is a sixth-generation video game console manufactured by microsoft.
you might just want to spellcheck your post there before you say things like that.
@ grolsch if they charge for psn it would ruin the psn+ service ppl will not pay for 2 things psn will allways be free a 2013 release seems quite likely though i'm not sure we'll see the ps3's successor quite so soon.
and so i cant wait for a new console, except the wii u whoa, just read the part about her having designed the new dashboard!
is it really going to be called 720? seriously?
why is it ok to take the p**s out of peoples dialects, football teams, etc, but not ok to make a bit of light-hearted fun about the 360?
for me, every generation of consoles is nintendo plus whichever is the best of the others.
that is going to be very important for even more expensive next-gen production values.
both the xbox and ps3 are flawed machines and are looking so ancient now.
periods is what arsehole women get.
what audience ms is going for though is anybody's guess.
the firm has long spoken of its ten-year plan for xbox 360, which launched in late 2005, but that doesn't rule out a successor launching during the period, according to european xbox boss chris lewis,who said in august: "we think we're a little over halfway with the life cycle of the console, but that's not to say there won't be an overlap.
cnet source said to be working within microsoft's xbox team is it really going to be called 720?
cnet source said to be working within microsoft's xbox team well surly after speaking out like this they won't be working within the team anymore !
that way your more prepared both hardware wise and software wise.
the ps3 is a p**s take just not as much as 360.
isn't there an option to ip ban trolls here?
oh and i forgot to say i also have my printer hooked up for printing photos and stuff off as that's where i keep my photos.
oh ho you got me there keyboard warrior!
they were kind enough to give me the rundown you just read.
full stops is what arsehole yanks just don't get!
can't you just block his ip?
a 29 year old troll, christ i envy your life!
with xbox live being built up as a service with all of these extras apps being added, ms now wanting to get into the living room which was bill gate's vision all those years ago having one device controlling everything you do.
then i've got my mouse, external hdd, usb dongle for dj hero, dongle for the 3rd party controller that is shaped like a 360 pad, move controller chargers.
but as i have had my hands burnt with the 360, 7 consoles so far, i will wait this time and see how the new console shapes up in terms of reliability , and anyhow there are 1000+ games for the 360 so it will keep you going for a few more years yet.
can i just ask what you mean by that?
apart from my headphones and keyboard, because i use both all of the time.
until then these daily nextbox/ps4 rumours are getting very tiresome (even more so than the daily 6 minimum mw3/battlefield 3 stories that we've been subjected to over the second half of the year).
i would also point out that the tard above gives as good as he gets and pretty much gets involved at every opportunity - before me he was obsessed with this jboo it seems.
that will be a given.
he got called out for being somebody called ps3 fannyboy or somebody by a poster that knew him.
it was released on november 15, 2001 in north america, february 22, 2002 in japan, and march 14, 2002 in australia and europe.
if i'm the troll here then why haven't i been banned about 15 times like yourself?
but you also have to accept not everyone uses their ps3 like you and needs 6+ usb ports.
i really am perplexed how you can allow neo_superman and julioaragon to relentlessly troll every ps3 thread but resolutely ban me every time i poke a bit of light-hearted fun at the 360?
3- less massive (around the size of the slim if not smaller).
yeah aka ps3fannyboy aka prince_ps3 aka 'the t**t' he's not new, it's the one you argued with a few weeks ago.
whenever the next gen shows up i don't think i'll be switching to it for a while.
[ source: cnet ]computerandvideogames.com 108 comments so far...
i've got a external usb adapter for my ps3 because the slim only has 2 which is just pathetic at this day and age.
this should also help the current gen consoles sell more with a hefty price drop!
i traded all my 360 gear in for the aforementioned ps3 fatboy.
but you could also spend less time beating an old horse and more time being creative with a younger one i suppose microsoft is going to unify windows 8 with the xbox (8box?) which will make game developemnt and portability cheaper also.
if wii u isn't at the very least sitting somewhere in the middle of these two generations then i fail to see it's appeal to current 360/ps3 owners with the new consoles coming within a year of wii u launch.
the firm has long spoken of its ten-year plan for xbox 360, which launched  in late 2005, but that doesn't rule out a successor launching during the  period, according to european xbox boss chris lewis,who said in august: "we think we're a little over halfway with the life cycle of the  console, but that's not to say there won't be an overlap.
if you take the time to look at my post history you'll see i've commented on many other topics.
that way i don't have to have my console on when recharging and i don't have a pile of silly looking wires hanging from my console.
bollox is it reliable!
register or log in not got an account?
yes, it's pretty concerning really after past debarcles.
of course providing we don't get more games like crysis that run poorly on new graphics cards, and having to wait 1-2 years for a card powerful enough to run it 60+ fps with little/no slowdown again.
sorry, but in my experience over the last 4 or 5 years has been 360 > ps3.
i hope you are right
microsoft *may* be willing to take a risk with power but will they is the question.
if this is true then the wii u specs will need to be closer to the upcoming 720/ps4 models instead of being at a lower scale offering a slight improvement on current 360/ps3 5+ year old tech.
sure, a lot of forum members have butno dev has once said "not happy, can't do much here" ea are happy, as are crytek, acti, ubi, square, tecmo, etc...gearbox have already stated that colonial marines will run textures never before seen on a console and on and on.
the xbox was discontinued in late 2005 in japan, late 2006 in europe and early 2007 in north america.
there's a new one every week now.
sure a few extra wires won't do any damage.
but that was relatively quickly redesigned.
my thoughts exactly, no one will buy halo 4 if ms announce a new console, so i think a reveal at e3 2013 or late 2012 will be more likely.
no not going to happen gamers will have to be installed to the hdd.
don coyner, who had guided that strategy since xbox's inception over a  decade ago, and most recently served as general manager of entertainment design  at microsoft, has reportedly taken on a different role at the company.
ahem, ill have you know im not trolling.
i'd say someone is taking an educated guess.
in my opinion, any rumours still banging on about a 2015 release date are alot sillier than any with a 2013 release date.
it's got to be 6 minimum, i'm currently using 7 usb ports.
all of my friends have suffered from this s**tty hardware failure, i've spent £700 on hardware so i aren't taking my chances.
a farce is the word for that debacle.
all peripheral devices should be totally wireless with a recharge method separate from the console.
emma williams, who led the launch of the new xbox 360 dashboard as general  manager of xbox experiences, has apparently assumed coyner's former position.
slightest sign of a hook and lo and behold there's a bloody great blue whale on the end of the line called roynluc!
the pos was failing for about 4 years with loads of re-designs.
halo 5, a gears sequel/prequel, forza, a good fable game and most importantly-
cooling stand headphones controller charger mic charger keyboard dongle playtv box playstation eye toy that's the stuff i want plugged in all the time.
best let 360 soak up one more year of profits with halo 4 before moving on.
i don't limit my hatred to ps3 fanboys but any blatant troll such as jjthegame who is a massive xbot who loves to bad mouth the ps3 at any given time.
i just hope they hurry up and name the ruddy thing so that people stop calling it 'xbox 720'.
http://www.webcam-steamate.com/cookies/37/b/happy.gif
no, the cpu and gpu produce plenty of heat.
so we don't get s**tty ports again off the lazy developers.
100th comment taken!
we're not being specific about the next generation at  this stage."
but you could imagine there could be overlap, it depends.
well actually i think both consoles will launch at a similar time as not sure who at sony said it
no idea if i'll go with ps4 or 720 when i get round to the next gen.
but there's always a new one waiting to appear once one gets banned.
no messing with settings, installs, updates etc.
but you could imagine there could  be overlap, it depends.
doesn't need stupid bolt on fans, and that's with the power brick heat source internalised,and being a smaller unit than the 'slim' 360... and that's not even counting the power brick... or the billions dollars wasted on repairing abysmal hardware and chronic flaws.
microsoft refused to comment on a potential xbox 360 successor or personnel  changes.
my ps3 lasted me 3 years!
as for marginally more powerful than this gen, i'm yet to hear a dev complain or say anything that would validate that viewpoint.
seriously how many user names have you went through?
this place isn't the same without you.
exclusives and backwards compatibility are probably going to decide that for me so we'll see.
so take your -1 and shove it up your arse you tit.
i thought the new dashboard was generally acknowledged as a bit naff - or have i got my wires crossed?
also make the system much easier to program for!!
i said i think the ps4 will be two ps3s duck taped together hmm, this begets a difficult situation.
but none of my stuff is out in the open.
if it's just a 'little bit of fun' then why do you have to keep coming back here username after username?.
but let's use dj hero 2 as an example, i'm getting that soon so if i only had 2 usb ports then i'd be stuck with just my dj hero and headphones plugged in.
so sony/microsoft a ps4 720 computer, programmable with a keyboard and mouse (padlet).
anyway, i'm still utterly impressed with my 360 slim and the new dashboard and apps are ace, i am just really hoping for iplayer now but doesn't look like it will get it
from a quick search i see you and english had a very intresting relationship voodoo!
out of all my machines over the years, only my xbox broke, twice lol the ps3fat, ps3slim, wii and (third xbox) have all been on point.
not interested in bc either.
what in the f**k do you need an external usb adapter for the ps3 for?!
more articles being printed on this only taking the stance of 'more silly rumours of 2013 release'.
i could add more things, i dont want to keep pulling and inserting usb leads and dongles wearing the ports out, not just that i like to keep all the clutter tidy.
multiple sources also informed the tech site that there's a new  face responsible for xbox brand and design leadership as microsoft moves  towards launching xbox 360's successor.
and i think maybe its time to draw this silly debate to an end before i get implicated in your trolling, gmc.
please report on the next gen consoles once you have something to actually report!
that means when i'm sending messages (which i do all the time)
maybe abysmal is the wrong word, 360 is abysmal, infact that console needs a stronger word.
in short doing a apple.
does the guy even own a ps3 cos i have both platforms and play them both regularly.
that is the biggest flaw with the ps3 stopping it from being as awesome as it could have been.
the only thing which would put me at ease would be if they reanimated steve jobs or employed lord kutaragi to design the 720 tbh.
right what we need is for a new challenger to appear.
i did use it at some point though taking up another usb port.
hardware reliability is top of the list for me.
i know i used to be much worse but nothing i've said recently is any worse than others on here post daily.
also if you're going to make a beast of a machine then don't be retarded and skimp out on ram!!!
which is why i said it be nice to have the choice.
with all the money microsoft have, im hoping they will call it something better then "xbox 720" and im also hoping they drop the "xbox" name too.
as you say this has been possibly the best year for games to which i'd agree with but i don't feel new games are as exciting as they once were.
almost positive you don't play dj hero anymore... and probably half of that stuff.
it has 3 silent fans on it and it looks nice
support for out-of-warranty xbox consoles was discontinued on march 2, 2009; any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken and faulty consoles will be replaced with an xbox 360 instead.
yeah aka ps3fannyboy aka prince_ps3 aka 'the t**t' don't worry...
however, if i wait for the ps4 then it's gonna be avery long wait.
what is it with this site and stupid ps3 fanboys?
there is no excuse for it.
i'm not going to  announce specifically or talk about timing.
they can forget a 10 year lifecycle if they don't go for at least 4gb.
merry christmas to you and a happy new year....
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 108 by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com the next generation xbox will launch in 2013, according to a cnet source
let's hope ms make a proper machine this time like the awesome s model that should have been there from launch rather than the cheap piece of crap that was released in 2005 without any important basic features and one that was so cheap it had a spectacular failure rate that only the worst hardware companies could achieve.
what we need is for a new challenger to appear.
my original 360, first one failed after 3 months, replacement second machine was dead out of the box with red ring, the third one i then got began scratching dvd's after about 8 months.
xbox live support was ^^^
now if that's not trying to call me out i don't know what is... admit it, you have an intrinsic grudge against any sony fan who is a little more than outspoken.
the integrated xbox live service launched in november 2002 allowed players to play games online.
the whole games need huge storage has always been sony pr spin skyrim is 6gb, it's the system not the disk that allows games to "go wild".
let's hope ms make a proper machine this time like the s model that should have been there from launch rather than the cheap piece of crap that was released in 2005 without any important basic features and one that was so cheap it had a spectacular failure rate that only the worst hardware companies could achieve.
yes, because setting your age on a forum is definitely legit.
i had pretty much decided there was no point in buying another console this gen.
this point has actually been brought up several times.
to internalise it alland have a much better reliability record was/is a feat.
as for sony, let's get some basics this time like cross game chat and a better psn service, charge for it if you must to make it better.
tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
i know dice have dev kits at the moment at the very least.
it was microsoft's first foray into the gaming console market, and competed with sony's playstation 2, sega's dreamcast, and nintendo's gamecube.
well, don't know a single slim that has failed.
talking about abysmal ps3 hardware reliability, first of all and secondly, in a xbox thread ps3 is reliable.
http://1-2knockout.typepad.com/.a/6a00e5505fc4968834010536f3cdff970b-800wi i can't put into words how much this comment fails, so nelson can help me out here!
1) not going to happen, 2gb ddr 3 @ 1333mhz to run the os & background processes, and 1gb gdrr5 for games.
microsoft is rumoured to be planning to make the first official announcements aboutxbox 720 at the ces expo in january 2012.
i hope this gen hasn't put sony and ms off building a machine with all the extras included.
may be the case that i'm tempted into a shamefaced purchase of the 720.
the manner in which you react to my obviously tongue-in-cheek comments more than proves this.
and believe it or not
they aren't ready for next year.
well the console war has been won by microsoft this console era between the 360 and the ps3,sony had it with the ps2 back in the early decade,who next?
god help you all...
i think it would be better to hold off the new consoles for another couple of years so the drastic hike in performance we've seen between the other generations can be just as apparent in the coming generation.
he's just taking the p**s out of you mods now
i'll be more looking forward to a powerful 512bit nvidia gpu a year from now looks like i'll be getting next gen gaming early!.
decisions decisions...
and it would steal thunder from nintendo and sony then too.
i'd have to keep swapping them over.
i mean...imagine if the 720 launched with an asda decal or something on it!
along with cooling stand which is completely unnecessary.
all i've seen is you make a t**t out of yourself (again).
with the big chips they start out on, they will be less reliable be nature, but ms's problem just keep perpetuating.
i don't overly look after it or ignore it.
1996 it was n64 & ps1, 2002 it was gamecube & ps2 and now it is wii & 360.
seeing how cheep usb ports are there really isn't any excuse to use just 2, at least give me the option to pay extra.
either that or i'll just have to make do with a vita - i'm convinced it's a serious enough platform to fulfil each gaming genre i'm likely to play.
the whole reason you got perma-banned in the first place.
as for being bored of this gen. can i just ask what you mean by that?
i have owned my ps3 since just after launch and it is still going strong.
this gen's still going strong and i've got a lot of great games i can catch up on, meanwhile the new consoles can build up a library and maybe drop in price.
i mean...read my first post in this thread, it's quite clearly a bit of jest and would've remained that way until old faithful decided he just had to get involved - gmcb not you.
that's you been neutralised.
port for charging the controller when it's not being charged, yes.
i either want devs to dial down the graphics or for sony/ms to bring out a new console soonish (or the wii u), as both consoles struggle to keep 30fps a lot of the time without tearing, on multiplatform games especially.
personally endless fps and racing games don't appeal much to me but if nintendo are pitching the wii u as a console that can be a jack of all trades then they better hope it doesn't end up being a master of none.
touch wood lol the only rule i've had when it comes to buying a consoles is to wait one year after they come out, most of the issues of the machine are ironed out (most, not all.
and a possible nand cartridge with all fast files that need the data transfer rate, no more texture pop-in.
and there's only one company out there that could do a brand new console justice, yes that's right.....
games controllers can never better the mouse where fps's are concerned and who has room to throw a microphone at the tv 360 microsoft are you ready to go entirely digital?if
as it happens the cooling stand is a laptop cooling stand and it works a treat.
the last xbox game was madden nfl 09, released in august 2008.
know a few phats that have went kaput.
posted on thursday 15-dec-2011 11:45 am xbox 720 launching in 2013, 'microsoft source confirms' veteran xbox design boss also reportedly replaced share this
i think the difference in power between the machines won't be as big as some people seem to think.
everyone i know that has gamed on the ps3 from the start are all on their 2nd console.
where's insertmorecoins then we'd have the pc side sorted!
we have seen the best this gen can offer and it is the pc version.
right on the sequels, microsoft will push the live service as they do now, and in the process force siverlight on the mobile sector.
i bet its revealed at next years e3 though.
lol, how many pints did it take you to convince yourself of that?
i'd dare say out of the 50mil sold, 10mil are all replacement consoles.
probably right but still a guess.
if they charge for psn it would ruin the psn+ service ppl will not pay for 2 things psn will allways be free everything that is free now will always be free, but that doesn't stop them adding all new features of psn to psn+ only.
every excuse counts though.
how did i guess it was you again, royston?
if this was a real source i doubt they will be refering to it as the 720.
microsoft is rumoured to be planning to make the first official  announcements aboutxbox 720 at the ces expo in january 2012.
now as for the topic i'd welcome the next gen with open arms.
i have friends that have had their ps3 replaced, and some that have had their's since launch.
stoopid farking yank.
talking about abysmal ps3 hardware reliability, first of all and secondly, in a xbox thread just because the 360 is the worst hardware we've ever seen in a console, reliability wise, does not mean that the ps3 is ok having poor hardware reliability just because it doesn't look to bad compare to 360 talking about abysmal ps3 hardware reliability, first of all and secondly, in a xbox thread ps3 is reliable.
oh, and voodoo, that name won't crop up again, as it was banned ages ago.
now be a good lad and go walk the dog.
and i think ive worked out what gmc stands for.
i think the 360 is maxed out now, although i think the ps3 still has room to grow, but i think 'the last of us' will show us what can really be done on the machine.
that for me us s**t, along with the fact all my friends are on 2nd ps3s.
and im also hoping they drop the "xbox" name too.
personally, i highly doubt this and have done for a while but if true can i have a proper game from rare for launch please?
before u guys come down on a pile of bricks lol), theres a slight price reduction, theres more games out.
of course the 5+year old console technology can still release gems
as for being bored of this gen.
thinking perfect dark 2 here.
ive just had a visit from the ghosts of christmas past, present and future.
why would a person form cnet be working on the x720 ?
it makes better business sense to announce it at e3, the worlds biggest games expo.
no still cheap £350ish at the expense of top of the range components.
yes it will run a light version of windows 8, the 2gb sytem ram will allow for all that non-gaming crap, again at the expense of console exclusives.
they would be daft not to considering how cheap ram is these days.
if it is hugely inferior in processing power you will not get the same multi-platform games anyway, thus yet again loosing out on a massive part of the gaming market.