i still applaud what theyve achieved either way - report this post reply with quote ingy on 14 mar '12 said: having owned the original xbox and a very early 20gb 360, i never thought ms would be as successful as theyve been.
computer and video games -
take a trip down memory lane with us here.
at the time, the biggest exclusives in world were on ps2, with the obvious one being gta and even pes at time they went multi plat.
- report this post reply with quote ricflair on 14 mar '12 said: going through that timeline was quite good, until it got to 2010 and mostly turned to s**t.
i think they are looking to the casual and family market more and rely on 3rd party for the rest.
- report this post reply with quote 1nightmare1 on 14 mar '12 said: damn i can remember when xbox had plenty of exclusives... related content reviews xbox 360
ms says: "the timeline is available on xbox.com and takes you on your own personal journey from your first xbox experience through the hardware, software and entertainment launches over the last 10 years.
great machine, the old xbox, led the way in online gaming, and gave us much needed competition for the stale playstation brand, which, even now struggles to keep up, especially online.
it was the variety of games too on ps2, with many cult classics that weren't block busters such as okami.. i.actually preferred my gamecube to the ps2, but its library was phenomenal.and - report this post reply with quote ingy on 14 mar '12 said: at the time it was just doing everything right, compared to the ps2 anyway great online service great controller great graphics great games unified headsets, that worked with no problems, and always the promise that things were going to get bigger and better.
"it commemorates the original console launch through to the  controller-free revolution with kinect, and the host of live tv, music, movie  and social media partners on xbox live who are helping us change the way people  enjoy entertainment in their living rooms.
- report this post reply with quote barca azul on 14 mar '12 said: going through that timeline was quite good, until it got to 2010 and mostly turned to s**t.
no information £36.79 simply games
comet owner tables buyout offer - fallout: new vegas dev hit with layoffs - report - yakuza dead souls review: a spin-off, but not a departure - walmart in talks to buy game - rumour - mass effect 3 ending petition
no information £38.89 zavvi no information £39.95 cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube
youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - mass effect 3 - resident evil 6 - max payne 3 - elder scrolls v: skyrim - battlefield 3 top reviews - mass effect 3 review: an unforgettable end to an epic sci-fi trilogy - ssx review: ea's classic gets back on board - binary domain review: a brave attempt to innovate in a tired genre - asura's wrath review: a glory to behold - but more anime than game - syndicate review: play it in co-op - or don't play it at all staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards
computerandvideogames.com
if you've got one of microsoft's consoles, this little lot should make you very happy this year.
ms says: "the timeline is available on xbox.com and takes  you on your own personal journey from your first xbox experience through the  hardware, software and entertainment launches over the last 10 years.
its interesting kit, but lacks the games to back up the clever tech.
posted on wednesday 14-mar-2012 11:20 am xbox celebrates 10th birthday with 'interactive timeline' jump in share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 10 by cvg staff for computerandvideogames.com xbox is ten years old in europe today, having launched on march 14, 2002,  and microsoft is celebrating the anniversary with the launch of an interactive  timeline of the platform's history.
can't see it, but it would be my summary of the last 2 years.
more latest news 60 more - xbox celebrates 10th birthday with 'interactive timeline' - xbox turns 10 in europe: here are our favourite memories... features & interviews the 25 best xbox 360 games of 2012
computerandvideogames.com cvg staff recommended links from the web comments 10 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote dewin on 14 mar '12 said: how generous....... /sarcasm off - report this post reply with quote soviet1918 on 14 mar '12 said: 10 years of xbox who can forget there first rrod & there first phone call to have it picked up,, the memories.
" along with our colleagues at oxm, we recently ran a series of videos  sharing our memories from ten years of xbox.
the original xbox was great kit, but not very popular outside us and it lacked many killer exclusives unlike ps2, but fair play to them for managing it.
- mass effect 3 review, journey and uncharted 3 dlc : the weekly playstation news round up 9/3/12 - mass effect 3 tips, kara demo and assassin's creed 3 secrets: weekly network round up 9/3/12 - metal gear solid hd ps vita screens - lollipop chainsaw's cast stars batman, smallville, and walking dead talent - dynasty warriors vs on 3ds will include link and samus costumes - darksiders ii opens up in behind-the-scenes feature - bioshock infinite's handyman takes spotlight in trailer - bioware defends mass effect 3 ending, welcomes feedback for dlc - battlefield 3: battlelog elite? ea games eyes subscription-play for future installments - kit your xbox avatar out in these minecraft skins and clothes - guarantee your place in the guild wars 2 beta with pre-order bonus scheme - tim schafer's kickstarter ends in a few hours: watch the livestream here - resident evil chronicles: hd collection release date announced for june get more from cvg - dirt showdown is destruction derby reborn - trailer - resident evil: operation raccoon city - 'we're not remaking resident evil 2' - daily news round-up: suitors step up game interest - game won't be selling yakuza: dead souls - mass effect 3: 86% think bioware blew the ending - risen 2: dark waters dated - game:
messenger kit review review: it's good to txt 1213
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store daily news round-up: suitors step up game interest - http://t.co/sfm9bl4z retweet
register or log in not got an account?
aahhh, those were the days.
don't like racing games and rpg's, and agree halo was awesome, but can't say series kept me interested, with 3 and reach being lackluster imo.
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
- report this post reply with quote kirankara on 14 mar '12 said: depends on your taste in games i suppose.
"it commemorates the original console launch through to the controller-free revolution with kinect, and the host of live tv, music, movie and social media partners on xbox live who are helping us change the way people enjoy entertainment in their living rooms.
raises $30k for charity in 24 hours cvg store the elder scrolls 5: skyrim from £37.00 amazon marketplace uk in stock £37.00 hmv in stock £37.99 sendit.com
- report this post reply with quote dicky1993 on 14 mar '12 said: no sales?
in stock £32.95 sendit.com
no information £38.89 mass effect 3 from £36.79 sendit.com
this posted on wednesday 14-mar-2012 11:20 am xbox celebrates 10th birthday with 'interactive timeline' jump in share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 10 by cvg staff for computerandvideogames.com xbox is ten years old in europe today, having launched on march 14, 2002, and microsoft is celebrating the anniversary with the launch of an interactive timeline of the platform's history.
i still prefer my ps3 and the exclusives on that system, but theyve been a great influence on industry in many ways, and no doubt brought with them things i not keen on too.
email: news@cvg.co.uk - what's on the psn store this week: 14/3/12 - resident evil chronicles hd ps3 screens - mass effect 3 ending: 'fans' raise over $30, 000 to get it changed - bioshock infinite's handyman re-revealed in ps3 trailer - dishonored ps3 screens and info - worst move peripheral ever: we have a winner - phantasy star online 2 first screens, trailer and 2013 release date.
no information £37.85 zavvi
i still applaud what theyve achieved either way project gotham racing, splinter cell, halo, knights of the old republic , these immediatly spring to mind as exclusives, not bad me thinks, but there were plenty more.
popular now - 1 mass effect 3 complete scanning guide - and how to get the best possible ending - 2 mass effect 3: 86% think bioware blew the ending - 3 resident evil: operation raccoon city - 'we're not remaking resident evil 2' send us your news got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
i think the kinnect thing took too much focus away from what made the 360 great.
@roblastcav future - media with passion - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap!
no information £37.85 fifa soccer 12 from £32.95 amazon marketplace uk
very disappointing - report this post reply with quote kirankara on 14 mar '12 said: having owned the original xbox and a very early 20gb 360, i never thought ms would be as successful as theyve been.
- icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international - digitalfuture © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
take a trip down memory lane with  us here.
" along with our colleagues at oxm, we recently ran a series of videos sharing our memories from ten years of xbox.