dont worry kk, jimbob, speaks for all of the gaming industry, right jimbob ?
which makes the fact that it's horrendously short and pretty easy (even for me) rather disarming.
the difference is, this time, epic's had an extra year to ferment its engine juices, which means more polish and less filler - even if it does insist on (briefly) revisiting the vehicle sections we've begged it to stop making since the original.
but i just think uncharted 3 could be an exceptional case - it really does look unbelievable, and i have complete faith that naughty dog will provide the goods.
gears of war 3 is awesome!
gear's most notable maturity is its disregard for the mindless set-pieces  that once plagued the series.
i love how they added women finally in this one.
the battles are big, the environments gorgeous and every now and then somebody says "f***" as a nasty looking baddy smashes through the nearside wall.
he also had 30 mins on bf and said, well, i won't say as it may be controversial beast mode is pretty epic.
and i'm very much looking forward to getting it.
for pc gamers with no consoles, they lose out.
yet after 20 hours nailing our active reloads and effortlessly murdering boss characters with three online wingmen, a niggling question remains.
and they're missing out.
i don't think you can expect to get those extra high scores (i.e. 9.5 etc) on the third game in four/five years in a series where the game hasn't really changed very much and you're just shooting slightly different enemies in environments that look slightly different.
gears  of war 3 has grown up and ditched the obsession.
i wholeheartedly agree!
watch in hd   no comments yet, be the first!
gears of war 3 has grown up and ditched the obsession.
also i think it has a difficulty level too, though i am so delighted with the whole game i haven't properly started paying attention finished my first playthrough of the campain last night, i have to say it blows the other two right out of the water.
i think the same will apply to uncharted 3.
also i'm not sure about your assertion that gears "invented the cover shooter".
if games are ever gonnareally hold company with films and books, we need to stop saying that s**te like the gears of war story is any good; it is not.
tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
(mainly because uncharted is better than gears.)
more this is our list, but what do you want to see?
so, how many blow jobs did cvg get from epic to attach such a score to the game...
register or log in not got an account?
get it next year when the price drops so at least then if you don't enjoy it, you'll know you didn't waste that much money!
in fact there's a new enemy faction in town; the glowing, mutated lambent that enjoy nothing more than appearing out of the ground via gigantic enemy-spewing stalks - and they're about to rock the boat (literally in this case).
"laughs and tragedy", i sincerely hope that that means that the tragedy of a character that cole is gets eaten and we get to laugh and shoot at a literal s**t stain that he was at some stage!!
very much looking forward to playing co-op on my brother's 360.
as you'll remember from the closing scenes of their last adventure however, the planet sera has been far from cleansed of underground nasties.
i stand corrected my problem is that, i loved gears 1, hated gears 2.
since the series' comparatively humble beginnings pandering to the macho shooter crowd (even more so than now), the boys and girls behind the carnage have grown.
they've matured beyond schwarzenegger-calibre dialogue and mindless set-pieces and developed some genuinely interesting characters, wrapped in a low key yet personal and compelling plot.
hell, the over the shoulder perspective so favoured by third-person shooters these days owes much to resi 4 too.
where were the women in the first 2 games?
can't wait to get my hands on that game.
email: news@cvg.co.uk from £17.95zavvi
in particular, 4-player co-op in the online campaign is what will make the game super fun and give it unlimited replay value.
i think amazon has that same deal.
no information £17.95 from £6.98amazon.co.uk
it's  got everything you'd want; laughs, tragedy - and there's even a bit of tears  for fears hidden in there at the back.
it's hard to change these games too much without loosing what makes them what they are, but i personally can't realistically rate a game that little bit higher that makes it goty type stuff when it's the basically the third instalment of a very similar game.
maybe i'm wrong, maybe we should just rate games on their own efforts and forget what came before.
going back and earning all those achievements with 4-players at a time is what gaming is all about -- fun!
one thing i did notice though is when you finish the mode the achievement says 'survived thefirst waves of beast mode' which may suggest there may be more on the way, perhaps as dlc???
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 38 by andy robinson for computerandvideogames.com we reckon there's a little bit of epic games that regrets inventing that  chainsaw gun.
getting it simply for the story and horde mode.
friends till the end gears 3's campaign is the same, spectacular stuff you've come to expect  from the studio whose engine has become synonymous with triple-a games  throughout the generation.
my mate had about 40 mins on horde and beast mode today at the nec (he's a manager at game)
ordered my copy last night, been playing gears 2 for a week or two.
has gears of war 3's 'wow' factor been killed off by its own impressive predecessors?
they missed an opportunity here.
@ricflair you're probably right to be fair.
not sure about that at all.
sign up hereusername
i think you mean; 'in your opinion' dont worry kk, jimbob, speaks for all of the gaming industry, right jimbob ?
he also had 30 mins on bf and said, well, i won't say as it may be controversial i'm sure the reviews are all going to be pretty good, and i'm glad to hear about a meaty campaign and i'm very much looking forward to getting it.
i may be wrong, they may have brought a lot more to it, but neither of these games are particularly exceptional in terms of gameplay - very good, solid games but gameplay wise they're not top of the tree for me (although i do love my co-op games).
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
if you buy the game from gamestop you get a special version of dom called commando dom as a special character if you preorder.
360 · action microsoft chairmen of the horde190
seems a tad harsh to crack down on it merely for preserving the simple unbutchered and slightly refined gameplay fans demanded.
no information £33.89 © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
1 2 next page 38 comments so far... this looks epic.
anyway, i might pick this up eventually, i still haven't got round to completing the first one, and i'll be prioritising skyrim and arkham city soon (not to mention the fact i'm busy going through inazuma eleven and the retail version of the monkey island collection).
but still the heavy rain snobs will be put off by that big, blood-soaked gun on the front of the box.
looks like they stepped up a gear.
the way the horde mode uses so much strategy now provides incredibly deep game play.
if i had an xbox i would be picking gears 3 up, no doubt.
gears 3's campaign is the same, spectacular stuff you've come to expect from the studio whose engine has become synonymous with triple-a games throughout the generation.
picking it up tuesday morning at 9am.
since the series' comparatively humble beginnings pandering to the macho  shooter crowd (even more so than now), the boys and girls behind the carnage  have grown.
instead it maintains the entertainment factor via a constant stream of variety; in one mission you might be fighting off locust goons on a boat, the next you're down to base weapons in the jungle and fending off a pack of tickers attempting to run off with ammo and pick-ups between their fangs.
graphically i've ever seen on a console!
as you'll remember from the closing scenes of their last adventure however,  the planet sera has been far from cleansed of underground nasties.
jimbob i think you mean; 'in your opinion' jimbob i think you mean; 'in your opinion' i'm sure the reviews are all going to be pretty good, and i'm glad to hear about a meaty campaign
it's a stellar compilation of everything the developer's learnt from five years of hugely acclaimed instalments, and polished to perfection thanks to an extra year in construction.
this looks like another good gears title as expected but i'm pretty sure uncharted 3 is gonna push it right off the map - see what i did there!
i'm sure the reviews are all going to be pretty good, and i'm glad to hear about a meaty campaign
i noticed wal-mart has it so you can get the game for $60 and you get a $20 gift card.
gears of war 2, while unquestionably upping the  ante over number one with armies of locust foot soldiers and skyscraper-sized  critters, loved a good turret section or aforementioned vehicle atrocity.
in most cases, the third time that a game repeats the same formula it tends not to be met with quite as much enthusiasm, despite how well it might pull off the old tricks, as you say (with some notable exceptions: especially mgs3, which always felt fresh despite keeping the same basic gameplay mechanics).
maybe it will, but i don't think we'll see the dizzyingly high scores of uc2 - that's what i was getting at.
gears of war 2, while unquestionably upping the ante over number one with armies of locust foot soldiers and skyscraper-sized critters, loved a good turret section or aforementioned vehicle atrocity.
i couldn't have been anymore bored by it, the maps were poor and everyone just hid in cover with the sawnoff shotty and insta killed you or camped the hell out of the power weapons.
looks like great news for fans.
gears of war 3 is the most impressive game
see what i did there?
but " sees epic at its unsurprisingly best"?
seriously guys, good story?
they've matured beyond schwarzenegger-calibre dialogue and mindless  set-pieces and developed some genuinely interesting characters, wrapped in a  low key yet personal and compelling plot.
gears of war 3 is the best campaign story epic games has ever made.
and you'll do it all in some of the series' most interesting locations to  date, ranging from sun-kissed beaches to an (american) football stadium and the  mass grave of a fire-bombed human city.
think i'll blast through the first 2 games this weekend to bide my time.
gear's most notable maturity is its disregard for the mindless set-pieces that once plagued the series.
it's got everything you'd want; laughs, tragedy - and there's even a bit of tears for fears hidden in there at the back.
wasn't a big fan of the first gears game but the second won me over with hig set pieces and gorgeous looks.
preordered the game today at blockbuster for £34.99.
hmmm, on the fence with this at the moment, waaay too many great games coming out soon to get my mits on.
yet after 20 hours nailing our active reloads and effortlessly murdering  boss characters with three online wingmen, a niggling question remains.
so damn good i've gone straight back to play it again on hardcore mode to try and find more collectibles and cog tags.
but still the heavy rain snobs will be put off by that big, blood-soaked  gun on the front of the box.
but more importantly, it's the high-quality game play that makes me want to play the game as soon as possible!
i'm not slagging it off, it looks great.
in fact  there's a new enemy faction in town; the glowing, mutated lambent that enjoy  nothing more than appearing out of the ground via gigantic enemy-spewing stalks  - and they're about to rock the boat (literally in this case).
i'm willing to bet that uncharted 3 will have a higher review average on metacritic than gears 3.
i'll get this at some point, busy with dead island, deus ex, witcher 2, xenoblade, dragon age 2 and a bunch of other games that have still yet to be completed.
and he says it is f**king epic, which isn't bad considering he didn't play the previous 2 much.
really enjoying this game so far and enjoying the character development i love the gears series for many things, but one thing that i dont love it for is the 'story'.
excellent point, it'd probably be better to say that gow popularised cover-shooter mechanics, as kill.switch certainly outdates it.
i agree beast mode is too easy although the ability to use corpsers, berskerkers and savage boomers is a recent highlight in gaming for me.
in stock £6.98 from £33.89sendit.com
instead it maintains the entertainment factor via a constant stream of  variety; in one mission you might be fighting off locust goons on a boat, the  next you're down to base weapons in the jungle and fending off a pack of  tickers attempting to run off with ammo and pick-ups between their fangs.
got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
it's a stellar compilation of everything  the developer's learnt from five years of hugely acclaimed instalments, and  polished to perfection thanks to an extra year in construction.
what do i do with 3????
by andy robinson for computerandvideogames.com we reckon there's a little bit of epic games that regrets inventing that chainsaw gun.
i had the beta and it was crap
i know many will say this is pointless but secretly we love comparisons if we have a preference console gaming and when uncharted 3 is released, its inevitable that declarations of who really owns the king of third person shooters will emerge and i can't wait.
there were practically riots when they added the retro and sawn-off hope you apply the same rules to reviewing the other big titles of this year if that's the way you're playing it, it's a fair enough point and deserves to be brought up.
the battles are big, the environments gorgeous and  every now and then somebody says "f***" as a nasty looking baddy  smashes through the nearside wall.
also just to be clear...
number 3 looks like fine tuning and polishing that formula even more plus the locus are an ace ememy as it is without the flood like lament, it all makes me want an xbox 360 for those with both consoles, get the bestof both worlds.
still waiting for my dispatched email from game, but they're usually good on getting the games to you early.
so you basically are getting gears of war 3 for only $40!!!!!
the difference is, this time, epic's had an extra year to ferment its  engine juices, which means more polish and less filler - even if it does insist  on (briefly) revisiting the vehicle sections we've begged it to stop making  since the original.
i'm sure the reviews are all going to be pretty good, and i'm glad to hear about a meaty campaign and i'm very much looking forward to getting it.
going to give beast/horde mode a go tonight me thinks.
and you'll do it all in some of the series' most interesting locations to date, ranging from sun-kissed beaches to an (american) football stadium and the mass grave of a fire-bombed human city.
my problem is that, i loved gears 1, hated gears 2.
following a refreshingly outlandish introduction sequence (with  far less testosterone that you'd expect from a gears opener), the story -  penned by acclaimed british sci-fi author karen traviss - picks up two years  after the last game's apocalyptic conclusion, with marcus, dom and co held up  on an old warship, sailing the ocean and growing crops in a desperate attempt  to simply carry on living.
has  gears of war 3's 'wow' factor been killed off by its own impressive  predecessors?
my mate had about 40 mins on horde and beast mode today at the nec (he's a manager at game) and he says it is f**king epic, which isn't bad considering he didn't play the previous 2 much.
ok review, they didnt mention wither they liked the story though?
the beast mode is the same thing; it gives unlimited replay value.
gears of war 3 review chairmen of the horde share this
cannot wait to get my hands on this, cannot wait!