computer and video games -
however it looks as though project free tv is still the place to go when netflix doesn't have what i want - report this post reply with quote the elz on 1 may '11 said: in the uk we cant even have iplayer (which is paid for already by our tv licence fee) but because micro$oft want to charge us again for it & the bbc wont, we dont get it.
popular now - 1 10 impressive pc digital download games - 2 mass effect 3 complete scanning guide - and how to get the best possible ending - 3 mass effect 3 guide: all the character deaths - and how they can be avoided send us your news got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
a brilliant reinvention of a tired series - mass effect 3 review: an unforgettable end to an epic sci-fi trilogy - ssx review: ea's classic gets back on board - binary domain review: a brave attempt to innovate in a tired genre - asura's wrath review: a glory to behold - but more anime than game staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards @roblastcav future - media with passion - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap! - icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international - digitalfuture © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
in stock £36.72 sendit.com
for those of you that live under a rock, or somewhere with no technology -  like peterborough or something - hulu is a video streaming service that beams  out shows from us networks abc, comedy central, fox, nbc, mtv and more.
from  april 29 to may 6 anyone with a gamertag (in us of course, since hulu is a  us-only service) will be able to log in and start watching tv shows for free.
on any normal day, the service will be restricted to xbox live gold users and will cost $7.99 a month.
for those of you that live under a rock, or somewhere with no technology - like peterborough or something - hulu is a video streaming service that beams out shows from us networks abc, comedy central, fox, nbc, mtv and more.
it's a uk site, as someone said, couldn't you have saved us bothering to read it and written "us only" at the start?
email: news@cvg.co.uk - assassin's creed 3, mass effect 3 endings and scanning guide, plus an ipad 3 review: weekly network round up 16/3/12 - skyrim 1.5 ps3 update patches in new kill cams.
in stock £37.97 hmv in stock £37.99 mass effect 3 from £33.99 amazon marketplace uk in stock £33.99 amazon.co.uk
- report this post reply with quote horngreen on 30 apr '11 said: so you wanted "us only" at the beginning so you wouldn't waste time reading the article?
if you've got one of microsoft's consoles, this little lot should make you very happy this year.
better cough up those coins.
fixes more stuff - ratchet & clank hd classics trilogy confirmed.
- report this post reply with quote imaduck on 28 apr '11 said: someone plox remind me why: (a) yanks need to stream things that are already on tv over there, on their xbox?
pm hulu plus for xbox 360 is official going live tomorrow just as the rumours suggested share this
tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
more latest news 60 more - xbox celebrates 10th birthday with 'interactive timeline' - xbox turns 10 in europe: here are our favourite memories... features & interviews the 25 best xbox 360 games of 2012
you know for a paid service, you dont get a lot except for adverts on there do you?
related content reviews xbox 360 messenger kit review review: it's good to txt 1213
computerandvideogames.com mike jackson recommended links from the web comments 12 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote a3headedmonkey on 28 apr '11 said: $7.99 a month?!
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store uk news round-up: f1 2012 is real, shenmue hd and an elder scrolls mmo reportedly real -http://t.co/p1ulwrie retweet
- report this post reply with quote ibanezlewis on 30 apr '11 said: stop whining.
register or log in not got an account?
no information £38.89 cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube
the walking dead video game teaser trailer rises, makes a mess of our clean floor - we've got the fighting ladies of dead or alive 5 - rumor: elder scrolls mmo to be announced this may - resident evil: operation raccoon city getting free dlc in april - marvel pinball: avengers chronicles announcement trailer and screens - xbox 720 won't be announced at e3 or "anytime soon," says microsoft - ratchet & clank: hd collection confirmed and dated by sony - ghost recon: future soldier - wikipedia ain't got nothing on this fact-filled new trailer - skyrim's 1.5 patch brings extra-stylish killin' to pc; consoles soon to follow - baldur's gate returns this summer with baldur's gate: enhanced edition get more from cvg - uk news round-up: f1 2012 is real, shenmue hd and an elder scrolls mmo reportedly real - 10 impressive pc digital download games - ps access episode 25 stars fifa street - f1 2012 announced for september release - first trailer - shenmue hd port 'completed over a year ago' - origin offers steam 'healthy competition' - minecraft creator - medal of honor dev wants to avoid annual call of duty fight - ignition teases 'el shaddai new project 2012' - new ipad unboxing video - the new ipad - where to buy it - new ipad on sale today - first reviews, video cvg store the elder scrolls 5: skyrim from £37.00 amazon marketplace uk in stock £37.00 amazon.co.uk
i was hoping that between my netflix and hulu
on any normal day, the service will be restricted to xbox live  gold users and will cost $7.99 a month.
in stock £32.59 amazon.co.uk
- report this post reply with quote supernovareigns on 30 apr '11 said: i've given it a look see...sorely disappointed by the lack of shows available.
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
why then did you waste more time writing a comment?
no information £36.79 fifa soccer 12 from £32.59 amazon marketplace uk
- what's on the psn store this week: 14/3/12 - resident evil chronicles hd ps3 screens -
may 16th release date - datura: move mystery reveals gameplay, trailers and new info.
- report this post reply with quote kesmonkey on 28 apr '11 said: yes, cvg is a site based in the uk.
yes but the majority of the readers to this site are uk based hence why previous posters indicate the author "should" have posted us only in the title hence thereby saving most people some time...
from april 29 to may 6 anyone with a gamertag (in us of course, since hulu is a us-only service) will be able to log in and start watching tv shows for free.
pretty pointless - report this post reply with quote ste mo on 28 apr '11 said: wtf has this got to do with the uk?
plus i could say good bye to illegal streams permanently.
- lego batman 2: dc super heroes ps3 preview - lego batman 2 dc super heroes ps3 screens and trailer - twisted metal, fifa street, max payne 3 - ps3 release date news 15/3/12 - max payne 3 new ps3 screens:
youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - mass effect 3 - resident evil 6 - max payne 3 - elder scrolls v: skyrim - battlefield 3 top reviews - fifa street review:
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 12 by mike jackson for computerandvideogames.com it was pretty much certain anyway, but microsoft has put the official stamp  on tomorrow'smuch-rumoured release of hulu
did you see that head come apart?
(b) why cvg posted this at all?
- report this post reply with quote gfanuk on 3 may '11 said: what's wrong with peterborough??
in stock £34.99 sendit.com
this posted on thursday 28-apr-2011 8:14 pm hulu plus for xbox 360 is official going live tomorrow just as the rumours suggested share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 12 by mike jackson for computerandvideogames.com it was pretty much certain anyway, but microsoft has put the official stamp on tomorrow'smuch-rumoured release of hulu
so what? www .computerandvideogames.com you do all know what the first two 'w's stand for, don't you?
but for the first week it'll be open and free to all who fancy a try.
posted on thursday 28-apr-2011 8:14
- report this post reply with quote liqzz on 28 apr '11 said: no uk cba - report this post reply with quote equinox80 on 28 apr '11 said: (in us of course, since hulu is a us-only service)
i wish you'd put this at the start cvg and saved me reading the whole article.
- report this post reply with quote damoxuk on 28 apr '11 said: