yawn i'd love to my games look this good but weather it turns out to be the case or not we'll have to wait and see.
in collaboration with codemasters' lead artist mike smith and  dead end thrills techmaster duncan harris, both magazines present a glimpse of  the future: what ps4 and xbox 720 will be capable of in terms of visuals - but  also what they'll be capable of in terms of scale, lighting, landscapes, ai and  procedural generation.
still not interesting enough, dude i think we hit the limit
let pc rule some time.
especially if the game is modded with some custom configs.
sign up hereusername
would i welcome better graphics and higher framerates?
valve's "box" isn't a console.
give up on using xp to unlock in-game features.
- i was seeing graphics quality like that a few years back.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
could this stunningly rendered ladybird be the norm in a few years time?
i have enjoyed this gen plenty, and as i've got older, ive less time to play games, and i just cant see myself tearing out the traps to buy the next gen day one, like i have previously.
i don't understand why people are totally disregarding the next gen consoles.
consoles i'd buy a game that let me run through the jungle as an elephant and kill the s**t out of everything and eat people.
these are the eye-watering visuals sony and microsoft's next gen consoles will be capable of.
better graphics, higher frame rates etc, all no doubt need improving eventually, i just honestly cant say, that i am particularly in a hurry to upgrade to get these things.
subscribe to the print edition, get it for  youridevice via apple newsstand or grab it for your pc, mac or android phone
with developers harnessing what the magazines claim will be "six times the power", codemasters' smith says: "if you look at the amount of effort that goes into lighting at companies like pixar, we're quite some way away from being able to leverage that control.
well, i guess it's progress for consoles but not for pc.
of course i'm probably in the minority on this one but some technical advancement never hurt anybody.
oh ya that was my initial point.
yes, it looks lovely-
i'd buy a game which allows me to fly about as a ladybird, all through the forest and landing on leaves.
console graphics will surpass anything that the pc has seen.
isn't the same thing said every generation?
keep your sodding ultra uber realistic gfx that then require you devs to "highlight" interactive objects as soooooo many noobs can't tell the difference (yes i'm talking about the "blue interactive" crap you see on uncharted and even my beloved ninja gaiden 2!
personally i would be thrilled to be see greatly improve graphics (ex. aa, lighting effects, physics, improved ai too for that matter, and more besides), yet i concur with various other posters that graphics alone do not make a compelling and engrossing gaming experience.
" what's interesting, particularly for playstation owners, is that the  screenshots running in psm3 are from tech that echoes the reported specs of  ps4, with recent rumours suggesting sony are ditching ps3's controversial cell  chip, and working with amd to provideps4's graphics chips.
the goodness doesn't stop there in the latest issues either:  psm3 has an eight-page medal of honor exclusive, xbox world delivers six pages  of impressions from the witcher 2, while both have reviews of mass effect 3, an  exclusive interview with dmc development chief tameem antoniades (sample quote:  "i've nothing against big tits - i'd rather have my head resting on a pair  right now") and a feature on the future of retail that's essential reading.
so this is all wild speculation.
not that console owners drooling over the graphics are any better.
no information £12.95 © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
when developing for pc's they have to take into account all different hardware combinations.
how many innovative games completely bombed?
consoles will always trail behind a high end gaming pc.
it's good but doesn't beat crysis.
what are you all on about?
i'd rather pay for better interactive experiences with better stories, innovation and game design than high end graphics...
virtual hippies rejoice!
to do better even today, you need a £1000 games pc.
latest issue of psm3 shows off tech rumoured to be powering sony's next  gen console share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 42 by tim weaver for computerandvideogames.com the new issues of xbox world and psm3 are on sale now.
people also forget that games aren't free to make.
but you just have to look at sales to see that 99% of gamers don't give a f**k and publishers are aware of this.
it's becomming stagnant, though this is due to the mass market flocking towards many of the titles (heck im guilty of that).
but i don't believe the ps4/362 systems will offer anything truly original or innovative that can't be done already.
man don't release this cracken for console.
my point was people on here seem to think that because the ps4 or 362 will be 10x more powerful than the ps3 & 360 that we'll suddenly see an outburst of creativity and innovation from every developer, that isn't going to happen.
it comes down to optimization.
or if they are literally blind.
you're kidding yourself if you think pc gaming is dead.
at least, that's what psm3 and xbox world magazines are saying in their latest issues.
if the always superior pc's can't offer any true innovations with all that power then there's very little chance of the ps4/362 offering anything truly innovative either.
and no the kinect one fails as i dont get to pretend to be a mech, making guns from my arms in hillarious ways dx11 eh.. so like, last year
expect cod clones galore, more cars going around in circles and the usual things we've had for past 15 or more years.
also, manufacturers have to remember that throughout the history of computer games, the most powerful console was never the biggest seller, as sales figures will show.
it's an open source platform.
read more recommended links
expand the concept of what a game should be and let us customize the way in which we want to play.
sounds like a miyamoto game to me.
read more 42 comments so far...
yes, we want to play as the protagonist, but why not the antagonist, and every other in-game character as well?
oh, and backwards compatibility will have a huge influence on whether i get on board with the next generation of consoles or not.
we want games that are more intelligent and more interactive.
yeah, they just look like today's (and maybe yesterday's in terms of crysis!)
(in effect, ps4 will be "essentially a pc" according to sources close to tech specialist richard leadbetter, of digital foundry.)
cause you seem to set double standards.
want more xbox world?subscribe to the print edition, get it for your idevice  via apple newsstand or grab it for your pc, mac or android phone computerandvideogames.com tim weaver managing editor writer, journalist and curly wurly connosieur, tim weaver is managing  editor of future games, the evil empire that oversees websites like cvg and  leading print titles such as edge and official xbox magazine.
please for the love of god, can i just have some innovation, better design, immersion etc.
is this what playstation 4 and xbox 720 games will look like?
writer, journalist and curly wurly connosieur, tim weaver is managing editor of future games, the evil empire that oversees websites like cvg and leading print titles such as edge and official xbox magazine.
we want to experiment with worlds that use complex physics, and by doing so, be able to approach gameplay in any style of our choosing.
people are saying they are content waiting until there's innovative ideas being cooked up but if that's the mentality then they will be waiting forever.
ugh, same old story.
oh and end up playing minecraft(which btw is a fugly ass looking game).
i love a beatiful game, but come on devs/chip designers etc... tell us something interesting and new the new machines will be doing or gtfo pc >
wouldn't you want physics that aren't laughable, ai that's smarter than a mop and gfx that caress your eyeballs?
sure but i'm not excited about them.
i would like healthy servings of both improved graphics and innovation (personally well crafted story telling that sees me invested in the characters is one of the single largest factors that draw me to, and keep me loyal to, a game series).
i have been enjoying this fidelity of visuals for years already on my pc (4 years old) so "new console amazing super duper graphics" demos tend not to excite me much.
still not interesting enough, dude i think we hit the limit computer gamers will become more obsolete when the next gen consoles come out, they will have the same graphics at half the price of a pc gaming rig.
by tim weaver for computerandvideogames.com the new issues of xbox world and psm3 are on sale now.
if there is any doubt that there is room for both pc and console gaming all one needs to do is take a look at the state of the current gaming world.
people say that pc graphics are the best but then they say gameplay>graphics.
with developers harnessing what the magazines claim will be "six times  the power", codemasters' smith says: "if you look at the amount of  effort that goes into lighting at companies like pixar, we're quite some way  away from being able to leverage that control.
console graphics whores are cheering, pc graphics whores are sneering.
so you ain't gonna find it here with teh graffix wh0res!
uncharted 3 looks better than the first picture.
once they add keyboard and mouse support, high end pc gaming is gonna die.
no information £12.95 from £12.95sendit.com
that is just my personal taste of course, but i will always take the visuals of, say, breath of fire 4 over mass effect 3 any day.
with sod all else interesting to say.
the other one is just some tech demo of a console that doesnt even have any official specs.
if we pay £40 for a game, i want to be able to use everything immediately.
were still trying to find out ourselves, but it seems to involve shouting at a team of writers, staring at spreadsheets, pretending hes organised, helping out with cvgs video reviews, and acting as a part-time negotiator.
oh and stop basing consoles by their specs.
what does a managing editor do?
i'm not too sure if these people are believing what they want to (can't say i blame them as ignorance is bliss right?)
all the millions of users has exactly the same spec.
there's a difference!
and we all know how that turned out.
like the majority of other posts, gamers today are not looking for better and better graphics.
also, i think it's more likely that valve are making a custom, "valve" badged pc with their own interface, rather than a console.
graphics look amazing in tech demos and stills but look nothing like that in actual games.
why next-gen begins at e3: psm3 investigates ps4... got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
that's probably why valve is making a console now.
edit: the samaritan demo from unreal engine 4 is probably where the next gen consoles will be.
a pc with the specs of a ps3 would not be able to run uncharted 3.
(but) once we have a toolset to  do that, art directors can go crazy.
other than indie devs and sims on pc i can count the amount fresh ideas this gen on one hand.
email: news@cvg.co.uk from £35.79sendit.com
agreed with the crysis 1 remarks.
instead i think i'll just pick up the games ive not played this gen for peanuts and wait for the next gen to really get into its stride.
were still trying to find out ourselves, but  it seems to involve shouting at a team of writers, staring at spreadsheets,  pretending hes organised, helping out with cvgs video reviews, and acting as a  part-time negotiator.
imaduck, your comment just made my cvg-browsing day!
yes but this time it will be different.
on a personal note, the more realistic the game, the less interested i am in playing it.
so, i hope they don't get so caught up in making a mighty console that they forget all about needing to sell the thing.
but i really don't care for uber realism in games.
ps3 latest issue of psm3 shows off tech rumoured to be powering sony's next gen console2012: the year of playstation 4?
our progress through a game should be driven via a strong narrative, just like halo:ce, and exploration should feel instinctive, inspired by a rich and imaginative world.
now there's a prediction that hasn't been heard at all over the past decade-and-a-half....
metro 2033, isn't that good looking.
these are the eye-watering visuals sony and microsoft's next gen consoles  will be capable of.
at least, that's what psm3 and xbox world magazines are  saying in their latest issues.
tell me which game has destroyed(and by destroyed, i mean by a huge margin) beaten crysis 1 in visuals?
not only is pc gaming still around, it is actually flourishing and at current projections of growth in the pc market and the console markets (this does not take in to account release of a new generation of consoles) pc gaming is well on the way to once more dominate the gaming scene financially.
give me something i've never seen before, please!
" what's interesting, particularly for playstation owners, is that the screenshots running in psm3 are from tech that echoes the reported specs of ps4, with recent rumours suggesting sony are ditching ps3's controversial cell chip, and working with amd to provideps4's graphics chips.
my pc does these visual's already.
i've seen many comments like these on several threads.
register or log in not got an account?
what does a  managing editor do?
the last real revolution in gaming was the advent of 3 dimensional worlds , beyond that, i cant honestly think of anything that's really different to what preceded it.
publishers need to grow some and take a chance on a new ip too!
but, where are my steel battalions of this gen?
computer gamers will become more obsolete when the next gen consoles come out, they will have the same graphics at half the price of a pc gaming rig.
no matter how pretty the graphics get, ive always noticed myself finding things that could be better, and that will never end, that's just human nature, we're never satisfied by what we've got, but this time, i'm not getting dragged into it, as i'll pay through the nose, not really have anything i didnt have before, other than more fps, and slicker visuals, so i may as well wait until price drops and they really start pushing the tech.
(in effect, ps4 will  be "essentially a pc" according to sources close to tech specialist  richard leadbetter, of digital foundry.)
some of us may be bored of the same things
its just like pick n mix, he adds, helpfully.
i remember reading an article before the ps3 came out about a game called haze and the basically provided more or less that same jungle screenshot and mentioned things about butterflies landing on your weapon if your'e idle long story short what came of that game, did they even release it?
dont start with your "my 10 year old pc can already do this" hell, uncharted 3 looks better than the first picture.
pc elitists are always quick to jump in and say "well my pc has been doing this for years" with a snarky response.
the first screenshot is definetely from crysis.
lmao , was thinking exactly same thing, im not sure which i detest more the snotty nosed pc gimps, or the console boys, who are constantly clamouring for new consoles , as if thats suddenly going to give us games that arent simply prettier versions of what we have now.
crysis 1 and amd lady
when developing for consoles.
they said the same thing when they released the killzone trailer before the ps3 launch...
valve understand how to run digi distribution.
if people call minecraft "pc" gaming than high end pc gaming has no future sorry.
i'd buy a game that let me run through the jungle as an elephant and kill the s**t out of everything and eat people.
you want a good looking game but then go graphics>gameplay.
exactly what i was thinking!
pcs are ten times more powerful than current consoles and already eclipse this standard.
get rid of npcs and populate game worlds with human-controlled characters.
no information £35.79 from £12.95sendit.com
if the ps4 does end up being basically a pc, then sony should ditch the ps store and hand that side over to steam ( a partnership or something???).
killzone 2 and 3 are easily some of the best graphics in any shooter this generation.
http://serve.mysmiley.net/adult/handjob.gif
personally i really do need better visuals as i primarily play on pc and coming back is kind of painful most of the time.
crysis 1 and crysis warhead are pretty close to that screenshot in terms of graphics ....
(but) once we have a toolset to do that, art directors can go crazy.
i want to play computer games, not play what looks like a simulation.