i think i'll leave it at that
until the next ps or xbox come out they might find they're in the mix with the big titles, basically having the same game but with a few bonuses thrown in because of the controller.
they need to sort it the feck out imho!
nintendo only make the good games, they are the true innovators.
lets be honest, sony move hasn't impacted in any relevant way and kinect has faired better but isn't perfect.
if the wii u isn't atleast slightly more powerful than the ps3/360 i hope it sinks along with them.
as i said, these are potential concerns and i don't think you can really have a go at people for expressing them - of course there will always be cocks who just make s**tty comments, but what can you do?
there really seems to be a lot of amnesia where nintendo is concerned.
i find it very hard to believe that many people are happy to buy a console, with no games, purely on the basis that it is more powerful than the competition.
microsoft is now doing with kinect.
the graphics whores just need to move on as you are not nintendo's audience.
i've just owned all consoles this gen, and it feels a bit ott.
probably sporting a single touch touch screen, twiddle sticks, 800x480 screen, vga cameras, cheap and tacky plastic - it's disgusting.
gimmicks and s**t games again then!
we already know the wii u tablet is a resistive touchscreen which means from the start it's at a disadvantage against apple's capacitive ones.
the 400 pound cost to the casual gamer will be offset by the fact that they're paying 40 quid a pop for new games, when they've gotten so used to paying 99p for them on the app store or even getting them for free.
instead of putting their money into graphics cards and processors, they've seemingly put it into the tablet controller and making it work, questioning whether that's
then what do nintendo do.
this "games are about more than just graphics" argument is getting longer in the tooth than the bloody gpu in the wii itself!
nintendo's audience just happen to be part of that world.
sony have copied pretty much every game nintendo made so its about time they paid them.back.
sure it doesn't have the flash of the 360 and the ps3 but there are some quality games on it for 'core gamers'.
playstation is where most of the games that appeal to me seem to be at, ps4+move+vita which is a similar combo in itself, and is what i see myself getting.
nintendo will eventually lose their edge in regards to first party.
watch playvalue on ustudio regarding your first paragraph.
we understand that people like to dissect graphics and processing power, but the experience of playing will always be more important than raw numbers."
don't like the sound of this a hell of a lot, even though i doubt i'll actually care at the end of the day.
i'm sure nintendo realise that.
fast forward a year and the 3ds has sold 15 million while the vita is struggling.
i'm fed up with nintendo releasing bare bones home console systems.
sony and ms haven't impacted in any real way, but apple totally stole that market, and nintendo can't really compete with apple for the izombie crowd.
you clearly aren't interested in it so just state so and move on.
how do you know that's a minority of people?
it seems to me that a large part of the gaming media - this site included - want them to fail because they offer something different.
i'm 28, i need some proper boys toys.... though if nintendo release a console that packs some kind of a punch (ontop of gameplay!)
i don't care how many children and grandparents own a wii, i'm a proper gamer and i want proper games not casual bulls**t.
it's utterly ridiculous!
and i have always tried to keep up to date with industry news since the 90's.
i'm not even sure what you're getting at to be honest.
what i'm saying is that of course i'm interested in the wii u - in fact i'm certain to buy one.
i doubt ms would be doing what they are doing now without the success of the wii.
but that just means that wii u has a home for some but not all developers.
not only that, but even if half the people who own a wii would think of upgrading, that would have been a success already.
i mean copying their direction.
i also think that tablet will be utilized even more than people think, with talk of an app store and so on it will be a strong gadget on it's own aside from it's function as a wii u controller (just not outside the home).
they don't deny the rumours because they're not concerned with such petty nonsence.
i haven't bought a non nintendo game for my wii for ages, in the mean time i've bought dozens on my ps3/360.
the downside is that they're starting from a new userbase against 60 million odd ps3 and xbox's alike, so the money for a publisher will still be earned through ps3 and xbox.
@lordirongut and ricflair
edit- sorry just read your other posts.
shame as i was really hoping for a nintendo console that could match the ouput of sony / microsoft as well as have all the usual nintendo gimmicks.
i do hope my thoughts are wrong.
an age old agrument, i've been a gamer for about 32 years.
they must be doing something with all that money they made off the wii?!
if its more powerful nintendo will have something special to show off then.
however, what would be wrong with a beautiful hd rendering of mario which was almost like watching an animated film?
if they can't release complete console - give up and go multiformat.
wait for ps4 and 720 instead, but for the love of god quit complaining.
the wii may have outsold the ps3 and 360 individually, but combined they represent a bigger market which is more secure.
this time last year, everyone was making fun of the 3ds, predicting its doom and saying that the vita would kill "the funny single-stick puke-making machine" dead.
if it was more capable than ps3/360 surely they would be telling us.
can those of you obssessed with power and specs please stop whining about
its just a thought that crossed my mind because when your on success, others follow suit.
nintendo knows it doesn't have to focus on power (with the wii u), but if it's true about the wii u specs, i think they've made a major mistake, as i can't see the wii u doing as well as the wii, as the next console war is going to be a different ball game.
have you noticed that when it is bad news as such the fanboys want names and shout "source" but positive news from anyone is accepted without any questions.
but have more faith in them.
that has never been their strategy and you know that, so get over it.
"we do not focus on technology specs.
you mentioned third parties, but from what i have read, third parties aren't interested in or are fearful of next gen consoles due to increased development costs.
clearly you do care about it, but what i am saying is that you shouldn't.
the dreamcast had a high-quality software library (arguably better than ps2 in the early days), but the console sold dismally, as everybody skipped it and waited instead for the ps2, which was known to be more powerful and have wider third-party support.
telling people to shut up and move on sounds like you're getting annoyed to me.
they also know from experience that games sell consoles (sorry, i'm repeating myself), so they see making a powerful console as unnecessary.
that's what they need to do again to convince me to part with my money.
don't care about specs.
i disagree - the whole controller will be a cutback in itself.
because i have never, in my 25 years of gaming, heard of people buying consoles for that reason.
i totally understand why nintendo take the approach they do (whether the tablet will be as big a draw as the wiimote remains to be seen!), but even with galaxy, zelda, metroid, s&p2 etc, i still wish i could've played the above games on the wii.
the proper source came from dual pixels or something.
but it is their resolve to try and impress the world and do something different that impresses me.
posted on thursday 5-apr-2012 10:01 am nintendo on wii u power: 'we don't focus on tech specs' firm doesn't deny reports its new console is less capable than ps3 and  xbox 360 share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close
but i wouldn't mind being proven wrong, as i'm still somewhat of a nintendo fan, despite the wii.
decisions they make over hardware puts off the third parties, and that's where it lacks for me - it did on the 64 and the wii anyway, i was fine with the gc.
sony have copied pretty much every game nintendo made so its about time they paid them back.
perhaps they are scared of them succeeding and microsoft and sony copying them.
wii u's tablet is a distinctly single player device and the magic of the wii remote is long faded.
if that makes sense....
take mario and zelda out the equation
so naturally it will continue to sell.
as apposed to uunamed 'sources' or not credible, probably a pile of tosh could be anyone.
the wiiu will as well and it looks like nintendo are doing their utmost to entice as much 3rd party support as they can muster, the funny thing about these reports thateveryone seems to be taking to heart is that they fly in the face of all the tech demos nintendo showed last year the in game pics floating around of ubisofts launch titles for the machine as well as interviews with gearbox who've said that colonial marines on wii u is going to look better than the 360/ps3 because the hardware is more powerful.
but i don't agree with either of you regarding your most recent comments.
then when the next gen machines arrive 3rd party support will drop off particularly on core titles like cod, bf3, driving games etc because the devs will be working on unreal 4 engine or equivalent.
at least in terms of 'if you want the best cod/bf3/fifa...... then you have to get it on wiiu'.
but if they do release a console at the same power or just ahead of what we currently have then surely this could be bad for sales.
yes everybody just copies nintendo for everything.
regarding the 360 comment.
but from what they have said, many of them value a new way to present their games, so they appear to be behind it.
still, they know the market they are looking for (family).
and then the ps4 comes out...
i certainly won't be moving from my ps3 to use a wii 1.5.
yet the direction nintendo took with wii (casuals)
i don't insult you so please extend me the same courtesy.
what it will be though is the console that homes hd zelda, mario, mk, pikmin, pokemon, kid icarus, donkey kong etc and that is a big deal.
they have seen apple's product grow in popularity and sell worldwide to millions, of all ages.
and not because its a cart racer, but for the same reason fable heroes is copying nintendo.
and all companies have developers making games for them - sony didn't 'make' yakuza, resistance etc, ms didn't make splinter cell, l4d, trials etc, nintendo didn't make other m, sin and punishment 2, zack and wiki etc.
i'm not saying it won't sell, it won't be successful but am concerned it won't meet all of my needs, which i'd rather it did.
what i remember hearing on playvalue was that the most powerful console always came last in sales, not that the weakest console always won.
yes and it's ridiculous.
i think nintendo made a mistake of out and out saying "we want to appeal to the core audience".
but in all honesty, two small words had me sold on nintendo's next console before it was even announced: zelda hd.
not a bad idea to focus on the tech you're putting into your next console while building it nintendo .
i can't say that without conducting a study lol.
just not to the majority of people who are already this gen and playing its 3rd party launch games now.
but why would the apple crowd give up apple and move to nintendo?
getting rather touchy?
uhmmm everyone is surprised because nintendo fans ran around telling everyone how powerful it would be, and then after e3 we got reports of it being powerful.
i think they're valid concerns - i'd rather pay an extra £100 for a more powerful nintendo console than pay an extra £250 for a new ps/xbox in order to play the latest r* etc games in a couple of years.
you keep saying 'games sell consoles', and third party games are still games and are very important.
more fool you then because i have to say the wii has some of the best games of this gen on it.
seriously the fact that he web seems to of taken unnamed sources over actual devs and solid pictoral evidence just boggles the mind.
to be honest there's not much excuse for bringing out a console that is less powerful (if true) than something that will be seven years old by the time it releases.
plus nintendo themselves have communicated with developers to ensure that the console meets their needs.
all the information that they have given us is about the capabilities of the touch screen controller.
the minority are those that buy them for being powerful.
of course and nintendo is god
if that makes sense.... .
go back even further and that's why fringe consoles like the cdi and 3do were never supported very well - they were too different to support when money could be made on the nes, snes, mega drive or whatever.
should've called it the "will u" as most people now seem to be questioning whether they're gonna buy it after all...
as irongut said, more people bought ps3 or 360s (total sales of the two) than bought wiis - it's still a huge, huge market and a market that buys more games and it could (hence my original post saying it's just a valid concern to be aired, not that this is going to happen) cause nintendo's third party support to be weak.
same as others here said, nintendo stay on it's own road and aren't in direct competition to sony or microsoft.
i'm not touchy about it.
day one purchase for me.
if it's been made weaker in the past year, that'll be very disappointing.
but seriously, people buy consoles in order to play the game/games they wanted.
yes nintendo will produce their usual array of spectacular games but the real money is made when you're selling masses of 3rd party games
i don't want to not buy a wii u, but similarly i don't want to spend £200 odd on a console only to play 6 games a year or it (or whatever number) and have to have another console to play the rest on, i don't see why that is so hard to empathise with?
it said they were using former bizarre employees and giving their answer to gt and forza.
first, it will be cheap, second, it will the a new wii, in the eyes of the parents that's a good thing, plus all the kid games.
i think nintendo's first party offerings are in terms of quality, much better than sony/ms, certainly ms as they've been operating lately.
the casual market is held now in an iron grip by apple.
if the wii u is less powerful but still gets the games, then i don't really care, as long as they have a decent frame rate, minimal screen tear etc!
we'll just have to agree to disagree and in the end only time will tell what will happen.
and please, don't imply that i am blind to the flaws about it being "underpowered".
people say 'the controller' is causing extra expense so cutbacks have to be made.
i think you'll find it's actually a gamecube 2.25.
i dont believe any of the rumors myself,il wait until e3 to hear confirmed specs and see some ganes running on it.
i believe that they will value an extension of current gen technology, but with a new twist on how they can present their games.
the only thing i can think of copying nintendo is lbp karting.
it isn't the power of the ps3 which is causing it to sell more.
does that mean you guys will treat the next xbox like you treat nintendo now?
should we dismiss the idea that bizzare creations are making it because there is no named source?
i do like these comments
i love my nintendo games, but the lack of third party support means i have to compliment it with another console - which i don't want to do.
i just hope the casual gamers have got their fill of ipads and won't see the need to buy that piece of junk.
in fact, it has always been the exact opposite.
or that i am arrogant and delusional, or a cock who makes s**tty comments.
things like 3do, n64, xbox, ps3 and the like.
it is the two key words "price and games".
if you don't like that, then tough s**t.
and you're left with 'family' toss.
as long as they survive i don't really care, but for me playing games, a potential lack of third party games is a concern.
indeed, more fool me for stating the way the wii ended up in my (and most of the people i know) household.
all this meanlingless comments, you fools, don't you realizze that by the time ps4 and xbox 720 comes, wii u will have sold millions upon millions?
my kids are 3 and 4 and they love playing on the ipad, it's easy, intuitive and fun.
either copying or buying the company!
the nintendo wii u is going to own!!snm i can't help but think nintendo have dropped a b*****k here.
if wii u fails then so be it, but they will always find a way back into people's lives, one way or another.
japanese industry is struggling, developers are closing left right and centre.
as for the "cocks who post bulls**t" part, i thought you were referring to me but obviously not, but i am not arrogant, deluded and blind to others opinions though so please do not think otherwise.
but look at the wii which has p**s poor power, new games dried up, but it still managed to clock up sales of about 95 million.
a burger is about the meat but who wants a burger with no bun or ketchup?
nintendo knows this, and they know from their experience in this industry, that having a powerful console has never been a factor in terms of sales.
also, best tech doesn't mean best games.
the wii u can appeal to this market of family gaming, education etc.
yet my favourite games of the 64 and this gen have been nintendo's.
i don't get all the negativity, there was lots of it before any specs were announced, even when the rumours pointed to it being quite a bit more powerful than the ps3/360.
i'll say one thing & one thing only, much like the build up to the launch of the wii everyone is yet again talking about nintendos console the most.
time will tell of course.
is that what some are scared of?
i guess, like the wii, it will end up more of a family console that gets dusted off at christmas.
it won't be the console that can play all cross-platform games for the next 6 years.
they've always been a game developer 1st and a hardware manufacturer 2nd.
but i'm glad this discussion ended well.
it will also play far superior games on it than even the new ipad could hope to achieve and have all of the nintendo franchises too (maybe nintendo specific apps like nintendo character chess, mini games etc.)
however i'd like to point out that in all other gens the power difference has been small.
i love nintendo more than any other games company, but the way some of the rumours have been taken has been pretty funny to watch.
it's inevitable, and while i won't be able to buy one at launch i'll buy one as soon as i'm able.
if you can't see the potential flaws of releasing an under powered console then you're not living in the real world - it'd be lovely if it was all about the games and not graphics, but that's not the case.
if they can market this at around a £200 price point they could be onto a winner again.
it will be the next christmas chosen presents for kids.
if you want more power (i'm not saying you do)then buy a ps4/720 too when they are released.
please do not misinterpret my tone, grolsch.
they received a lot of criticism last year for their wii u reveal, including my own; my original words were "what a pile of crap" i believe.
surely that is why nintendo have gone for an ipad-type controller.
sign up hereusername
shame you couldn't tell everyone how you know whos the minority and who's the majority.
while the graphics looked nice it also looked clinical at the same time.
i think its good nintendo is copying sony for a change.
look, in the end, you might want a wii u, you might not, the same applies to me.
and yes, i agree that the wii would have sold considerably less had it not used motion control.
wii u. nintendo knows it would be a stupid mistake to release an expensive, loss making console.
i recognize that wii u might not be capable in some respects but neither do i believe that they could have gone in any other direction.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
short answer is no, at least for the next 2 years.
the least powerful console certainly hasn't always sold the most.
it has always been the least powerful console which sold the most and the reason for that was due to the quantity of quality games.
however, the ps3 has become more alluring the last couple of years thanks to its cheaper price and exclusives.
you take away the mario and zelda games, they don't release much else, plus some of their games are done by other developers, so they can't even be arsed to knock out games themselves.
wiiu nintendo hands us a wii u controller and we get it dirty165 more opinion: tech innovation gets people excited, but it's the software that really sells nintendo consoles, argues john dean got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
i doubt that the wii u's unique hardware features will be as strong and enough to compensate for low-spec tech this time around.
nintendo's games are still great and people will buy their systems for them regardless of specs.
67 comments so far...
my wii has been fantastic in the last year with awesomeness like xenoblade, the last story and skyward sword.
activision should have no trouble porting call of duty then can those of you obssessed with power and specs please stop whining about
they learnt from that lesson and chose a profitable strategy instead.
i remember when the gc came out it blew the ps2 out the water visually and my jaw dropped when i saw f-zero and metroid prime.
by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com nintendo has issued a statement in response to growing reports that wii u won't be as powerful as ps3 or xbox 360.
the huge majority have always bought consoles for the games, not vice versa.
i may not agree with you about certain things, but i do not want you to think that i think that am right and you are wrong, our opinions are just different and i respect that.
opens doors down the line, so it's important to get what you can out of it, for the consumer's sake too.
it seems to be an issue of mine.
disappointing 3d-graphics performance was the main reason why the saturn was crushed by newcomer sony's playstation.
perhaps they will live up to my original criticism, perhaps they will be a revolution in gaming, but what irritates me is people dismissing them without having even let their horse out of the stable.
it will also all come at an affordable price presumably.. all in all, the people who should be buying this will be happy.
i understand your concerns regarding the console, but as you mentioned, you will still get one, even if it's just for zelda hd.
if 360 owners just relied on ms's games, they'd have next to f**k all to play!
but they're not which doesn't bode well.
i often wonder what it would have been like had they entered the standard controller hd era alongside the 360 and ps3.
a hd wii with analternative controller (wiimote will still be an option) that has graphics equivalent to the xbox 360.
maybe they are just afraid of change.
i guess i will never know.
they need to get off their lazy arses imo and make something akin to the gamecube.
the wii audience is just a little facet of microsoft's true goals.
but if you want to know why i know who is the majority and who is the minority, i base my opinion on the buying habits of the last 3 decades of console sales.
four pads in the living room playing multiplayer with whoever and freeing up the tv for dad.
i don't mean nintendo are the only ones to innovate by any means i'll edit this to explain what i mean before someone twists it.
where is the source for concept grand prix?
people will buy it anyway and its the games that will have people play it.
and for every developer going on about the costs of development, there's one asking for more power as squeezing all they can from hardware takes a lot of resources.
if you don't like what they are doing, then move on.
it was the games that sold the consoles.
i think they knew it wouldn't have worked out well for them.
such a simple mistake changes the whole argument.
no, i disagree entirely.
we understand that people like to dissect graphics and processing power, but the experience of playing will always be more important than raw numbers." supposedly leaked emails from both japanese and us retailers suggest nintendo plans to release wii u in north america on november 18.
they are understandably worried about an industry which will become unsustainable.
the next xbox is probably your safest bet for next generation.
still you do raise a good point in that what it actually turns out to be like remains to be seen.
i'm very concerned that the only thing the wii u has over a ps3, move and vita combo are nintendo games and the wii name.
it was only with the ds that things really changed.
and i haven't insulted you, i never called you a cock - i was talking about people who just make stupid dismissive comments like "nintendo are for kids" etc etc, but if you can't even see why some people are worried about nintendo (purely based on these rumours) bringing out a next gen console that doesn't have the oopmh of the previous gen (which has not been done before), then something's not quite right - either you can't take someone else's points on board or you just don't want to.
i don't buy all the copying from nintendo as much as others do, but ms lifted some stuff from the way the wii was presented/presented itself almost identically.
it struggles to match current-gen consoles when it comes to processor intensive game systems such as complicated physics and ai.
should nintendo be worried about us, the true gamers?
and then before that, games that were on the saturn and ps1 gave the n64 a miss due to its wildly different power level.
ultimately i just want to own one console, i'd have been ok with missing out on the ps3/360 exclusives, but missing out on gtaiv, rdr, vanquish, bayonetta, batman, battlefield, blur, portal 2 etc would have been too much to miss.
give me my amazing software and i'll be happy.
therefore its a shame that nintendo didn't at least try to better current gen in their next gen console.
gameplay mechanics and scorching graphics make a classic.
it makes sense that they would stick to it again.
i agree that nintendo do go about things differently, but that's why they took a hiding on the 64 and gc and went down the route they did with the wii - they didn't have the level of third party support.
that, and it being considerably cheaper than the ps3
it potentially effects the viability of third party games on it, at least after the new ps/xbox consoles, which effects the user if they don't want to buy two consoles (i don't).
i think the pad itself is what you're mainly mean't to use, as apposed to the tv.
no, i didn't like that part.
the snes globally outsold the less powerful megadrive.
the highest-rated game this gen isn't a ps3 game - it's a mario game on the wii - technically, the weakest console of the three.
whilst i do agree, its ultimatley how the game plays and the enjoyment you get from it that matters, i do think that the wiis lack of processing power / gfx ultimatley led it to be a weaker console.
all that they have shown us for the wii u so far is the controller and the case.
but i believe that we should all keep an open mind until we actually know what nintendo has planned for us.
for me this isn't about what's best for nintendo as a company.
ok, i think it's time for the nintendo protection coalition to pipe down and smell the coffee...
or because of a graphical increase your willing to overlook it?
go further another year, ps3/720 both launch at extraordinary prices, wii u at half the price and a much bigger gaming choice, therefore, the chosen present for christmas 2013, again.
not sure you can say nintendo don't support their consoles, you may not like them
i am sorry if i sounded arrogant at any point in my comment.
and i agree with you both.
and i don't shout source.
you get the joy of the nintendo games you love on a relatively cheap console, and can enjoy other games on other consoles.
people buy into new consoles if they represent a upgrade or at least a new gimmick like in the wii's case.
not true - the n64 was leagues ahead of the saturn and ps1 in terms of power (sadly limited by a few stupid design errors) and the gamecube blew the ps2 out of the water specs-wise.
i always wondered how they would manage the power and the screen while keeping it affordable and a decent profit margin.
i can see that a lot of people are sceptical of wii u because they clearly have a soft spot for nintendo, they are fearful of the future of the company they care about.
personally i have zero interest in the wii-u
to be honest they wouldn't have had to be hd, just to be able to play them even with wii level graphics.
can't imagine why though.
i never intended for my comments to be interpreted as an attack on anyone and especially not directly at you.
underpowered tech can really hurt a console's chances on the market, unless it's compensated by some other strong unique selling point - like the motion controls of the wii or the additional touch-screen of the ds.
if the wii-u is on par with 360/ps3 or less powerful then i can't see it being more than £199 at launch otherwise it'd be a rip off seeing as it will be ancient technology.
i'm not saying you aren't nintendo fans, not that that should make a difference, although, come to think of it, it could be that that is the reason you are annoyed with nintendo for not steering their business plan down your preferred route.
as for weaker consoles always sells the most, i don't believe that is true.
i'm going to start off with an apology then.
the magic of nintendo faded a while ago for that market.
i have taken on board what you have said and i respect that there are some people that feel that way about wii u, but i believe that most people will be able to overlook or even not consider said concerns.
as for my wii collection, it is predominantly made up of third party titles; i very rarely buy a first party title.
no, for a long time, nintendo were all about the power.
the gamecube had the same problem as the wii - it was hamstrung by the lack of disc space which saw a lot of games on the ps2 and xbox but not on the 'cube.
i briefly dabbled with the idea of getting a wii but never happened.
and a proper slick update to f-zero...
i was wtching ghost recon fs wii u gameplay the other day.
the issues i see and i think have generally been mentioned is that 3rd party support will no doubt suffer again, the one thing nintendo have promised to work hard on.
third party games are still games and are a big part of the line up and appeal of a console.
what would be wrong with a proper first-person metroid - i think they bottled it on the wii because they knew it would look like bloody doom!
so, i refer back to my very first post, "if you don't like it, go buy your ps4/720 and stop whining about wii u".
on top of that, nintendo poorly supports its consoles which has been the case since the nintendo 64 and nintendo have admitted that, more so with the wii.
gameplay mechanics make a good game.
consumers all over the world have by now finally upgraded to hdtvs, so cutting down on power and making a console that will still struggle with demanding 1080p content doesn't sound like a good idea at this stage.
nowadays they are just rigidly following their "let's disregard specs and focus on the experience" philosophy/mantra, and not reading the warning signals offered by the wii's final years correctly.
maybe they're releasing a cheap rez'd up wii for the kids, then wait to see sony & ms's cards before releasing a core product.
sony invented a lot of the party games i recall (singstar, buzz and whatnot).
other people have already said it but nintendo can't realistically go for the casual market again.
but nintendo can't realistically go for the casual market again.
i for one was a nintendo fan, gamecube being my last nintendo console.
i'm still buying one regardless, alongside the next xbox most likely.
people bought them for their solid exclusives and even though those exclusives have dried up, there are still a solid selection of third party platform games being released to entice new buyers.
if its the same or slightly ahead of what you already own then why would you spend £200-£250 on a new console when ms and sony release there's a year later and surely they'll both be upping the ante?
i am taking this at face value because it sounds like something they would do.
i preferred the good-old nintendo that used to have the most powerful, yet reasonably priced consoles on the market (snes, n64).
the concerns you mention are valid for a minority of people.
why would a user pay £40 for an inferior version of a game (no skyrim jokes!) ?
good stuff mate, cheers!
ye know what they say, there is no such thing as bad publicity.
a nintendo of america spokesperson neither confirmed nor denied these reports in a statement issued todigital trends, saying: "we do not focus on technology specs.
the ps4 and 720 will be on par with each other, the wii u wil just get left behind.
in a sense, they gave them what they wanted.
don't get annoyed with them based on the console being current gen tech, that isn't fair.
the main draw of the wii was motion control and the communal experience.
it is clear that our approach to gaming and our opinions regarding the industry are completely different.
and devs are power mad these days, so when next gen consoles arrive, it'll be about the power and the games in one.
the fact is, it's the console that is different which suffers.
if it wasn't for the controller the wii would have flopped massive time regardless of games.
i don't know why i mentioned that lol.
microsoft already know and understand too much.
it's true that they have their own unique style of games and that these require less visual impact to satisfy than a fps for example.
i like the cut of yer jib,vitor!
if you do like it, then buy it.
register or log in not got an account?
i used to love nintendo, but the love affair started to waver after the gamecube.
i think its a bloody disgrace that you have to wait 6 years for nintendo to finally get it's act together, and when they do - throw out a console that is 6 years out of date???
as we all know, it's all about the games, not the power of the console.
nintendo have never focused on tech-specs, so why is this a surprise?
but if you don't like what you see, then don't buy it.
they are a company that has endured.
regarding the second one, i agree with you that a weaker console requires a unique feature, as well as good games to show it off, and nintendo knows that.
when mario 64 came out it wasn't lagging behind in terms of tech!
but there are a few things that i'm skeptical about.
i do not automatically think nintendo are the only ones doing that.
but at a much lower cost than £400+ that apple are asking.
why is the 360 continuing to sell so well when it's non kinect exclusives have dried to a trickle?
the lack of third party support was an issue for the wii, not saying there weren't some brilliant games (my favourites this gen in fact), but to attempt to dismiss people airing their potential (there's that word again) concerns in a mature way and telling them to 'move on' is either arrogant or delusional.
if they weren't focussed on the tech specs then they would be showing us the launch game and how they are better with the new system.
my ipad rarely leaves my livingroom so portability isn't an issue for most people i'm sure.
the right choice seems ok to me.
by the looks of that video they're sticking to the same formula i jumped ship after the ant and dec adverts, final straw for me!
i don't know the figures, so i'm not going to say it a majority or a minority.
nintendo follow their own timeline in terms of tech, i think it's fairy obvious what we can expect.
what they mean is that they don't focus on the cpu and gpu.
for them it is about the games and how we play them.
but they are supported.
there are many developers that embrace that, there are others that do not.
that is was my original source of information.
whatever it is they flame nintendo here but microsoft is becoming notable for pushing kinect and there is no doubt in my mind it will feature heavily on their next console.
they know that making their console powerful, whilst including the tablet, would have been costly and they know that many would not be willing to pay a high price for their console, especially with the world economy as it is now.
in that case you should have a look at how your present yourself when posting online then - saying i was never likely to buy a wii u, telling people to 'move on', not discuss things and to not bother buying nintendo if they don't like it.
i'd rather not have the wii u seen as the odd one out and miss on games due to being less powerful, and i'm still doubtful over how good the resistive touchscreen will be.
we are talking about a entire gen of difference with the power of the wii-u and nextbox if the new console is only the same as 360/ps3.
the wii u will sell bucket loads.
@fatherofthenoo i love nintendo a great deal - four of my top five games ever are on nintendo consoles and few things get me as excited as a new zelda or metroid.
actually, irongut and i are both huge nintendo fans, and are very far away from 'clearly not interested in it' (i've owned and loved every nintendo console since the snes apart from the 3ds), but we're not so blind that we can't seepotential flaws in the rumours about it being underpowered.
as other have said if you already have an ipad,then the controller won't be a selling point.
aye, nintendo were all about the power and it burned them badly in terms of sales.
the 'odd one out' always suffers because it represents the smallest and most unreliable market.
if it's as good or better, that's good enough for me.
and i just can't see that happening.
get a pc and leave us alone other people have already said it
ms take nearly all their ideas from other companies.
there's only one thing that bothers me: will it be as powerful as what we saw at e3 2011?