- report this post reply with quote brooksyfc on 17 apr '12 said:
yeah there is way too much coming out.
also, new multiplayer 'details' - project x zone trailer shows namco/sega/capcom crossover in action - steel battalion: heavy armor preorder bonuses teased with three new trailers - gabe: origin "still playing catchup," half-life 3 seeing "twists and turns" get more from cvg - crysis 3: the best-looking game we've ever seen - pes 2013 first details:
this game has tons of potential - kolbitosfruitjuice needless to say, this game will be awesome - rub3z watch the debut trailer now!
im really looking forward to it - flyfletch this game has officially hit #1 on my "must buy" list - johnkara awesome trailer - looking forward to seeing more of this! - aawells07
29 more latest news 4 more - new halo 4 screenshots and concept art - halo 4 gets official november 6 release date features & interviews halo 4: 'we're definitely not making mirror's edge in the halo universe' 343 on the risks and responsibility of making halo popular now - 1 why black ops 2 will be better than modern warfare 3 - 2 crysis 3:
computer and video games -
off topic forum store tuesday’s uk games news: first pes 2013 details,  crysis 3 gets lift off, activision hints at near future black ops 2: http://t.co/5hmpynkn retweet this click  pumped up for this, looks awesome - winner2
wowzers! - humanhead cvg home /
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - blog - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store tuesday’s uk games news: first pes 2013 details, crysis 3 gets lift off, activision hints at near future black ops 2: http://t.co/5hmpynkn retweet this click pumped up for this, looks awesome - winner2
series 'returning to its roots' - new littlebigplanet karting screenshots - gorgeous ssx 'tricky' dlc screenshots, character and concept art - uefa euro 2012 review: fifa ditches the discs - and much of the content - rayman origins 2 'leaks via survey' - prototype 2 review round-up:
latest clue couldn't be more blatant if it tried.
microsoft mouthpiece major nelson and 343 industries senior producer alison stroll also both took to twitter to tell followers to look out for "halo 4 news" today, so don't say you haven't been given the heads-up.
this game has tons of potential -  kolbitosfruitjuice needless to say, this game will be awesome - rub3z watch the  debut trailer now!
im really looking forward to it - flyfletch this game has  officially hit #1 on my "must buy" list - johnkara awesome trailer -  looking forward to seeing more of this! - aawells07
ruined my social life got gta v in oct (i assume), another cod (i'm guessing) and now halo 4.
- prototype 2 review: a superbly polished world of destruction - ghost recon online: 'we're looking forward to seeing what we can do on wii u' - free: new ghost recon online beta keys!
- witcher 2 xbox 360 review: darker than skyrim, sexier than mass effect - better than both?
the tagline 'revenge solves everything' is genius! - appyday
posted on tuesday 17-apr-2012 9:50 am halo 4 release date is november 6, report claims launch plans rumoured to be announced by 5pm uk time share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 8 by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com microsoft may be about to announce a tuesday, november 6 release date for halo 4.
related content - halo 4 360 · action microsoft buy from £38.85 previews halo 4: first look at 343's 'dramatically different' halo preview first footage looks familiar - but is there more than meets the eye?
my birthday is on nov 17th, so i know what i'm getting - report this post reply with quote themopfrommars on 17 apr '12 said: there is nothing coming out this year on xbox that i want except for halo 4.
register or log in not got an account?
- report this post reply with quote flyfletch on 17 apr '12 said: there is nothing coming out this year on xbox that i want except for halo 4.
343 industries recently told us it already has "a definite story arc in mind" forhalo 5 and 6.
email: news@cvg.co.uk - fifa 2012 euro dlc interview: producer sebastian enrique answers all your questions - ps vita gets skype: info and video guide - office quote "fatal1ty doesn't talk to girls" - crysis 3 ps3 video interview: the new story, setting and gameplay explained - crysis 3 ps3 preview: looks that kill - crysis 3 ps3 gameplay trailer - prototype 2: 8 vital survival tips: our guide to staying alive - call of duty black ops 2 set in the future - pes 2013 info & trailer: total controls overhaul, autmun release date - pes 2013 ps3 screenshots - far cry 3 ps3 interview with designer daniel berlin: team play, map editors and beating cod - prototype 2 review - first crysis 3 gameplay trailer - john romero on ghost recon commander - lone survivor review - fez programmer "probably" won't work with polytron again - epoch review - 3ds firmware update due this week - the witcher 2 tops uk chart - new super mario bros 2 announced for 3ds - dota 2 will be free-to-play "with twists" - newell - soulcalibur v fitted for tekken dlc - crysis 3 announcement trailer welcomes you to the jungle - ex call of duty strategist opens robotoki studio - littlebigplanet 2 welcomes journey and escape plan dlc - agricultural simulator: historical farming trailer contains some bloody handsome tractors - skype revealed for playstation vita: free app available now - call of duty: black ops 2 doing future warfare?
the zx turns 30 cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - mass effect 3 - resident evil 6 - max payne 3 - elder scrolls v: skyrim - battlefield 3 - assassin's creed revelations - saints row: the third - modern warfare 3 - fifa 12 - bioshock: infinite top reviews - uefa euro 2012 review: fifa ditches the discs - and much of the content - prototype 2 review: a superbly polished world of destruction - trials evolution review: the best game on xbox live arcade.
got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
- report this post reply with quote old skool gamer on 17 apr '12 said: i really hope so, that and gta 5 before xmas would be a great send off for the 360 in its last year before the next gen arrives!
the tagline 'revenge solves  everything' is genius! - appyday
definitely gained my interest - christian-shaffer this game looks amazing!!
i assume you also use a ps3 or pc for gaming, and find the other games that way?
- icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
not to mention the amazing
- kinect star wars review: forget the dancing videos - this is kinect's best game since launch staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards @roblastcav future - media with passion future digital gamesradar - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap!
wowzers! - humanhead
computerandvideogames.com tom ivan recommended links from the web comments 8 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote flyfletch on 17 apr '12 said: looking forward to this, i was worried at first about the fact that bungie are not developing it, then the more i thought about it i realised that, there is no way in hell ms would screw up halo - report this post reply with quote general-gaming on 17 apr '12 said: major nelson gets all the ladies - report this post reply with quote dicky1993 on 17 apr '12 said: why oh why november:(, too many games released in that time!
microsoft released a load of in-game halo 4 screenshots earlier this month, showing off the title's campaign, multiplayer and some fantastic looking spartan armour.
same as last year with bf3 in oct, then mw3, then skyrim haha.
- happy birthday speccy!
- report this post reply with quote kmcroc on 17 apr '12 said: hope they release with a sweet halo 4 console design.
"reliable sources close to microsoft" told the verge that the launch date will be announced by microsoft before noon eastern time (5pm uk) today.
definitely gained my interest - christian-shaffer this game  looks amazing!!
witcher 2 and fez i just got last week.....
the best-looking game we've ever seen - 3 soul calibur 5 dlc brings tekken costumes send us your news
because i can list you a s**t load of games that are on the way that will most likely be incredible.