sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
"the games available at launch in japan do not correspond to the typology of the japanese public.
all the gameplay vids are of it running through bc as well.
this month vita sales fell 57 percent week-over-week, dropping below 20,000 units and placing it fourth in the hardware rankings.
no offence to the ceo of playstation france
ah so sony have got there chequebooks out and said to capcom - gief monster hunter nowwww.
did you never see the psp sales?
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
wait for capcom to announce something before getting excited.
the game also gave a huge boost to psp hardware sales.
computerandvideogames.com tamoor hussain editorial assistant tamoor plays anything and everything but really likes fighting games.
sign up hereusername by tamoor hussain for computerandvideogames.com philippe cardone, ceo of playstation france, has said the a playstation vita installment of capcom's wildly popular monster hunter franchise is expected in the next few months.
wasn't that just the psp version through backwards compatibility, though?
a bit of a re release with some new areas and extra polish will have fans in japan running to the game shops, and sony know it.
i don't know about that, the problem with games like mh and dq is that they sell to their userbase with in the first few weeks, 3rd has sold 4.7m already in japan so those who want it already own it they'll need to do something like release an extended version for vita, 3rd g, remember that many still have yet to buy vita due to price.
so the's no point putting the psp port on shelves.
read more recommended links
cardone has also said sony isn't under pressure to announce the ps4 and  'will probably be last to announce something'.
i've seen the difference between the psp one and vita, it looks so much better on vita.
pretty sure it's out but as a download game as it's a direct port, the game in the bc version is the same game only you get a discount, the rumors in japan is that 3rdg will surface in japan in the coming months for retail
as al bundy once said "never trust the french!" got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
in an interview with le point cardon made a direct reference to  the lack of a monster hunter title and went on to seemingly confirm when it  will show up on sony's new handheld.
"had it been there right out in japan, the story would have been different.
when quizzed on the decline cardone said "the games available at  launch in japan do not correspond to the typology of the japanese public,"  specifically calling out the lack of a monster hunter title and providing an  assurance that the european launch would be better suited to tastes.
the game console at launch will be the european better than it was for japan.
they should have had the boxed version of hm on the shelf, sure it's in the store but they need it on show in the shops.
i just don't see it happening.
he's talking about monster hunter portable 3rd the psp game which also has a ps3 and vita version and has yet to launch in the west hence why he's talking about it being present at launch.
tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
"covering december 1 through december 5, monster hunter portable 3rd sold 2,146,467 units.
the game console at launch will be the european better than it was  for japan."
i have had my vita for nealy a month.
anyone with half a brain knows this .
this is one thing i'd love to be proved wrong on, though.
monster hunter 4 is already in development as a 3ds exclusive.
read more 19 comments so far...
but i doubt he'd know anything of a new mh title.
saying that, have you seen the vita version next to the psp 3000 version?
they need to hd this and get it on the shelves.
register or log in not got an account?
it's already available in japan on vita iron it has been since launch.
on evenings and weekends he might be batman.
much like a nintendo system without a mario or zelda game, there is no point in a sony handheld without monster hunter.
"the games available at launch in japan do not correspond to the  typology of the japanese public.
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 19 by tamoor hussain for computerandvideogames.com philippe cardone, ceo of playstation france, has said the a playstation  vita installment of capcom's wildly popular monster hunter franchise is  expected in the next few months.
cannot wait to see the sales figures for this.
excellent news for the psvita this watch the internet haters cry when this 'will' boost psvita sales 'big time' in japan lol;) i wouldn't put my trust in google translate to be accurate, he could have meant that they've missed out on not having monster hunter in the coming months as he doesn't say, "which will be out in the coming months" i'm sure monster hunter will come, unless nintendo paid capcom a king's ransom.
i never saw anything about getting a dedicated vita version, and i've followed the vita since it was announced.
posted on monday 30-jan-2012 1:00 pm monster hunter vita 'scheduled for the coming months' 'european launch titles will be better suited to audience,' says  playstation exec share this
it lacks a particular game, monster hunter, scheduled for the coming months," said the sony man.
since launch, weekly vita  sales have come in at 324,859 units, 72,479, 42,648, 42,915 and now 18,361.
" cardone has also said sony isn't under pressure to announce the ps4 and 'will probably be last to announce something'.computerandvideogames.com tamoor plays anything and everything but really likes fighting games.
the's a port of it on vita not just through bc.
and thus the vita was saved.
this month vita sales fell 57 percent week-over-week, dropping below 20,000  units and placing it fourth in the hardware rankings.
ah well, if true then the vita's success is basically guaranteed, at least in the far east.
on  evenings and weekends he might be batman.
he speaks about himself in the  third-person.
i've been looking it up but everywhere has it listed as ps3 and psp.
it lacks a particular game, monster hunter,  scheduled for the coming months," said the sony man.
when quizzed on the decline cardone said "the games available at launch in japan do not correspond to the typology of the japanese public," specifically calling out the lack of a monster hunter title and providing an assurance that the european launch would be better suited to tastes.
"had it been there right out in japan, the story would have been  different.
let's not forget that.
i always said that capcom would like a slice of both pies, and it looks like i've been proven right.
since launch, weekly vita sales have come in at 324,859 units, 72,479, 42,648, 42,915 and now 18,361.
remember, in order to get 2 mhs on their system, nintendo had to make that ugly second stick...
so it is going to be monster hunter portable 3rd hd?
they need to give capcom some cash me thinks.
is this really the game saver it is supposed to be?
remember, in order to get 2 mhs on their system, nintendo had to make that ugly second stick... ....and a nice chunk of their money.
over the week, psp sold 326,639 hardware units, 4.31 times more than previous week" sales like that when psp has been out years.
he speaks about himself in the third-person.
although i do wonder if we'll ever get an english version.
the only thing i've heard about that was that highly questionable pamphlet.