stay tuned, we hope to officially announce what it is soon.
then again the length of mothership zeta was a little lacking.
job ad hints at a possible littlebigplanet mmo: http://t.co/troxnjue #ps3 retweet this click an  outstanding title that offers a uniquely tough take on role playing.
- report this post reply with quote kmcroc on 12 apr '12 said: it would be nice if bethesda offered this "add-on" at a discounted rate or even for free as compensation to ps3 owners for putting up with a broken game for six months.
- crysis 3: first screens and details released - psn going offline today for 13 hour maintenance - call of duty sales 'slowing down' - around the network - april showers edition - witcher 2 xbox 360 review: darker than skyrim, sexier than mass effect - better than both?
im on pc so... - report this post reply with quote lordirongut on 12 apr '12 said: i, too, would hope for more shivering isles than mothership zeta.
related content reviews the elder scrolls v: skyrim review dragon master 73 more latest news 14
sometimes the journey isn't better than the destination... - 3 first prototype 2 review is pleasant surprise: 'an open-world gem'
cant say 30 day exclusive bother me so much you never know they may have worked the bugs out by the time the pc, ps3 version releases lol - report this post reply with quote k-mysta on 12 apr '12 said: hope they add stuff from game jam - report this post reply with quote thelastdodo on 12 apr '12 said: it would be nice if bethesda offered this "add-on" at a discounted rate or even for free as compensation to ps3 owners for putting up with a broken game for six months.
what do you want to see? computerandvideogames.com tom ivan recommended links from the web comments 20 comments so far... - report this post reply with quote dralel on 12 apr '12 said: here's hoping for something similar to shivering isles.
- report this post reply with quote demigod001 on 12 apr '12 said: it would be nice if bethesda offered this "add-on" at a discounted rate or even for free as compensation to ps3 owners for putting up with a broken game for six months.
- gt academy 2012 starts may 1st with kazunori yamauchi created qualification event - dragon's dogma ps3 preview: the strangest rpg of 2012?
ziggywiggy looks fabulous... can't wait to play it!
- cvg  gritty, sexy, vicious, sumptuous... an exciting pathway for the genre. - cvg
- report this post reply with quote dicky1993 on 12 apr '12 said: hmmm ms should spend more money on making a new 360 exclusive franchise - report this post reply with quote lordirongut on 12 apr '12 said: interesting.
- report this post reply with quote queen skillage on 13 apr '12 said: has i.5 fixed that?
timed exclusives are bulls**t, but i don't care either way.
- cvg posted on thursday 12-apr-2012 3:19 pm skyrim dlc to offer 'new quests, locations, features, and much more' bethesda "hard at work" on first game add-ons, which will be timed xbox 360 exclusives share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to stumbleupon close comments 20 by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com in a footnote to today's announcement of official kinect support for the elder scrolls v: skyrim, bethesda made some mention of upcoming dlc for the game.
it plays and it works now, stop perpetuating the myth this game is still broken when you clear know nothing.
" in february skyrim game director todd howard hinted at potential skyrim dlc by showing off some of the fruits of the company's week-long 'game jam', an annual tradition that lets developers at the studio go wild with their imaginations on company time.
- far cry 3 multiplayer ps3 video preview: the team that plays together... - crysis 3 announced - polytron working on "serious" fez bugs - report: ea to lay off over 500 staff - fifa street reclaims uk top spot - game group secures ea stock - ea luring lapsed old republic players with free week - spirit camera confirmed for europe - game group secures nintendo stock - patrick bach steps up to lead dice - the friday game:
tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
- cvg gritty, sexy, vicious, sumptuous... an exciting pathway for the genre. - cvg
what can the rumoured specs do?
- report this post reply with quote thelastdodo on 12 apr '12 said: it would be nice if bethesda offered this "add-on" at a discounted rate or even for free as compensation to ps3 owners for putting up with a broken game for six months.
it certainly ran a lot better than both fallout 3 and new vegas even after they where patched.
youtube.com/user/cvg - rss keep up to date rss feed top games - mass effect 3 - mass effect 3 - mass effect 3 - ps vita - resident evil 6 top reviews - witcher 2 xbox 360 review: darker than skyrim, sexier than mass effect - better than both?
register or log in not got an account?
witcher 2 xbox 360: first 10 minutes video - witcher 2 xbox 360 review round-up: one of the best rpgs of this generation cvg store the elder scrolls 5: skyrim from £24.75 amazon marketplace uk in stock £24.75 amazon.co.uk in stock
*wakes up* talk about having a dream.
- report this post reply with quote skyly on 12 apr '12 said: and when can we expect this dlc?
"bethesda game studios has been hard at work on creating the first set of game add-ons that will beexclusive to the xbox 360 video game and entertainment system from microsoft," it said.
this is a  must-buy for me! - wwinterj
even something like knights of the nine would be pretty decent, i just don't want them to take the route they did with most of the fallout 3 dlc again - with one or two exceptions most of it was poor.
the fallout 3 dlc deal seemed more agonising for my ps3-only brethren, seeing as it was much longer.
- dragon's dogma ps3 demo on eu store april 25th - crysis 3 preorder details: hunter edition, plus stalker, predator and overkill packs - crysis 3 first info: nanodomes, bows and prophet - crysis 3 ps3 screens released, set for 2013 release date - the playstation quiz: whose tattoo?
supposedly it's helped it but not fixed it.
job ad hints at a possible littlebigplanet mmo: http://t.co/troxnjue #ps3 retweet this click an outstanding title that offers a uniquely tough take on role playing.
i too would prefer a full fledged expansion to the episodes that fallout and new vegas got, - report this post reply with quote budge on 13 apr '12 said: different wild animals and enemies would be nice.
now, it's already on the disk - report this post reply with quote lordirongut on 12 apr '12 said: and when can we expect this dlc?
pongs - ssx 2012 prepares to get tricky with retro dlc - origin update: ea lifts the banhammer on single-player lockouts - dragonball z kinect trailer leaked!
i'm lovin' the kill animations for magic right now, it looks ace!
sign up here username password - all - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - blog - competitions - game a to z - hd video - feeds - video - latest video - related video - featured video - popular - game trailers - gameplay footage - video interviews - cinematics - xbox - xbox news - xbox reviews - xbox previews - xbox features - xbox interviews - oxm - xbox world magazine - playstation - playstation news - playstation reviews - playstation previews - playstation features - playstation interviews - psn - psm3 - nintendo - nintendo news - nintendo reviews - nintendo previews - nintendo features - nintendo interviews - onm - ngamer - pc - pc news - pc reviews - pc previews - pc features - pc interviews - pc gamer - onlive - onlive news - onlive reviews - onlive previews - onlive features - forums - xbox forums - playstation forums - nintendo forums - pc forums - off topic forum - store a "major ps3 exclusive" is reportedly set to be revealed on may 2.
- icar - official xbox magazine - official playstation magazine - official nintendo magazine - ngamer - psm3 - xbox world 360 - edge - jobs - press & advertising - privacy policy - terms & conditions - international - digitalfuture © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
- report this post reply with quote daedalus79 on 12 apr '12 said: so i buy the ps3 version and get a near unplayable game and now i have to either wait an extended amount of time or maybe not even get this dlc at all?
its perfectly playable since the 1.4 patch, i started play february 26 and platinumed the game is about 100hours with only one crash the whole time, some frame rate issues but nothing major or game breaking.
would like to spend hours lost in a new mysterious world.
*wakes up* has i.5 fixed that?
promising ideas buried by lack of focus staff - john houlihan @johnh259 - andy robinson @espio1 - tom ivan - tamoor hussain @tamoorh - thomas east - edwin thirlwell evans - mike jackson - james jarvis - david boddington - gav murphy - darren wells @darrenwells - shaun prescott @shaun_prescott - rob edwards
computer and video games -
this game looks awesome! - satanscraft
i dunno, i think a spaceship crashing into skyrim would be pretty epic.
- report this post reply with quote joe90_remy700 on 12 apr '12 said: and when can we expect this dlc? - report this post reply with quote taus on 12 apr '12 said: and when can we expect this dlc?
- cvg cvg home / posted on thursday 12-apr-2012 3:19 pm skyrim dlc to offer 'new quests, locations, features, and much more' bethesda "hard at work" on first game add-ons, which will be  timed xbox 360 exclusives share this
this is a must-buy for me! - wwinterj
- report this post reply with quote toasted_psp on 13 apr '12 said: has i.5 fixed that?
atleast it's possible to run through a town now.
- report this post reply with quote demigod001 on 12 apr '12 said: wonder how much this cost ms?
- report this post reply with quote wheresmymonkey on 13 apr '12 said: i, too, would hope for more shivering isles than mothership zeta.
a huge, complex and expertly written rpg. - oxm
i wonder if they're doing chinese air jordan dlc for skyrim?
as with bethesda's previous titles, there'll be multiple dlc packs with "a lot of meat on them".
here's what we want to see from skyrim dlc.
you still here, reading comments?
i'm maxing out the last 40 quid on my  credit card to buy this one! - danhalen74
an  outstanding title - offers a uniquely tough take on role-playing.
*wakes up* - report this post reply with quote the bossman on 12 apr '12 said: good stuff, i have barely found half the locations though 2 months later.
it's helped it heaps, but it's not perfect.
now, it's already on the disk i didn't know capcom published skyrim!
what we want to see from skyrim's dlc... popular now - 1 halo 4 release date is november 6, report claims - 2 game worlds are getting too big.
- kinect star wars review: forget the dancing videos - this is kinect's best game since launch - ridge racer unbounded review: a series reboot that's slow off the grid - kid icarus uprising review: daring reinvention is 3ds's most exciting game yet - silent hill downpour review:
now, it's already on the disk i see what you did there!
a huge, complex and expertly written rpg. - oxm an outstanding title - offers a uniquely tough take on role-playing.
in all seriousness, is 30-day exclusivity that big a deal i wonder?
£24.99 simply games no information £32.85 cvg gaming since 1981 top of page navigation - xbox - playstation - nintendo - pc - forums - news - reviews - previews - features - interviews - competitions - game a to z - contact us - sitemap find us online - twitter follow us on twitter @cvg_uk - facebook join us on facebook fb.com/computerandvideogames - youtube watch us on youtube
the latest gaming news, reviews, previews & movies sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
- poppy28 i'll be picking this up for sure! -
more - skyrim iphone app maps out greatness - skyrim ps3 patch is 'a vast improvement' - video features & interviews skyrim dlc: will bethesda ever top shivering isles?
they have money to waste so let them do it.
send us your news got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
i'm maxing out the last 40 quid on my credit card to buy this one! - danhalen74
run, you fools, run - go buy it! -
"this additional content will add new quests, locations, features, and much more to the world of skyrim.
@roblastcav future - media with passion - techradar - musicradar - bikeradar - cyclingnews - sfx - gamesradar - cvg - totalfilm - .net - pcgamer - photoradar - tap!
ziggywiggy looks fabulous... can't wait to  play it!
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close
in december he also said skyrim dlc will focus on "ways to make the game better, not just have more, because the game is so big".
- skyrim dlc teased by bethesda? - nintendo/miyamoto confirm new mario game for e3 reveal - dragon's dogma demo coming next week, new trailer emerges - space quest developers announce spaceventure - crysis 3 release date set for spring 2013, first images revealed - pokemon black and white 2 - see first trailer and new screens - everquest ii skyshrine update will cater to all, dabble in time travel get more from cvg - first prototype 2 review is pleasant surprise: 'an open-world gem' - assassin's creed 3: the wii u revolution - ubisoft's first lady: jade raymond on building ubisoft toronto - ghost recon online beta: new keys available!
email: news@cvg.co.uk - official playstation magazine uk: new issue on sale now - we build a ps4!
off topic forum store a "major ps3 exclusive" is reportedly set to be  revealed on may 2.