the ps3 did no upscalling whatsoever and you go ahead and put your ps2 copy in and look at how s**t it looks with the ps3 @trying@ to upscale this.
oh yeah, that'd involve spending a bit, rather than making users pay twice.
but that'd require more work which ain't going to happen.
guns of the patriots was just plain awful,it tried so hard to be a metal gear game it forgot to offer any actual game (such was my horror at guns,as soon as i had completed it i felt i had to play my psx copy of mgs from start to finish)
and in some cases, its actually cheaper buying the hd remakes than the ps2 copies.
does anyone know how true this is cos i dont wana get too excited about it until im sure itll happen.
if this happens, i will buy a ps3.
somehow, despite 24 years of gaming, i have only ever played mgs4 which i hated lol
"what are you playin' around with that ketchup for?" would be fantastic if it included mgs 2 substance and mgs 3 subsistance,but they will probably follow as some sort of dlc.
twas the last game i played on my ps2.
oh there you are love the hd remixes.
but i'm wanting 2 and 3 - like now!
twin snakes is the better version.
=/ as much as i love it,i'd much rather see twin snakes,and metal gear solid 2,metal
i've also got twin snakes on the cube.
hd classics are pointless if people say if you want ps2 bc then get a ps2 so why dont these same hypocrites buy these hd classics which arent really hd they are just upscaled like what the 60gb
hopefully they can get something in place to secure twin snakes rather than the original as it was more or less the same graphics as 2+3
i bought mgs 1,2 and 3 from ebay for pennies but cant be arsed to set up the ps2 again.
not that i am a fan of mgs, but this will sell like all hell, probably mostly to people that have gone through them countless times before.
played that kinda recently and it still stands up as a great game today.
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 62 by tim ingham for computerandvideogames.com an hd reworking of the original metal gear solid trilogy is on the way to  ps3, according to 'insider whispers' heard by the ears of the uk's official  playstation magazine.
the gow collection looked good
register or log in not got an account?
could it be joined by its predecessors in full hd later this year?
if 'metal gear solid hd trilogy coming to ps3' was a headline then why do the people who don't like mgs bother reading it or commenting on it?
as for this point, i am going to assume you do not own a ps3 and assume you haven't seen gow collection running either.
end of argument tbh i wonder if psycho mantis will be able to read the hdd this time, i seem to remember he couldn't in mgs4.
well apart from halo what remakes could you do for xbox?
it enjoys a very healthy 94 per cent average review score on metacritic.
the gow collection is gorgeous,especially god of war ii,it's noticeably different in terms of overall polish/sheen and enhanced audio.
it enjoys a very healthy 94 per cent average review  score on metacritic.
" speaking of ironside,we're due a splinter cell hd collection too right?
in the mag's new issue, in stores now, it reports that snake is "in  the facelift queue", and that the "first three" mgs games are  set to be reborn in high definition.
in the voice of michael ironside before he gets his arms embarrisingly ripped off by arnold schwarnegger in the following scene: "about god-dammned time!
by tim ingham for computerandvideogames.com an hd reworking of the original metal gear solid trilogy is on the way to ps3, according to 'insider whispers' heard by the ears of the uk's official playstation magazine.
"shut up in there, will 'ya?" http://thesnakesoup.org/wiki/images/2/2c/shutupinthere.gif atchoo!!
everything else is either the same or better.
roll on mgs hd yessssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss in the name of all thats holy please be true raiden nude in hd snake?
they changed the accents of the women, they just made them all american...which is hardly game breaking.
super mario 64 on my n64 when he was nearly 5.
this is the best rumor ever.
i must admit that i would buy it and put it to the bottom of my to play list.
snake eater was back to brilliant with amazing set-pieces and presence......
sign up hereusername
we've contacted sony and konami for comment.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
but people just enjoy being c**ts.
yeah that doesn't sound at all right does it?
check out a sci-fi-themed special official playstation magazine issue 54, on sale now.
and i know id still pay to play them again omfg didnt think it was possible but reading this made me jizz out of every part of my body xd omfg didnt think it was possible but reading this made me jizz out of every part of my body xd @silence020 twice apparently.
if they re-did everything, cutscenes, textures, lighting, shaders etc and released it in a retail boxed version then i would definitely be inclined to pick up a copy.
also if you truly hate something you have to like it in some twisted kind of way, i would rather not care for something than hate it.
ofcourse, if you have the ps2 copies you probably have a ps2 as well so just use that.
the only one i'd want to play again is mgs3 and thats getting a release on the 3ds
*waves cane* hd classics are pointless if people say if you want ps2 bc then get a ps2 so why dont these same hypocrites buy these hd classics which arent really hd they are just upscaled like what the 60gb
the 60gb upscales the ps2 games but it is not hd.
i was about to make a comment about how microsoft release some of their old games and also have short games with multiplayer tacked on.
will this be a simple facelift like prince of persia or more like the gamcube version of mgs i wonder what happened to '' people don't buy ps3 to play ps2 games '' ?
i could do that simply by putting the original ps2 game in my ps3.
edit : well sony said people don't buy ps3 to play ps2 games and hd remakes are basically ps2 games.
and i have the original mgs on the ps3 and it just won't hold up without some sort of overhaul.
i own the first four mgs games, but would be very interested in a hd remake of the first three, providing it is proper hd and not what they did with god of war 1+2 and simply re-released the old games and allowed the ps3 to upscale those old textures.
oh there you are now,do your flies up
they are classic games, bargain price and in their hay day they were great.
what happened to '' people don't buy ps3 to play ps2 games '' ?
" in the voice of michael ironside before he gets his arms embarrisingly ripped off by arnold schwarnegger in the following scene: "about god-dammned time!
here's hoping they do release it and trophies for mgs4...i can but dream exactly
idc if it's £40, i'll definitely be buying it.
i remembered being utterly wowed by how pretty the fury's balls of fire were in his boss section...
no details of release window, price or whether the trilogy will  be a boxed or digital product are given.
i'm not even interested in most hd remakes, but this is mgs.
plus any any excuse to play them again is great!
the ps3 did no upscalling whatsoever and you go ahead and put your ps2 copy in and look at how s**t it looks with the ps3 'trying' to upscale i own the first four mgs games, but would be very interested in a hd remake of the first three, providing it is proper hd and not what they did with god of war 1+2 and simply re-released the old games and allowed the ps3 to upscale those old textures.
i would probably get this since i have never played mgs we shall see.
my point is that it is enjoyable to play these 'old' games and if they look prettier with a few layers of make up then im all for it.
now all we need is a confirmation of the dmc hd collection and i'm a happy man.
i could do that simply by putting the original ps2 game in my ps3 did you even play the gow collection?
would be awesome to play through the first three titles again.
i am currently enjoying replaying classic games with him.
whats wrong with people having a ps3 to play both ps3 games and upgraded ps2 games?''
if they actually had ps3 graphics that would be another story go away.
i just wish a little more work would go into some of these hd releases that aren't just making them sharper and pointing out old gen textures.
*folds arms patiently and waits for the jak and daxter trilogy's turn to get the hd treatment* hd classics are pointless if people say if you want ps2 bc then get a ps2 so why dont these same hypocrites buy these hd classics which arent really hd they are just upscaled like what the 60gb
got pop trilogy the other day (zavvi £15 quid), gonna get tomb raider and this.
so no need for me to get it.
i hope they include the original 2 metal gear games too or put them up as seperate releases as my subsistence disc 2 doesnt work anymore
in the mag's new issue, in stores now, it reports that snake is "in the facelift queue", and that the "first three" mgs games are set to be reborn in high definition.
but it looks quite bad now and there are no trophies, so i would love this!
if they actually had ps3 graphics that would be another story hi, i've noticed your non biased views on all things playstation
if you did then you would know they did a fantastic job of remastering them into hd, that much so that the graphics were on par with some current gen games.
i also have a ps2 but again mgs2 & 3 don't have trophies and are not hd!
exactly but people just enjoy being c**ts.
could it be joined by its predecessors in full hd later  this year?
there's always a mention of 'cut-scenes' with talk of any mgs game but people should absolutely not forget the classic gameplay packed into mgs3, which is the most action-packed of the solid series.
well the graphics on the hd version of gow2 rivals a lot of current gen games and it looks fantastic!
yeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesss!!
thank you for editing your post.
i can see my brother getting this
because backwards compatability adds hardware costs for everyone.
email: news@cvg.co.uk from £19.99gameseek in stock £19.99 © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
this might be controversial,but i'd rather have a hd version of twin snakes,than the original version.
so, does that mean we're finally going to get a metal gear game with trophies?!
but snake eater running in hd with no frame rate problems would be a dream come true, i almost got a semi just seeing this headline.
^_^ metal gear solid 3 would be the highlight of this collection for me though,easily the best in the solid series.
it's worth it for mgs3 alone.
these hd classics which arent really hd they are just upscaled like what the 60gb ps3 does.
in your view and now we know.
or buy it online and have it delivered to your door 62 comments so far... snaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaake!
check out a  sci-fi-themed special official playstation magazine issue 54, on sale now.
sons of liberty was a great game buried under an avalanche of ego and poor plotting....
well i'd be first in queue if this is true.
just give us backward compatability.
and further more the hd facelifts are more than just a simple upscale.
yeah they should bring it back
or  buy it online and have it delivered to your door computerandvideogames.com
because nintendo had a hand in developing it.
wish they would do a killzone 1 remix surprised xbox dont do the same for their followers.
wasn't really a fan of the second game, and i'm not sure how the first one will benefit from being made hd with ps1 graphics.
"uh what was that noise" !
i also remember that he couldn't move the pad either due to the joke that is/was sixaxis!
he got a wii from 'santa' and whilst he has enjoyed playing pikachu's adventure he is more interested in vc games!!
so playing ps2 games from bc is a big no
*changes pants* great news!
although with all the hd remakes it does sort hurt that sony took away the bc option.
the argument for ps2 games on a ps3 is pointless they are 3 classic games in hd with trophies and a must buy for me
are you going to bang on about it until you convince the rest of us?
i'll buy it just for mgs3.
making improved hd remakes of classics means those fans who want to play ps2 games can get an improved version of them at a reasonable price and those who dont want to play ps2 games dont need to pay more for a feature their not going to use.
tactical espionage action blew my mind in about 193 different ways.....
ps2 · adventure konami got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
some people just can't except it and imo it had only 2 flaws.
not to mention they probably helped finance the project.
i see you pay attention.
but i doubt they ever will do though seeing as the ps3 isn't very good for emulating ps2 games, but then neither is alot of pc's.
love the hd remixes.
but no they dont look as good as next gen titles.
twin snakes is the nuts but you wont get that on the ps3 in the next 5000 years.
"shut up in there, will 'ya?" http://thesnakesoup.org/wiki/images/2/2c/shutupinthere.gif
they made it more "hollywood" by having everyone doing back flips like they were from the matrix, not really a flaw though.
posted on friday 21-jan-2011 4:54 pm metal gear solid hd trilogy coming to ps3?
i for 1 would love hd updates at such a high level like gow.
but hd remakes are fine?
whats wrong with people having a ps3 to play both ps3 games and upgraded ps2 games?
my original ps2 burnt out between playing that and san andreas so i never really got the chance to go through it a few times as i had to borrow a mates ps2 to finish snake eater.
im not gonna lie ...
official playstation magazine's insider whispers say 'yes' share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
it would be a great game for the collection!
playing ps2 games look horrible on hd tvs.
however, any reworking of kojima-san's much-loved original trio will be music to the ears of playstation nuts, with the games still very much considered classics of the genre.
i don't see why they shouldn't be allowed to use twin snakes.
gear solid 3 and possibly peace walker if hideo considers porting it.
metal gear solid would need alot of work doing to get it looking good nowadays even with a hd coat of paint, and i wouldn't think they'd be allowed to use twin snakes as the base.
i can't wait to see otacon's p**s in hd these games have been in the back of my mind for ages with buying a ps2 to get them but this is brilliant news, i have mgs1 and 4 on ps3 already
but i have my eyes firmly set on snake eater for 3ds.
which i get, seeing as i'll be doing the same with team ico's games and whatever is rehashed on the 3ds.
lightning bolt action?....meh ''
however, any reworking of kojima-san's much-loved original trio will be  music to the ears of playstation nuts, with the games still very much  considered classics of the genre.
snaaaaaaakkkkeeeeeee?
metal gear solid 4: guns of the patriots is currently the only mgs title  to be released for ps3.
only problem is i won't be able to use my action replay to unlock all the weapons and equipment.
we have been playing super mario 1 and 3 (2 not so much...lol) since he was 4.
if they actually had ps3 graphics that would be another story hd classics are pointless
metal gear solid 4: guns of the patriots is currently the only mgs title to be released for ps3.