i feel the same way as all of the nay sayers, but have great games and they will come.
so xbox 720 games will be more expensive than ps4 games?
fair enough, my good svd.
no dvd, bluray or cd playback.
psvita can play ps3 games (soon) over the internet
if it's moving to cart or flash media in addition to download like the vita then perhaps it might be okay, but a 50gb flash drive is going to cost a fair bit more than a disk.
if games go download only then we're going to need big bloody hard drives!
would there be a standard hd drive and 1/2 ssd's?
having to constantly delete old games and, if you fancy a "quick" go of an old game, it'll take around 8-10 hours to load as you redownload it....
overall i like the idea of it, probably wouldn't buy at launch
it is hardly appealing to the masses.
blu - ray is more than adequate which is a major plus point of owning the ps3.
i'm not actually against the whole idea.
for 5yrs of ps3 gaming i've never had an issue with any blu-ray disc.
sounds like i'll have to keep my xbox 360 then.
beyond that we do not comment on rumors or speculation.
microsoft said in response to the report: "xbox 360 has found new ways to extend its lifecycle like introducing the world to controller-free experiences with kinect and re-inventing the console with a new dashboard and new entertainment content partnerships.
"if true, microsoft's digital move would usher in a new era for home games consoles and represent a major blow to the games retail market.
oh and by the way it's a report not a fact.............
my only saving grace wis
makes sense to be honest as in the past solid state forms of memory has been the ceiling on how far cartridge consoles could go when they bowed out with the n64.
the console itself will probably be a lot cheaper to produce, and so will probably draw buyers by buying the console, and then they have no choice but to buy the understandably expensive games.
it's always a little nicer when responses are polite too.
i wouldn't worry 2nd hand games will become far more scarce anyway when the highstreet stores go bang, which according to most on here is a good thing.
the whole second hand market is wiped out with ease !
no discs, then no buy.
it won't play films unless the disk is basically 100% clean - no dust, no slight finger prints at all... the 360 has form for scratching dvds and makes a racket and a drive is just another moving part to to break down...
as long as prices aren't bat s**t crazy like they currently are on consoles then it's all good digital distribution is a good thing, and alot of people are using it more and more as time goes on ...
my wii wouldn't read certain discs either and nintendo had to replace the drive.
and piracy doesn't matter what the media the content is delivered on, its about the protect the hardware / software offers that matters, nds uses cards and was been hacked wide open, ps3 uses discs and has very little piracy.
sign up hereusername
and as technology moves on, then in the not too distant future that £4-£8 pricetag will probably apply to the 16gb sd cards, then the 32gb ones not long after that.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
ultimately it won't matter what type of hdd you have beyond it loading and copying quicker on a ssd, as you'll be downloaing it to your drive from the net, or copying it from a memeory card, copying it from a optical drive etc.
360 microsoft are you ready to go entirely digital?if
shame you have those issues with the blu-rays.
but i wis wondering about solid state drive(s) as opposed to cards.
most aaa games now tend to be roughly 10-15gb, rage was around 25gb.
*sigh* i'm tired of the micro-control schemes of the gaming industry and personally i'm just about ready to walk away entirely.
could someone wi more tech knowledge than me say if this is viable or nae?
and one i'd be in favour of, actually.
been a loooong day you wouldn't have got a 512gb ssd for £200.
i also fail to see how it would benefit developers either
i'm gonna buy playstation or the new vavle console instead.
reason i'm wondering is because i fail to see any benefit for us consumers.
xbox 720 cans pre-owned, we all lose opinion: don't declare war on the used game market, says james jenkins got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
but i'm sure they'll think of some horrible build quality issue.
i don't want a download only console, but from a durability point of view i'd rather less optical media.
less moving parts means less things to go wrong.
but i'm one aaa game away from being seriously tempted.
so its not only nintendo not including hard drives?
i got an email from aria i think it wis with a 512gb ssd (crucial) for the 200 note mark i think so thought hmmm they have come down heaps since i built my rig a year ago.
i dunno i'd much prefer to carry on being able to play my dvds, cds and blu-rays on one machine and really am hoping for backwards compatibility this time.
the whole text is where this article gets confusing.
they could implement a check and update type system on the new carts.
hopefully not the end of physical media though, just the end of scratchable discs.
but it is still too early to completely abandon physical discs.
and it will lead to some people boycotting the console entirely...
devs could make a game on a 2gb card or 32gb card but the price disparity between the two must be huge.
this still will be cartridge media ,as the old carts we used to use were only rom type.(they could only be read,not written to).so
that's according to mcv, which says microsoft has been briefing  partners under what sources describe as "the strictest nda" they have  ever encountered.
wouldn't using sd cards make it more like 3ds.
ms will only f**k the customer over if they think they'll make money out of it, i doubt they'll be greedy if they don't see it working out for them overall.
if true, microsoft's digital move would usher in a new era for home games  consoles and represent a major blow to the games retail market.
it's about time they did,as todays solid state media has evolved way past the expensive rom carts we used to use.
however i do have my fears for pre-owned and the price all these mediums are gonna cost, ms and sony have a habit of really overcharging for space.
and it will lead to some people boycotting the console entirely... couldn't see them using say a standard sd card for this, it will be its own type made by microsoft, bluray is good technology
they're by no means really dirty, but they're not necessarily pristine!
you are correct good sir.
lack of blu-ray makes sense.
itmight happen but it's not guaranteed to happen - much as various publishers, developers, and others might not like to think it there are people who will happily pirate a game yet will not purchase it even if they can't pirate it.
posted on friday 9-mar-2012 10:27 am xbox 720 won't have a disc drive - report 2013 launch date also reportedly confirmed by microsoft partners share this tweet + submit article to n4g submit article to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 74 by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com xbox 720 will launch next year without a disc drive.
massive hard drive(s) and downlaod only (if prices nae mental) would suit me fine if that's fit they are doing.
read the whole text first "offer compatibility with some sort of interchangeable solid-state card storage, although it is not known whether this will be proprietary or a more standard format such as sd".
this would also imply no moving parts to console ruling out many avenues of failure and allow consoles to regain some green credentials as these types of format use much less power than conventional hdds or the power used to spin, read and translate discs.
good point about the backwards compatibility of the discs though.
leave them on the side out of the case?
oh but my internet connection took 3 days to download resident evil 4 thinking about it ms ditching discs makes sense if they want to stop pre-owned games as rumours suggest as they will be able to write data to the card and kill it from being used in another console.
having said that isn't the 360s drive supposed to be p**s poor?
who usually swallows the costs more often than not?
if its not backward compatible, im not even bothering.
i ain't even put a ssd in my rig yet so not to up on pro's n con's.
the site claims the console will "offer compatibility with some sort of interchangeable solid-state card storage, although it is not known whether this will be proprietary or a more standard format such as sd".
well, if that turns out to be the case, and i'm not saying it will be, but if it does turn out that way, then i will not be an early adopter.
i have unlimited broadband, i use steam and have a s**t load of games on it, my hard drive handles them fine and downlaoding new games is quick enough.
if the hardware was proprietary it would take a long time to hack.
our broadband infrastructure is nowhere near ready for a digital only console and to think it is would be madness.
but as has been said, there will be so little piracy and pre-owned games, ms could probably afford lower profits on the games.
only people who are brainwashed would buy it.
but that's another argument and one that not 1 person can produce any facts or evidence to say if it'll create more sales or not.
kinect shows how good ms are at brainwashing people though doesn't it, maybe they are encourage by how well they manage to pull the wool over people eyes with that device that this seems a doable move to them.
the site claims the console will "offer compatibility with some sort  of interchangeable solid-state card storage, although it is not known whether  this will be proprietary or a more standard format such as sd".
of course some exclusively buy flac and mp3's.
a lot of peoples issues are with not having enough money.
and what in my response does not refer to that possibility of download and/or flash media as the medium?
and getting a lot of data on yer drives if it is download only.
beyond that we do not comment on rumors or speculation."
i know i'd get a ps4 instead.
ipods is just a nice portable device.
on a more neutral note it would most likely kill off the pre-owned market, ending the need for online passes - hopefully.
i guess this explains the "you can't play second hand games" rumour then.....
i will never buy a digital download only console because i like boxes and physical media, on my shelves are rows going back to the snes era never say never.
for: er....struggling here.
i'm not one for having consoles all over the place.
why will there be less piracy and less pre-owned games, surely the cards can still be sold on (unless blocked through software which could easily be done with disc).
well, *if* this report turns out to be true then it looks like i shan't be purchasing the next ms console or any other console that goes the digital-only route.
cartridge gaming mark 2 is arriving.
and as with most business models the end consumer usually ends up bearing the brunt of increased sales costs - i expect the same to be the case here if true, though perhaps a shared burden of increased cost between consumer, developer/publisher, and ms might be a hybrid possibility.
someone who actually reads things obviously you're not an american teenager!
and next gen's will be even bigger.
people with less than 8mb download far outweigh the ones who have over 8mb download in the uk.
it will flop...badly.
email: news@cvg.co.uk © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
so no backwards compatibility for xbox 360?
maybe in a few more years we'll see them, i can't see it for 2013 or whenever the next xbox is coming out.
i don't think i could continue gaming if it goes digital, as you're just buying fresh air.
as other people have mentioned without a disc drive there's less to go wrong (my brother constantly complains that his 360 can't read a number of his games - he had an awful time with a new copy of saint's row 3 not working properly) and it also would read the data considerably faster.
so, it would force brand new sales, but that is very blinkered of course.
either way this is all "rumour and speculation" which microsoft we all knowlove to comment on.
seriously i've not had 1 disc error since i've had my ps3, but then i've never had a single finger print on my discs and if there's a spec of dust i blow it off before putting in my console.
not even ones that are true!
voodoo - i don't think ms are that stupid.
and pre-owning could be reduced by making it so when a game is played on a console, it can only ever be played on that console, unless you pay for some unlock, when a disc can not be modified, it's the console itself that remembers if a game has been played, the cartridge could easily have modifiable parts.
well to be honest mate, all the brs i've watched have come via lovefilm.
microsoft don't want to hand a chunk of their profits to sony each time......
on the more negative side you lose out on backwards compatibility with disc based xbox 360 and xbox games - though your pc might be able to play them soon if those windows 8 rumours are true.
maybe storing saves and your profile for playing on a mates machine.
the industry is not ready for this.
still i've put muckier dvds and cds in various players over the years and generally they weren't as bad as my experience with br discs.
i am sure skyrim on pc was only a 5gb install?
my 3 ps3s have never had a single disc read error.
it would be the biggest flop in all of history.
then all sony has to do is have a disc drive and they've already wrapped up next gen.
wis thinking maybe it is solid state storage but on a bigger scale if they really are going download only.
knock your console over with a disk and its f**ked beyond repair, the same cant be said for sd cards etc.
the highlighted parts above .
the worlds infrastructure just isn't ready for download only games of this size.
why wait for the future?....
if microsoft go download only will i have to be a gold subscriber to access the store?
most people have not pirated a 360 game.
i was wandering if they got the report right.
it wouldn't surprise me if they did.
having boxes and discs mean jack s**t to me 'cus i ain't a mental hoarder.
i like my next gen console rumours to be served with a big steaming mug of arse gravy.
late 2014/2015 for my bet
" certainly implies that this move will effect retail and represent a new era in home consoles implying digital only.
i wis talking about a few years away, i just can't see it coming out in 2013 epsecially if it's downlaod only.
also, all sony has to do is not do this, & they will destroy ms next gen.
i get to watch films in the best quality without having to purchase yet another device for the living room.
if the x720 doesn't have a disk drive, i promise all of you, that i will eat my own head.
i think they are up to what 512gb or 1tb now and while still pricey they are coming down all the time.
no disk tray is a great idea considering the constent disk read errors i got on my old 360.
maybe the carts will be snes shaped.
next thing you'll be telling me is that i wont be listening to tapes or cd's on the bus journey into work!
most people have bought a second hand game/traded one in.
i have to eject discs out of my ps3 pretty often, mainly films though and bf3.
if bought in bulk, we are probably talking considerably less.
computerandvideogames.com
that's a very interesting idea.
"computerandvideogames.com 74 comments so far...
aye, and speaking of the dashboard update, i am singularly unimpressed.
perhaps this next generation isn't the time to squeeze more money out of people.
we've come full circle (nearly).tape,disc,cartridge,(floppy)disc,and now back to a solid state fast loading cart type medium,yay
and red dead redemption's install size was what, just under 7gb?
good thing about blu-ray discs is that they are really hard to scratch unless you purposely scratch them with a sharp object.
it wont be download only, id bet good money on it.
register or log in not got an account?
now if we were still dealing with ps2s drives then my opinion would be different entirely.
having to cope with 50gb downloads on the uk's 2.5mbps average, or buy games on hugely expensive memory cards.
so: against: no backwards compatibility.
power consumption probably would be lower and they could make the unit smaller.
mind you, somebody at ms thought that dashboard was a good idea, so this just might be f**king stupid enough to be true.
dd would kill the used market though.
i will never buy a digital download only console because i like boxes and physical media, on my shelves are rows going back to the snes era
but i've noticed with the ps3 its just really really slow for some reason, atleast with these mediums of cartridge we wouldn't need to worry about install times and transfer speeds between data and the console and loading times could be near enough wiped out, atleast very quick, the pcs are rapid at loading games when they come from the hard drive most of the time, it might be a tad expensive but if were honest which brand new console isn't?
this could mean the console will be smaller also.
unless they have more than 3 brilliant games i think most people would pass unless they are super hardcore.
thinking about it ms ditching discs makes sense if they want to stop pre-owned games as rumours suggest as they will be able to write data to the card and kill it from being used in another console.
my blu ray games/films have thrown up the odd error when not clean, even in my ps3.
i've read a few things about the br laser dying on ps3s, but still working on dvd etc - i did read somewhere about having it vertically causing problems - my ps3 was hot when it was vertical!
heck, as it stands i only buy a fraction of the games i used to on an annual basis due to this sort of crap and gaming fatigue in general.
you've a point about moving parts though, they are exposed for more wear and tear.
so i don't see how hard it would be for them to do that.
the buyer will have a more expensive hobby, would choose to give it up, or they will have to choose their games more carefully - but for games they really want, or if they just feel like a new game, they are probably going to begrudge it and buy brand new - what other choice do they have?
can see in a few years my dvd collection gone too.
am i speakin total s**t???
to again choose to have no bluray player seems crazy to me.
i would have loved blu ray - and hope it will also be an option.
i think you're getting confused!
only problem would be the increased manufacture cost as has already been said.
it wouldn't be microsoft if they didn't.
you cant be downloading 3gb for every game.
who swallows that extra cost?
i really don't wanna be p**sing about wi memory cards.
i think at e3 next year we will see for ourselves if this report is true.
cost of manufacture would be considerably higher than a dvd - at least initially, but mass producing millions and millions of these cards would reduce that right down.
my cd collection is long gone.
halo finished with reach and gears of war and mass effect is over.
granted, getting used to new things can take a bit of time but it just strikes me as being more cluttered now.
nothing beats going back to old games (on disc and cart) years after.
while it hasn't impacted the console gaming world (yet) in quite the way it has impacted the pc gaming world, requiring online connectivity to activate and play a game (even constant internet connectivity - i'm looking at you ubisoft) isn't unheard of even now.
yeah i mentioned that later on in my post just sounds like games may come on memory cards like with the 3ds and vita.
and even fit i wis saying about memory cards fo0r saves would annoy me, would it nae all be cloud storage on the next console?
streaming like onlive would be welcome too...
download only is not what the article says.
for the download only thing i da care.
how is ms offering a physical and digital version of software different to what we currently have with the ps3 and 360, the only real difference if this is true is that the physical games will be offered on sd type cards rather than optical disc, a bit like the vita.
by tom ivan for computerandvideogames.com xbox 720 will launch next year without a disc drive.
i'm with a major uk isp and get a monthly limit of 40gb.
as long as prices aren't bat s**t crazy like they currently are on consoles then it's all good
and if there isn't backwards compatibility...
if this is download only, then this will be ms's last console.
the storage size of games cards i expect will be variable.
did anyone else come away with a similar impression from the article above?
unless they brought out the hardware for super cheap and made it a subscription type arrangement.
if you can get an 8gb sd card for £4 strap 10 of them together, voila 80gb storage for the cost of maybe a 32gb card on it's own, in a home console, it's not like the "cards" need to be really small, they can just use old, cheap tech, i doubt anyone will care if the cards are the size of nes, megadrive or n64 carts, if 8gb cards sell for £4 you can assume they are a lot cheaper to produce.
people will still buy cds.
and why would you prefer it if you had less power and corporates and shareholders have more power?
looked at email and it wis a 256.
look on the bright side.
i think cartridges or cards would work well next gen.
in turn it would kill off the rental market as well - not so good.
to be fair though, the article makes it sound as though ms is considering using memory cards which i suppose technically is a feasibility although i imagine that sd cards are more expensive to manufacture than discs.
i expect a propriety sd card approach then with an optional external drive for those who want backwards compatibility...
not had an issue with my 360 in terms of reliability, although it gouged a massive circle in halo 3 when my housemate moved it, and of course it sounds like a f**king train!
what a load of rubbish!
disc read errors are a cd/dvd thing.
but if that was true their console will be dead on arrival.
you're generally looking at close to £1/gb.
i believe the rumour, i accept what you say, the implications are huge.
and in many cases, they are prolific in this activity...
but i'll give it time.
not had one yet on the slim model
some people do have decent internet, and as long as it is an option - bring it on!
back to the cartridges!
that would allow ms to keep check and control of who has first hand games and who doesn't.
where the cartreads a unique encrypted key that's stored on the console(like the system used today,(but obviously, a disc can't update itself) ,then the cartwrites this info to the game cart and updates itself to be locked to only this console .simples
so goodbye microsoft you money grabbing evil cu*** i will never buy a digital download only console because i like boxes and physical media, on my shelves are rows going back to the snes era isn't this what people said about ipod's?
what games developer is going to want to lose money because people do not have the bandwith to download their game thus losing out on a sale?
broadband technology needs to improve alot first.
bad news for backwards compatibility, good news for loading times.
faster read/write speeds, no used games, much more expensive games, very little piracy.
i see nobody has mentioned an actual ssd drive yet.
but i think the blu-ray drives have been one of the most reliable drives i've dealt with.
we don't need next gen yet but with that been said i can just buy the next gen consoles when i feel the need to do so.
if true, microsoft's digital move would usher in a new era for home games consoles and represent a major blow to the games retail market.
even digital downloads are immune to piracy, itunes is currently the main source for high quality hdtv rips in the piracy scene.
fail i don't think we're ready this generation "to come", maybe the one after.
i don't really care anymore.
plus its one of the few advantages they have over apple at the moment - big games...
solid state drives will make no difference, they could just as easily put the games on a regular hdd and the key thing is how you get the actual game onto your console.
any disk can have a read error, theyre caused by marks, scratches etc on the bottom of the disk.
i dunno really far my thinking wis going lol wasn't putting individual games on each drive but more the read/write speed.
out of curiosity, why would you be in favour of having more restrictions imposed upon yourself?
it was the first thing that came in to my head instead of sd cards.
what would be a new era for home consoles is if they did away with the physical media and sold only digital downloads, but even then the digital only era has already been kicked off with the albeit poor systems like on-live or psp-go.
on the surface that logical argument seems to make sense, but it runs afoul of the same issue that the current anti-piracy enthusiasts do time and time again: not being able to pirate a game does not automatically mean there will be an increase in sales.
i know it said solid state cards
i have 20mb whereas my friend has 1.5mb download, this highlights the gulf in speeds in different parts of the uk oes it not?
the publisher - in return for each memory card being locked to one machine, so zero second hand sales will compensate them.
not forgetting too that the £4-£5 pricetag for an 8gb sd card is the price the end consumer pays.
maybe they could link your pc and nextbox together on your home network to achieve this.
you'll need at least 512gb if you're storing all your games on them, the benefits of ssd would be wiped out by the relatively massive cost - a regular 500gb drive is about £60.
having vita diskless makes sense, having a proper console doesn't, and won't for a long while, not while most people are stuck with internet speeds lower than 10mbps.
i would not put it past ms at all to sell memory card games that require online registration or even requires the downloading of a vital bit of code to make the game(s) run.
am probs speakin total s**t again!!
of course it will hav a disc drive.
i couldna really get why you would want to put games on sd cards on a home console?
how do you get them dirty?
microsoft said in response to the report: "xbox 360 has found new ways  to extend its lifecycle like introducing the world to controller-free  experiences with kinect and re-inventing the console with a new dashboard and  new entertainment content partnerships.
a blank 32gb card costs a lot more than a blank blu-ray disc to manufacture.
we'll have to wait until e3 at least before they show their hand.
shorted the load times, which for a game like skyrim would be fantastic, and also remove the damage threat disks have.
and 512gb drives are still about £400 or thereabouts, so it's more likely to push the price up and be a hindrance as opposed to a bonus.
"we are always thinking about what is next for our platform and how to  continue to defy the lifecycle convention.
i really cant see this been true, ms would lose so many customers if they abandon physical media and they surely know that.
if you can get an 8gb sd card for £4 .
at least that person can still buy the game on disc and play it regardless of connection speed.
you're not going to sell games on individual drives, 120gb drives are still close to £100.
i will never buy a digital download only console because i like boxes and physical media, on my shelves are rows going back to the snes era isn't this what people said about ipod's?
beyond that we do not comment on  rumors or speculation."
the paying customer(s).
"we are always thinking about what is next for our platform and how to continue to defy the lifecycle convention.
provided this is true.
microsoft are moving towards the "media hub" style console and you've been able to play music and videos from your pc on your 360s for years.
10gb-50gb download is just not practical on most people's broadband.