i feel the new generation is needed, alot of games are just packed with jaggies and lag spikes and below 1080p 99% of the time, the ps4 isn't just going to bring more power, its going to bring new features just like the ps3 did, i mean look what they did with their portable playstation, its got tons of features and it looks as good as a ps3 or atleast good enough to look like one on a handheld screen, if they can innovate new technology for their handheld then imagine what they are doing with the ps4 right now, i also agree with the pc comments, hell my one was cheaper to build than what i paid for my ps3 and everygame has atleast £10 off on release, along with mod support on alot of games and free online gaming and the moment new games start to run bad all i need to do is invest £74 on another one of my graphics cards (xfx 1gb 5770) run it on crossfire and i'll be back to 60fps on everything, my xbox 360 was more expensive to buy, maintain and build a library of games for it than my pc is, you can even catch dlc cheaper on steam along with games and it looks way better than the old 360 and ps3 and i've saved about £250 on just games alone, nevermind dlc and xbox live etc, more and more of my freinds are going to pc gaming for the first time in their life, they all had either 360's and ps3's so that must be a sign for change, i was afraid of big pc prices and building it, but with a little help online and from a mate who's also into pc gaming it was a piece of cake and it was fun building the damn thing, you just got to do a little research about it, but i'm sure once the ps4 comes along or a new xbox i'll jump right back to the consoles, for now though i'm just playing mk9 on ps3 until the pc version comes out!
ea man wants the resources they have invested in this gen (which is the most expensive to develop ever for a number of reasons ) to last a bit longer.
by andy robinson for computerandvideogames.com gamers are still happy with playstation 3 and xbox 360 and ea would like to see the current generation of consoles last "a little longer".
i was thinking about assassins creed the other day, and why we're getting ezio acii clones now every year, i think its clear there hanging on for next gen b4 we see aciii.
i want more bang for my buck.
not more powerful than now just more dedicated and more open.
and no i don't want a f**king great expensive pc cluttering up my lounge, thanks.
but that's exactly the point.
better ai means the cpu team comes at you in different ways than just scripted reactions.
all the features mentioned in the comments would lead to a console priced around £500 and even then i think i'm on the low side.
3d is a fad so don't bother and after 30 minutes with a game anyone with an iq higher than 80 is used to the "improved" graphics.
developers are saying that they can't get anymore out of it in those areas because of the limitations that are there.
here is the thing when we talk about the evolution of film or literature we talk about content, when we talk about games we talk about tech...
it's called real life assholes the graphics are great but the gameplay is s**t.
get one, then you'll all shut the f**k up... i would hope the next generation of machines would have power to spare, so instead of having to comb through code making tiny optimisations everywhere, game developers could just get on with making games (that runs happily at 1080p and 60fps).
as much as i hate to say it
current gen graphics are stale.
its not just about more shiny, its about people acting like people and buildings acting like buildings doing amazing things that stretch beyond the movies.
"it'll be interesting to see how [sony and microsoft] think about it  in terms of the next generation but it seems to me that customers are happy,
developers need to fully know how to make a worthwhile experience with what we have right now instead of getting every ones and their own exaggerated hopes up that new tech is going to somehow spruce things up and give us something "better".
i have yet to see anything from any unoriginal tech demo for the "future" that impresses me.
it won't change next generation or the one after.
i'm happy with my ps3
the next gen has been here for years, its called the pc, mad cos u ain't got one?
my pc actually is as powerful as getting punched in the face by mike tyson in his heyday.
60 frames per second at 1080p on all games would be nice.
oh yes it comes with a wires free force feedback system called smartarse which gives certain people the feel as though they're getting the s**t kicked out of them.
for me it is enough it gets updated with better hardware to keep up with the graphic and offer developers more capability to do better games rather then optimizing all the time.
case in point the 3ds, it's nice and can technically do loads more than a ds, but i'm not fussed until there's at least 3 or 4 must have games (a solid rpg amongst them ) but until then my original 'phat' ds plays just fine 'ta.
that being both dev's and the consumer's.
allright dickwad erm... he's right!
i purchased my pc for video editing, music writing and graphics work, and i think that spending the sort of money on it for that purpose warrants it, however i am less convinced that buying a pc for games for the same sort of wedge is a sensible move, not that you wouldn't get superior graphics in many cases , it just doesn't seem sensible (or mature in a way).
you just made it sound more clever i liked your comment, you are now in my good books...
said this repeatedly in every pointless article about new consoles.
what is needed is more cpu power and ram, forget the graphics and focus on what would make for better games.
leave it longer until you even consider bringing out a ps4.
not by the fancy tech demo's that fantasize what developers want to happen you guys are forgetting that there is a platform that outputs at 1080+p at 250 fps without the need for texture compression and makes little sound.
does any household product ever need updating?
- windows problems with driver updates and conflicts - viruses - big box - small screen (depending on your budget)
does anything ever need updating?
the question is so dumb, so naive, it borders on ridiculous!!!
sign up hereusername
a console like that would last a long time and go a long way to holding off the eventual transition to services like onlive for a few more years.
sign up to access exclusive gaming content, win prizes and post on our forums.
i'm perfectly happy at the moment and looking forward to the fabulous november.
"it's hard for me to conceive what you would do on a playstation 4," gibeau said.
they're much longer, the online capabilities are making the way customers interact within the audience very different from when we went from psone to ps2.
but according to you, they just aren't skilled enough to accomplish it.
as console (and increasingly mobile platform) development actually leads games development now, your not going to see any huge advances/steps in the pc world of gaming either in regards to ray-tracing etc.
i think that the next generation will be the last generation really, since i think we must soon come to a point when it's not actually possible to make better graphics.
it's called real life assholes
no, it means nothing
sort of funny how most people know this except the boss and maybe cvg for why else wouldnt they bring it up.
the next bunch of next gen consoles will be fairly exotic inside and at that point will probably make gaming desktop pc fairly redundant, so enjoy it while you can as im afraid to say that within 5 years , its dodo time.
i would be quite happy to see the new consoles come out tomorrow, but only if the consoles and games warranted it and brought something new to the table.
when a developer is bringing something as beautiful in artstyle, audio, story and gameplay like deus ex, and something as fun yet simple and gorgeous to look at like the uncharted series or gears of war, it's safe to say in my opinion that any mention of new consoles is simply unneeded.
built from the ground up with their job in mind.
pc gaming has been held back by the console market for a decade.
you could make it faster, you could have more  polys and you could up the graphics a little bit...
i enjoy multiplayer just as much as the next gamer, but a really good single player game that you can get lost in is where it would be.
krazy ken used to shout about lol.
they would also need to keep physical media present.
and if all you really wanted were snazzier graphics every once in a while you'd have a pc.
if the ps4 could make delicious treats for me that would surely be a bonus.
talk to the developers and find out what they want - give them the power they need (within reason) and hopefully that can spend less effort coding bespoke engines and more time making games in a shorter time frame.
the first two years of a console's life cycle is full of games that just dont measure up.
"one of the things that we like is that the technology is consistent,  and we believe that there are still things that you can do on these systems...
email: news@cvg.co.uk from £35.79sendit.com
maybe next week he'll ask why anyone bothers to eat!!!
im now waiting for next gen bf3 pc style.
"it'll be interesting to see how [sony and microsoft] think about it in terms of the next generation but it seems to me that customers are happy, and we're happy to build games on [360 and ps3] right now.
i got the cash together for a ps3 this year, haven't been able to game this generation before that.
how does anyone who so seriously lacks intelligence and common sense end up speaking for a business like ea?
that's just ridiculous!
when they make a machine powerful enough to render 1 million zombies on screen then i'm sold.
ubi want new consoles, so do epic
i do think that the pc should be viewed as "space exploraion" and all the new grapical techniques should be road-tested there before being shifted to the next-gen consoles.
just because you can't see what the improvements would be, doesn't mean that there wouldn't be a lot.
while i like my pc, i don't want to sit at a desk and play games, neither do i want to clutter up my living room tv unit with a pc, my console looks good and fits perfectly into my tv unit and is perfect for just casually picking it up to enjoy some great media or gaming titles that even my computer phobic wife is happy to pick up and turn on.
pc gamers always say "haha get a pc and you will have those great graphics".
consoles are more for people who just want to sit on their couch and start the game without hassle.
they're much longer, the  online capabilities are making the way customers interact within the audience  very different from when we went from psone to ps2.
all that's left to do is beef up the machines.
i don't see consumers right now banging on the walls for a new platform.
"i think that [the age of] big, abrupt change in consoles where we all  pile in on top of each other and everything changes overnight is just  gone."
maybe if devs had a more grounded sense of reality, people would actually be excited.
the components and specifacations of the next gen consoles will be pointless and to expensive to sell at a low competitive price, when you can have onlive and still have the best graphics and the little onlive box for free when bought in a package deal.
for me, if you just took most of the aaa games and made them 1080p/60 (with enough room that they didn't have to skimp on textures), i'd be pretty happy.
they can keep pumping out bf 15 and madden 89 without having to spend anything.
bf3 may look better on pc but it certainly isn't to the point everyone is weeping for the console versions looking so poor.
actually, i have a question... why was this guy even born?
in the same interview, the ea labels president told cvg the publisher is  looking to re-imagine and bring back "a couple" of classic franchises.
to me this just sounds like ea wants to be lazy.
tha is if the hc even survives in its current state which is probably unlikely in itself.
" he added: "the way the business used to run where you had these big console transitions just isn't happening anymore.
" he added: "the way the business used to run where you had these big  console transitions just isn't happening anymore.
that's exactly what i meant!
it cracks me up when you get all these people comeing into the comments section of these sort of articles thinking they know more than what the experts do.
any way i fully agree that the resolution (gpu + cpu perhaps) + ram size is the only areas it could be improved.
consoles can never be future proofed to everyone's liking, sticking a shed load of ram and cpu power into it on release is just going to make it expensive and unprofitable, microsoft and sony have struggled with that, only recently becoming profitable on hardware sales.
i would like to see consoles with dedicated ai and physics cards along with sound, graphics and cpu.
cinema goers and people who read a lot of books have been consuming exaclty the same type of thing for decades or even centuries for books but videogames have evolved blindingly fast in comparison.
i'm not having anyone talking about ps4s already.
that'll help really rev up their business for the hd side, which is where we're in a really good position."
" "one of the things that we like is that the technology is consistent, and we believe that there are still things that you can do on these systems...
on 360, game are upscaled to 1080p and most modern games are sub 720p native nowadays - on ps3 they don't ever bother to upscale to 1080p on 99/100 games.
what would the ps3 even do?
anyone else with these issues?
we haven't quite squeezed the last once of hardware horsepower out of these things, as you can see with battlefield 3.
if you have the money to go that route.
ai, physics & realistic graphics all pulling together to create more believable spaces to game in epic draw distances, thousands of people running around, building buckling as cars smash into them.
who knows playstation 4 could cure cancer surely the next gen must come with like 1tb hard drives or some cloud based system where you can download stream games.
i had no problems at all with my original 'fat' 60gb ps3 (that is until the ylod).
well, i know i'm quite satisfied with ps3 and 360 graphics
do you see people who enjoy console games bitching about these "bland" graphics, when we're seeing graphically beautiful games such as uncharted?
that's according to ea labels boss frank gibeau, who in an  interview with cvg questioned what sony and microsoft could be able to do with  'next-gen' hardware over current consoles.
not needed right now for me, another 2-3 then maybe it will be about time, in the meantime as the man says buy a pc!!
and where did this guy get the idea consoles output 1080p???
yeah same here, me4pd put it better than i could.
no ps3 game i know has hit the 1920x1080 125fps
how about a console that doesn't keep crashing when i'm using playtv or the internet browser?
you guys are forgetting that there is a platform that outputs at 1080+p at 250 fps without the need for texture compression and makes little sound.
i've been playing all my games above 1080p resolutions, 60fps, 16xaa, 16xaf, etc, and that has been since 2005.
to  reddit submit article to del.icio.us submit article to digg submit article to  stumbleupon close comments 64 by andy robinson for computerandvideogames.com gamers are still happy with playstation 3 and xbox 360 and ea would like to  see the current generation of consoles last "a little longer".
the next gen is here, it's called a pc!
new consoles please.
it just looks sharper in a few areas and a few better textures.
computerandvideogames.com andy robinson acting editor andy has written about video games for ten years for publications such as  pc zone, t3, the sunday mirror and of course, cvg.read more recommended links
"frostbite 2 technology coming in can do some really interesting things that nobody is able to do, and you see some great stuff coming from our competitors too."
in a way he's right....
and i don't particularly want to shell out hundreds of pounds for new machines yet, so...
devs and tech heads show videos of some amazing new techniques, make out as if that's what will be gracing our monitors and television sets in swarms soon, and deliver very few games that even feel worthwhile of all the hype.
imagine (insert your favorite game here) would be like with better ai, greater interaction with the environment, smoother frame rates, greater physics and all the things that could suck you even more into the world the game is trying to portray.
i'll just have to make do without ea when the 720 and ps4 come out.
i can happily live with the current gaming fidelity.
another reason to update hardware, if you're sony, is 3d.
fancy effects and technical achievements do not a great game make.
a genre that really wouldn't see any jump in gameplay no matter what the hardware is?
its a i7 quad core matched with a s**t hot chunk of nvidea goodness, but i don't really play games on it , apart from sanctum (which is excellent
the magic number people, 1 million zombies.
a game doesn't have to have the best graphics in the world to be a great game.
the slim seems a far inferior version of the same product.
how abt some aa and textures that don't make you want to vomit?
that's in addition to wether i can afford it.
but you don't really want to have to pay through the nose for a new machine.
allright dickwad agree totally (without the dickwad bit, was that becessary eh?).
"it's hard for me to conceive what you would do on a playstation  4," gibeau said.
the biggest reason people get so shocked and amazed by new technology is because they think that we're already at the pinnacle of our technical prowess.
what would playstation 4 even do?
whatever, everybody's entitled to their opinion, but ea is just saying this because it's better for their bottom line.
the only thing that makes the argument at all for me for the next gen is to make all games at 60fps at 1080p as some have said.
that wont be too hard lazy lazy
in the same interview, the ea labels president told cvg the publisher is looking to re-imagine and bring back "a couple" of classic franchises.computerandvideogames.com andy has written about video games for ten years for publications such as pc zone, t3, the sunday mirror and of course, cvg.read more 64 comments so far...
why next-gen begins at e3: psm3 investigates ps4... got a hot tip or a piece of news you think we should cover?
do you see people complaining about deus ex's art style even though it's not got the greatest textures on any platform?
looking at skyrim, rage etc (360 owner but really looking forward to some ps3 exclusives in the pipe-line)
bring on a new console, load that sucker up with tons of ram and a top end cpu.
"frostbite 2 technology coming in can do some really interesting  things that nobody is able to do, and you see some great stuff coming from our  competitors too."
but i think onlive given a few years will be huge and will take a large percentage of all the consoles.
i 100% agree with this, i don't think now's the time for new consoles.
that there is the problem.
ever heard of moore's law?
they want to stay with current consoles because it's a safe bet.
that article irritated me beyond belief.
having said that, i suspect that what you really want is a kind of blurring between the capabilities of pc and hc.
it's called real life assholes you guys are forgetting that there is a platform that outputs at 1080+p at 250 fps without the need for texture compression and makes little sound.
if they make a game that took complete advantage of the power that it has, and then tried to release a neutered version to the console market, the console players would bitch and moan like crazy.
nothing that's going to stop a person having a riot on the game.
he talks up bf3 as some showcase of what they are able to achieve but doesn't mention the fact that it had to be scaled back in order to get it to work on a console.
the improvements are not going to overly effect multiplayer at the start, but the single player game could be so more immersive than what is even capable today.
carmack has rattled on about how all the assets everyone has will be re-used on the next-gen as it has cost too much in time and money to develop games recently, so we are really deluding ourselves if we think a quantum leap in tech is gonna happen.
today's games just don't do that.
your forgetting the - installation and patching that usually is more painless on consoles.
and we're happy to build games on [360 and ps3] right now.
i'm really not very fussed.
cinema evolved from still images to moving ones before the addition of sound all within 2-3 decades but many many decades later 3d came along.
i have absolutely no probs this gen lasting two more years.
we've been spoilt this generation and because nothing surprises anymore we pine for a change.
i'm intrigued to see the next generation, i would welcome it warmly, i just don't want it to be released prematurely with less functionality, less advance in visuals et al and higher cost because of it.
but that is the subject for another lecture.
other than the fact that nearly no ps3 games and blurays achieve full 1080p, even simple arade games are mostly 720 upscaled.
i won't be jumping from my ps3 anytime soon - so the next gen can wait.
"the displays are already 1080p, you're already  connected to the internet...
sure people are or rather can be connected but many people like myself (and friends) just hook up their console for some quality gaming time alone or maybe with their kids.
would explosions in gta causing thousands of people to run through the streets be better?
register or log in not got an account?
nothing some pc developer or elitist obsessed with poly counts and pointless tesselation and underwhelming directx11 upgrades, will change my mind.
your kidding me right, your using a sports game as your example?
pointing to the publisher's stunning fps contender battlefield 3, the exec  argued there's still horsepower left to squeeze out of ps3 and xbox 360.
promises and hopes, underwhelming results.
the day's of huge leaps have gone?
maybe with software built into the sdk to cheapen dev cycles and allow smaller companies entry.
but seriously even from 8bit consoles up to now not much has changed really!
they seem to be  very happy with their ps3s and 360s.
gamers happy with current-gen consoles, argues ea labels boss share this
great ideas make great games not ram and polygons.
nope, we simply do not need new consoles.
oh and hardly any of the games being released are rendered in 1080p.
he uses bf3 as an example of console graphics moving forward but its a pale showing compared to the pc version.
there was enough outcry over the £429 ps3 original pricing structure, imagine what would happen with a £599 price tag on the ps4?
i would hope the next generation of machines would have power to spare, so instead of having to comb through code making tiny optimisations everywhere, game developers could just get on with making games (that runs happily at 1080p and 60fps).
just look at the first ass creed compared to brotherhood.
the problem being is that pc games may have the better graphics, some times, but aren't getting a better game.
nintendo really didn't make a hardware advance gamble on the wii, the hardware was not revolutionary and was therefore cheap, looking at the wii u it doesn't look like a hardware advance either that will be at the forefront of graphics for years to come.
i'm happy with the current gen, but it's pretty obvious most games on console these days are 576/600p/720p native.
i personally have both depending on my need but i can for sure understand why some people only want to stick to consoles.
anyone saying that they are experts and they know better is a tool.
i don't think this guy really knows what he's talking about to be honest...
it is my duty as a consumer to want more to force the market to offer me more.
come on cvg it's ounce not once all these gamers bitching about next gen consoles should buy a pc.
new hardware is needed, but its not for the sake of graphics.
as disappointing as this generation has been (with the exception of me being extremely happy about dehr), i've no interest in even considering getting involved with new consoles., especially when the only thing they'll bring to the table is slightly better looking games that are the same old corridor and online shooters.
you know, the argument i always see from people is about about the eye candy and that is the problem.
raise your expectations!
some of the developers have said this about next-gen, some go on about graphics.
ps3 latest issue of psm3 shows off tech rumoured to be powering sony's next gen console2012: the year of playstation 4?
it's called real life assholes what the f**k are you doing reading it if your not interested........dickwad (sorry woodins)
i think he's saying that new machines would only make games look nicer.
i know for a fact that those of you who clamour for bigger, faster machines will be the most disappointed when they come because all you're going to see are games that are exactly the same just nicer looking.
i'm not willing to spend lots of money on consoles that are really not going to be a massive leap in graphics or any different control schemes or anything.
and the other point that devs spend most of their time, money and brain power on squeezing the ps3 rather than putting the expenses into the game content and ideas becuase the consoles have terribly small abouts of ram.
sorry but the difference in quality between pc and console right now.. is simply not big enough to impress me.
don't get me started on the 360's dirt old dvd.
a football bouncing a bit more nicely or facial expressions just a little bit less stupid.
i don't see  consumers right now banging on the walls for a new platform.
i'll stick with my consoles and current pc thank you very much.
allright dickwad bring on a new console, load that sucker up with tons of ram and a top end cpu.
the question of an update could be used for any product.
people are talking about pc again because the consoles are so freaking outdated.
this question coming from the company who believes gamers are happy with the online pass doesn't surprise me!
bring out the ps4 now ffs.
i've been trying to make churros recently and to be honest, i suck at it.
ah i remember when i would imagine like that too bad that sort of stuff is promised each time and we still end up with the same stuff we've been playing for the last ten years.
that'll  help really rev up their business for the hd side, which is where we're in a  really good position."
the experiences need to evolve.
all these gamers bitching about next gen consoles should buy a pc.
and that the leap isn't going to be earth shattering as has been the case before.
just what i was thinking some jerk ehum people have personality issues.
not graphics or power...
computer power doubles every 2 years which means that after 6 years now, we could have consolesat least 8 times (1x2x2x2) more powerful than the 360 and ps3!
and your "b" comment, sums up your argument, you don't want to pay.
so, to sum up: videogames of the next 5-10 years are going to look, feel and play pretty much the same way and with graffx alone being insufficient reason to buy a new machine at the 5 year juncture we are going to have to get used to 10, 15 or 20 year gaps.
i struggle to understand why people think graphics cant get better.
then developers can't bitch and moan themselves for releasing the same game over and over again without any real advancement in gameplay because of the hardware specs.
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha two different things which happen to appear in the same pod, besides don't you need like a phd for one of them i think the next console needs to be able dispense beer in someway, also, if there was a way of going to the toilet without having to get off the couch this would be helpful, but most important if they can find away for my girlfriend to leave me alone while i play this should be included in the design.
people today have to strange expectations i think.
fair enough much much larger games can be produced with better hardware and stuff like improved ai make for better experiences but the problem with that argument is that (a) they can still be realised the better skilled a developer is and (b) i do not want to pay for a new machine so soon if that's all i'm going to get.
if ea wants to stick with the 360 and ps3...
tweet + submit article to n4g submit article
maybe the ps4 will work without needing constant updates ?
but when each 5-7 year time frame generates a smaller and smaller improvement the logical steps are either to just get out and find a new hobby or to accept that more and more time must elapse between each generation.
no information £35.79 from £12.95sendit.com
"i think that [the age of] big, abrupt change in consoles where we all pile in on top of each other and everything changes overnight is just gone.
i dont need the console to grow a tail or horn to just for being different!
you could make it faster, you could have more polys and you could up the graphics a little bit...
posted on tuesday 30-aug-2011 10:46 am ea: what would playstation 4 even do?
it happens with each generation.
i've been playing all my games above 2160p resolutions, 120fps, 32xaa, 32xaf, etc, and that has been since 2004.
@ coruscant im glad somebody said it.
i just hope all the games are not in 3d or motion controller based either.
have loads of little hassles with it (just enough to niggle) but apparently nothing wrong with it?
as to your "a", no it can't without sacrificing in other areas.
well, for starters im confident that itll achieve something which the 360 has repeatedly failed at which is basic functionality...
ps3 can't even do cross game chat and has less than 512mb of ram.
now, i know nothing about pc gaming and the need to buy graffx c4rds every other 'timeperiod' but i do know that that is also part of the reason we play hcs-we don't want to have to upgrade the machine ourselves.
omg lol at all of you wanting better console hardware and bitch and moan about the price tag.
we haven't quite squeezed the last once of hardware horsepower out of these  things, as you can see with battlefield 3.
- making games (that runs happily at 1080p and 60fps) - physx chip to handle physics - dedicated dsp's - top of the range gpu - s**tload of ram you just described my pc there...
i guess one thing this gen has done, it has meant that devs have put serious amount of time into making our editors/engines and work pipelines much more accessible...
making games for new systems means ea would have to spend some money.
and you'll find on steam) .
i rather have a ps4 with kick ass gpu+cpu+ram then a wii u with a lousy touchpad as controller any day.
they seem to be very happy with their ps3s and 360s.
"the displays are already 1080p, you're already connected to the internet...
all the gimmicks with internet, motion control etc are now in place.
well one thing we can pretty much say for sure is that the ps4 will have party chat...
i'll buy a new console when im shown theres a real need to.
they love the online connectivity, they  have great communities and great libraries.
you want the improvement in hardware that comes with time (and who wouldn't?)
i know exactly what i want in my next console and what i want it to do, and to have it at a price point that consumers will buy means it is at least two years away at the earliest.
1080p - typical marketing spiel.
get one, then you'll all shut the f**k up... im in the process of building with an phenom 2 x4 980 3.4ghz,4-6 gb ram,as for this console gen is dragging and although ps3 is great it didernt have a great start and it as lacked in software also with 360 getting old ms is always snapping at the heals of ninty and sony and sony cannot afford to lag behind next gen. improvements could be better online connection 100-200gb bluray discs,faster cpu,loads of ram and a wooping great big gpu.
books have been the same for thousands of years with (i suppose) only the kindle now revolutionising the art of reading-ia hobby once conducted at home or in a library is not limited by anything at all now.
pointing to the publisher's stunning fps contender battlefield 3, the exec argued there's still horsepower left to squeeze out of ps3 and xbox 360.
and coming from within the game industry makes it utterly unbelievable.
they're pushing it down our throats but on ps3 the tech just aint there to do it any justice.
top it off with a great video card and a sizable hard drive and let the developers go to town on it.
this is why games are stale.
the graphics and overall power on today's consoles are looking very dated now and people are noticing more and more.
truth is i'll buy a new console if it gets to the stage where there's 3 or 4 games out for it that i really want that i can't get on any other console.
no information £23.89 © 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
do you see people demanding new hardware and consoles not because of what the possibility of new tech could do for storytelling and new and original gameplay mechanics, but all because the graphics aren't looking "all that"?
the exec, who showcased an impressive line-up including mass  effect 3, star wars: the old republic and battlefield 3 at gamescom this month,  claimed ea's happy with the "consistent" technology of current  consoles.
i think this guy stands alone.
i suspect that although there are advances to be made that will fundamentally change videogames (like mind control and all that jazz) they are few and far between and more time will be required to get them off the ground.
don't get me wrong, we do get some really great games but they're very few and far between.
no information £12.95 from £23.89sendit.com
"i like the fact that nintendo's coming in with new hardware.
moore's law is not going to exponentially improve facial animations each year, infact nvidia actually stated that "moore's law cpu scaling is now dead claims nvidia", they are now working on heat and cost efficiency brought with the advances rather than speed, (we've been at around ~3ghz for a while now), a lot of the detail in graphics is down to programming, budgets and trying to get a profit out of spending time and effort into a title in the first place, and taking a look at uncharted, la noire, deus ex, daemon's souls or whatever floats your boat just shows that consoles can output stuff that is quite stunning to look at on the largest of tv's.
just to let you know bud, (and im being serious this time)
he added: "i'd like to see the cycle last a little longer.
that's all you're going to get.
the only reason ea and others say this sort of thing about next gen is that they've got investment in games for this gen and they'll lose money if people save for next gen.
same old s**t each generation.
things like a physx chip to handle physics; a dsp dedicated to ai and higher functions; a top of the range gpu; a s**tload of ram so programmers don't have to page stuff or use clever streaming tricks...
the sooner it comes out, the sooner it becomes cheaper.
would suspension bridges buckling and hurling cars into all directions be amazing in motorstorm be better.
dont really want to see a new console until the developers know what to do with it.
actually...hmm.. motorstorm was wicked and a day one release.
get one, then you'll all shut the f**k up...
they love the online connectivity, they have great communities and great libraries.
pc gamers can afford it.
while i am happy to pay the price of a new console, in real terms cheaper than they have been in previous generations, there are some who complain about the cost and some who don't mind paying the premium for a pc big rig or an apple i'product'.