i didn’t give it much thought at the time, as it appeared to be a good framework for implementing a divide and conquer strategy.
a couple of the most famous divide and conquer techniques are the fft and  mapreduce (slides, web article).
if you’re looking for a  sort to fit your problem’s constraints, an excellent starting point is the wikipedia page which i quote shamelessly below.
merge(left, right) return  result function merge(left,right) var list result while length(left) > 0 or  length(right) > 0
if you’re really into this type of problem,dropbox is hiring.
brushing up on computer science part 3, data structures »  victus spiritus pingback:
“an algorithm must be seen to be believed.”
greedy algorithms make locally optimally decisions, often keeping several potential solutions, and generate a final decision when a forcing function requires an estimate in finite time.
what  better way to study than to write up a blog post sampling the materials of  interest.
the table of contents for this blog series: in short, an algorithm is a recipe.
the table of contents for this blog series: intro and big o data structures: arrays, lists, trees, hash tables algorithms (searches, sorts, maths!)
after removing the largest item, it reconstructs the heap, removes the largest remaining item, and places it in the next open position from the end of the partially sorted array.
they are the tactics employed by computer scientists day in and day out, many times without even conscious awareness until further optimization is needed.
these  strategies serve as motivations for both design and implementation of  algorithms.
in some variants the overlapping (of goods with each other and/or with the boundary of the container) is allowed but should be minimised.
this is repeated until there are no items left in the  heap and the sorted array is full.
linear and dynamic programming dynamic  programming (so named partly because dynamic sounded cool) artificial intelligence and machine learning (source) supervised and unsupervised learning… estimation algorithms:  detection, tracking, prediction, ie what i do for a living discrimination:  classification (quadratic, pnn) natural language processing (nlp): machine  learning applied to big data setsthere’s no shame in brute force when there’s no time for more elegant algorithms, there’s little  shame inbrute forcing your way to a delivery.
there are broad patterns common to vastly separated problem spaces.
algorithms can be expressed in any language, from natural languages like english or french to programming languages like fortran (source)
a formula or set of steps for solving a particular problem.
it’s no surprise sharp folks utilize similar  strategies for very different types of problems.
(source) the image says it all about packing problems.
elementary implementations require two  arrays – one to hold the heap and the other to hold the sorted elements.
to be an algorithm, a set of rules must be unambiguous and have a clear stopping point.
brushing up on computer science part 4, algorithms march 17, 2011 “an algorithm must be seen to be believed.”
many of these problems can be related to real life storage and transportation issues.
theheap is a binary tree where the root node is larger than any  of it’s children, key(a) >= key(b).
at each phase there is always a set of best tracks that it can report out, yet there is a possibility that the global best solution will be pruned during an iteration (heuristics make no guarantees).
the aim is to find the configuration with the maximal density.
the following is a pseudo code example of the algorithm’s
in mathematics and computer science, an algorithm (pronounced /ˈælɡəɹɪðm/ ( listen)) is an effective method expressed as a finite list[1] of well-defined instructions[2] for calculating a function[3].
else append first(right) to result right = rest(right) else if length(left)  > 0 append first(left) to result left = rest(left) else if length(right)  > 0 append first(right) to result right = rest(right) end while return result
a few months later i  hit upon mr again while reading through couchdb’s architecture for  retrieving documents.
the average and worst case  performance is o(nlogn).
recursively sort the sub-list of lesser elements and the sub-list of greater  elements.
it’s worth mentioning another heap, the fibonacci heap, which  i’ll come back to in the tomorrow’s post on graphs  (dijkstra’s search algorithm).
the quicksort on average requires o(n log n) comparisons and worse case  o(n^2).
heapsort begins by building a heap out of the data set, and then removing  the largest item and placing it at the end of the partially sorted array.
for understanding the nuances of greedy strategies i defer to the expert, boss hog.
bubble sort (source) the bubble sort iterates through a  collection swapping adjacent elements into a specified order.
this is repeated until there are no items left in the heap and the sorted array is full.
i first came across map reduce while reading a set of slides by jeff dean, designs, lessons and advice from building large distributed systems.
what better way to study than to write up a blog post sampling the materials of interest.
each sublist  is then merged.
i first came across map reduce while reading a set of slides by jeff dean,  designs, lessons and advice from building large distributed systems.
i was inspired to dust off my software engineering cap, and review a few choice topics in computer science.
many of these problems can be related to  real life storage and transportation issues.
come before the pivot, while all elements with values greater than the pivot  come after it (equal values can go either way).
in some variants the overlapping (of goods with each other and/or with the  boundary of the container) is allowed but should be minimised.
quicksort quicksort sorts by employing a divide and conquer strategy to divide a  list into two sub-lists.
the gifs cycle through visualizations after a brief pause.
2) reorder the list so that all elements with values less than the pivot
for now i’ll leave these as placeholders as a reminder to  myself.
much of my sophomoric understanding of computer  science comes from iterative practice, reading, and communicating with folks  much smarter than myself.
brushing up on computer science part 3, data structures »
implementation (source) function merge_sort(m) if length(m) ≤ 1 return m var list left,  right, result var integer middle =
after  removing the largest item, it reconstructs the heap, removes the largest  remaining item, and places it in the next open position from the end of the  partially sorted array.
the methods to sort data are as varied as there are ways to visualize it, each algorithm and its implementation is crafted with an artistic touch.
i didn’t give it much thought at the time, as it appeared to be a good  framework for implementing a divide and conquer strategy.
2) reorder the list so that all elements with values less than the pivot come before the pivot, while all elements with values greater than the pivot come after it (equal values can go either way).
simple versionin simple pseudocode, the algorithm might be expressed as this: function quicksort(array) var list less, greater if length(array) ≤ 1 return array // an array of zero or one elements is already sorted select and remove a pivot value pivot from array for each x in array if x ≤ pivot then append x to less else append x to greater return concatenate(quicksort(less), pivot, quicksort(greater))
elementary implementations require two arrays – one to hold the heap and the other to hold the sorted elements.
at each phase there is  always a set of best tracks that it can report out, yet there is a possibility  that the global best solution will be pruned during an iteration (heuristics  make no guarantees).
recursively sort the sub-list of lesser elements and the sub-list of greater elements.
the merge sort breaks up a list into two sublists of equivalent size.
merge_sort(left) right =
sorting algorithms i blame the cruel mistress entropy for the heroic efforts needed to  repeatedly sort unorganized data, such is nature.
packing problems (source) the image says it all about packing problems.
the mht associates combinations of measurements (factorial growth), calculates likelihood scores, and retains a set number of associations per iteration.
these strategies serve as motivations for both design and implementation of algorithms.
for now i’ll leave these as placeholders as a reminder to myself.
it converts a variable length input string into a 128bit  output.
the quicksort on average requires o(n log n) comparisons and worse case o(n^2).
bubble sort (source) the bubble sort iterates through a collection swapping adjacent elements into a specified order.
salt cryptography & cracking salted hashes by fb1h2s view more  presentations from n|u – the open security community additional notes: there are a few other areas
the following is a pseudo code example of the algorithm’s implementation (source) function merge_sort(m) if length(m) ≤ 1 return m var list left, right, result var integer middle = length(m) / 2 for each x in m up to middle add x to left for each x
the base case of the recursion are lists of size zero or one, which  never need to be sorted.
your goal is to fit as many n-dimensional structures as possible into the smallest region possible, and the maximum density algorithm wins.
when working on application specific problems at a high level, it’s a distraction to constantly dive into deep operating system and compiler details.
this is called the partition operation.
the gifs from wikipedia display an animation of each algorithm in action.
it’s worth mentioning another heap, the fibonacci heap, which i’ll come back to in the tomorrow’s post on graphs (dijkstra’s search algorithm).
the heap is also a maximally  efficient implementation called a priority queue.
simple version in simple pseudocode, the algorithm might be expressed as this: function  quicksort(array) var list less, greater if length(array) ≤ 1 return array //
much of my sophomoric understanding of computer science comes from iterative practice, reading, and communicating with folks much smarter than myself.
packing problems are a class of optimization problems in recreational  mathematics which involve attempting to pack objects together (often inside a  container), as densely as possible.
(source) cryptography and encryption algorithms (thanks to your_perception for the  correction)
donald knuth how we ended up here it all began a few days ago with an email from a friend (thanks denny).
algorithms are used for calculation, data processing, and automated reasoning.
if the size of a sublist is 0 or 1 it’s sorted.
if length(left) > 0 and length(right) > 0 if first(left) ≤ first(right) append first(left) to result left =
merge_sort(right) result =
right = merge_sort(right) result =
the average and worst case performance is o(nlogn).
to be an  algorithm, a set of rules must be unambiguous and have a clear stopping point.
length(m) / 2 for each x in m up to middle  add x to left for each x in m after middle add x to right left =
algorithms can be expressed in any language, from natural languages like  english or french to programming languages like fortran (source)
(source) understanding strategies beats memorizing tactics algorithms are well specified techniques for performing an unbounded  variety of tasks (good luck learning all algorithms).
i accept that in the limited span of blog posts i won’t do proper justice to any topic of sufficient depth, that’s what books are for.
if you’re looking for a sort to fit your problem’s constraints, an excellent starting point is the wikipedia page which i quote shamelessly below.
a few months later i hit upon mr again while reading through couchdb’s architecture for retrieving documents.
quicksort quicksort sorts by employing a divide and conquer strategy to divide a list into two sub-lists.
append first(right) to result right = rest(right) else if length(left) > 0 append first(left) to result left = rest(left) else if length(right) > 0 append first(right) to result right = rest(right) end while return result
the mht associates  combinations of measurements (factorial growth), calculates likelihood scores,  and retains a set number of associations per iteration.
heapsort begins by building a heap out of the data set, and then removing the largest item and placing it at the end of the partially sorted array.
‘goods’ (usually a single type  of shape), some or all of which must be packed into this container usually  the packing must be without overlaps between goods and other goods or the  container walls.
one example of a greedy algorithm is an implementation of the multiple hypothesis tracker or mht.
‘goods’ (usually a single type of shape), some or all of which must be packed into this container usually the packing must be without overlaps between goods and other goods or the container walls.
in a packing problem, you are given: ‘containers’ (usually a single two- or three-dimensional convex region, or an infinite space)
algorithms are used for calculation, data  processing, and automated reasoning.
the algorithms average  and worst case performance is o(n^2) heapsort the heapsort finds an extreme element (largest  or smallest) and places it at one end of the list, continuing until the entire  list is sorted.
they are the tactics  employed by computer scientists day in and day out, many times without even  conscious awareness until further optimization is needed.
merge sort the merge sort implements a divide and  conquer strategy.
the base case of the recursion are lists of size zero or one, which never need to be sorted.
an array of zero or one elements is already sorted select and remove a pivot  value pivot from array for each x in array if x ≤ pivot then append x to  less else append x to greater return concatenate(quicksort(less), pivot,  quicksort(greater))
cryptography – a brief history view more presentations from prasenjeetd md5 was considered a popular and fairly secure cryptographic hash function  in the late 1990s, but is now known to have several predictable  vulnerabilities.
packing problems are a class of optimization problems in recreational mathematics which involve attempting to pack objects together (often inside a container), as densely as possible.
the heapsort finds an extreme element (largest or smallest) and places it at one end of the list, continuing until the entire list is sorted.
i’d like to include, but i’ll have to return and append them to the post at another time (hopefully this weekend time allowing).
categories:  uncategorized tags: career counseling, coding, computer science,  math pingback:
one example of a greedy algorithm is an  implementation of the multiple hypothesis tracker or mht.
each post in the series begins with an anchor quote and takes off through the fundamentals of software design theory and practical implementation details with an emphasis on the latter.
victus spiritus pingback: brushing up on computer science part 5, graphs, networks, and operating systems — victus spiritus
sha-1 is a more recent standard for secure cryptography but is susceptible to other known vulnerabilities (is nothing sacred).salt cryptography & cracking salted hashes by fb1h2s
(source) cryptography and encryption algorithms (thanks to your_perception for the correction)cryptography – a brief history view more presentations from prasenjeetd md5 was considered a popular and fairly secure cryptographic hash function in the late 1990s, but is now known to have several predictable vulnerabilities.
view more presentations from n|u – the open security community there are a few other areas
if you’re really into  this type of problem,dropbox is hiring.
i was inspired to dust off my software  engineering cap, and review a few choice topics in computer science.
linear and dynamic programming linear programming dynamic programming (so named partly because dynamic sounded cool) artificial intelligence and machine learning (source) supervised and unsupervised learning… estimation algorithms: detection, tracking, prediction, ie what i do for a living discrimination: classification (quadratic, pnn) natural language processing (nlp): machine learning applied to big data setsthere’s no shame in brute force when there’s no time for more elegant algorithms, there’s little shame inbrute forcing your way to a delivery.
if length(left) > 0 and length(right) > 0 if  first(left) ≤ first(right) append first(left) to result left =
i accept that in the limited span of blog posts i won’t do  proper justice to any topic of sufficient depth, that’s what books are  for.
the methods to sort data are  as varied as there are ways to visualize it, each algorithm and its  implementation is crafted with an artistic touch.
i’d like to include, but i’ll have  to return and append them to the post at another time (hopefully this weekend  time allowing).
merge sort the merge sort implements a divide and conquer strategy.
a couple of the most famous divide and conquer techniques are the fft and mapreduce (slides, web article).
it’s no surprise sharp folks utilize similar strategies for very different types of problems.
the algorithms average and worst case performance is o(n^2) heapsort
your goal  is to fit as many n-dimensional structures as possible into the smallest region  possible, and the maximum density algorithm wins.
in a packing problem, you are given: ‘containers’ (usually a single two- or three-dimensional convex  region, or an infinite space)
the process  repeats itself until no further elements are swapped.
the  merge sort breaks up a list into two sublists of equivalent size.
sha-1 is a more recent standard for secure cryptography but is  susceptible to other known vulnerabilities (is nothing sacred).
i blame the cruel mistress entropy for the heroic efforts needed to repeatedly sort unorganized data, such is nature.
graphs, networks, and operating systems algorithms in short, an algorithm is a recipe.
after this partitioning, the pivot is in its final position.
(source) understanding strategies beats memorizing tactics algorithms are well specified techniques for performing an unbounded variety of tasks (good luck learning all algorithms).
in mathematics and computer science, an algorithm (pronounced  /ˈælɡəɹɪðm/ ( listen)) is an effective  method expressed as a finite list[1] of well-defined instructions[2] for  calculating a function[3].
donald knuth how we ended up here it all began a few days ago with an  email from a friend (thanks denny).
for understanding the nuances of greedy strategies i defer  to the expert, boss hog.
theheap is a binary tree where the root node is larger than any of it’s children, key(a) >= key(b).
the gifs cycle through visualizations  after a brief pause.
brushing up on computer science part 5, graphs, networks, and  operating systems — victus spiritus search for:
the process repeats itself until no further elements are swapped.
divide and conquer and greedy techniques are deployed time and time  again within algorithms.
the heap is also a maximally efficient implementation called a priority queue.
it converts a variable length input string into a 128bit output.
the gifs from wikipedia display  an animation of each algorithm in action.
each packing problem has a dual  covering problem, which asks how many of the same objects are required to  completely cover every region of the container, where objects are allowed to  overlap.
when working on  application specific problems at a high level, it’s a distraction to  constantly dive into deep operating system and compiler details.
each post in the series begins with an anchor quote and takes off through  the fundamentals of software design theory and practical implementation details  with an emphasis on the latter.
the merge sort has an average and worst case performance of o(nlogn).
each packing problem has a dual covering problem, which asks how many of the same objects are required to completely cover every region of the container, where objects are allowed to overlap.
the fft iteratively breaks down the discrete fourier transform into a series of odd and even components until it get’s down to a single multiply and add.
divide and conquer and greedy techniques are deployed time and time again within algorithms.
merge(left, right) return result function merge(left,right) var list result while length(left) > 0 or length(right) > 0
each sublist is then merged.
after this partitioning, the  pivot is in its final position.
in m after middle add x to right left =
the steps are: 1)pick an element, called a pivot, from the list.
the fft iteratively breaks down the discrete  fourier transform into a series of odd and even components until it get’s  down to a single multiply and add.
greedy algorithms make locally optimally decisions, often keeping several  potential solutions, and generate a final decision when a forcing function  requires an estimate in finite time.