this form assumes that thelist is sorted in ascending  order according to the natural ordering of its elements.
that is, this algorithm reorders the listbased on input from a source of randomness such that all possible permutations occur with equal likelihood, assuming a fair source of randomness.
finally, the code iterates through the sortedlist, printing its  elements (the anagram groups).
collections.binarysearch(list, key); if (pos < 0) l.add(-pos-1); the frequency and disjoint algorithms test some aspect of the composition of one or more collections: - frequency counts the number of times the specified element occurs in the specified collection - disjoint determines whether two collectionsare disjoint; that is, whether they contain no elements in common
this is guaranteed only if the second sort was stable.
the great majority of the algorithms provided by the java platform operate on listinstances, but a few of them operate on arbitrary collectioninstances.
both of these operations come in two forms.
[i, line, the, walk] the program was included only  to show you that algorithms really are as easy to use as they appear to be.
finding extreme values sorting the sort algorithm reorders a list
if not, the return value is (-(insertion point) - 1), where the insertion point is the point at which the value would be inserted into the list, or the index of the first element greater than the value or list.size()if all elements in the listare less than the specified value.
for example, it could be used to shuffle a listof cardobjects representing a deck.
the program was included only to show you that algorithms really are as easy to use as they appear to be.[i, line, the, walk] the second form of sorttakes a comparatorin addition to a listand sorts the elements with the comparator.
copyright 1995-2005 sun microsystems, inc.
searching the binarysearch algorithm searches for a specified  element in a sortedlist.
the following output is produced.% java
- fill overwrites every element in a listwith the specified value.
the revised printing code iterates  through themap's values view, putting every list that  passes the minimum-size test into alist of lists.
the second form takes a comparatorin addition to the collectionand returns the minimum (or maximum) element according to the specified comparator.
the second form of sort takes a comparator in  addition to alist and sorts the elements with the comparator .
the return value is the same for both forms.
the simple form takes only a collectionand returns the minimum (or maximum) element according to the elements' natural ordering.
for (list l : winners) system.out.println(l.size() + ": " + l); the programon the same dictionaryin the map interface section, with the same minimum anagram group size (eight), produces the following output.12: [apers, apres, asper, pares, parse, pears, prase, presa, rapes, reaps, spare, spear] 11: [alerts, alters, artels, estral, laster, ratels, salter, slater, staler, stelar, talers] 10: [least, setal, slate, stale, steal, stela, taels, tales, teals, tesla] 9: [estrin, inerts, insert, inters, niters, nitres, sinter, triens, trines] 9: [capers, crapes, escarp, pacers, parsec, recaps, scrape, secpar, spacer] 9: [palest, palets, pastel, petals, plates, pleats, septal, staple, tepals] 9: [anestri, antsier, nastier, ratines, retains, retinas, retsina, stainer, stearin] 8: [lapse, leaps, pales, peals, pleas, salep, sepal, spale] 8: [aspers, parses, passer, prases, repass, spares, sparse, spears] 8:
- copy takes two arguments, a destination listand a source list, and copies the elements of the source into the destination, overwriting its contents.
a quicksort is generally considered to be faster than a merge sort but isn't stable and doesn't guarantee n log(n)performance.
the polymorphic algorithms described here are pieces of reusable functionality provided by the java platform.
it's basically a hack to combine a boolean (found)and an integer (index)into a single intreturn value.
for (list l : winners)  system.out.println(l.size() + ": " + l); running the program on the same dictionary in the map  interface  section, with the same minimum anagram group size (eight), produces  the following output.
*; public class sort { public static void main(string args[]) {
addall — adds all the specified elements to a collection.
list> winners = new  arraylist>(); for (list l : m.values())
*; public class sort { public static void main(string  args[]) {
the simple form takes a listand sorts it according to its elements' natural ordering.
if it is longer, the remaining  elements in the destinationlist are unaffected.
if and only if the search key is found.
if  you're unfamiliar with the concept of natural ordering, read theobject ordering   section.
the destination listmust be at least as long as the source.
the following code replaces the printing code at the end of the mainmethod in the anagramsexample.
this operation is useful for reinitializing a list.
the first  takes alist and an element to search for (the "search  key").
the binarysearchalgorithm searches for a specified element in a sorted list.
the following idiom, usable with both forms of the binarysearch operation, looks for the specified search key and inserts it at the  appropriate position if it's not already present.
if a user of a mail  program sorts the inbox by mailing date and then sorts it by sender, the user  naturally expects that the now-contiguous list of messages from a given sender  will (still) be sorted by mailing date.
so  that its elements are in ascending order according to an ordering relationship.
this operation has two forms: (1) it takes a list and uses a  default source of randomness, and (2) it requires the caller to provide arandom  object to use as a source of randomness.
the second form takes a comparator in addition to the list and the search  key, and assumes that thelist is sorted into ascending order  according to the specifiedcomparator.
the first takes a listand an element to search for (the "search key").
collections.binarysearch(list, key); if (pos  start of trail search feedback form
% java sort i walk the line
two forms of the operation are provided.
the collectionsclass provides five algorithms for doing routine data manipulation on listobjects, all of which are pretty straightforward: - reverse reverses the order of the elements in a list.
0if and only if the search key is found.
suppose you want to print out the anagram groups from our earlier example in reverse order of size largest anagram group first.
the following trivial program prints  out its arguments in lexicographic (alphabetical) order.
the following code replaces the printing code at  the end of themain method in the anagrams example.
then the code sorts thislist, using a comparator that  expectslist instances, and implements reverse size-ordering.
then the code sorts this list, using a comparatorthat expects listinstances, and implements reverse size-ordering.
the sortalgorithm reorders a listso that its elements are in ascending order according to an ordering relationship.
- addall adds all the specified elements to a collection.
also, it's useful for generating test cases.
the  example that follows shows you how to achieve this with the help of the second  form of thesort method.
this algorithm has two forms.
this section briefly describes the following algorithms: - sorting - shuffling - routine data manipulation - searching - composition - finding extreme values
trivial programprints out its arguments in lexicographic (alphabetical) order.
stable: it doesn't reorder equal elements.
if a user of a mail program sorts the inbox by mailing date and then sorts it by sender, the user naturally expects that the now-contiguous list of messages from a given sender will (still) be sorted by mailing date.
the code for this algorithm is used as  an example in thelist section.
list l = arrays.aslist(args);
a quicksort is generally considered  to be faster than a merge sort but isn't stable and doesn't guaranteen  log(n) performance.
this  admittedly ugly formula guarantees that the return value will be>= 0
for example, it could  be used to shuffle alist of card objects representing  a deck.
suppose you want to print out the anagram groups from our earlier  example in reverse order of size — largest anagram group first.
swap — swaps the elements at the specified positions in  alist.
this algorithm is useful in implementing games of chance.
runningrunning//make a list of all anagram groups above size threshold.
if the list contains the search key, its index is returned.
the destinationlist must be at least as long as the source.
empirical tests showed it to  be as fast as a highly optimized quicksort.
the elements to be added may be specified individually or as an array.
list> winners = new arraylist>(); for (list l : m.values()) if (l.size() >= mingroupsize) winners.add(l); //sort anagram groups according to size collections.sort(winners, new comparator>() { public int compare(list o1, list o2) { return o2.size() - o1.size(); } }); //print anagram groups.
the example that follows shows you how to achieve this with the help of the second form of the sortmethod.
the sortalgorithm can be used to sort the listprior to calling binarysearch.
12: [apers, apres, asper, pares, parse, pears, prase, presa, rapes,  reaps, spare, spear] 11: [alerts, alters, artels, estral, laster, ratels,  salter, slater, staler, stelar, talers] 10: [least, setal, slate, stale, steal,  stela, taels, tales, teals, tesla] 9: [estrin, inerts, insert, inters, niters,  nitres, sinter, triens, trines] 9: [capers, crapes, escarp, pacers, parsec,  recaps, scrape, secpar, spacer] 9: [palest, palets, pastel, petals, plates,  pleats, septal, staple, tepals] 9: [anestri, antsier, nastier, ratines,  retains, retinas, retsina, stainer, stearin] 8: [lapse, leaps, pales, peals,  pleas, salep, sepal, spale] 8: [aspers, parses, passer, prases, repass, spares,  sparse, spears] 8: [enters, nester, renest, rentes, resent, tenser,  ternes, treens] 8: [arles, earls, lares, laser, lears, rales, reals,  seral] 8: [earings, erasing, gainers, reagins, regains, reginas, searing,  seringa] 8: [peris, piers, pries, prise, ripes, speir, spier, spire] 8: [ates,  east, eats, etas, sate, seat, seta, teas] 8: [carets, cartes, caster, caters,  crates, reacts, recast, traces] shuffling the shuffle algorithm does the opposite of what sort does, destroying any trace of order that may have been  present in alist.
the code for this algorithm is used as an example in the listsection.
recall that the anagram groups are stored as values in a map, in the form of listinstances.
this is important if you sort the same list repeatedly on different attributes.
let's run the program.import java.util.
the following idiom, usable with both forms of the binarysearchoperation, looks for the specified search key and inserts it at the appropriate position if it's not already present.int pos =
if not, the return value is (-(insertion point) - 1), where the insertion point is the point  at which the value would be inserted into thelist, or the index of  the first element greater than the value orlist.size() if all  elements in thelist are less than the specified value.
let's run the program.
this admittedly ugly formula guarantees that the return value will be >=
if (l.size() >= mingroupsize) winners.add(l); //sort anagram groups  according to size collections.sort(winners, new  comparator>() { public int compare(list  o1, list o2) { return o2.size() - o1.size(); } }); //print  anagram groups.
copy — takes two arguments, a destination list and a source list, and copies the elements of the source  into the destination, overwriting its contents.
fill — overwrites every element in a list with the specified value.
all of them come from the collectionsclass, and all take the form of static methods whose first argument is the collection on which the operation is to be performed.
if you're unfamiliar with the concept of natural ordering, read theobject ordering section.
the sort operation uses a slightly optimized merge sort algorithmwhich is fast and stable: fast: it is guaranteed to run in n log(n) time and  runs substantially faster on nearly sorted lists.
finally, the code iterates through the sorted list, printing its elements (the anagram groups).
the revised printing code iterates through the map's values view, putting every listthat passes the minimum-size test into a listof lists.
this form assumes that the listis sorted in ascending order according to the natural ordering of its elements.
the simple form takes alist and sorts it according to its elements' natural ordering.
collections.sort(l);  system.out.println(l); } } let's run the program.
the following output is  produced.
the minand the maxalgorithms return, respectively, the minimum and maximum element contained in a specified collection.
- stable: it doesn't reorder equal elements.
this operation has two forms: (1) it takes a listand uses a default source of randomness, and (2) it requires the caller to provide arandom object to use as a source of randomness.
that is, this algorithm reorders the list based on input from a source of randomness such that all possible  permutations occur with equal likelihood, assuming a fair source of randomness.
routine data manipulation the collections class provides five algorithms for  doing routine data manipulation onlist objects, all of which are  pretty straightforward: reverse — reverses the order of the elements in a list.
this is guaranteed only if the second  sort was stable.
empirical tests showed it to be as fast as a highly optimized quicksort.
recall that the anagram groups are stored as values in a map,  in the form oflist instances.
if the listcontains the search key, its index is returned.
a list of all anagram groups above size threshold.
the elements to be added may be specified individually or as  an array.
if it is longer, the remaining elements in the destination listare unaffected.
collections.sort(l); system.out.println(l); } }the following output is produced.
it's basically a hack to  combine a boolean(found) and an integer (index) into  a singleint return value.
this is important if you  sort the same list repeatedly on different attributes.
the sortoperation uses a slightly optimized merge sort algorithmwhich is fast and stable: the followingthe following - fast: it is guaranteed to run in n log(n)time and runs substantially faster on nearly sorted lists.
[enters, nester, renest, rentes, resent, tenser, ternes, treens] 8: [arles, earls, lares, laser, lears, rales, reals, seral] 8: [earings, erasing, gainers, reagins, regains, reginas, searing, seringa] 8: [peris, piers, pries, prise, ripes, speir, spier, spire] 8: [ates, east, eats, etas, sate, seat, seta, teas] 8: [carets, cartes, caster, caters, crates, reacts, recast, traces] the shufflealgorithm does the opposite of what sortdoes, destroying any trace of order that may have been present in a list.
the second form takes a comparatorin addition to the listand the search key, and assumes that the listis sorted into ascending order according to the specified comparator.
the sort algorithm can be used to sort thelist prior to calling binarysearch.
- swap swaps the elements at the specified positions in a list.
sort i walk the linethe program was included only to show you that algorithms really are as easy to use as they appear to be.