if it's too difficult to sort a large list of items, we can break it apart  into smaller sub-lists and try to sort them!
this technique is typically known as “divide and conquer”.
if it's too difficult to sort a large list of items, we can break it apart into smaller sub-lists and try to sort them!
here’s the implementation in php.
insertion sort, bubble sort and shell sort are  based on the comparison model.
i already posted about some of the algorithms of the first group.
so far so good, so let’s say  we have a very large list of data, which we want to sort.
obviously it will be better if we divide the list into two sub-lists with equal length and then sort them.
posted on march 5, 2012 by stoimen introduction basically sorting algorithms can be divided into two main groups.
normally if a problem is too difficult to solve, we can try to break it  apart into smaller sub-sets of this problem and try to solve them.
the good news is that this algorithm is fast, but not so difficult to implement and that sounds quite good from a developer’s point of view.
the nature of those three algorithms mentioned above is that we almost compared each two items from initial list.
then somehow we can merge the results of the solved problems.
merge sort is a comparison model sorting algorithm based on the “divide and conquer” principle.
this, of course, is not the best approach and we don’t need to do  that.
instead we can try to divide the list into smaller lists and then sort them.
obviously it will be  better if we divide the list into two sub-lists with equal length and then sort  them.
typically recursion is “replaced” by additional memory space in iterative solutions.
i already posted about some of the  algorithms of the first group.
array(6, 5, 3, 1, 8, 7, 2, 4); function merge_sort($arr) { if (count($arr)  0 && count( $right) > 0) { if ($left[0]               notify me of followup comments via e-mail
the thing is that on some step of the algorithm we have two sorted lists  and the tricky part is to merge them.
after sorting the smaller lists, which is supposed to be easier than  sorting the entire initial list, we can try to merge the result into one sorted  list.
overview merge sort is a comparison model sorting algorithm based on the  “divide and conquer” principle.
insertion sort and bubble sort make too many comparisons, exactly what merge sort tries to overcome!
note that every algorithm that follows  the divide and conquer principles can be easily implemented in a recursive  solution.
here’s a recursive version of merge sort.
typically recursion is “replaced” by additional memory  space in iterative solutions.
such based on comparisons and such that are not.
note that every algorithm that follows the divide and conquer principles can be easily implemented in a recursive solution.
insertion sort, bubble sort and shell sort are based on the comparison model.
normally if a problem is too difficult to solve, we can try to break it apart into smaller sub-sets of this problem and try to solve them.
the nature of those three algorithms mentioned above is that we almost  compared each two items from initial list.
this, of course, is not the best approach and we don’t need to do that.
however this is not so difficult.
basically sorting algorithms can be divided into two main groups.
we  can start comparing the first items of the lists and than we can pop the  smaller of them both and put it into a new list containing the merged (sorted)  array.
the problem with these three algorithms is that their complexity is o(n2) so they are very slow.
the problem with these three algorithms is that  their complexity is o(n2) so they are very slow.
instead we can try to divide the list into smaller lists and then sort  them.
so far so good, so let’s say we have a very large list of data, which we want to sort.
the thing is that on some step of the algorithm we have two sorted lists and the tricky part is to merge them.
implementation the good news is that this algorithm is fast, but not so difficult to  implement and that sounds quite good from a developer’s point of view.
we can start comparing the first items of the lists and than we can pop the smaller of them both and put it into a new list containing the merged (sorted) array.
however recursion can be bitter so you can go for a iterative  solution.
if they remain too large, we can continue breaking them down until we get to something very easy to sort as shown on the diagram bellow.
insertion sort and bubble sort make too many comparisons, exactly what  merge sort tries to overcome!
→ computer algorithms: merge sort
← 5 tips on how to spot a bad  developer and team member you think you know javascript.
so is it possible to sort a list of items by comparing their items faster  than o(n2)?
so is it possible to sort a list of items by comparing their items faster than o(n2)?
then somehow  we can merge the results of the solved problems.
array(6, 5, 3, 1, 8, 7, 2, 4);   function merge_sort($arr) { if (count($arr)  0 && count( $right) > 0) { if ($left[0]                 notify me of followup comments via e-mail search for:
the answer is yes and here’s how we can do it.
if they remain too large, we can continue breaking them down until we get  to something very easy to sort as shown on the diagram bellow.
merge sort is a typical example of divide and conquer technique!
after sorting the smaller lists, which is supposed to be easier than sorting the entire initial list, we can try to merge the result into one sorted list.
however recursion can be bitter so you can go for a iterative solution.
such  based on comparisons and such that are not.