if ultimately approved by the ansi board of standards, the revised standard  would mean that a gas fireplace or gas heater must include a certified barrier  if the temperature of the glass front can exceed 172 degrees.
it originated in nevada (from its namesake), but they bought it after the company moved to utah.
prior to joining poly- wood, he was the owner of an indiana advertising and design agency.
jim...continue reading maker of sunbrella® fabrics, was honored by the inclusion of its fabrics in three award-winning entries at the interior design best of year awards on december 1, 2011, at the iac building in new york, new york.
all products are manufactured to outlined design  specifications and bear the casual classics brand tag.
ance, eco-friend- ly casual out- door furniture, recently named doug hertel as  the company’s marketing manager and becky tusing as its director of  administration.
as voyer notes, little—with his keen sense of design and strong sense of consumer awareness—continues to take regency fireplace products to new heights of market leadership.
you’re not only an incredible company for your products, but also for  your involvement in the community,” he says.
the company’s president, richey smith,  states that these representatives will be instrumental in expanding great  american woodies’ market presence.
they sold mostly upholstery supplies and velon, the precursor to vinyl.
“we are proud to be answering the call from consumers, buyers, and hd professionals for a site that will be the ultimate showcase for all things outdoor,” says defelice.
well known in his industry through-out the united states, forshaw was a founding member of the fireplace institute, which was a precursor to the hearth, patio & barbecue association.
david coulson, national advertis- ing manager, says, “napoleon’s  variable-speed, energy efficient, electronically commutated blower motor  operates on low fire for greater efficiency and comfort for most of the heating  season.
evaluators deemed the cast-iron voyageur an easy upgrade that bolsters a  home’s traditional character—with 21st century technology.
pat keegan, president of european copper by jack arnold, says, “we are very pleased to enter this exclusive master-distributor partnership with lhp.
“i am honored to have the support of the company and appreciate the confidence they have in my ability to lead this great company,” calzadilla says.
lets face it - we need to grill less beef but that does not have to mean  grilling less.
lhp’s new grandview™ 230 wood-burning stove, from its popular  country® collection, delivers on all counts.
continue reading pelican reef wicker promotes allen calzadilla to president pelican reef inc., manufacturer and distributor of high-quality casual  furnishings, has announced the appointment of allen calzadilla as president of  the company and all of its subsidiary companies.
jim...continue reading sunbrella fabrics recognized among three best of year awards from interior  design magazine maker of sunbrella® fabrics, was honored by the inclusion of its  fabrics in three award-winning entries at the interior design best of year  awards on december 1, 2011, at the iac building in new york, new york.
“in my 20 years at empire, i have seen the consumers and our customers drive improvement in the aesthetics, technology, and performance of our products,” brueggemann says.
according to buzz homsy,... continue reading introducing top dog outdoor living and its unique e-commerce initiative  for the outdoor market sharon defelice, founder and president of top dog outdoor living, announces  the formation of this new company and its launch of a premiere all-encompassing  e-commerce outdoor living site for consumers and hd market professionals  interested in purchasing mid-and high level products.
“we wanted to showcase the many award-winning chefs around the world  who use the big green egg in their culinary kitchens and restaurants, as well  as backyard fans who are in search of the perfect steak or brisket, and our new  publication does that and more.
well known in his industry through-out the united states, forshaw was a  founding member of the fireplace institute, which was a precursor to the  hearth, patio & barbecue association.
ron voyer, pacific director of entrepreneur of the year, says, “great  entrepreneurial leaders have the drive and tenacity to generate successful  ideas in the face of many obstacles.
the new rockers are available as part of the southern cypress collection (which  offers long-lasting natural beauty) and the distinctive cottage classic  collection (in attractive white and charleston green stain).
treasure garden’s expanded  showroom (number 1655) now covers over 10,000 square feet of products, new  fabric trends, and merchandising ideas, with more focus on the shademaker line  of architectural shade products.
on this date, it had been  officially three years since an injury in the workplace had caused any loss of  work time.
and it’s a fun and healthy way to expand our grill repertoire- not our waistline.
fortin ironworks has been a summer classics stocking dealer for  the past 12 years and is in the process of converting its retail showroom into  a summer classics licensee store.
the applicant must have  experience in hearth-products sales, and knowledge of dealers in this territory  is preferred.
the future looks  bright for the industry, and my hope is that we will work together again.”
celebrates 60 years silver state inc. is proud to celebrate their 60th anniversary as a  decorative fabric supplier to interior designer, residential, contract and  hospitality markets.
the expansion of the manage- ment team is a result of significant growth being experienced by the syracuse, indiana, manufacturer chad yordy, director of sales and marketing, says, “with doug’s years of experience, he is a valuable addition to our marketing team.
reading for a limited time only, from march 1st - march 30th, couristan’s entire array of handmade and power-loomed area rugs will be available at their lowest dealer pricing of the year as part of the winter/spring “savings event” program.
under his leadership, the company has  experienced unprecedented growth and has introduced a significantly broader  range of products.
“since i spend the majority of my time walking the trade  show floor, visiting and meeting with exhibitors and show attendees, i can get  a good feel for show attendance.
in conjunction with the launch of perennial wood™ at the international builders’ show last week, eastman announced the availability of perennial wood for use furniture manufacturers in their outdoor furniture lines.
in addition to their special discounted area rug prices, couristan is  offering two value-packed promotional merchandising deals on their handmade  fashions display and their handmade area rug sales board package.
treasure garden’s expanded showroom (number 1655) now covers over 10,000 square feet of products, new fabric trends, and merchandising ideas, with more focus on the shademaker line of architectural shade products.
“according to third-party tests, perennial wood stays truer-to-form than teak when subjected to the elements, demonstrating greater dimensional stability.
if ultimately approved by the ansi board of standards, the revised standard would mean that a gas fireplace or gas heater must include a certified barrier if the temperature of the glass front can exceed 172 degrees.
the usda over-hauled the food pyramid in 2011 using a plate to show portions of protein, vegetables, fruits, grains and dairy.
pat keegan, president of european copper by jack arnold, says, “we  are very pleased to enter this exclusive master-distributor partnership with  lhp.
discounts apply to all area rug sizes, every coordinating special shape,  and every design in their vast product gallery.
“we are creating a site that is easy to navigate and beautiful to  view.
in addition to their special discounted area rug prices, couristan is offering two value-packed promotional merchandising deals on their handmade fashions display and their handmade area rug sales board package.continue
exhibitors have also commented that the quality of the show attendee is very high, and the overall sentiment at the show is very positive.
“i look forward to the challenge of introducing...continue reading judy and ed hamer were selected as gensun’s 2011 sales representatives of the year for their outstanding sales and service.
fortin ironworks is a family-owned and -operated ornamental iron and metal  fabrication company with one retail store in columbus.
fortin ironworks is a family-owned and -operated ornamental iron and metal fabrication company with one retail store in columbus.
the catalog is organized  by product category and includes sections on seating, swings/a- frames, and  tables and table groupings.
while other companies were pulling back dur- ing the financial downturn, robert honed his vision and continued investing time and money in research and development.
created from recycled  polyresin, the durable lifestyle collection...continue reading napoleon unveils its 9600 series furnace napoleon fireplaces & grills recently launched its 9600 series  two-stage fur- nace for use in upflow, downflow, and horizontal applications.
the future looks bright for the industry, and my hope is that we will work together again.
napoleon’s 9600 series furnace comes...continue reading treasure garden held a ribbon-cutting ceremony during the chicago international casual furniture & accessories markettm to showcase its new permanent showroom in the merchandise mart.
led by  industry experts, the show will feature idea-generating educational sessions,  an intimate awards ceremony and special events focused on the latest and most  innovative products and services.
from 1981...continue reading mr. bar-b-q to celebrate its 40th anniversary mr. bar-b-q®, the world’s expert in designing innovative, premier  barbecue accessories and outdoor-lifestyle tools, is gearing up for a sizzling  2012 as it marks the company’s 40th anniversary.
the business, founded by forshaw’s immigrant grandfather in 1871, is one of the oldest continuously family-owned businesses in the st. louis area.
in a move that will offer builders, remodelers, and homeowners true  single-stop shopping for their fireplace needs, lennox hearth products (lhp)  and european copper by jack arnold have reached an agreement for distribution  of european copper by jack arnold brand chimney pots to the u.s. and canadian  hearth industry.
he later served as sales vice president before leaving in 2000 to pursue other  interests in the hearth and barbecue industry.
the expansion of the manage- ment team is a result of  significant growth being experienced by the syracuse, indiana, manufacturer chad yordy, director of sales and marketing, says, “with doug’s  years of experience, he is a valuable addition to our marketing team.
“that has kept us working hard to  compete in a marketplace that has grown more sophisticated when looking for  supplemental gas heat.
the meeting was held in the jla home showroom that debuted earlier this year as  the new bedding-ensemble licensee for woolrich.
installing a voyageur in an existing masonrybuilt fireplace provides more than  just classic wood-burning charm.
judy hamilton, nac’s health and safety coordinator, announced the milestone, along with fellow joint health and safety committee members bob martin, leanne rice, and delphine laughlin.
“we are coming to high point for the first time because we know there are indoor retailers who are ready to go into the outdoor casual category,” said bob gaylord, president of agio.
the position of president was previously held... continue reading fortin ironworks (columbus, ohio) will become the fourth summer classics licensee store.
the china chamber of commerce for import and export of light industrial  products and arts/crafts (cccla) will be exhibiting products in the china  pavilion at this year’s hpbexpo in atlanta, georgia.
the napoleon 9600 series fur- nace comes complete with the patented sureview burner-system window, allowing a unique view of the flame in operation—a first in the industry.
the top 100 is a comprehensive list of the industry’s best, most helpful, and unique home-improvement products introduced over the past year.
our goal is to continue to meet the needs...continue  reading lennox hearth products
napoleon unveils accredited online course a new, accredited continuing-education course offered by napoleon aims to  give industry professionals a deeper understanding of gas hearth appliances,  which have been outselling traditional wood-burning fireplaces in the  marketplace, in recent years.
the hearth, patio  & barbecue association (hpba) supports this revision and is committed to  educating homeowners on safety precautions to be taken when using their  fireplaces and other home-heating products.
as voyer notes, little—with his keen sense of  design and strong sense of consumer awareness—continues to take regency  fireplace products to new heights of market leadership.
the completion of a solar array atop glen raven’s sunbrella® yarn manufacturing center in norlina, north carolina, was recognized during a special event at the plant on october 10, 2011.
for picky  eaters it’s really a challenge to choke down all those vegetables that  are so good for us!
we have included a complete product catalog  within the magazine, so now, our consumers can learn about the egg and see how  the various eggcessories contribute to the amazing results that the big green
the program includes the company’s santorini fire pit and a monterra chat & fire pit set, which can now be shipped within 10 working days from receipt of completed sales orders.
while other companies were pulling back  dur- ing the financial downturn, robert honed his vision and continued  investing time and money in research and development.
but if your customers aren’t fans of the old-fashioned, pot-bellied stove look and want something with a lot more style and still efficient and dependable, lennox hearth products has it.
led by industry experts, the show will feature idea-generating educational sessions, an intimate awards ceremony and special events focused on the latest and most innovative products and services.
since the acquisition of  the robb & stucky name and intellectual properties in march 2011, lush  says, the focus has been on restoring the brand equities inherent in the robb  & stucky name.
this year’s hpexpo is one of the best in years.”
jim has spent over 36 years with namco, a 40 store, pool and patio retail chain, operating in the northeast, as senior vice president of purchasing.
silver state suppliers was purchased on february 1,  1952 by two brothers, john and steve sargetakis.
i look forward  to continuing the success and tradition my father started 40 years ago and to  applauding all we have accomplished.
the hearth, patio & barbecue association (hpba) supports this revision and is committed to educating homeowners on safety precautions to be taken when using their fireplaces and other home-heating products.
the  all-inclusive trip includes airfare, lodging, drinks and food for two people  with convenient scheduling and booking provided to both...continue reading casual classics furniture group retains industry veteran casual classics furniture group, the largest member owned design/buying  cooperative has retained industry veteran jim tillona as its director of  marketing recourses.
he was also the former president of shadetrends/avanti.
“we wanted to showcase the many award-winning chefs around the world who use the big green egg in their culinary kitchens and restaurants, as well as backyard fans who are in search of the perfect steak or brisket, and our new publication does that and more.
the outdoor grill is the perfect place to bring more  fruit and vegetables to the plate-
the challenge is to get out of the beef mindset by mixing up the  protein choices.
the southern cypress line is made of a distinctive and durable wood that  offers trouble-free beauty for years.
doug rassi, president, says, “over the past five years, chad has been  instrumental in expanding the sales and marketing efforts of poly- wood.
continue reading poly-wood names hertel and tusing to corporate management team poly-wood, inc., a leading developer and manufacturer of high-perform-
for many of us  adding more fruits and vegetables to our daily diets is difficult.
with over 25,000 choices available, treasure garden is the number-one name in shade coverings.
cottage classics pieces are constructed from kilndried cypress and are stained and sanded to create a distressed look in various soft pas- tel colors.
fortin ironworks has been a summer classics stocking dealer for the past 12 years and is in the process of converting its retail showroom into a summer classics licensee store.
other participants included licensing and marketing executives from woolrich and the media matters, agency for the home division.
high point  furniture market.
nick brayton, director of  domestic licensing, says, “having our brand part- ners come together to  exchange ideas is invaluable.
“manufacturer confidence and dealer confidence for our industry has definitely reached a higher level when compared to the past two years,” said ramos.
this will appeal to both  manufacturers and consumers.”
i look forward to  leading pelican reef to even greater heights in the years to come.”
the quick ship programs have been entitled, “fast as fire, on demand” and will be available to o.w. lee’s customers from march 1, 2012 through aug. 31, 2012.
reading silver state inc. is proud to celebrate their 60th anniversary as a decorative fabric supplier to interior designer, residential, contract and hospitality markets.
it not only enhances the brand’s collaborative nature, but...continue reading joseph forshaw iii, chair of the board emeritus of forshaw of st. louis, inc., died on november 5, 2011, at the age of 89.
local dignitaries joined nac to congratulate the company on its  accomplishment.
jim has spent over 36 years with namco, a 40 store, pool  and patio retail chain, operating in the northeast, as senior vice president of  purchasing.
tim pletcher, sales, lumber division, says, “our goal in the expansion of poly-wood’s lumber division is to serve our current markets better, as well as to increase our ability to explore additional segments and opportunities for plastic lumber; however, throughout the construction expansion of our facilities (as well as with the added production capacity), poly-wood continues to be committed to responsible manufacturing” and, he adds, to having a positive impact on the environment.
egg is known for,” jodi burson, marketing manager, explains.
greg thomas, director of sales, says, “we’re excited to be able to offer the industry this accredited course as a...continue reading the 2011 international pool/spa/patio expo, the annual trade show and conference for the pool, spa, and backyard industry, exceeded the expectations of both attendees and exhibitors.
and unlike other sites that feature a variety of...continue reading
“manufacturer confidence and dealer confidence for our industry has  definitely reached a higher level when compared to the past two years,”  said ramos.
since his retirement in 1981, the business has continued to be owned and  operated by forshaw’s sons, joseph forshaw iv and rick forshaw.
i look forward to continuing the success and tradition my father started 40 years ago and to applauding all we have accomplished.
all products are made in the united states and carry a limited lifetime warranty.
forshaw headed forshaw of st. louis from 1946 until 1981.
the top 100 is a  comprehensive list of the industry’s best, most helpful, and unique  home-improvement products introduced over the past year.
mr. bar-b-q, founded 1972, has remained a family- owned, privately  held business for the past four decades and offers everything but the grill,  enhancing precious moments spent with family and friends.
the southern cypress line is made of a distinctive and durable wood that offers trouble-free beauty for years.
“working with everyone in the outdoor industry has been such a  joy,” said defelice.
“we have been able to evolve our business during these  challenging times and are experiencing continued growth.
continue reading silver state inc.
lets face it - we need to grill less beef but that does not have to mean grilling less.
patio & hearth products reportlatest news lennox hearth products’ grandview™ 230 stove provides elegance  and efficiency with gas and electric costs predicted to reach all-time highs this winter,  now is a good time to provide your customers with options that will protect  them from the cold and help them save their hard-earned cash.
as vice president of sales and marketing, yordy will focus on future markets, product segments, business opportunities,... continue reading
mr. bar-b-q plans to celebrate all year with contests and product giveaways, including a search for mr. or mrs. bar-b-q contest and a 40 giveaways for 40 years facebook sweepstakes.
in his new position, yordy, who will continue to be responsible for the expansion of sales and distribution channels, also will coordinate the company’s growth strategies.
the course will also cover the installation of gas hearth appliances and  related safety issues, including minimum clearances to combustibles, vent-pipe  clearances, finishing materials, and placement of the appliances.
i look forward to leading pelican reef to even greater heights in the years to come.”
“despite continued economic challenges, we are very pleased that the show generated an increase in attendance for the second consecutive year,” lindsay roberts, director of the show, reports.
hertel brings to his position over 18 years of marketing and advertising  experience.
“i can only say, to you all, congratulations for the professionalism it takes to achieve this sort of accomplishment.
“they’re creating an entirely new category within their stores,” gaylord explained.
a second generation, family-owned and operated business, silver state has  evolved from a small upholstery supplier to a prominent, decorative wholesale  fabric supplier to date.
the previous  owners looked to sell the business because new vinyls were threatening their  velon sales.
“this is a new  beginning for a great retail brand,” lush says.
a robust 46,000-btu heating capacity fills up to 2,400 square feet, and a single load of wood can efficiently...continue reading high point, nc – for the first time, agio international will exhibit a selection of outdoor furniture collections at the spring 2012 high point furniture market.
jeff lehman, mayor of barrie, ontario, arrived to thank nac’s associates.
we have included a complete product catalog within the magazine, so now, our consumers can learn about the egg and see how the various eggcessories contribute to the amazing results that the big green egg is known for,” jodi burson, marketing manager,
the new 500-kilowatt solar  array is the largest operating under progress energy’s sunsense®  commer- cial solar photovoltaic (pv) program, generating electric power roughly  equivalent to the annual electricity use of 47 typical houses.
over the past five years, he has successfully filled the position of executive vice president of pelican reef.
representatives with other lines will be considered.
founded in 1946 by  joseph fortin, the company started as a small iron-repair shop, and 66 years  later, it operates out of a 56,000–square-foot facility that includes a  5,500–square-foot retail showroom.
it is the shortest furnace on the  market with an afue rating of more than 96%, at a height of 32 7/8 inches, and  it is offered in two cabinet widths (17.5 and 22.5 inch- es).
in a move that will offer builders, remodelers, and homeowners true single-stop shopping for their fireplace needs, lennox hearth products (lhp) and european copper by jack arnold have reached an agreement for distribution of european copper by jack arnold brand chimney pots to the u.s. and canadian hearth industry.
it offers furniture manufacturers a long-lasting attractive, u.s.-sourced wood for their casual and outdoor furniture lines.
poly-wood’s lumber division currently is the leading provider of  recycled plastic lumber for the outdoorfurnishings and -accessories industry.
agio officials credit traditional furniture retailers who have recognized the benefit of adding outdoor collections to their product mix as the motivation behind the manufacturer’s entry into the high point marketplace.
the meeting was held in the jla home showroom that debuted earlier this year as the new bedding-ensemble licensee for woolrich.
in his new position, yordy, who will continue to be responsible for the  expansion of sales and distribution channels, also will coordinate the  company’s growth strategies.
designed with subtle curves  and finely crafted details, the grandview 230 looks stylish enough to fit a  wide range of home decors.
“in my 20 years at empire, i have seen the consumers and our  customers drive improvement in the aesthetics, technology, and performance of  our products,” brueggemann says.
but if your customers aren’t  fans of the old-fashioned, pot-bellied stove look and want something with a lot  more style and still efficient and dependable, lennox hearth products has it.
high point show high point, nc – for the first time, agio international will exhibit  a selection of outdoor furniture collections at the spring 2012
yordy initially joined poly- wood  in 2006, as director of sales for the contract division of the syracuse,  indiana, manufacturer.
casual classics owners operate in territorially protected markets in north  america and puerto rico.
a new, accredited continuing-education course offered by napoleon aims to give industry professionals a deeper understanding of gas hearth appliances, which have been outselling traditional wood-burning fireplaces in the marketplace, in recent years.
with over 25,000 choices available, treasure  garden is the number-one name in shade coverings.
for more information, email info@treasuregarden.com or visit www.treasuregarden.com or shademakerusa.com.continue reading poly-wood, inc., a leading developer and manufacturer of high-perform- ance, eco-friend- ly casual out- door furniture, recently named doug hertel as the company’s marketing manager and becky tusing as its director of administration.
calzadilla grew up in the business (beginning in 1996) and received his bachelor’s degree in 2001.
“for 2012 we look forward to offering guests an invaluable experience, while also paying tribute to the industry’s leaders and innovators who have supported the show over the years,” said liz sommerville, group show director for the hospitality design group.
dan henry, vice president and chief technical officer at hearth & home  technologies®, producer of pellet and wood hearth products, says,  “largely due to misconceptions about emissions and technology, pellet  heat does not receive state or federal government...continue reading big green egg launches publishing division
created from recycled polyresin, the durable lifestyle collection...continue reading napoleon fireplaces & grills recently launched its 9600 series two-stage fur- nace for use in upflow, downflow, and horizontal applications.
the furnace will automatically switch to the second stage, producing more heat only when required.”
casual classics furniture group has grown to 45 owners with 250 store  locations in north america and puerto rico.
all products are manufactured to outlined design specifications and bear the casual classics brand tag.
mr. bar-b-q plans to  celebrate all year with contests and product giveaways, including a search for  mr. or mrs. bar-b-q contest and a 40 giveaways for 40 years facebook  sweepstakes.
perennial wood is real wood.... continue reading defelice resigns from two dogs designs philadelphia, pa—sharon defelice, ceo and co-founder of two dogs  designs for outdoor living, has resigned her position and partnership in the  company.
jan trinkley, vice president of sales and marketing for gensun, says, “this is the second time, and also two years in a row, that they have won this award.
for more information, email  info@treasuregarden.com or visit www.treasuregarden.com or shademakerusa.com.
it originated in nevada (from  its namesake), but they bought it after the company moved to utah.
produced by the hospitality design group and presented by hospitality  design magazine, the show continues to...continue reading china pavilion to be featured at hpbexpo
stock up on these amazing  fashions in time for couristan’s spring sale period, april 2nd - april
in celebration of the company’s milestone 85th anniversary, couristan conducted a grand prize raffle at the recent surfaces show in las vegas with two lucky customers winning an all-inclusive trip to their choice of two four-star tropical beach resorts.
as marketing manager, doug will focus on further promoting the poly-wood brand and our premium position within the casual industry.”
other applications and sales avenues include manufacturers of durable and sustainable...continue reading las vegas (january 23, 2012) – the nation’s leading event for the hospitality industry is back in las vegas when the hospitality design exposition & conference (hd expo) will take over the bustling strip from may 15 to 17, 2012.
“according to third-party tests, perennial  wood stays truer-to-form than teak when subjected to the elements,  demonstrating greater dimensional stability.
a variety of stylish leg, pedestal and accessory options allow your customers to choose the...continue reading joe brueggemann, industry veteran and empire comfort systems’ sales vice president, marked a 20-year milestone with the company in january.
the  awards were for the categories of health-care textiles (for its day dream  collection, with cf stinson, inc.); outdoor textiles (for the indi pop  collection from alaxi fabrics); and large exhibit/installation (with situ  studio, at the brooklyn museum).
“the norlina solar project is part of a much larger sustainability initiative that is affecting everything we do, from product design and manufacturing through recycling and customer service,”...continue reading z-line designs, a leading manufac- turer of contemporary home-office and home-entertainment products, has named mark gorr as senior vice president of its newly established casual-furniture division.
forshaw headed forshaw of st.  louis from 1946 until 1981.
he...continue reading at an event in colville, washington, in september 2011, legislators (including u.s. representative cathy mcmorris rodgers, r–wa) affirmed their support for bringing pellet heat into the forefront of government-supported renewable energies, in the state of washington and beyond.
dan henry, vice president and chief technical officer at hearth & home technologies®, producer of pellet and wood hearth products, says, “largely due to misconceptions about emissions and technology, pellet heat does not receive state or federal government...continue reading
“since i spend the majority of my time walking the trade show floor, visiting and meeting with exhibitors and show attendees, i can get a good feel for show attendance.
total attendance was 9,717, a 5% increase over the 2010 show.
perennial wood is real wood, with real character.
“we have been able to evolve our business during these challenging times and are experiencing continued growth.
in addition to expanding its creative-services departments to include graphic design, interactive communications, and video-centric web content, big green egg company recently launched its publishing division and unveiled the inaugural edition of big green egg lifestyle magazine.
calzadilla grew up in the  business (beginning in 1996) and received his bachelor’s degree in 2001.
a wood-burning stove is a great option.
reading robert little, founder and ceo of regency fireplace products, was recently named the 2011 pacific ernst & young entrepreneur of the year® winner.
their numbers are  pretty good, too, with a sales increase of over 90% in 2011.”
attendees included executives from woolrich home, as well as licensees jla  home, shadow mountain, whitecraft, picture source, mohawk home, rowe pottery  works, and pm&j.
in addition to expanding its creative-services departments to include  graphic design, interactive communications, and video-centric web content, big  green egg company recently launched its publishing division and unveiled the  inaugural edition of big green egg lifestyle magazine.
the retail showroom currently offers a  variety of its iron products and has a large display of summer classics outdoor  furniture.
in 1957, forshaw moved the business headquarters into larger space in  frontenac, missouri (a suburb of st. louis), and together with his  brother-in-law, l. frederic dubois, expanded it into a diversified retail and  wholesale concern specializing in fireplace products and casual furniture.
“we are reinventing robb & stucky,” he says, “with a  great team and smart strategies that are relevant for today’s consumers.
there are many healthy and tasty alternatives to beef such as ground turkey, poultry and fish.
“to be part of creating, building, and launching a furniture division from the very beginning is an oppor- tunity that many executives don’t even have a chance to be involved with in their careers, and was one i could not say no to,” gorr says.
for the past nine years, he has served as vice president of consumer sales  and product-line management for tropitone furniture.
designed by renowned architect jack arnold, european copper by jack arnold chimney pots offer both performance and style benefits that pay off in... continue reading the quadra-fire® voyageur wood-burning fireplace insert was named a top 100 best new home product for 2011 by this old house magazine.
jack goldman, hpba president and ceo, says, “safety is our first  priority, and we want people to enjoy the warmth and ambience of their... continue reading mendota hearth products/st. croix stoves announces job opening mendota hearth products/st. croix stoves has an opening for a sales  representative for all or part of georgia, florida, alabama, and mississippi.
the group also shared ideas for growth and  reviewed new products and style directions planned for the coming year.
the online course, gas hearth appliances: enhancing living environments, can now be found at aec daily’s online learning center (www.aecdaily.com/sponsor/napoleon).
participants in the course will get an overview of a variety of gas hearth  appliances (such as logs, stoves, inserts, fireplaces, and outdoor fireplaces),  as well as the principal types of venting systems that are currently available.
the online course, gas hearth appliances:  enhancing living environments, can now be found at aec daily’s online  learning center (www.aecdaily.com/sponsor/napoleon).
designed by renowned architect jack arnold, european copper by jack arnold  chimney pots offer both performance and style benefits that pay off in... continue reading quadra-fire’s voyageur recognized by home-improvement magazine the quadra-fire® voyageur wood-burning fireplace insert was named a top  100 best new home product for 2011 by this old house magazine.
sessions included a cor- porate business overview, strategic plan- ning, and ongoing branding initiatives.
from the introduction of the first natural-gas fire- place to the complete modernization of the industry...continue reading
for picky eaters it’s really a challenge to choke down all those vegetables that are so good for us!
pellet heat, also referred to as densified biomass, is not currently recognized by state or federal governments as a renewable energy source in the united states.
continue reading couristan’s winter/spring 2012
pellet heat, also referred to as densified biomass, is not currently  recognized by state or federal governments as a renewable energy source in the  united states.
discounts apply to all area rug sizes, every coordinating special shape, and every design in their vast product gallery.
as  marketing manager, doug will focus on further promoting the poly-wood brand and  our premium position within the casual industry.”
mr. bar-b-q, founded 1972, has remained a family- owned, privately held business for the past four decades and offers everything but the grill, enhancing precious moments spent with family and friends.
the business, founded by forshaw’s immigrant  grandfather in 1871, is one of the oldest continuously family-owned businesses  in the st. louis area.
a variety of stylish leg, pedestal and accessory  options allow your customers to choose the...continue reading joe brueggemann celebrates 20 years of service joe brueggemann, industry veteran and empire comfort systems’ sales  vice president, marked a 20-year milestone with the company in january.
“if an indoor retailer is ready to make the jump into outdoor, we want to be there to discuss the...continue reading great american woodies, a division of richey industries, has added new traditional rockers to its extensive line of wood products for the 2012 season.
“the norlina solar project is part of a much larger sustainability  initiative that is affecting everything we do, from product design and  manufacturing through recycling and customer service,”...continue reading z-line designs appoints senior vp for new casual-furniture division z-line designs, a leading manufac- turer of contemporary home-office and  home-entertainment products, has named mark gorr as senior vice president of  its newly established casual-furniture division.
doug rassi, president, says, “over the past five years, chad has been instrumental in expanding the sales and marketing efforts of poly- wood.
this recommendation for a revised standard now goes to the csa z21.50 and z21.88 committees for their review.
the company offers its own designed patio furniture in  the mid price ranges.
brueggemann returned to the  company in 2007, resuming his sales role just as the company embarked on an  aggressive product-expansion campaign.
“i can only say, to you all, congratulations for  the professionalism it takes to achieve this sort of accomplishment.
a third brother, mike moved back to salt... continue reading couristan announces winners for its 85th anniversary grand prize get-away  trip
“working with everyone in the outdoor industry has been such a joy,” said defelice.
“we are creating a site that is easy to navigate and beautiful to view.
other applications and sales avenues include manufacturers of durable and  sustainable...continue reading las vegas 2012: hd expo returns to sin city may 15-17 bringing design  & innovation to the forefront las vegas (january 23, 2012) – the nation’s leading event for  the hospitality industry is back in las vegas when the hospitality design  exposition & conference (hd expo) will take over the bustling strip from  may 15 to 17, 2012.
we know lhp will do a great job of promoting and distributing the jack arnold line through its north american network, as well as to all qualified hearth distributors and dealers.”
continue reading robb & stucky reopens under new ownership robb & stucky international recently held the grand opening of its new  60,000–square-foot design studio and retail showroom in fort myers,  florida, under the leadership of steven lush, president.
“i look forward to the challenge of  introducing...continue reading gensun recognizes sales representatives of the year judy and ed hamer were selected as gensun’s 2011 sales  representatives of the year for their outstanding sales and service.
this will appeal to both manufacturers and consumers.”
and  unlike other sites that feature a variety of...continue reading take the new food pyramid to the grill the usda over-hauled the food pyramid in 2011 using a plate to show  portions of protein, vegetables, fruits, grains and dairy.
prior to that, gorr held executive positions at brown jordan international, veneman collections, modus furniture international, and gms imports.
marc zemel, ceo of mr. bar-b-q, says, “forty years is a huge  milestone and one we’re proud to celebrate all year long.
picked in a random drawing from among hundreds of entries gathered, couristan’s winners are matt lund of foremost interiors headquartered in salt lake city, ut, and jan mink of kl mink and sons, operator of the fine rug gallery at macy’s, headquartered in new york, ny.
founded in 1990 for  the recycling of plastics into lumber, marketed under the brand name  polywood™, the division has undergone an expansion of its indiana  extrusion facilities and overall production capacity, including heightened  sustainability efforts.
installing a voyageur in an existing masonrybuilt fireplace provides more than just classic wood-burning charm.
over the past five years, he has successfully filled the position of executive  vice president of pelican reef.
prior to joining poly- wood, he was the owner of an indiana  advertising and design agency.
nick brayton, director of domestic licensing, says, “having our brand part- ners come together to exchange ideas is invaluable.
“perfect for outdoor furniture applications, perennial wood stands up  to nature’s damaging effects without compromising the beauty and  character of the wood,” said brant mitchell, market development manager  for perennial wood furniture.
the course will also cover the installation of gas hearth appliances and related safety issues, including minimum clearances to combustibles, vent-pipe clearances, finishing materials, and placement of the appliances.
it is the shortest furnace on the market with an afue rating of more than 96%, at a height of 32 7/8 inches, and it is offered in two cabinet widths (17.5 and 22.5 inch- es).
“there was a real energy on the show floor that was shared by both attendees and exhibitors, resulting in an all-around compelling event.
these companies include dks enterprises company, ltd.; j & j industries  company, ltd.; j & j household articles company, ltd.; yangjiang henergy  industrial company, ltd.; changzhou wujin new star clothing company, ltd.;  yetong industry company, ltd.; and yangdong youlian industry & trading  company, ltd. the main functions of cccla are to create an environment of fair trade  within the industry; to safeguard the lawful rights and interests of  enterprises; to promote the overall development of the industry; to provide  legal, information, exhibition, and training services to members; to facilitate  communication between enterprises...continue reading poly-wood announces promotion of chad yordy and expands lumber division poly-wood, inc., leading developer and manufacturer of high-performance,  eco-friendly casual outdoor furniture, announced the recent promotion of chad  yordy to vice president, sales and marketing.
david coulson, national advertis- ing manager, says, “napoleon’s variable-speed, energy efficient, electronically commutated blower motor operates on low fire for greater efficiency and comfort for most of the heating season.
“we are reinventing robb & stucky,” he says, “with a great team and smart strategies that are relevant for today’s consumers.
stock up on these amazing fashions in time for couristan’s spring sale period, april 2nd - april 30th.
gina wicker, design and creative director for glen raven custom fabrics, says, “this has been a year of milestones for us, including new products and projects across all areas of our business.
yordy initially joined poly- wood in 2006, as director of sales for the contract division of the syracuse, indiana, manufacturer.
“with the tremendous growth potential of the outdoor industry, we are  looking forward to chad driving our initiatives not only to build upon our  leadership position, but also to facilitate avenues for growth  opportunity.”
reading january 26, 2012 – ontario, calif. – o.w. lee, a manufacturer of high-end outdoor furniture, casual fireside fire pits and accessories located in ontario, calif., announced today two new quick-ship programs, allowing faster access to inventory for retail dealers and designers in all regions.
(nac), manufacturer of napoleon®gourmet grills.
“we are proud to be answering the call from consumers, buyers, and hd  professionals for a site that will be the ultimate showcase for all things  outdoor,” says defelice.
all great american woodies products are proudly made in the united states and carry a limited lifetime warranty.
judy and ed exemplify what an excellent sales representative should be—strong ethics and relationships with their customers, along with excellent follow-up, training, care, and communication.
this year’s hpexpo is one of the best in  years.”
tim pletcher, sales, lumber division, says, “our goal in the  expansion of poly-wood’s lumber division is to serve our current markets  better, as well as to increase our ability to explore additional segments and  opportunities for plastic lumber; however, throughout the construction  expansion of our facilities (as well as with the added production capacity),  poly-wood continues to be committed to responsible manufacturing” and, he  adds, to having a positive impact on the environment.
the marketplace for outdoor living is a one-stop outdoor online destination that distinguishes itself by featuring a comprehensive array of fine quality products and increasing exposure into the consumer market while linking to password-protected sites for the hospitality industry.
founded in 1946 by joseph fortin, the company started as a small iron-repair shop, and 66 years later, it operates out of a 56,000–square-foot facility that includes a 5,500–square-foot retail showroom.
the applicant must have experience in hearth-products sales, and knowledge of dealers in this territory is preferred.
explains.continue reading executives from woolrich and their home-furnishings brand partners met for the ninth annual brand partners summit during the october high point market.
as nac was celebrating this achievement, it unveiled a new chromed-up addition to the prestige® line, the 500 series.
from 1981...continue reading mr. bar-b-q®, the world’s expert in designing innovative, premier barbecue accessories and outdoor-lifestyle tools, is gearing up for a sizzling 2012 as it marks the company’s 40th anniversary.
in 1957, forshaw moved the business headquarters into larger space in frontenac, missouri (a suburb of st. louis), and together with his brother-in-law, l. frederic dubois, expanded it into a diversified retail and wholesale concern specializing in fireplace products and casual furniture.
please submit a cover letter and relevant résumé information to sales@johnsongas.com.continue reading robb & stucky international recently held the grand opening of its new 60,000–square-foot design studio and retail showroom in fort myers, florida, under the leadership of steven lush, president.
jeff lehman, mayor of barrie, ontario, arrived to thank  nac’s associates.
in celebration of the company’s milestone 85th anniversary, couristan  conducted a grand prize raffle at the recent surfaces show in las vegas with  two lucky customers winning an all-inclusive trip to their choice of two  four-star tropical beach resorts.
since the acquisition of the robb & stucky name and intellectual properties in march 2011, lush says, the focus has been on restoring the brand equities inherent in the robb & stucky name.
continue reading 2012 hpbexpo going strong attendance has been strong for the first two days at this year’s  hpbexpo in atlanta.
their numbers are pretty good, too, with a sales increase of over 90% in 2011.”continue reading follow us on @patiohearth more products copyright 2011 peninsula media.
“to be part of creating, building, and launching a furniture division  from the very beginning is an oppor- tunity that many executives don’t  even have a chance to be involved with in their careers, and was one i could  not say no to,” gorr says.
the program includes the company’s santorini fire pit and a  monterra chat & fire pit set, which can now be shipped within 10 working  days from receipt of completed sales orders.
in addition to the indoor exhibits, one of the unique aspects of hpbexpo is  the “...continue reading poly-wood expands its lumber division to include green initiatives poly-wood, inc., recently expanded its lumber division.
“this is a new beginning for a great retail brand,” lush says.
the retail showroom will operate under the  name of summer classics home at fortin ironworks and is scheduled to be open by  april 1, 2012.
cottage classics pieces are constructed  from kilndried cypress and are stained and sanded to create a distressed look  in various soft pas- tel colors.
lhp’s new grandview™ 230 wood-burning stove, from its popular country® collection, delivers on all counts.
participants in the course will get an overview of a variety of gas hearth appliances (such as logs, stoves, inserts, fireplaces, and outdoor fireplaces), as well as the principal types of venting systems that are currently available.
lush continues, ... continue reading napoleon celebrates safety milestone in canadian manufacturing plant november 21, 2011, marked a safety milestone for napoleon appliance corp.
napoleon’s  9600 series furnace comes...continue reading treasure garden holds ribbon-cutting ceremony for new showroom treasure garden held a ribbon-cutting ceremony during the chicago  international casual furniture & accessories markettm to showcase its new  permanent showroom in the merchandise mart.
a robust 46,000-btu heating  capacity fills up to 2,400 square feet, and a single load of wood can  efficiently...continue reading agio will attend spring 2012
“that has kept us working hard to compete in a marketplace that has grown more sophisticated when looking for supplemental gas heat.
the furnace will automatically switch to the second stage, producing  more heat only when required.”
the new rockers are available as part of the southern cypress collection (which offers long-lasting natural beauty) and the distinctive cottage classic collection (in attractive white and charleston green stain).
in conjunction with the launch of perennial wood™ at the  international builders’ show last week, eastman announced the  availability of perennial wood for use furniture manufacturers in their outdoor  furniture lines.
the entire list is  published in the november issue of this old house and online (at  www.thisoldhouse.com/top100).
casual classics owners operate in territorially protected markets in north america and puerto rico.
gorr has held several executive management positions in the casual industry.
both lund and mink will receive a 4-day, 3-night trip for two, with their choice of destination to either the hard rock hotel and casino in punta cana, dominican republic or the riu palace in cabo san lucas, mexico.
“i am honored to have the support of the company and appreciate the  confidence they have in my ability to lead this great company,”  calzadilla says.
for the past nine years, he has served as vice president of consumer sales and product-line management for tropitone furniture.
they sold  mostly upholstery supplies and velon, the precursor to vinyl.
“together, we have faced many challenges  caused by the recession and innovated to meet market demand.
silver state suppliers was purchased on february 1, 1952 by two brothers, john and steve sargetakis.
clayton brown will represent the company in the west region, while jeff hagedorn will cover the mid-south region and sherry yarborough will oversee the carolinas region.
we have hired many of the employees who made a significant contribution to the  previous robb & stucky, and have also brought in several key executives  from outside the former company to bring a fresh perspective.
great american woodies also recently appointed several new sales representatives.
evaluators deemed the cast-iron voyageur an easy upgrade that bolsters a home’s traditional character—with 21st century technology.
these companies include dks enterprises company, ltd.; j & j industries company, ltd.; j & j household articles company, ltd.; yangjiang henergy industrial company, ltd.; changzhou wujin new star clothing company, ltd.; yetong industry company, ltd.; and yangdong youlian industry & trading company, ltd. the main functions of cccla are to create an environment of fair trade within the industry; to safeguard the lawful rights and interests of enterprises; to promote the overall development of the industry; to provide legal, information, exhibition, and training services to members; to facilitate communication between enterprises...continue reading poly-wood, inc., leading developer and manufacturer of high-performance, eco-friendly casual outdoor furniture, announced the recent promotion of chad yordy to vice president, sales and marketing.
brueggemann began his career with empire comfort in 1985, as marketing manager.
and it’s a fun and healthy way to  expand our grill repertoire- not our waistline.
homeowners can savor a bold fire while reaping  the benefits of clean, eco-friendly heating.
for many of us adding more fruits and vegetables to our daily diets is difficult.
jan  trinkley, vice president of sales and marketing for gensun, says, “this  is the second time, and also two years in a row, that they have won this award.
according to tony ramos, publisher of patio & hearth  products report, attendance is the best that it has been in the past two to  three years.
the three day event will allow attendees to gain insight into industry trends while learning how to maintain success in the ever-evolving and ultra-competitive world of hospitality design.
the day dream collection of sunbrella contract with defiance™, winner  of the best of year award for health-care textiles, was...continue reading
the position of president was previously held... continue reading summer classics opens its fourth licensee store fortin ironworks (columbus, ohio) will become the fourth summer classics  licensee store.
produced by the hospitality design group and presented by hospitality design magazine, the show continues to...continue reading
there are many healthy and tasty alternatives to beef such as  ground turkey, poultry and fish.
this recommendation for a revised standard now goes  to the csa z21.50 and z21.88 committees for their review.
the entire list is published in the november issue of this old house and online (at www.thisoldhouse.com/top100).
picked in a random drawing from among  hundreds of entries gathered, couristan’s winners are matt lund of  foremost interiors headquartered in salt lake city, ut, and jan mink of kl mink  and sons, operator of the fine rug gallery at macy’s, headquartered in  new york, ny.
the new 500-kilowatt solar array is the largest operating under progress energy’s sunsense® commer- cial solar photovoltaic (pv) program, generating electric power roughly equivalent to the annual electricity use of 47 typical houses.
western red cedar is a kiln-dried,  select-grade wood that is oil stained for added luster.
judy hamilton, nac’s health and safety coordinator, announced  the milestone, along with fellow joint health and safety committee members bob  martin, leanne rice, and delphine laughlin.
gina wicker, design and creative director for glen raven custom fabrics,  says, “this has been a year of milestones for us, including new products  and projects across all areas of our business.
speakers during the special event included allen e. gant jr., president and ceo of glen raven; robert f. caldwell, vice president of efficiency and innovative technology for progress energy; erik lensch, president of argand energy solutions; john gant, manager of sustainable development for glen raven custom fabrics; and todd wemyss, manager of the norlina plant.
prior to that, gorr held  executive positions at brown jordan international, veneman collections, modus  furniture international, and gms imports.
lush continues, ... continue reading november 21, 2011, marked a safety milestone for napoleon appliance corp. (nac), manufacturer of napoleon®gourmet grills.
the marketplace for outdoor living is a one-stop outdoor online destination  that distinguishes itself by featuring a comprehensive array of fine quality  products and increasing exposure into the consumer market while linking to  password-protected sites for the hospitality industry.
according to buzz homsy,... continue reading sharon defelice, founder and president of top dog outdoor living, announces the formation of this new company and its launch of a premiere all-encompassing e-commerce outdoor living site for consumers and hd market professionals interested in purchasing mid-and high level products.
the catalog is organized by product category and includes sections on seating, swings/a- frames, and tables and table groupings.
the group also shared ideas for growth and reviewed new products and style directions planned for the coming year.
the day dream collection of sunbrella contract with defiance™, winner of the best of year award for health-care textiles, was...continue reading
a second generation, family-owned and operated business, silver state has evolved from a small upholstery supplier to a prominent, decorative wholesale fabric supplier to date.
so many deserving  nominees.”
perennial wood is real wood.... continue reading philadelphia, pa—sharon defelice, ceo and co-founder of two dogs designs for outdoor living, has resigned her position and partnership in the company.
a number of suppliers from china will be demonstrating a wide range of products, including furnaces, grills, and barbecue accessories.
designed with subtle curves and finely crafted details, the grandview 230 looks stylish enough to fit a wide range of home decors.
meanwhile, other renew- able sources, such as wind and solar power, have been classified as renewable and receive government support, including tax incentives.
ron voyer, pacific director of entrepreneur of the year, says, “great entrepreneurial leaders have the drive and tenacity to generate successful ideas in the face of many obstacles.
the napoleon 9600 series fur- nace comes complete with the patented  sureview burner-system window, allowing a unique view of the flame in  operation—a first in the industry.
“we developed the new “fast as fire, on demand” program  with quicker lead times on key products to maximize dealer success with our  lines,”...continue reading furniture made with perennial wood offers performance and beauty to rival  teak
with gas and electric costs predicted to reach all-time highs this winter, now is a good time to provide your customers with options that will protect them from the cold and help them save their hard-earned cash.
he later served as sales vice president before leaving in 2000 to pursue other interests in the hearth and barbecue industry.
exhibitors have also commented that the quality of the show attendee is  very high, and the overall sentiment at the show is very positive.
it’s been modified with trulast™ technology to stand up to the elements, resisting changes from moisture and remaining dimensionally stable for decades.
he...continue reading hearth & home technologies joins legislators to raise awareness of  pellet heat at an event in colville, washington, in september 2011, legislators  (including u.s. representative cathy mcmorris rodgers, r–wa) affirmed  their support for bringing pellet heat into the forefront of  government-supported renewable energies, in the state of washington and beyond.
it not only enhances the brand’s  collaborative nature, but...continue reading forshaw mourns the loss of its chair of the board joseph forshaw iii, chair of the board emeritus of forshaw of st. louis,  inc., died on november 5, 2011, at the age of 89.
z-line designs unveiled its new brand at the chicago international casual furniture & accessories markettm.
greg thomas, director of sales, says, “we’re excited to be able  to offer the industry this accredited course as a...continue reading 2011 international pool/spa/patio expo is a success the 2011 international pool/spa/patio expo, the annual trade show and  conference for the pool, spa, and backyard industry, exceeded the expectations  of both attendees and exhibitors.
local dignitaries joined nac to congratulate the company on its accomplishment.
on this date, it had been officially three years since an injury in the workplace had caused any loss of work time.
you’re not only an incredible company for your products, but also for your involvement in the community,” he says.
jim will be developing new products, reviewing merchandise product lines, and offering marketing assistance to all casual classics group owners chicago east.
western red cedar is a kiln-dried, select-grade wood that is oil stained for added luster.
we are honored that our fabrics were part of three winning entries that stood outamong
in addition to the indoor exhibits, one of the unique aspects of hpbexpo is the “...continue reading poly-wood, inc., recently expanded its lumber division.
casual classics furniture group has grown to 45 owners with 250 store locations in north america and puerto rico.
the retail showroom will operate under the name of summer classics home at fortin ironworks and is scheduled to be open by april 1, 2012.
the company offers its own designed patio furniture in the mid price ranges.
the spectrum of products showcased on the site will be unparalleled.
“there was a  real energy on the show floor that was shared by both attendees and exhibitors,  resulting in an all-around compelling event.”
“they’re creating an entirely new category within their  stores,” gaylord explained.
according to tony ramos, publisher of patio & hearth products report, attendance is the best that it has been in the past two to three years.
they knew that the inventory was obsolete.
hertel brings to his position over 18 years of marketing and advertising experience.
as vice president of sales and marketing,  yordy will focus on future markets, product segments, business opportunities,... continue reading certified fireplace barriers approved for gas fireplace fronts the csa america vented gasfired warm air heaters technical advisory group  met in cleveland, ohio, on december 13, 2011, and approved language mandating  certified barriers to protect children and other at-risk people from the glass  fronts of gas fireplaces.
homeowners can savor a bold fire while reaping the benefits of clean, eco-friendly heating.
brueggemann returned to the company in 2007, resuming his sales role just as the company embarked on an aggressive product-expansion campaign.
the awards were for the categories of health-care textiles (for its day dream collection, with cf stinson, inc.); outdoor textiles (for the indi pop collection from alaxi fabrics); and large exhibit/installation (with situ studio, at the brooklyn museum).
speakers during the special event included allen e. gant jr., president and  ceo of glen raven; robert f. caldwell, vice president of efficiency and  innovative technology for progress energy; erik lensch, president of argand  energy solutions; john gant, manager of sustainable development for glen raven  custom fabrics; and todd wemyss, manager of the norlina plant.
for a limited time only, from march 1st - march 30th, couristan’s  entire array of handmade and power-loomed area rugs will be available at their  lowest dealer pricing of the year as part of the winter/spring “savings  event” program.
“despite continued economic challenges, we are very pleased that the  show generated an increase in attendance for the second consecutive  year,” lindsay roberts, director of the show, reports.
founded in 1990 for the recycling of plastics into lumber, marketed under the brand name polywood™, the division has undergone an expansion of its indiana extrusion facilities and overall production capacity, including heightened sustainability efforts.
the outdoor grill is the perfect place to bring more fruit and vegetables to the plate-
we are honored that our fabrics  were part of three winning entries that stood outamong
the entire barbecue community has helped us reach this important moment.
from the introduction  of the first natural-gas fire- place to the complete modernization of the  industry...continue reading event recognizes glen raven’s solar project in north carolina the completion of a solar array atop glen raven’s sunbrella® yarn  manufacturing center in norlina, north carolina, was recognized during a  special event at the plant on october 10, 2011.
a number of  suppliers from china will be demonstrating a wide range of products, including  furnaces, grills, and barbecue accessories.
all great american  woodies products are proudly made in the united states and carry a limited  lifetime warranty.
“if an indoor retailer is ready to make  the jump into outdoor, we want to be there to discuss the...continue reading great american woodies adds products and appoints new reps great american woodies, a division of richey industries, has added new  traditional rockers to its extensive line of wood products for the 2012 season.
we know lhp will do a great job of promoting and distributing the jack  arnold line through its north american network, as well as to all qualified  hearth distributors and dealers.”
the china chamber of commerce for import and export of light industrial products and arts/crafts (cccla) will be exhibiting products in the china pavilion at this year’s hpbexpo in atlanta, georgia.
all products are made in the united states and  carry a limited lifetime warranty.
the retail showroom currently offers a variety of its iron products and has a large display of summer classics outdoor furniture.continue reading attendance has been strong for the first two days at this year’s hpbexpo in atlanta.
fill the remaining grill space with vegetables  to...continue reading great american woodies publishes new catalog and adds new design great american woodies, a division of richey industries, has released a new  32-page catalog featuring its southern cypress, cottage classics, western red  cedar, and lifestyle collections of casual furniture.
the company’s president, richey smith, states that these representatives will be instrumental in expanding great american woodies’ market presence.continue reading pelican reef inc., manufacturer and distributor of high-quality casual furnishings, has announced the appointment of allen calzadilla as president of the company and all of its subsidiary companies.
gorr has held several  executive management positions in the casual industry.
a third brother, mike moved back to salt... continue reading
judy and ed exemplify what an excellent sales representative should  be—strong ethics and relationships with their customers, along with  excellent follow-up, training, care, and communication.
the challenge is to get out of the beef mindset by mixing up the protein choices.
clayton brown will represent the company in the west region,  while jeff hagedorn will cover the mid-south region and sherry yarborough will  oversee the carolinas region.
“we are coming to high point for the first time because we know there  are indoor retailers who are ready to go into the outdoor casual  category,” said bob gaylord, president of agio.
please submit a cover letter and relevant résumé  information to sales@johnsongas.com.
continue  reading o.w. lee announces two new quick-ship programs january 26, 2012 – ontario, calif. – o.w. lee, a manufacturer  of high-end outdoor furniture, casual fireside fire pits and accessories  located in ontario, calif., announced today two new quick-ship programs,
“for 2012 we look forward to offering  guests an invaluable experience, while also paying tribute to the  industry’s leaders and innovators who have supported the show over the  years,” said liz sommerville, group show director for the hospitality  design group.
the csa america vented gasfired warm air heaters technical advisory group met in cleveland, ohio, on december 13, 2011, and approved language mandating certified barriers to protect children and other at-risk people from the glass fronts of gas fireplaces.
attendees represented all segments of the industry,  including pool/spa builders, retailers, service companies, designers, and  landscape architects.
sessions included a cor- porate business overview, strategic plan- ning, and  ongoing branding initiatives.
the all-inclusive trip includes airfare, lodging, drinks and food for two people with convenient scheduling and booking provided to both...continue reading casual classics furniture group, the largest member owned design/buying cooperative has retained industry veteran jim tillona as its director of marketing recourses.
“we developed the new “fast as fire, on demand” program with quicker lead times on key products to maximize dealer success with our lines,”...continue reading
agio officials credit traditional furniture retailers who  have recognized the benefit of adding outdoor collections to their product mix  as the motivation behind the manufacturer’s entry into the high point  marketplace.
since his retirement in 1981, the business has continued to be owned and operated by forshaw’s sons, joseph forshaw iv and rick forshaw.
under his leadership, the company has experienced unprecedented growth and has introduced a significantly broader range of products.
z-line designs unveiled its new brand  at the chicago international casual furniture & accessories markettm.
we have hired many of the employees who made a significant contribution to the previous robb & stucky, and have also brought in several key executives from outside the former company to bring a fresh perspective.
continue reading ernst & young names regency fireplace products ceo pacific  entrepreneur of the year robert little, founder and ceo of regency fireplace products, was recently  named the 2011 pacific ernst & young entrepreneur of the year® winner.
“perfect for outdoor furniture applications, perennial wood stands up to nature’s damaging effects without compromising the beauty and character of the wood,” said brant mitchell, market development manager for perennial wood furniture.
“together, we have faced many challenges caused by the recession and innovated to meet market demand.
fill the remaining grill space with vegetables to...continue reading great american woodies, a division of richey industries, has released a new 32-page catalog featuring its southern cypress, cottage classics, western red cedar, and lifestyle collections of casual furniture.
while voyer says that true entrepre- neurs are architects of their own visions, he underlines the importance of pairing that outlook with the right kind of inno- vation.
“with the tremendous growth potential of the outdoor industry, we are looking forward to chad driving our initiatives not only to build upon our leadership position, but also to facilitate avenues for growth opportunity.”
allowing faster access to inventory for retail dealers and designers in all  regions.
we look forward  to creating many more jobs as our growth continues.”
woolrich holds ninth annual summit for brand partners executives from woolrich and their home-furnishings brand partners met for  the ninth annual brand partners summit during the october high point market.
our goal is to continue to meet the needs...continue reading
jim will be developing new products, reviewing merchandise product lines,  and offering marketing assistance to all casual classics group owners chicago  east.
both lund and mink will receive a 4-day, 3-night trip for two, with their  choice of destination to either the hard rock hotel and casino in punta cana,  dominican republic or the riu palace in cabo san lucas, mexico.
the previous owners looked to sell the business because new vinyls were threatening their velon sales.
inks exclusive distribution agreement with european  copper by jack arnold
as nac was celebrating this achievement, it unveiled a new chromed-up  addition to the prestige® line, the 500 series.
other participants included licensing and marketing  executives from woolrich and the media matters, agency for the home division.
poly-wood’s lumber division currently is the leading provider of recycled plastic lumber for the outdoorfurnishings and -accessories industry.
attendees included executives from woolrich home, as well as licensees jla home, shadow mountain, whitecraft, picture source, mohawk home, rowe pottery works, and pm&j.
it’s  been modified with trulast™ technology to stand up to the elements,  resisting changes from moisture and remaining dimensionally stable for decades.
great american woodies also recently appointed several new sales  representatives.
it offers furniture manufacturers a long-lasting attractive, u.s.-sourced wood  for their casual and outdoor furniture lines.
the entire barbecue community has helped  us reach this important moment.”
marc zemel, ceo of mr. bar-b-q, says, “forty years is a huge milestone and one we’re proud to celebrate all year long.
total attendance was 9,717, a 5% increase  over the 2010 show.
while voyer says that true entrepre- neurs are architects of their  own visions, he underlines the importance of pairing that outlook with the  right kind of inno- vation.
“savings event” and sale  period promotions
we look forward to creating many more jobs as our growth continues.”
so many deserving nominees.”
the three day event will allow attendees to gain insight  into industry trends while learning how to maintain success in the  ever-evolving and ultra-competitive world of hospitality design.
meanwhile, other renew- able sources, such as wind and solar  power, have been classified as renewable and receive government support,  including tax incentives.
jack goldman, hpba president and ceo, says, “safety is our first priority, and we want people to enjoy the warmth and ambience of their... continue reading mendota hearth products/st. croix stoves has an opening for a sales representative for all or part of georgia, florida, alabama, and mississippi.
the quick ship programs have been  entitled, “fast as fire, on demand” and will be available to o.w.  lee’s customers from march 1, 2012 through aug. 31, 2012.
attendees represented all segments of the industry, including pool/spa builders, retailers, service companies, designers, and landscape architects.