it also happens that the recipe makes enough to feed a small village.
once you get everything chopped, the peppers are probably cool and ready to  peel and chop.
roasted red peppers, olives, and feta give it kind of a mediterranean feel.
the broccoli prepping the broccoli is pretty easy.
then crank up the  heat!
once your peppers are roasted, set them on a plate and wrap them up well  with plastic.
::insert sad face:: i think i’ll make  this dish at my 4th of july lunch!
in a separate bowl, whisk the olive oil into the vinegar to make a simple vinaigrette.
(i usually use about 1 tablespoon of salt per gallon of water and i always just approximate it.)
8) add broccoli to the mix.
in a separate bowl, whisk the olive oil into your vinegar  to make a simple vinaigrette.
it’ll probably take 10-15 minutes to get the peppers totally roasted.
once you get everything chopped, the peppers are probably cool and ready to peel and chop.
broccoli salad june 29, 2009  |  by nick  |  5  comments a few weeks ago jeff (my roommate while betsy is in atlanta) introduced me  to one of his favorite salads.
::insert sad face:: i think i’ll make this dish at my 4th of july lunch!
now you can always buy peppers that are already roasted,
this will basically steam the peppers and make them super-easy to peel.
after about 3 or 4 minutes, drain your  broccoli using a colander and then dunk the colander into ice water.
i actually have all the ingredients for this dish in my kitchen so this might be coming with me to a party this saturday.
now i actually prefer the electric range (easier, though slower to control temp., much better to clean/no chance of actually setting self on fire when cooking intoxicated).
it would be solid for a picnic or just to use as a side dish.
while broccoli salad may not sound too amazing,  there are some really interesting flavors going on this salad.
an addition of a smoke packet (foil wrapped wood chips) adds that  smokey flavor if you like.
review: food, inc. | brussel sprouts with red wine reduction » “i was kind of a bad food blogger for this recipe”
not to mention it’s reasonably healthy!
this will stop the broccoli from cooking.
i like to chop the olives in half, but you could quarter them if you wanted.
prep time: 45 minutes total time: 45 minutes ingredients: 1-1.5 pounds of broccoli, floret and stems 1 medium red onion, chopped 2 tomatoes, chopped 3 red peppers, roasted, or maybe 1.5 cups of jarred red peppers 1 cup kalamata olives 1 cup feta cheese 1/4 cup red wine vinegar 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil salt and pepper directions: 1)
the stems  and florets work great in this recipe.
[reply] 3 zakiya — june 30, 2009 @ 1:48 pm yum!
[reply] 4 thrifty dc cook — july 2, 2009 @ 4:10 pm i kick myself all the time for not documenting my process better.
oh and you definitelycannot do this if you have an electric stove.
after about 3 or 4 minutes, drain your broccoli using a colander and then dunk the colander into ice water.
name (required) mail (required - will not be published) website url
prep the broccoli by cutting off all the florets and then peel the stems  and chop them into half inch cubes.
« review: food, inc.  | brussel sprouts with red wine reduction  » economical, healthy, quick and easy, salad, side dishes, vegetarian   | 5 comments related posts ingredients 101: avocado, mango, onion jean’s spicy garlic bread spicy black bean patties 5 responses to “broccoli salad” 1 nick — june 29, 2009 @ 11:23 am “i was kind of a bad food blogger for this recipe”
10) add the vinaigrette to the veggies and add some salt and pepper to taste.
(i  usually use about 1 tablespoon of salt per gallon of water and i always just  approximate it.)
turns out broccoli makes a good salad.
it is perfect on a hot summer day though.
the broc should still have a bit of a crunch to  it.
once you get your broccoli chopped, we need to blanch it which  couldn’t be easier.
i took photos, but i wasn’t exactly measuring all the ingredients.
chill in the fridge for a few hours.
if you have an electric stove then you will have to use the oven or a grill if you have one.
am just made this salad, and added some garbanzo beans.
then add it to your veggies and add some salt and pepper to taste.
[reply] name (required) mail (required - will not be published) website url speak!
not to mention it’s reasonably  healthy!
its just  so easy to get caught up in the cooking and throw in a little of this and that.
the night we made it though we just ate with some toastedhomemade bread.
steaming is the secret.
also, be sure that your olives are pitted.
they need to steam for 10-15 minutes.
an addition of a smoke packet (foil wrapped wood chips) adds that smokey flavor if you like.
i hope jeff spanked you appropriately for this (in betsy’s absence,  of course).
i liked  it with a lot of pepper.
cut off all the  florets and then peel the stems and chop them into half inch cubes.
the last thing you want is a lawsuit because someone choked on an olive pit at your picnic.
it’s pretty important to do it in a separate bowl so you can make sure the dressing is mixed well and also so you can taste it and adjust it if you need to.
6) chop up your other ingredients like the onion, tomato, olives (in halves  or quarters), and feta.
i wish i had a gas stove
it’ll probably take 10-15 minutes to get the peppers totally  roasted.
that way they are really fresh  and flavorful.
before i dive into the recipe, i have to admit something.
in a separate bowl, whisk the olive oil into the vinegar to make a  simple vinaigrette.
it’s pretty important to do it in a  separate bowl so you can make sure the dressing is mixed well and also so you  can taste it and adjust it if you need to.
the broc should still have a bit of a crunch to it.
now i actually prefer the electric range (easier,  though slower to control temp., much better to clean/no chance of actually  setting self on fire when cooking intoxicated).
10) add the vinaigrette to the veggies and add some salt and pepper to  taste.
only gas here people.
these guys are good.
[reply] if stuck with an electric stove, a gas grill will roast all your vegtables to pefection.
we probably added 1 tablespoon of fresh ground pepper  and that was a lot.
that way they are really fresh and flavorful.
maybe you shouldn’t worry about a lawsuit, but ya  never know.
luckily, i don’t think this is a recipe that calls for exact proportions.
dice these guys to be the same size as you tomatoes and onions.
roast peppers in the oven (450 degrees for about 30-40 minutes turning  every 10 minutes or so) or on top of your gas stove (set the peppers right on  the stove top, turn on the heat and using tongs, turn the peppers every few  minutes until they are almost black all over for about 10 – 15 minutes).
you won’t be able to taste it in the  final product and it kind of gives it a rustic feel.
blanching ain't no thing.
i had been all gas, my whole life until we moved in there ~3 years ago.
click to cancel replyclick to cancel reply
then finally add your broccoli to the mix.
now you can definitely roast these guys in the oven (450 degrees  for about 30-40 minutes turning every 10 minutes or so), but i like to roast  them right on my gas top stove.
then crank up the heat!
in any event, the recipe below is just an approximation, but i’m very certain that it will produce good results and also that you could add a bit more or less of any one ingredient and it should be fine.
broccoli salad yield: serves 4.
a few weeks ago jeff (my roommate while betsy is in atlanta) introduced me to one of his favorite salads.
i just moved into an apartment, so i had to let go of my grill.
just dunk all your broccoli into a large pot of boiling salted water.
the last thing you want is a lawsuit because someone choked on an olive  pit at your picnic.
when peeling the peppers you can run them under a little water  if you want, but the skin on the peppers should basically slide off.
using tongs, turn the peppers every few minutes until they are almost black  all over.
[reply] click here to cancel reply.
i hope jeff spanked you appropriately for this (in betsy’s absence, of course).
once your peppers are roasted, set them on a plate and wrap them up well with plastic.
7) peel and dice the peppers and add to mixture.
in a separate bowl, whisk the olive oil into your vinegar to make a simple vinaigrette.
that pepper blackening/roasting is the only thing i miss about not having  the option to cook w/gas in my apt.
i had been all gas, my whole life until we  moved in there ~3 years ago.
cut off all the florets and then peel the stems and chop them into half inch cubes.
just dunk all your broccoli into a large pot of  boiling salted water.
maybe you shouldn’t worry about a lawsuit, but ya never know.
it always keeps really well and i ate it throughout the week.
the stems and florets work great in this recipe.
if there  are a few black specks that is okay.
when peeling the peppers you can run them under a little water if you want, but the skin on the peppers should basically slide off.
this will  stop the broccoli from cooking.
you probably won’t need that much salt.
once you get your broccoli chopped, we need to blanch it which couldn’t be easier.
[reply] 5 liz — august 9, 2009 @ 11:12
while you are waiting for your peppers to steam, you can chop up your other ingredients like the onion and tomato.
now you can always buy peppers that are already roasted, but i like to roast my own if i have the time.
you won’t be able to taste it in the final product and it kind of gives it a rustic feel.
it shouldn’t be soggy at all.
roast peppers in the oven (450 degrees for about 30-40 minutes turning every 10 minutes or so) or on top of your gas stove (set the peppers right on the stove top, turn on the heat and using tongs, turn the peppers every few minutes until they are almost black all over for about 10 – 15 minutes).
give this a shot if you are looking for an interesting salad on these hot days.
while you are waiting for your peppers to steam, you can chop up your other  ingredients like the onion and tomato.
prepping the broccoli is pretty easy.
if you have an electric stove then you will have  to use the oven or a grill if you have one.
the feta is pretty salty as is.
then add in your olives and feta.
if there are a few black specks that is okay.
its just so easy to get caught up in the cooking and throw in a little of this and that.
it also happens  that the recipe makes enough to feed a small village.
that pepper blackening/roasting is the only thing i miss about not having the option to cook w/gas in my apt.
after about 3 or 4 minutes, drain your broccoli using a colander and  then dunk the colander into ice water.
5) set the roasted peppers on a plate and wrap them up well with plastic for 10-15 minutes.
no grill = get creative.
i liked it with a lot of pepper.
[reply] just made this salad, and added some garbanzo beans.
dunk all the broccoli into a large pot of boiling salted water.
in any event, the recipe below is just  an approximation, but i’m very certain that it will produce good results  and also that you could add a bit more or less of any one ingredient and it  should be fine.
prep the broccoli by cutting off all the florets and then peel the stems and chop them into half inch cubes.
5) set the roasted peppers on a plate and wrap them up well with plastic  for 10-15 minutes.
so i could do cool thinks  like roast my peppers directly on the range.
i actually have all the ingredients for this dish in my kitchen so this might  be coming with me to a party this saturday.
i was kind of a  bad food blogger for this recipe.
roasted red  peppers, olives, and feta give it kind of a mediterranean feel.
6) chop up your other ingredients like the onion, tomato, olives (in halves or quarters), and feta.
but i like to roast my own if i have the time.
the night we made it though  we just ate with some toastedhomemade bread.
give this a shot if you are looking for an interesting salad on these hot  days.
this will basically steam the peppers and make them super-easy to  peel.
adding the good stuff.
we probably added 1 tablespoon of fresh ground pepper and that was a lot.
so i could do cool thinks like roast my peppers directly on the range.
i just moved into an apartment, so  i had to let go of my grill.
(i usually use about 1 tablespoon of salt per gallon of  water and i always just approximate it.)
while broccoli salad may not sound too amazing, there are some really interesting flavors going on this salad.
the feta is  pretty salty as is.
it always  keeps really well and i ate it throughout the week.
i like to chop the olives in half, but  you could quarter them if you wanted.
luckily, i don’t think this is a  recipe that calls for exact proportions.
[reply] 2 pleasant hill-billy — june 29, 2009 @ 6:58 pm if stuck with an electric stove, a gas grill will roast all your vegtables  to pefection.
this salad will be best if you let it chill in the fridge for a few hours.
[reply] i kick myself all the time for not documenting my process better.
literally, just set the peppers right on the stove top.
also, be sure that your olives are  pitted.
oh and you definitelycannot do this if you have an electric  stove.
now you can definitely roast these guys in the oven (450 degrees for about 30-40 minutes turning every 10 minutes or so), but i like to roast them right on my gas top stove.
broccoli salad 1-1.5 pounds of broccoli, floret and stems 1 medium red onion, chopped 2 tomatoes, chopped 3 red peppers, roasted, or maybe 1.5 cups of  jarred red peppers 1 cup kalamata olives 1/4  cup red wine vinegar 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil salt and pepper
i was kind of a bad food blogger for this recipe.
using tongs, turn the peppers every few minutes until they are almost black all over.