that  is not to say, however, that no one will notice this attractive antique-style  stove.
the  napoleon f60 hand-held thermostatic remote control with digital screen is  really the class of the field when it comes to operating a napoleon heating  appliance.
napoleon gds50 direct vent-b vent gas stove
the stove would be using air from inside the home, rather than outside.
i want to put a gas stove in the basement for  heat, backup during electrical outages, and beauty.
the remote ...(see complete description) regular price:  $98.99    sale price: $80.10 quantity: napoleon f60 hand-held thermostatic remote control with digital screen
even  more attractive this ornamental trivet is available in two attractive finishes:  ...(see complete description)
and because electricity is not required for any part of its operation, this  gas stove is a great resource during a power outage.
we tried a ventless stove, but  we were unhappy with it.
the only disadvantage to  using the stove in this way is that it is not as efficient.
napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove ask a fireplace specialist: item #: npl-gds28n  1,529.10  regular price: $2,033.99  sale price: $1,529.10 you save:  $504.89 (25%) ---please select---natural gas propane(+35.1) choose door finish: ---please select---gs328-1k  painted black (+355.5)gs328-1g gold plated (+458.1)gs328-1ss satin chrome  plated (+458.1) availability:  * usually ships within 5-7 business days.
quantity: regular price: $153.99 sale price: $125.10 napoleon programmable battery-operated timer set your napoleon fireplace or stove to automatically turn on or off with this convenient programmable battery-operated timer. ...
this remote is a perfect complement to a napoleon appliance because it's so simple to operate, so affordable, and so handy for controlling your appliance's function.
this remote is simple, affordable, and extremely useful to all types  of homeowners.
share this item with friends:
this remote is simple, affordable, and extremely useful to all types of homeowners.
as long as you’ve got  natural gas or propane – this model offers you the convenience of choosing  the fuel source that works best for you – you’ll have reliable and  efficient heat.
but dont think that this gas stove is just for show.
we tried a ventless stove, but we were unhappy with it.
i am interested in the stove listed above, but i'm  curious what i would need for vent pipe or adapters.
even the  ceramic glass helps conduct heat.
by paula from wash, dc on october 31, 2011 my house is about 1000 sq  ft total, upstairs and basement.
on november 2, 2011 can i hang a  lcd tv over this fireplace?
pin it with a napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove its easy to add a touch of rustic charm to any home decor.
- gaskets and adhesives - insets, louvers, &
select---painted blackgold plated (+36.90) quantity: napoleon gs200 ornamental trivet this ornamental trivet, designed by napoleon, is an attractive face plate that will add a decorate touch to the front of your firebox.
the gas stove ornamental accent ...(see complete description) regular price: $35.99 sale price: $27.00 choose accent bar finish: ---please select---gold platedsatin chrome quantity: napoleon f45 hand-held on/off remote control with digital screen everyone who owns a napoleon heating appliance should take a moment to look at this napoleon f45 hand-held on/off remote control with digital screen.
i currently have a chimney that was previously used to vent a ng stove that we had.
with this remote you get on/off thermostatic control, battery-operated,  hand-held design, and an ...(see complete description) regular price:  $153.99    sale price: $125.10 quantity: napoleon programmable battery-operated timer set your napoleon fireplace  or stove to automatically turn on or off with this convenient programmable  battery-operated timer. ...
napoleon arlington direct vent cast iron gas stove regular price: $1,758.99 sale price: $1,322.10 napoleon bayfield direct vent cast iron gas stove regular price: $2,356.99 sale price: $1,772.10 napoleon gds26 castlemore direct vent cast iron gas stove regular price: $3,122.99 sale price: $2,402.10 napoleon gds50 direct vent-b vent gas stove regular price: $2,572.99 sale price: $1,934.10 napoleon gds60 cast iron gas stove with direct vent-b vent regular price: $2,456.99 sale price: $1,997.10 napoleon arlington vent-free cast iron gas stove regular price: $1,471.99 sale price: $1,196.10 - wood burning stoves - gas burning stoves - pellet burning stoves - electric stoves - coal burning stoves - furnaces - space heaters - direct vent stoves - vent free stoves - b-vent stoves - stove boards - flame wood stoves - empire space heaters - sunstar space heaters - lexington forge stoves - empire wood stoves - majestic wood stoves - fire sense wood stoves - osburn wood stoves - pro com wood stoves - napoleon wood stoves - vantage hearth stoves - us stove wood stoves - us stove furnaces - presto space heaters - stove blowers & fans - stove accessories - space heater acc.
regular price: $118.99 sale price: $96.30 by tom on october 17, 2011
for most stoves and fireplaces, the amount of projection that is allowed gradually increases the higher the tv or mantel is mounted.
if this is the case, you would simply need the b-vent adaptor, along with  enough b-vent piping to go up and over to the thimble.
i'm  assuming the 6" whole you have in the chimney is a standard clay thimble?
because of your space limitations for  venting, i would definitely go with the b-vent setup for this unit.
the stove would be  using air from inside the home, rather than outside.
napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove ask a fireplace specialist: item #: npl-gds28n 1,529.10 regular price: $2,033.99 sale price: $1,529.10 you save: $504.89 (25%)
* manufacturer: napoleon gas stove buying guide  download product manual    download product manual #2 overall rating for napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove (no  reviews) be the first to rate and review this item quantity: napoleon stove and fireplace andirons give your  napoleon stove or fireplace a traditional touch with these napoleon stove and  fireplace andirons.
if you select propane as your fuel type your order will come with a natural gas to propane conversion kit.
thanks for any help that you can provide.
the remote ...(see complete description)
because of your space limitations for venting, i would definitely go with the b-vent setup for this unit.
friends and family alike will be drawn to this furnace, with its unique phazer log set and wide glass viewing window.
separately sold thermostats, remote controls, and timers available.
if this is the case, you would simply need the b-vent adaptor, along with enough b-vent piping to go up and over to the thimble.
select---painted blackgold plated (+36.90) quantity: napoleon gs200 ornamental trivet this ornamental  trivet, designed by napoleon, is an attractive face plate that will add a  decorate touch to the front of your firebox.
i am interested in the stove listed above, but i'm curious what i would need for vent pipe or adapters.
thanks for any help that you  can provide.
(see complete description)
trim - furnace accessories - gift certificates - vantage hearth heaters - stove accessories - fireplaces - fireplace inserts - wood stoves - gas logs - fireplace mantels - fireplace accessories - chimney products - outdoor fireplaces fireplaces | fireplace inserts | wood stoves | gas logs | fireplace mantels | fireplace accessories | chimney products | outdoor fireplaces home | fireplace guides & faq | customer service | track your order | secure shopping | privacy policy | company info | site map copyright © 2012 efireplacestore.com.
the unit will  only allow a mantel or tv to project so far out from the wall.
capable of handling up to 30,000 btus, this stove features a large circulating  blower and a turbo triple burner system to maximize efficiency.
if you select propane as your fuel  type your order will come with a natural gas to propane conversion kit.
home >  wood stoves >  direct  vent stoves > napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove > home >  wood stoves >   b-vent stoves > napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove  >
with this remote you get on/off thermostatic control, battery-operated, hand-held design, and an ...(see complete description)
the unit will only allow a mantel or tv to project so far out from the wall.
...(see complete description)
how many btus do i need?
regular price:  $76.99    sale price: $62.10 choose trivet finish:  ---please select---gold platedsatin chrome quantity: napoleon gds28 gas stove ornamental accent bar napoleon thinks that while  a stove is a nice addition to your home, it does tend to look a little plain  after a while.
by kevin e. on november 2, 2011 answer: this is a great option - as direct vent units generally are.
mobile home approved millivolt remote control gas valve provides convenient flame and heat  control circulating blower works with large heat exchanger for maximum efficiency triple flame burner with turbo boost for extra heat unique phazer™ log set and yellow dancing flame burner system create  a natural flame look wide ceramic glass viewing window convenient top vent installation patented b-vent conversion kit can turn the direct vent unit into a  traditional b-vent unit vents up to 20ft horizontally and 40 ft vertically up to 30,000 btus doors come in three attractive finishes unit includes black accent bar, ornamental inset, and trivet president's limited lifetime warranty *all units are natural gas.
for your application, the below option may be a better choice.
for most stoves  and fireplaces, the amount of projection that is allowed gradually increases  the higher the tv or mantel is mounted.
the gds28 is a  fully functional stove, capable of providing any room with additional heat.
just switch the power on, select your desired heat level, and your work  is done.
direct vent stoves > napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove > home > wood stoves > b-vent stoves > napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove >
the gds28 is a fully functional stove, capable of providing any room with additional heat.
with multiple finishes and door styles to choose from, you’ll have no  problem creating a stove that will be at home with any decorating scheme.
suitable for bedroom and bathroom use
also, unlike a traditional wood-burning stove which can be difficult to start and requires constant tending, using this gas stove is as simple.
the gas stove ornamental  accent ...(see complete description) regular price:  $35.99    sale price: $27.00 choose accent bar finish:  ---please select---gold platedsatin chrome quantity: napoleon f45 hand-held on/off remote control with digital screen everyone  who owns a napoleon heating appliance should take a moment to look at this  napoleon f45 hand-held on/off remote control with digital screen.
by collin c. on november 2, 2011 answer:there will be no issue with installing an lcd tv above this stove, as long as the projection requirements that are outlined in the owner's manual (which can be downloaded on this item page) are observed.
after just one cozy evening by the fire you'll wonder how you ever did without this enchanting home accessory.
that is not to say, however, that no one will notice this attractive antique-style stove.
item(s) | home > wood stoves > napoleon wood stoves > napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove > home > wood stoves > gas burning stoves > napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove > home > wood stoves >
do  i need it to be vented?
quantity: regular price: $98.99 sale price: $80.10 napoleon f60 hand-held thermostatic remote control with digital screen the napoleon f60 hand-held thermostatic remote control with digital screen is really the class of the field when it comes to operating a napoleon heating appliance.
home  > wood stoves >  napoleon wood stoves  > napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove > home >  wood stoves >  gas burning  stoves > napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove >
napoleon gds50  direct vent-b vent gas stove
capable of handling up to 30,000 btus, this stove features a large circulating blower and a turbo triple burner system to maximize efficiency.
and because electricity is not required for any part of its operation, this gas stove is a great resource during a power outage.
by customer service on october 17, 2011 answer: this particular stove can be used as a direct vent model or  modified to work as a b-vent unit.
by collin c. on november 2, 2011 answer: there will be no issue with installing an lcd tv above this  stove, as long as the projection requirements that are outlined in the owner's  manual (which can be downloaded on this item page) are observed.
as long as youve got natural gas or propane this model offers you the convenience of choosing the fuel source that works best for you youll have reliable and efficient heat.
by customer service on october 17, 2011 answer:this particular stove can be used as a direct vent model or modified to work as a b-vent unit.
the chimney is actually  hidden in the wall and has a 6" hole into it.
these beautiful panels feature a woven lattice and circular design that really dresses up your fireplace.
our general rule is 35 btus per square foot of desired heated space.
for your  application, the below option may be a better choice.
with multiple finishes and door styles to choose from, youll have no problem creating a stove that will be at home with any decorating scheme.
* part number: gds28-1n upc: 629169023929 gas stove buying guide download product manual download product manual #2 related articles & product manual overall rating for napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove (no reviews) be the first to rate and review this item quantity: napoleon stove and fireplace andirons give your napoleon stove or fireplace a traditional touch with these napoleon stove and fireplace andirons.
the chimney is actually hidden in the wall and has a 6" hole into it.
is this model a good one?
even more attractive this ornamental trivet is available in two attractive finishes: ...(see complete description)
just switch the power on, select your desired heat level, and your work is done.
direct vent run efficiently without ever pulling combustion air from a room.
regular price:  $118.99    sale price: $96.30 by tom on october 17, 2011
this remote  is a perfect complement to a napoleon appliance because it's so simple to  operate, so affordable, and so handy for controlling your appliance's function.
by paula from wash, dc on october 31, 2011 my house is about 1000 sq ft total, upstairs and basement.
by tom from williamstown, nj. 08094
on november 2, 2011 can i hang a lcd tv over this fireplace?
the napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove is elegant, effective, and  convenient.
but don’t think that this gas stove is just for show.
i'm assuming the 6" whole you have in the chimney is a standard clay thimble?
why not address this issue by dressing it up in a way that will leave all of your guests admiring your handiwork?
regular price: $70.99 sale price: $58.50 choose andiron finish:---please
features manufacturer: napoleon - compact direct vent/ b-vent gas stove - suitable for bedroom and bathroom use - mobile home approved - millivolt remote control gas valve provides convenient flame and heat control - circulating blower works with large heat exchanger for maximum efficiency - triple flame burner with turbo boost for extra heat - unique phazer log set and yellow dancing flame burner system create a natural flame look - wide ceramic glass viewing window - convenient top vent installation - reliable piezo ignitor - patented b-vent conversion kit can turn the direct vent unit into a traditional b-vent unit - vents up to 20ft horizontally and 40 ft vertically - up to 30,000 btus - no electricity required - doors come in three attractive finishes - unit includes black accent bar, ornamental inset, and trivet - president's limited lifetime warranty - *all units are natural gas.
pin it with a napoleon gds28 direct vent-b  vent gas stove it’s easy to add a touch of rustic charm to any home decor.
regular price: $70.99     sale price: $58.50 choose andiron finish:---please
napoleon arlington  direct vent cast iron gas stove regular price: $1,758.99 napoleon bayfield direct vent cast iron gas stove regular price: $2,356.99 napoleon  gds26 castlemore direct vent cast iron gas stove regular price: $3,122.99 napoleon gds50 direct vent-b vent gas stove regular price: $2,572.99 napoleon  gds60 cast iron gas stove with direct vent-b vent regular price: $2,456.99 napoleon arlington vent-free cast  iron gas stove regular price: $1,471.99
by kevin e. on november 2, 2011 answer:this is a great option - as direct vent units generally are.
after just one cozy evening by the fire you'll wonder how you ever  did without this enchanting home accessory.
friends and family alike will be drawn to this furnace, with its unique  phazer log set and wide glass viewing window.
even the ceramic glass helps conduct heat.
the napoleon gds28 direct vent-b vent gas stove is elegant, effective, and convenient.
regular price: $76.99 sale price: $62.10 choose trivet finish: ---please select---gold platedsatin chrome quantity: napoleon gds28 gas stove ornamental accent bar napoleon thinks that while a stove is a nice addition to your home, it does tend to look a little plain after a while.
share this item with  friends:
these beautiful panels feature a  woven lattice and circular design that really dresses up your fireplace.
i currently have a chimney that was  previously used to vent a ng stove that we had.
why not address this issue by dressing it up in a way that will  leave all of your guests admiring your handiwork?
available in black and gold.
choose fuel type: ---please select---natural gas propane(+35.1) choose door finish: ---please select---gs328-1k painted black (+355.5)gs328-1g gold plated (+458.1)gs328-1ss satin chrome plated (+458.1) availability: * usually ships within 5-7 business days.
i want to put a gas stove in the basement for heat, backup during electrical outages, and beauty.
do i need it to be vented?
also, unlike a traditional wood-burning stove which can be  difficult to start and requires constant tending, using this gas stove is as  simple.
the only disadvantage to using the stove in this way is that it is not as efficient.
features compact direct vent/ b-vent gas stove