the dimplex cassington is a contemporary styled, electric stove with the incredible opti-myst 3d flame effect.
boasting  silent operation and operated by remote control, the cassington freestanding  electric stove is sure to be a extremely popular choice!
mr f webb hi, just to let you know that our fire is in, working and could not be better.
keyword search product search product search all manufacturers aga stoves agnews / cast tec fireplaces baxi fires be modern broseley stoves burley fires carron fireplaces & stoves celsi fires clearance courts pureglow fires creative fires crystal fires dimplex fires dovre stoves dunsley stoves ecowarm stoves eko fires elgin & hall euro flames stoves evolve faber fireplaces firebelly stoves flamerite fires flavel fires focal point fires franco belge stoves gallery fireplaces gavin scott design fireplaces gazco fires hillandale stoves hunter stoves kinder fires legend fires morso stoves nordpeis stoves restwell chairs robinson willey smeg flueless fires stovax stoves stove pipe & accessories superior fires valor fires verine fires vermont castings stoves wanders fires & stoves winther browne yeoman stoves all product types fireplaces gas fires electric fires wood burning stoves multi-fuel stoves solid fuel stove defra approved stoves boiler stoves flue liners, stove pipe & accessories high efficiency gas fires fireplace package deals flueless gas fires hole in the wall fires electric fireplace suites gas stove electric stove balanced flue gas fires power flue gas fires fanned flue gas fires lpg gas fires stone fireplaces marble fireplaces wooden fireplaces cast iron fireplaces fireplaces for solid fuel basket fires range cookers wall heaters wood burning cookers massage chairs recliner chairs rise & recliner chairs swivel recliner chairs fireside chairs adjustable beds & accessories all product styles contemporary style freestanding fires glass fronted gas fires hang-on-the-wall style hearth mounted fireplaces hole-in-the-wall style inset fires outset gas fires stove suitable for class 1 flues suitable for class 2 pre-cast flues suitable for class 2 pre-fabricated flues suitable for no chimney or flue traditional style browse products menu browse products - fires, fireplaces & stoves - fireplaces - gas fires - electric fires - wood burning stoves - multi-fuel stoves - solid fuel stove - defra approved stoves - boiler stoves - flue liners, stove pipe & accessories - high efficiency gas fires - fireplace package deals - flueless gas fires - hole in the wall fires - electric fireplace suites - gas stove - electric stove - balanced flue gas fires - power flue gas fires - fanned flue gas fires - lpg gas fires - stone fireplaces - marble fireplaces - wooden fireplaces - cast iron fireplaces - fireplaces for solid fuel - basket fires - range cookers - wall heaters - wood burning cookers - chairs & beds - massage chairs - recliner chairs - rise & recliner chairs - swivel recliner chairs - fireside chairs - adjustable beds & accessories most of our fabulous range of our wood burning stoves are offered with a quality stove installation kit absolutely free!
rrp: £639 £575 inc vat broseley winchester cast iron electric stove save £79 broseley fires have become a household name in the stove industry, originally proving their expertise by developing appliances for other manufacturers.
the weston  124 is part of the electric stove range from burley.
the cadogan electric fire stove from the new dimplex range of electric fires features the incredible new optimyst flame and smoke effect.
it includes a hand painted  log fuel bed combined with beautiful traditional styling.
united kingdom geo: 53.546783n , -2.197814w
rrp: £719 broseley lincoln cast iron electric stove save £72 there is nothing more  relaxing or comforting than the warm, welcoming glow of a fire.
our buyers guide is here to help  you with your purchase.
optimyst electric stove save
without the need for flues or fireplaces the broseley lincoln electric stove easily be achieves this!
i will certainly be recommending your company  to all my friends and relatives.
we can now deliver a selection of our fires & fireplaces and stoves throughout ireland.
thermostatic control and an adjustable heat output are also standard features across the range.
rrp: £204 £158 inc vat pages: 1 2 3 (3 pages) reasons to shop at hotprice... knowledge we have years of experience in the british fireplaces industry and are able to offer expert design and technical advice.
it has been a pleasure to have dealt with you.
to find a company who take the time and trouble to  give such service to their customers as yours is hard to find.
please email us with your requirements.
£1,019 inc vat dimplex cassington
product name price - lower first price - highest first broseley canterbury cast iron electric stove save £72 the broseley canterbury electric stove combines classic strong looks with delicate lines and pattern-work.
if you are looking for a job in the fireplace industry we would love to hear from you.
jenny turner see all 194 reviews> to most mainland uk addresses fireplace buyers guide searching for gas fires, electric fires, wood burning stoves or complete fireplaces?
you dealt with my query promptly and professionally and demonstrated your  knowledge of the products you sell and your concern that customers are happy  with their order.
without the need for flues or fireplaces this can  easily be achieved with the broseley lincoln electric stove.
unsure about what type of gas fire you need?
click here> a small selection of popular gas fires, electric fires, stoves and complete fireplaces recommended by our manager.
£285 inc vat burley weston 124 electric freestanding stove save
without the  need for flues or fireplaces the broseley lincoln electric stove easily be  achieves this!
to find a company who take the time and trouble to give such service to their customers as yours is hard to find.
there is nothing more relaxing or comforting than the warm, welcoming glow of a fire.
this free-standing stove can be simply placed anywhere in your home to create a cosy focal point.
your advice and superb customer service is the best i have ever received both  before and after the sale.
thermostatic control and an adjustable heat output  are also standard features across the range.
the cilton 128-s is part of the premier  range from burley.
the cilton 128-s is part of the premier range from burley.
your advice and superb customer service is the best i have ever received both before and after the sale.
the dimplex brayford is a  compact electric stove designed to fit in or on a standard fireplace and hearth.
jenny  turner to most  mainland uk addresses fireplace buyers guide searching for gas fires, electric fires,  wood burning stoves or complete fireplaces?
rrp: £789 broseley york grande cast iron electric stove save £72 broseley's range of  traditionally cast electric stoves feature a whisper quiet fan heater and a  very effective flame effect.
pages: 1  2  3 (3 pages)
rrp: £719 £647 inc vat broseley serrano 3 cast iron electric stove save £64 there is nothing more relaxing or comforting than the warm, welcoming glow of a fire.
£285 inc vat burley weston 124 electric  freestanding stove save
the weston 124 is part of the electric stove range from burley.
£1,019 inc vat dimplex  club electric stove save £46 the dimplex club electric stove features optiflame elite log effect with the  illusion of 'dying embers' even when switched off.
please  email us with your requirements.
rrp: £619 burley chilton 128-s premier electric freestanding stove save
main content area electric stove you have searched for: product type - electric stove (34 products found!)
or baffled by the terminology used on  this site?
shop online securely with total piece of mind.
rrp: £143 dimplex cadogan optimyst electric stove save
shop online securely with total  piece of mind.
£1,019 inc vat dimplex club electric stove save £46 the dimplex club electric stove features optiflame elite log effect with the illusion of 'dying embers' even when switched off.
details > - home | - site map | - about us | - jargon buster | - contact us | - terms & conditions | - faq | © 2007 hotprice.co.uk limited fireplace blog hotprice.co.uk harpoon house sharp street middleton manchester m24 1ad
£235 inc vat dimplex brayford electric freestanding stove save £20 the dimplex brayford electric stove finished in black cast effect with 1kw or 2kw heat selection.
thank you all so much for such an easy  and enjoyable transaction...
i am very impressed at the high level of customer service offered post sale by hotprice.
rrp: £789 £710 inc vat broseley york grande cast iron electric stove save £72 broseley's range of traditionally cast electric stoves feature a whisper quiet fan heater and a very effective flame effect.
thank you all so much for such an easy and enjoyable transaction...
it includes top of the range controls and features combined  with beautiful traditional styling.
rrp: £719 £647 inc vat broseley york midi cast iron electric stove save £62
the dimplex brayford is a compact electric stove designed to fit in or on a standard fireplace and hearth.
fireside chairs adjustable beds & accessories most of our fabulous range of our wood burning stoves  are offered with a quality stove installation kit absolutely free!
it includes top of the range controls and features combined with beautiful traditional styling.
i am very  impressed at the high level of customer service offered post sale by hotprice.
jargon explained confused by the type of flue you have?
rrp:  £204 pages:  1  2  3 (3 pages) reasons to shop at hotprice... knowledge we have years of  experience in the british fireplaces industry and are able to offer expert  design and technical advice.
£235 inc vat dimplex brayford electric freestanding stove save  £20 the dimplex brayford electric stove finished in  black cast effect with 1kw or 2kw heat selection.
more recently they have used this renowned experience to launch their own ranges of multifuel (wood and coal), gas and electric stoves.
more recently they have used this renowned experience  to launch their own ranges of multifuel (wood and coal), gas and electric  stoves.
unsure  about what type of gas fire you need?
click here> flue products we are happy to quote on all flue related products including gas flue liners & solid fuel, twin-wall flue systems.
visit our jargon buster page.
rrp:  £639 broseley winchester cast iron electric stove save  £79 broseley fires have become a household name in  the stove industry, originally proving their expertise by developing appliances  for other manufacturers.
main content area you have searched for: product type - electric  stove (34 products found!)
it includes a hand painted log fuel bed combined with beautiful traditional styling.
it features a choice of log or coal effect plus optional door designs.
rrp: £719 broseley serrano 3 cast iron electric  stove save £64 there is nothing  more relaxing or comforting than the warm, welcoming glow of a fire.
i will certainly be recommending your company to all my friends and relatives.
or baffled by the terminology used on this site?
pages: 1 2 3 (3 pages)
delivery fast, free delivery direct to your door to most addresses in mainland united kingdom security our online payment section has the very latest security encryption available in the united kingdom.
rrp: £719 £647 inc vat broseley lincoln cast iron electric stove save £72 there is nothing more relaxing or comforting than the warm, welcoming glow of a fire.
rrp: £143 £123 inc vat dimplex cadogan optimyst electric stove save
you dealt with my query promptly and professionally and demonstrated your knowledge of the products you sell and your concern that customers are happy with their order.
it features a choice of log or coal effect plus optional door  designs.
delivery fast, free delivery direct  to your door to most addresses  in mainland united kingdom security our online payment section has the very latest security  encryption available in the united kingdom.
we can now deliver a  selection of our fires & fireplaces and stoves throughout ireland.
what our customers say... just to let you know our fire arrived today as you said it would.
rrp: £619 £557 inc vat burley chilton 128-s premier electric freestanding stove save
without  the need for flues or fireplaces this can easily be achieved with the modern  designed broseley serrano 3 cast-iron electric stove.
thanks again for your assistance.
click here> flue products we are happy to quote on all flue related products  including gas flue liners & solid fuel, twin-wall flue systems.
our buyers guide is here to help you with your purchase.
rrp: £719 broseley  york midi cast iron electric stove save £62 there is nothing more relaxing or comforting than the warm,  welcoming glow of a fire.
without the need for flues or fireplaces this can easily be achieved with the broseley lincoln electric stove.
without the need for flues or fireplaces this can easily be achieved with the modern designed broseley serrano 3 cast-iron electric stove.
click here> a small selection of popular gas fires, electric fires,  stoves and complete fireplaces recommended by our manager.
the dimplex cassington is a contemporary  styled, electric stove with the incredible opti-myst 3d flame effect.
mr j sharples thank you for all your support on my query.
boasting silent operation and operated by remote control, the cassington freestanding electric stove is sure to be a extremely popular choice!
product name price - lower first price - highest  first broseley canterbury cast iron electric stove save £72 the broseley canterbury  electric stove combines classic strong looks with delicate lines and  pattern-work.
what our customers say... just to let you know our  fire arrived today as you said it would.
if you are looking for a job in the fireplace industry we would love to hear  from you.
this free-standing  stove can be simply placed anywhere in your home to create a cosy focal point.
we are always looking for dynamic people to join our expanding team.
the cadogan electric fire stove from the  new dimplex range of electric fires features the incredible new optimyst flame  and smoke effect.
it has been a  pleasure to have dealt with you.
main menu - home - about us - showroom - contact us - view basket - installation - clearance - faq keyword search i'm looking for ...