if more flexibility is required we can also provide  flame effectelectric stoves and all you need it a electric socket!
javascript seem to be disabled in your browser.
we  offer inclusive free delivery on all our products.
you will not  find the same fireplace cheaper anywhere else in the uk.
sit back and  relax whilst enjoying the flame picture of a traditional wood burning stove.
if more flexibility is required we can also provide flame effectelectric stoves and all you need it a electric socket!
choose from a range of inset coal effect electric fires that will fit into a traditional fireplace or the ultra-modern wall mounted electric fires with a variety of finishes.
gas fires whether your looking for traditional or contemporary gas fire, you can’t beat the real flame effect of a gas fire offering great warmth and efficiency in your living area.
wall mounted  electric fires offer maximum impact and maximum style for your home.
check out the  categories at the top to select from our extensive range of own brand and  branded gasfires electric fires, wood burning stoves and fireplaces.
if you do find the same gas fire, electric fire, wood burning stove or fireplace cheaper elsewhere in the uk, then please let us know by e-mailing details to us at: sales@fireplacenet.co.uk and we will make sure you get a better deal!
newsletter sign up for our newsletter: subscribe you have no items to compare.
gas fires whether your looking for traditional or contemporary gas fire, you  can’t beat the real flame effect of a gas fire offering great warmth and  efficiency in your living area.
we use ssl secured online ordering and processing on our website.
electric fires the great thing with electric fires is they are easy to install and you can place them almost anywhere and there is no flue required.
take a look at our range ofwood burning stoves we have to offer.
electric fires offer great flexibility for your decorative needs.
our gas fires range from traditional insetgas fires that are suitable to fit into a new or existing fireplace or the ultra-modern hole in the wall gas fires.
alternatively you can choose an electric fireplace suite which can transform your room with a professional look within minutes.
wood burning stoves and electric stoves stoves have made a massive comeback in recent years due to the heating  capability of a wood burning stove.
from all at fireplacenet thank you and happy shopping my cart you have no items in your shopping cart.
if you do find the same gas fire, electric fire, wood burning stove or  fireplace cheaper elsewhere in the uk, then please let us know by e-mailing  details to us at: sales@fireplacenet.co.uk and we will make sure you get a  better deal!
why not look at the latest wall mounted electric fires that are designed to be installed off the floor.
our gas fires range from traditional insetgas  fires that are suitable to fit into a new or existing fireplace or the  ultra-modern hole in the wall gas fires.
a variety of finishes are available like brass or stainless steel gas fires, we have the answer ready to buy online now!
sit back and relax whilst enjoying the flame picture of a traditional wood burning stove.
alternatively you can choose an electric fireplace suite which can transform  your room with a professional look within minutes.
by position name price welcome to fireplacenet... are you looking for an electric fire, gas fire, fireplace or wood burning stove?
looking for a space saving idea?
are you looking for an electric fire, gas fire, fireplace or wood burning  stove?
you will not find the same fireplace cheaper anywhere else in the uk.
check out the categories at the top to select from our extensive range of own brand and branded gasfires electric fires, wood burning stoves and fireplaces.
welcome to fireplacenet ltd | tel: 0845 6200029 9 item(s)show 9 18 36 per page view as: grid listsort
electric fires offer great  flexibility for your decorative needs.
why not look at the latest wall mounted  electric fires that are designed to be installed off the floor.
by position name price regular price: £468.77 special price: £153.19add to cart regular price: £395.00 special price: £266.25add to cart regular price: £399.00 special price: £246.75add to cart regular price: £299.00 special price: £239.00add to cart regular price: £269.00 special price: £199.00add to cart 9 item(s)show 9 18 36 per page view as: grid listsort
ssl  creates an encrypted link between a web server and a web browser to ensure that  when ordering your new electric fires or fireplaces all data transmitted remain  private and secure.
choose from a range  of inset coal effect electric fires that will fit into a traditional fireplace  or the ultra-modern wall mounted electric fires with a variety of finishes.
we offer inclusive free delivery on all our products.
fireplacenet have great experience in the manufacture and supply of gas  fires which come complete with our full manufacturers guarantee.
we are a leading internet specialist based in the uk, supplying gas  fires, electric fires, stoves and fireplaces to homes in the uk.
you must have javascript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
newsletter sign up for our newsletter: you have no items to compare.
a variety of finishes are available  like brass or stainless steel gas fires, we have the answer ready to buy online  now!
© 2011 charlton & jenrick ltd.
fireplacenet have great experience in the manufacture and supply of gas fires which come complete with our full manufacturers guarantee.
show  9  18  36  per page view as: grid list sort by  position   name  price welcome to fireplacenet...
we are a leading internet specialist based in the uk, supplying gas fires, electric fires, stoves and fireplaces to homes in the uk.
take a look at our range ofwood burning  stoves we have to offer.
electric fires the great thing with electric fires is they are easy to install and you can  place them almost anywhere and there is no flue required.
charlton and jenrick ltd, unit d, stafford park 2, telford, shropshire, tf3 3ar company registration number 2037946 | vat registration number gb 451 6304 71 | country of registration united kingdom © charlton and jenrick ltdfireplacenet ltd blog 2048 bit ssl certificate
wood burning stoves and electric stoves stoves have made a massive comeback in recent years due to the heating capability of a wood burning stove.
wall mounted electric fires offer maximum impact and maximum style for your home.
ssl creates an encrypted link between a web server and a web browser to ensure that when ordering your new electric fires or fireplaces all data transmitted remain private and secure.