works like a charm on the barbecue grill, though!
oh, and cooking it not on steel, but on a block of ancient, super dense, mineral richhimalayan rock salt.
a variety of sizes are available, and the cost-conscious, or restaurants looking to serve many, can usecookware 4 x 8 x 2 bricks as well.
after 15 to 20  seconds, flip and cook for another 15 to 20 seconds.
i thought we could also use the oven, but, after reading your flyer, i see we cant.
they are coming to  dinner tonight, and i want to do something, so we can learn-i think i will  start with the salt round with cheese and fruit to start.
otherwise, heating should be the same for both stoves: heat over 45 minutes, 15 minutes on low, then medium, then high.
it’s best to have the block somewhere around 1/4 inch above  the element.
as an enclosed space, it can  trap moisture that is harmful to the block.
what about the grill?
but think of the poor steak.
to avoid giving the impression that  we are savages, we have conferred upon this dish a sophisticated name that  distracts those we are trying to impress.
place about 12 pieces of steak onto the block.
thanks, carol carol, you can absolutely throw your salt block on the grill to heat it, and then cook whatever you like on it.
the block of himalayan salt stores enough heat to allow for 3 to 5 courses.
i love the new adventure in eating and cooking.
how do we get that elemental flavor out of a meat that resists the teeth?
i’ve made coffee and ginger marinades, lime and tequila marinades, smoked salt and chili pepper marinades, vinegar and sugar marinades… you name it.
flank steak has to be pretty much the best thing short of a foot rub while drinking a root beer float.
i just did shrimp and steak myself.
it is a good idea to place the salt stone on the grill before you light the grill, so that the two heat up together, making it a more gradual process.
there is a common strategy to making the flank steak supple  enough to eat without popping your jaw out of joint: marinating.
the major drawback to this dish is that no matter how fast you cook, you can generally eat faster.
every time, great steak.
when the himalayan pink salt plate is hot, which you can tell by when a  sample piece of meat sizzles vigorously (or however it is that a piece of meat  sizzles when it is really sizzling), or by moving your hand closer and closer  to the hot himalayan salt block until your hand definitely doesn’t want  to get any closer at about 2 or 3 inches away, or by gunning it with one of  those very cool infra-red thermometers and noting that it is 475 to 500 degrees  f, you are ready to cook.
they are coming to dinner tonight, and i want to do something, so we can learn-i think i will start with the salt round with cheese and fruit to start.
on 09 dec 2011 at 1:29 pm 5 krista
a good way avoid just  hovering over the stove wolfing down the hot, juicy, rare-on-the-inside,  seared-golden-on-the-outside pieces of steak, is to bring the cooking to the  table, where children can be controlled and adults are obligated to be civil.
so, wondering about the grill-let me know.
stacy – you can use your salt block on both electric and gas stoves.
there are two simple tricks to this dish (if you can call steak seared on a giant block of salt a dish): cutting the meat against the grain, and cooking it at a high temperature.
there is a solution, a way honor the humble  yet noble flank steak in its naked beauty, a way that takes virtually no
(as the block cools, subsequent batches of steak will be saltier.)
and voilà, all the civility of a good  fondue bourguignonne with even better, more indubitably seasoned cooking.
how do we get that elemental flavor out of a  meat that resists the teeth?
to avoid giving the impression that we are savages, we have conferred upon this dish a sophisticated name that distracts those we are trying to impress.
talking about it to  customers at the store is fun, i just need to get more versed at it.
there is a solution, a way honor the humble yet noble flank steak in its naked beauty, a way that takes virtually no preparation ahead of time, a way results in a fun, incredibly juicy and savory dish.
it  is a good idea to place the salt stone on the grill before you light the grill,  so that the two heat up together, making it a more gradual process.
a  wonderful, flavor-packed piece of meat forced to suffer quietly the insult of  subjugation to intense acids and sugars and salts.
i’ve covered this dish before here and elsewhere, including at the  himalayan salt block cooking classes at the meadow, but i don’t think it  has ever actually been hammered into a simple recipe.
view all blogs by the meadow: salt news * chocolate news *
then, turning the piece perpendicular to the blade of your knife  cut the strips across the fiber of the meat into 1/4 inch thick strips, each  about 2 to 3 inches long.
trackback uri | subscribe to the comments through rss feed name (required) mail (hidden) (required)
-mark on 26 dec 2010 at 5:51 am 3 stacy can i use my slat block on a glass top stove, gas stove or both?
so how do i use the salt block in my oven?
then will buy one for  the stove.
thanks, carol on 26 sep 2009 at 6:27 pm 2 mark bitterman carol, you can absolutely throw your salt block on the grill to heat it,  and then cook whatever you like on it.
so, wondering about the grill-let me  know.
the major drawback to this dish is that no matter how fast you cook, you  can generally eat faster.
i’ve covered this dish before here and elsewhere, including at the himalayan salt block cooking classes at the meadow, but i don’t think it has ever actually been hammered into a simple recipe.
with a gas stove, you just put it right on top, even with the flame touching the block.
we call it bifsteak à l’iguanne.
i was out to portland last nov and visited your store, and told charolette about it, and they visited this summer and bought your blocks.
hi krista – a salt block will not work on an induction stove, but you also don’t necessarily use it in the oven.
or is it just better to use the  plate for serving, not cooking?
when we see a flank steak, we see a quandary.
it certainly can and has been done,  but your block will not last as long.
when the himalayan pink salt plate is hot, which you can tell by when a sample piece of meat sizzles vigorously (or however it is that a piece of meat sizzles when it is really sizzling), or by moving your hand closer and closer to the hot himalayan salt block until your hand definitely doesn’t want to get any closer at about 2 or 3 inches away, or by gunning it with one of those very cool infra-red thermometers and noting that it is 475 to 500 degrees f, you are ready to cook.
hence the name, steak a l’iguana.
it certainly can and has been done, but your block will not last as long.
i’ve noticed that when diners are hungry  enough, it is possible to actually eat the entire pieces without  chewing–sort of iguana style.
after 15 to 20 seconds, flip and cook for another 15 to 20 seconds.
-mark can i use my slat block on a glass top stove, gas stove or both?
and voilà, all the civility of a good fondue bourguignonne with even better, more indubitably seasoned cooking.
i’ve made coffee and ginger marinades, lime and tequila marinades, smoked  salt and chili pepper marinades, vinegar and sugar marinades… you name  it.
place the hot brick on a trivet and place the piping hot himalayan salt brick on the table.
a selection available here>>
we call it bifsteak à  l’iguanne.
ingredients: 1 2lb piece of flank steak 1 8x8x2 inch himalayan  salt block or plate place the block of himalayan rock salt on the stove and set to low heat,  gradually, over the course of 30 minutes, bringing it to high heat, until the  block reaches a cooking temperature of 475 to 500 degrees f.  cut the  piece of flank steak length wise along the grain of the meat, creating two long  strips.
there is a common strategy to making the flank steak supple enough to eat without popping your jaw out of joint: marinating.
oh, and cooking it not on steel, but on a block of  ancient, super dense, mineral richhimalayan rock salt.
ingredients: 1 2lb piece of flank steak 1 8x8x2 inch himalayan salt block or plate place the block of himalayan rock salt on the stove and set to low heat, gradually, over the course of 30 minutes, bringing it to high heat, until the block reaches a cooking temperature of 475 to 500 degrees f. cut the piece of flank steak length wise along the grain of the meat, creating two long strips.
let me know  if you have any questions!
i am buying one, just want them all, and need to read about the cooking and serving.
on 10 mar 2011 at 1:16 pm 4 mark bitterman stacy – you can use your salt block on both electric and gas stoves.
on 17 jan 2012 at 1:18 pm 6 mark bitterman hi krista – a salt block will not work on an induction stove, but you  also don’t necessarily use it in the oven.
otherwise, heating should be the same for both stoves: heat over  45 minutes, 15 minutes on low, then medium, then high.
then, turning the piece perpendicular to the blade of your knife cut the strips across the fiber of the meat into 1/4 inch thick strips, each about 2 to 3 inches long.
website search salt newssearch salt news copyright © 2012
mark bitterman :: feb.19.2009 :: recipes, salt blocks :: 6 comments » wow, we just got the salt blocks at ilbelcarrello in lexington, mo.
when we see a flank  steak, we see a quandary.
specifically, how do i cook rib eye steaks?
the block of himalayan salt stores enough heat to  allow for 3 to 5 courses.
a good way avoid just hovering over the stove wolfing down the hot, juicy, rare-on-the-inside, seared-golden-on-the-outside pieces of steak, is to bring the cooking to the table, where children can be controlled and adults are obligated to be civil.
then will buy one for the stove.
there are two simple tricks to this dish (if you can call steak seared on a  giant block of salt a dish): cutting the meat against the grain, and cooking it  at a high temperature.
as an enclosed space, it can trap moisture that is harmful to the block.
something like a grill tin or wok ring works very well.
let me know if you have any questions!
works like a charm on the barbecue grill,  though!
it’s best to have the block somewhere around 1/4 inch above the element.
i’ve noticed that when diners are hungry enough, it is possible to actually eat the entire pieces without chewing–sort of iguana style.
or is it just better to use the plate for serving, not cooking?
with a gas stove, you just put it right on top, even with the flame touching  the block.
as far as electric stoves, i recommend using a metal spacer between  the block and the heating element.
a variety of sizes are available, and the cost-conscious, or restaurants  looking to serve many, can usecookware 4 x 8 x 2 bricks as well.
a wonderful, flavor-packed piece of meat forced to suffer quietly the insult of subjugation to intense acids and sugars and salts.
preparation ahead of time, a way results in a fun, incredibly juicy and savory  dish.
i was  out to portland last nov and visited your store, and told charolette about it,  and they visited this summer and bought your blocks.
the world of gourmet salt quick & easy himalayan salt block seared flank steak flank steak has to be pretty much the best thing short of a foot rub while  drinking a root beer float.
i am buying one, just want  them all, and need to read about the cooking and serving.
as far as electric stoves, i recommend using a metal spacer between the block and the heating element.
trackback uri | subscribe to the comments through rss feed leave a reply
something like a grill tin or wok ring works  very well.
i thought we could also use the oven, but,  after reading your flyer, i see we cant.
place the hot brick on a trivet and place the piping hot himalayan salt  brick on the table.
(as the block cools, subsequent batches of  steak will be saltier.)
talking about it to customers at the store is fun, i just need to get more versed at it.
i have an induction stove top
a  selection available here>> mark bitterman :: feb.19.2009 :: recipes, salt blocks :: 6 comments » 6 responses to “quick & easy himalayan salt block seared flank  steak” on 26 sep 2009 at 1:42 pm 1 carol levy wow, we just got the salt blocks at ilbelcarrello in lexington, mo.