how can you tell how hot you can safely allow your canister to get?
similar to cooking with stove.
canister stoves see a decline in performance in cold weather.
be sure that you build it so the ‘grate’ or fireplace faces the wind.
a log cabin fire is suitable for cooking food as it provides uniform heat.
it has a solid base of logs; getting it up out  of the snow and a couple of reflective walls to channel the heat back to the  fire and towards the lean-to.
in sub-zero temperatures, while  the first 2/3 of the propane/butane blend canister will deliver as expected,  the canister may need to be warmed to keep the flame going.
however, in the camping in the  winter when it can be dark before 5pm a fire can provide a focal point, a  source of heat for melting snow for water or cooking, and heat for drying  and/or warming clothing.
the finished fire tinder cupcakes.
tinder might include commercial products such as wetfire, esbit tablets or  trioxane, candles or homemade aids such as my personal favorite cotton balls  smeared with vaseline or wood shaving cupcakes made.
consider using plastic silverware as metal spoons and forks may become uncomfortably cold.
leave a larger opening  on the windward side to ensure enough air for the fire, and light the tinder.
above 40  degrees f and the issue is a moot one.
if you keep at it you can dry out most wood enough to burn.
a  teepe fire is suitable for quick cooking or as an entertainment fire.
they are reliable in cold weather.
the roar suggests that the internal pressure is getting too high.
if the canister feels too hot to touch comfortably take action fast and shut the stove down at once.
tinder is the material that catches the spark from the fire starter.
typically you can use a canister stove down to about 15f. to extend the  effective range you can sleep with the canister or stow it within a down  bootie, pre-warm the canister, using an insulated pad and windscreen during  burning to keep the canister warm.
you can use this to your advantage by also reflecting heat into your  shelter.
if the canister feels too  hot to touch comfortably take action fast and shut the stove down at once.
removing food from fire can be tricky.
if it feels cool to mildly warm, that is good, but keep an eye on it.
setting a canister in a pool of water, it can be as little as an inch, it keeps frost from condensing on the canister and chilling the gas inside.
be sure that you build it so the  ‘grate’ or fireplace faces the wind.
it is built in the existing fire  pit at the tirrell pond lean-to.
celebrating the winter camping experience. - all rights reserved powered by wordpress & atahualpa
a  saw in the 15-21” range is adequate to get full efficient cutting strokes  on larger poles with the trade off being additional weight and bulk.
a windscreen should deflect the wind from both the stove and the cooking pot.
you can lay your pack or a sleeping pad on its side as  a wind block or use aluminum foil.
plan each swing and guard against awkward swings that might deflect off a limb.
a safe way to handle firewood is to gather manageable lengths and haul them  back to camp where you have good footing and cutting/chopping blocks available.
a log  cabin fire is suitable for cooking food as it provides uniform heat.
the temperature inside the canister can drop to where the liquid fuel inside the canister won’t evaporate appropriately.
cooking meals can be prepared by cooking on a stove or over a fire.
a teepe fire is suitable for quick cooking or as an entertainment fire.
a good approach is to appoint someone as “the  firemaster” and request the firemaster for more or less heat.
then you can safely bring the axe down on the block.
11.2.8   cooking with a fire cooking over a campfire is one of those pleasures that is difficult to  explain to others that have never done it.
why is this mixture information important?
if you are using a large pot, as is normal, there should be a  slight clearance between the pot and the windscreen.
you can pre-heat and dry larger pieces of wood by laying them discretely alongside the fire before placing them in the fire to burn.
11.2.1   building a fire in the winter the wood warms you three times: gathering it, cutting it, and burning it.
if  it starts to feel hot or above a comfortable hand temperature, take action to  limit the thermal feedback such as adding a shield.
a safe setup for splitting wood: paul keeps the hatchet head secure in  the block, mark hammers the hatchet head with a wooden block and jason clears  away split blocks.
these fuel components all vaporize at different temperatures.
warm the paraffin up slowly –you are just trying to get it to melt, not boil.
the type of fuel canister is important as they are not all the same.
this is beneficial because the propane (which will vaporize in all but the worst conditions on earth) will stay above the liquid butane and isobutane, pushing it down through the fuel line into the stove.
a lightweight saw and/or an ax, along with the knowledge of how to use them, are crucial ingredients for building a fire.
using an ax should not be done lightly.
when trimming branches make sure you swing the ax away from you and be  aware of where the follow through is going.
this surface is erected behind the fire and pointed, for example, at  the face of a tent, lean-to or other shelter.
a windscreen  should deflect the wind from both the stove and the cooking pot.
wide variety of meals can be stewed.
light the stove with the canister upright.
an ax is useful for splitting larger diameter wood.
make sure that you get it nice and tight.
the amount of fuel used is dependent on your stove, fuel type, air temperature, wind, whether you are using a windscreen, even the efficiency of the wind screen to say nothing of the types of meals and cooking time.
then turn the canister over and stabilize it.
the length of the handle and size of the ax head is based on height and personal preference; i like a 28 inch handle and a 2¼ pound head..
if the snowpack is only a few feet thick, dig down to the ground otherwise plan on making a platform.
wide variety of foods can be grilled grill is required.
a vacuum bottle enables you to boil water at breakfast and it will still be hot at lunch and during afternoon tea.
when to use a canister stove before discussing ways to combat cold weather’s effect on a canister  stove let’s define what we mean by cold.
typically, your hand can touch something below 113 f without it getting an ‘ouch’ response.
no wonder these winter campers are so happy, anticipating the pleasant evening to come!
when you shut it off it will burn for a few seconds until all of the gas is out  of the fuel line.
11.1.2.2 type of fuel canisters the type of fuel canister is important as they are not all the same.
the purpose of a fire – reflected heat, quick or long cooking or merely aesthetics – dictates the appropriate style.
here are the relative percentages for popular canisters: why is this mixture information important?
now put down some logs  on top of the fire pit this will now be your fire platform and you will build  your fire on top of the logs.
on a grillfood items placed on grill over fire similar to grilling on bbq.
if you make the gap between the windshield and the pot too small and have a minimal gap between the ends of the windscreen, you will be bottling up very hot air.
in sub-zero temperatures, while the first 2/3 of the propane/butane blend canister will deliver as expected, the canister may need to be warmed to keep the flame going.
11.2.3   fire starters always carry a lighter, matches, or sparking device or ideally more than  one.
without the fuel in the canister  being vaporized, there is no pressure to feed fuel into the jet.
the temperature inside the  canister can drop to where the liquid fuel inside the canister won’t  evaporate appropriately.
during  burning the fuel inside the canister evaporates causing the canister to cool.
dutch ovenall metal oven is surrounded by coals can be used for frying, roasting, baking, braising, and stewing.
fires by committee are notoriously problematic.
a fire for winter camping needs to be built on a platform, started with tinder and kindling and built into an appropriate style for the task at hand (heating, cooking, entertainment).
i typically cut firewood with a saw.
when trimming branches make sure you swing the ax away from you and be aware of where the follow through is going.
[1] http://www.viewsfromthetop.com/forums/showthread.php?t=20434&page=2&pp=15 copyright © 2012 wintercampers.com –
the picture below depicts a good platform.
when wood is wet or frozen on the outside, splitting the wood will reveal the dry inner portions that will burn and help dry the other wood.
11.2    fire the use of fires in the wilderness is controversial.
a  long handled axe is preferred over a hatchet for splitting wood.
during burning the fuel inside the canister evaporates causing the canister to cool.
11.2.7   maintenance and feeding you can pre-heat and dry larger pieces of wood by laying them discretely  alongside the fire before placing them in the fire to burn.
for a no-hassle fire, use the classic tepee method: in the middle of your foundation, sandwich a handful of loose tinder between two layers of kindling.
here  are the relative percentages for popular canisters: primus: 50 % n-butane, 25 % isobutene , 25 % propane peak1: 70% n-butane, 0% isobutene, 30% propane msr isopro: 0% n-butane, 80% isobutane, 20% propane snow peak: 0% n-butane, 85% isobutane, 15% propane
a discussion of fuel types, fuel availability, and table providing a fuel  comparison and weight/efficiency ratings follow.
a central principle of  lnt is to minimize the impact of campfires.
that adds up to 1 hour of fuel a day.
cooking over a campfire is one of those pleasures that is difficult to explain to others that have never done it.
it should not totally enclose the stove: there must be room for air to get in and allow for excess heat dissipation.
moisture in the air will condense or freeze on the outside of the canister  further chilling the gas inside the canister.
this back reflector can be made out of a few large slabs of bark, several logs laid against supports and stacked upon each other to form the surface.
nothing ruins a good camping trip more than lopping a finger or limb off while in the back country.
if you hear the stove is starting to roar a bit, check the canister  temperature.
be sure not to stack the wood too close to prohibit air movement.
in this case the msr isopro or  snow peak would be your best choice with the msr having a slight advantage in  temperatures above 11f.
zenstoves.net has a great article entitled “how to choose a backpacking stove”.
the interesting part to me was the number of participants that cited success with canister stoves.
a canister stove can freeze over in cold conditions.
the choice of canister for below freezing performance becomes one with a high proportion of propane and little or no n-butane.
make sure that you get it  nice and tight.
you don’t want to turn the  stove on very much, as it will behave very differently with the canister upside  down.
basically with the valve just cracked you will get a full roar, and you don’t have as much flame adjustment as you do with the canister upright.
this back reflector can be made  out of a few large slabs of bark, several logs laid against supports and  stacked upon each other to form the surface.
it is a long article (>8,500 words) and worth reading if you are considering stove options for winter camping.
don’t make a fire up against a large boulder or tree stump.
views from the top[1] ran an interesting survey last winter asking participants what type of stove they used for winter camping.
once the axe head is seated securely in the block use a length of wood as a  mallet to hammer the axe head through the block and safely split the block.
by lighting  a fire in the middle most of the heat will be reflected back to the front of  the fire, making cooking easy.
you can vary the size by controlling the amount of wax poured into the muffin tin.
you can do this with or without  muffin wrappers.
not surprisingly, the overwhelming majority of the 62 participants declared for a liquid fuel/white gas stove.
depending upon the meal being prepared a pot cozies may prove useful.
if you don’t have a fabric pot cozy a spare garment will work in pinch.
light the stove with the  canister upright.
11.1.2.3 increasing canister efficiency
if your stove has a preheat stage, meaning the fuel line loops through the  flame to vaporize the fuel before it goes through the jet, you can invert the  canister so the stove functions as a liquid feed.
once the axe head is seated securely in the block use a length of wood as a mallet to hammer the axe head through the block and safely split the block.
build the fire away from the rock/stump and place a reflector on the other side.
in addition it helps to draw the smoke upwards instead of getting in your eyes.
as the rock reflects the heat onto your back, the reflector warms you to the front.
foil must be packed out potfood is heated in a pot placed or suspended over the fire uses existing cookware.
before discussing ways to combat cold weather’s effect on a canister stove let’s define what we mean by cold.
a safe setup for splitting wood: paul keeps the hatchet head secure in the block, mark hammers the hatchet head with a wooden block and jason clears away split blocks.
the size depends on how big you want it.
11.2.4   tinder tinder is the material that catches the spark from the fire starter.
plan each swing and guard  against awkward swings that might deflect off a limb.
11.1.2   using canister stoves canister stoves see a decline in performance in cold weather.
warm the paraffin up slowly  –you are just trying to get it to melt, not boil.
white gas stoves dominate in winter cooking conditions.
in conditions less than 15f  less  use a white gas stove.
the convenience of the canister stove  certainly makes me want to try extending my use of it a few more degrees.
a good reflector close to the fire will help reflect the heat back towards you.
basically with the valve just cracked you will get a full roar, and you  don’t have as much flame adjustment as you do with the canister upright.
leave a larger opening on the windward side to ensure enough air for the fire, and light the tinder.
11.1    stoves if your stove doesn’t work during the summer, you can still get water  to drink.
however, in the camping in the winter when it can be dark before 5pm a fire can provide a focal point, a source of heat for melting snow for water or cooking, and heat for drying and/or warming clothing.
from april through november i use a msr superfly stove that adapts to any lindal valve type canister.
dehydration leads to hypothermia.
temperature regulation can be tricky.
if you hear the stove is starting to roar a bit, check the canister temperature.
when you shut it off it will burn for a few seconds until all of the gas is out of the fuel line.
a reflector fire a flat surface behind it to direct the heat back out past the fire.
if your stove has a preheat stage, meaning the fuel line loops through the flame to vaporize the fuel before it goes through the jet, you can invert the canister so the stove functions as a liquid feed.
the amount of fuel used is dependent on your stove, fuel type, air  temperature, wind, whether you are using a windscreen, even the efficiency of  the wind screen to say nothing of the types of meals and cooking time.
it should not  totally enclose the stove: there must be room for air to get in and allow for  excess heat dissipation.
as the  rock reflects the heat onto your back, the reflector warms you to the front.
zenstoves.net has a great article entitled “how to choose a  backpacking stove”.
it is a long article  (>8,500 words) and worth reading if you are considering stove options for  winter camping.
you can make your own tinder from wood shavings, sawdust and paraffin  wax.
don’t enclose the canister and flame together.
tinder might include commercial products such as wetfire, esbit tablets or trioxane, candles or homemade aids such as my personal favorite cotton balls smeared with vaseline or wood shaving cupcakes made.
then you can safely bring the axe  down on the block.
a good reflector close to the fire will help reflect the heat back towards  you.
for planning purposes it is best to plan on at least 20 minutes of fuel for heating water for morning drinks and breakfast and at least 40 minutes of fuel for dinner.
form a  rectangle on the floor at the base of the slope as your fireplace.
this will give it a nice  depression which will help with blocking the wind.
the kindling should be no  thicker than your thumb and snap easily with two hands.
pack the shavings into a muffin tin.
11.2.2   platform a fire for winter camping needs to be built on a platform, started with  tinder and kindling and built into an appropriate style for the task at hand  (heating, cooking, entertainment).
a good platform built in an existing fire pit.
a central principle of lnt is to minimize the impact of campfires.
in conditions less than 15f less use a white gas stove.
things can  get ugly in a hurry.
you don’t want to turn the stove on very much, as it will behave very differently with the canister upside down.
lay a few logs on top of one another against the sloping back.
whether you are trying to promote leave no trace techniques and establishing a protection layer between the fire and the ground or shielding the fire from dampness or trying to keep it up out of the snow and direct its heat; a platform is all important.
you can make your own tinder from wood shavings, sawdust and paraffin wax.
too often green sticks are sacrificed.
a saw in the 15-21” range is adequate to get full efficient cutting strokes on larger poles with the trade off being additional weight and bulk.
don’t short change this step, you need two armfuls.
a safe way to handle firewood is to gather manageable lengths and haul them back to camp where you have good footing and cutting/chopping blocks available.
things can get ugly in a hurry.
don’t enclose the  canister and flame together.
without the fuel in the canister being vaporized, there is no pressure to feed fuel into the jet.
if the snowpack is only a few feet thick,  dig down to the ground otherwise plan on making a platform.
if the stove is inoperable in the winter, you can’t melt the snow that provides drinking water.
whether you are trying to promote leave no trace techniques and  establishing a protection layer between the fire and the ground or shielding  the fire from dampness or trying to keep it up out of the snow and direct its  heat; a platform is all important.
if you make the gap between the windshield and the  pot too small and have a minimal gap between the ends of the windscreen, you  will be bottling up very hot air.
if it starts to feel hot or above a comfortable hand temperature, take action to limit the thermal feedback such as adding a shield.
this is a good task to do while the paraffin is melting.
approach description pros cons on a stickimpale your food on a sharp stick and cook over fire simple, easy clean up, easy to regulate cooking temperature by moving stick only suitable for a few food items.
if there are no ‘natural reflectors’ simply build several  reflectors of your own and place one behind you, then one on the other side of  the fire.
a comprehensive list of stoves is covered including: a discussion of fuel types, fuel availability, and table providing a fuel comparison and weight/efficiency ratings follow.
you can do this with or without muffin wrappers.
if there are no ‘natural reflectors’ simply build several reflectors of your own and place one behind you, then one on the other side of the fire.
maintaining a fire requires a plan.
you can use this to your advantage by also reflecting heat into your shelter.
foil on coalswrap food in foil and place on coals lightweight, can cook wide variety of food, easy to clean up hard to tell when food is done.
from april through november i use a msr superfly  stove that adapts to any lindal valve type canister.
it is best to avoid a future domestic scene and use an old pot as getting all the residual paraffin out can be problematic.
everyone has a different thermostat and style.
likewise, if you use your stove at or below 11 degrees, the propane will be the first to go leaving only isobutane and butane in a liquid form with no more pressure.
natural tinder might  include shredded bark or wood shavings.
meals can be prepared by cooking on a stove or over a fire.
11.2.6.1  tepee fire for a no-hassle fire, use the classic tepee method: in the middle of your  foundation, sandwich a handful of loose tinder between two layers of kindling.
all gas canisters must be able to take at least 122 f without any damage at all in order to pass european and american standards, but it is best to keep the canister below ‘hand temperature’, which is about 86 f. warm is ok, ‘hot’ is not.
all gas  canisters must be able to take at least 122 f without any damage at all in  order to pass european and american standards, but it is best to keep the  canister below ‘hand temperature’, which is about 86 f. warm is ok,  ‘hot’ is not.
not surprisingly,  the overwhelming majority of the 62 participants declared for a liquid  fuel/white gas stove.
11.2.6.2  reflector fire a reflector fire a flat surface behind it to direct the heat back out past  the fire.
good for large groups heavy cookware must be transported tips for cooking on a campfire minimum cooking equipment for a group of four usually includes two nesting pots with covers; one for melting water and a 2nd for cooking a one pot meal.
at temperatures above 15, isobutene offers a more consistent delivery of fuel, without the need to keep the canister warm during the final 1/3 of its canister life.
a typical folding saw is the sawvivor, a 15″ folding saw that weighs 9.6 oz and can cut 6″ logs.
this is a  good task to do while the paraffin is melting.
a  lightweight saw and/or an ax, along with the knowledge of how to use them, are  crucial ingredients for building a fire.
the  choice of canister for below freezing performance becomes one with a high  proportion of propane and little or no n-butane.
it has a solid base of logs; getting it up out of the snow and a couple of reflective walls to channel the heat back to the fire and towards the lean-to.
this surface is erected behind the fire and pointed, for example, at the face of a tent, lean-to or other shelter.
a log cabin fire is made by stacking layers in alternating directions.
it is best to avoid a  future domestic scene and use an old pot as getting all the residual paraffin  out can be problematic.
you can vary the size by  controlling the amount of wax poured into the muffin tin.
a long handled axe is preferred over a hatchet for splitting wood.
if  the pot is very full dip the paraffin out using a disposable cup so you  don’t end up with wax being poured everywhere.
stamp the snow and make it flat where you intend to build this fire pit.
most canister stoves have some combination of n-butane, isobutene, and propane.
in addition it helps to draw the smoke upwards instead of getting in your  eyes.
these tinder cups are long burning and burn hot.
if the pot is very full dip the paraffin out using a disposable cup so you don’t end up with wax being poured everywhere.
use a windscreen and keep a lid on whatever you are cooking.
a comprehensive list of stoves is covered including: petroleum stoves (white gas, kerosene) -         -liquefied gas stoves  (butane, isobutene, propane) -         -alcohol stoves (alky,  meth, spirit) -         -chemical solid fuel  stoves (hexy, hexamine, esbit, triox, fuel tab) -         -wood stoves -         -electric stoves and  immersion coils (heating coils, heating elements, beverage heater, heating rod,  coffee/drink heater) -         -calcium carbide stoves  and lanterns (acetylene stove/lamp)
windscreens use a windscreen and keep a lid on whatever you are cooking.
when wood is wet or frozen  on the outside, splitting the wood will reveal the dry inner portions that will  burn and help dry the other wood.
a good approach is to appoint someone as “the firemaster” and request the firemaster for more or less heat.
form a rectangle on the floor at the base of the slope as your fireplace.
now put down some logs on top of the fire pit this will now be your fire platform and you will build your fire on top of the logs.
gather only dead wood from downed trees and branches to feed your fire.
prop small and medium sticks, no bigger than your wrist, upright around the kindling, their tops meeting like the poles of a tepee.
if the stove is inoperable in the winter, you can’t melt the  snow that provides drinking water.
after the wax has cooled and congealed you can pop the wax and shaving cups  out of the muffin tin and store them for future use.
nothing ruins a good camping  trip more than lopping a finger or limb off while in the back country.
11.1.3   how much fuel?
above 40 degrees f and the issue is a moot one.
the kindling should be no thicker than your thumb and snap easily with two hands.
a windscreen increases performance of any stove.
cookware gets covered with soot.
for planning purposes it is best to plan on at least 20 minutes of fuel for  heating water for morning drinks and breakfast and at least 40 minutes of fuel  for dinner.
the interesting part to me was the number of participants that cited  success with canister stoves.
stamp the snow and  make it flat where you intend to build this fire pit.
put your hand on the canister.
typically, your hand can touch something below 113 f  without it getting an ‘ouch’ response.
if it feels cold let it warm up a little bit.
if you are using a large pot, as is normal, there should be a slight clearance between the pot and the windscreen.
white birch bark from fallen trees is a reliable starter.
in this case the msr isopro or snow peak would be your best choice with the msr having a slight advantage in temperatures above 11f.
a typical folding saw is the sawvivor, a 15″ folding saw that  weighs 9.6 oz and can cut 6″ logs.
be  sure not to stack the wood too close to prohibit air movement.
the windscreen should reach a bit above the top of the stove and up the  side of the pot.
saw  blades do break, so make sure to bring an extra blade and/or have more than one  saw available for your group.
11.2.6.3  log cabin fire a log cabin fire is made by stacking layers in alternating directions.
kindling wood should be 3d: dead, dry and dinky.
it is built in the existing fire pit at the tirrell pond lean-to.
most  canister stoves have some combination of n-butane, isobutene, and propane.
if the block does not stand up on its own, please use a holding stick in one hand, supporting the block upright with the stick, so that your hand is well away from the block.
if it feels cold let it warm up a little  bit.
everyone has a different  thermostat and style.
saw blades do break, so make sure to bring an extra blade and/or have more than one saw available for your group.
you see, touch, smell and  taste your food in a much more direct fashion.
after the wax has cooled and congealed you can pop the wax and shaving cups out of the muffin tin and store them for future use.
white birch bark from fallen trees is a  reliable starter.
moisture in the air will condense or freeze on the outside of the canister further chilling the gas inside the canister.
likewise,  if you use your stove at or below 11 degrees, the propane will be the first to  go leaving only isobutane and butane in a liquid form with no more pressure.
to be on the safe  side add an extra hour or two for making a special lunch, hot soups, a cold  snap, or conditions that delay your trip.
when splitting wood never hold a block end up with one hand and bring the axe down with the other.
this is  beneficial because the propane (which will vaporize in all but the worst  conditions on earth) will stay above the liquid butane and isobutane, pushing  it down through the fuel line into the stove.
natural tinder might include shredded bark or wood shavings.
build the  fire away from the rock/stump and place a reflector on the other side.
you can lay your pack or a sleeping pad on its side as a wind block or use aluminum foil.
by lighting a fire in the middle most of the heat will be reflected back to the front of the fire, making cooking easy.
when you use your stove at or below 31 degrees is the n-butane will cease to vaporize and all the propane and/or isobutane will vaporize instead and that will burn first, leaving just cold liquid n-butane in the cartridge.
the windscreen should reach a bit above the top of the stove and up the side of the pot.
setting a canister in a pool of water, it can be as little as an inch, it  keeps frost from condensing on the canister and chilling the gas inside.
typically you can use a canister stove down to about 15f. to extend the effective range you can sleep with the canister or stow it within a down bootie, pre-warm the canister, using an insulated pad and windscreen during burning to keep the canister warm.
winter camping top 10 list you might be a wintercamper if…..- 11.
the article addresses factors such as fuel types used, fuel availability, weight and fuel efficiency, speed of cooking, cooking needs, starting and long term costs, cold weather performance, ease of use, safety and health concerns, personal preference, environmental/eco concerns, and ability to build stove at home or on the trail.
11.2.5   kindling and wood gather only dead wood from downed trees and branches to feed your fire.
plus, you can fill it after dinner and have hot water handy in morning.
you see, touch, smell and taste your food in a much more direct fashion.
if your stove doesn’t work during the summer, you can still get water to drink.
the wood warms you three times: gathering it, cutting it, and burning it.
fire tinder made from wood shavings and paraffin when the last of the paraffin is melted pour it into the muffin tins.
if you want to re-use the muffin tins, use wrappers.
if you keep at it  you can dry out most wood enough to burn.
this might or might not cause combustion  problems, but will almost certainly transfer a lot of heat into the fuel tank  or cartridge if it is inside the windshield, which could then get too hot.
the article addresses factors such as fuel types  used, fuel availability, weight and fuel efficiency, speed of cooking, cooking  needs, starting and long term costs, cold weather performance, ease of use,  safety and health concerns, personal preference, environmental/eco concerns,  and ability to build stove at home or on the trail.
11.2.6   fire styles the purpose of a fire – reflected heat, quick or long cooking or  merely aesthetics – dictates the appropriate style.
these fuel  components all vaporize at different temperatures.
the use of fires in the wilderness is controversial.
at temperatures  above 15, isobutene offers a more consistent delivery of fuel, without the need  to keep the canister warm during the final 1/3 of its canister life.
n-butane vaporizes at 31 degrees f isobutane vaporizes at 11 degrees f propane vaporizes at -43 degrees f when you use your stove at or below 31 degrees is the n-butane will cease  to vaporize and all the propane and/or isobutane will vaporize instead and that  will burn first, leaving just cold liquid n-butane in the cartridge.
no wonder these winter campers are so happy,  anticipating the pleasant evening to come!
don’t short  change this step, you need two armfuls.
views from the top[1] ran an interesting survey last winter asking  participants what type of stove they used for winter camping.
generally, you want less n-butane and more propane for cold temperatures.
when splitting wood never hold a block end up with one hand and bring the  axe down with the other.
this might or might not cause combustion problems, but will almost certainly transfer a lot of heat into the fuel tank or cartridge if it is inside the windshield, which could then get too hot.
always carry a lighter, matches, or sparking device or ideally more than one.
this will give it a nice depression which will help with blocking the wind.
to be on the safe side add an extra hour or two for making a special lunch, hot soups, a cold snap, or conditions that delay your trip.
the convenience of the canister stove certainly makes me want to try extending my use of it a few more degrees.
the length of  the handle and size of the ax head is based on height and personal preference;  i like a 28 inch handle and a 2¼ pound head..
prop small and medium sticks, no bigger than your wrist, upright around the  kindling, their tops meeting like the poles of a tepee.
if the block does not stand up on its own, please use  a holding stick in one hand, supporting the block upright with the stick, so  that your hand is well away from the block.
these tinder cups  are long burning and burn hot.