as for  coffee - it tastes good - like it was brewed at home with a regular drip model.
a part of the new york times company.
product description coleman camping drip coffeemaker model 2000003603 - made for use on a 2 or 3 burner gas camp stove - drip operation - swing out filter basket - uses standard basket style filters - solid steel base - dripless pouring - pause-and-serve feature - msrp $49.99 - for more detail see manufacturer how the coleman drip coffeemaker performed june 4, 2010 it looks similar to a regular drip coffeemaker and has some of my must-have features, like drip brewing, a non-dripping carafe and you can pause it to serve.
better to remove the pot when the coffee  has finished brewing.
- coffee paper or permanent coffeemaker filters - perfect coffee pouring without dribbling more from housewares related articles - gifts for the hunter or outdoor enthusiast - coffeemaker carafe replacements - coffee & tea makers, brewers resources & information - how to buy a coffeemaker video - keurig b70 platinum edition brewer review - coleman camping coffee maker - coffee snob cold drip coffee maker - percolator coffee maker - top large drip coffee makers - a new breed of coffee maker mariette mifflin housewares / appliances guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches coleman camping drip coffeemaker drip pot drip coffee thermal carafe brew coffee coffee lover explore housewares / appliances must reads most popular -
related resources compare prices of coffeemakers compare prices of coleman products coffeemaker buying tips read more coffeemaker reviews read more about coffeemakers how to clean a coffeemaker with vinegar small appliances - buying tips, resources, reviews go to home page user reviews write a review be the first to write a review more about coffeemakers - coffee makers - coffee maker buying tips - types of coffee makers - benefits of each type of coffee maker - coffee filters - does filter shape affect coffee flavor?
you have to regulate the heat and i found using  less than medium heat on the gas stove was better - just brews best on the  lower heat.
but here's where this camp stove drip coffeemaker is different from  your regular drip pot at home.
it does perform as advertised, but you do need to take care  since making coffee with this drip coffeemaker is a little different than using  an electric brewer.
and there's really no way to keep the coffee warm, except for a few minutes on low, or pouring the coffee into a thermal carafe after it finishes brewing.
better to remove the pot when the coffee has finished brewing.
and yes, i would now feel very comfortable purchasing the coleman drip coffeemaker for my next camping trip.
this coffeemaker is definitely unique - there are no other gas-stove drip models around, so there's nothing else to really compare it to.
and there's really no way to keep the coffee warm, except  for a few minutes on low, or pouring the coffee into a thermal carafe after it  finishes brewing.
you have to regulate the heat and i found using less than medium heat on the gas stove was better - just brews best on the lower heat.
but here's where this camp stove drip coffeemaker is different from your regular drip pot at home.
the basics - the best appliance every time - save energy; save money - how to set the table - humidifiers - faq's see more about: - top-loading washing machine vs. front-loading: which is bett… - type of humidifier - super simple smoothie recipe - before you buy a humidifier - proper table setting
by category - coffeemakers - kettles - kitchen gadgets - coffee and tea - toasters - large appliances - small appliances - air, water & recycling - brands, mfrs & retailers - canning & home preserving - consumer awareness - cookware - cooling & heating - gifts & hosting - glossary - essential home products - kitchen & tableware - laundry & fabric care - store, clean & organize - vacuum & floor care housewares / appliances - about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances - small appliances - coffee maker, tea makers - coffee makers reviews - coleman drip coffeemaker review - coleman camping drip coffeemaker review> - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
- toasters coleman camping drip camping coffeemaker photo courtesy of pricegrabber i have always been curious about how this camp stove drip coffeemaker would work, so i borrowed one from a friend just to try it out - to see if i should buy one for my next camping trip.
but it does brew good coffee, though it takes a little longer
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
related resources compare prices  of coleman products coffeemaker buying tips
as for coffee - it tastes good - like it was brewed at home with a regular drip model.
overall impression i like the brewed coffee it makes and being able  to have drip coffee while camping or when there's no electricity available -  that's very nice.
overall impression i like the brewed coffee it makes and being able to have drip coffee while camping or when there's no electricity available - that's very nice.
the  base fits better on the smallest stove element and to reduce the risk of  melting any plastic on this brewer, i wouldn't use the other burners while the  brewer is sitting on the camp stove.
sign up - housewares / appliances - appliances - house essentials - cooling & heating discuss in my forum coleman drip coffeemaker for camp stove review test of coleman's drip camping coffee maker about.com rating 4.5 star rating be the first to write a review by mariette mifflin, about.com guide see more about: - coffeemakers - kettles - kitchen gadgets - coffee and tea
but it takes about 20 minutes to brew a pot, not bad really,  considering that without it - the alternative is a regular (non-drip) camping  pot.
it does perform as advertised, but you do need to take care since making coffee with this drip coffeemaker is a little different than using an electric brewer.
the carafe also pours well and the whole coffeemaker looks nice.
and yes, i would now feel very comfortable purchasing the coleman drip  coffeemaker for my next camping trip.
and it does give the coffee lover a drip brewer that works well for camping.
the base fits better on the smallest stove element and to reduce the risk of melting any plastic on this brewer, i wouldn't use the other burners while the brewer is sitting on the camp stove.
this coffeemaker is definitely unique - there are  no other gas-stove drip models around, so there's nothing else to really  compare it to.
but it takes about 20 minutes to brew a pot, not bad really, considering that without it - the alternative is a regular (non-drip) camping pot.
for more detail see manufacturer how the coleman drip coffeemaker performed june 4, 2010 it  looks similar to a regular drip coffeemaker and has some of my must-have  features, like drip brewing, a non-dripping carafe and you can pause it to  serve.
so the wait is worth it if you're a drip brew coffee lover.
- about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances housewares / appliances search free housewares / appliances newsletter!