but which knob would you turn to start the left back burner?
this is a lesson that i wishradio designers would learn.
perhaps have little markers alongside the numbers around the dial that say “reheat 6 oz coffee” or “reheat refrigerated plate of food”…?
kai willadsen march 21st, 2007 5:02 pm coming very late to the party, but my (unfortunately ex-) microwave is too good not to mention, with a combination of discrete and analogue control on a single, quasi-modal knob, and a digital display.
so not intuitive…maybe they’d see improvement is needed.
do you know how to set its clock?
now, if only we could get a stove manufacturer to make such a stove… tom beyer july 11th, 2006 12:25 pm on page 77 of his “the psychology/design of everyday things”, donald norman has two examples of effective mapping of controls and burners.
pgan april 12th, 2006 5:07 pm my home stove has four knobs in one row, and a picture next to each knob shows which burner it controls.
if rethinking an interface as simple as your stove can make your life better, imagine what rethinking the fundamental interface tools of computers can do.
staring at a red coil tells you much less about the cooking temperature  than does a quick glance at the size of the flame: the red only tells you that  the stove is hot, nothow hot.
thoutz may 22nd, 2006 12:28 am hmmm, sounds nice but you are doubling the vertical size… that means increase manufactoring cost.
now, if only all microwaves could be so humane… wincenty may 16th, 2007 7:37 pm
1 comes up as 10, which means 10% of full power (and 2 is 20%…).
if only the stove designer’s had thought to put a little detent at the minimum gas flow position, then i could feel instantly–without looking–exactly where simmer is.
because i never quite know where the lowest setting is, i invariably turn the burner off at least three times before getting it right.
friday redesigning stoves redesign  ui design fundamentals the kitchen is a great place to go bad interface diving.
it’s confusing to set and when the microwave starts, there is no way to tell what the power setting is.
this leads to a general rule: interfaces should always give indication that  lets the user know exactly what they’ve just done: turning the knob makes  the flame grow.
if you pick one way, someone else will pick  another.
in other words, i think there are usability issues with the redesign.
if only the stove designer’s  had thought to put a little detent at the minimum gas flow position, then i  could feel instantly–without looking–exactly where simmer is.
that’s good enough for me.
my family’s sharp microwave could benefit from knobs - one for the timer and one for the power setting.
friday 7 apr 2006 redesign ui design fundamentals the kitchen is a great place to go bad interface diving.
actually i think this is the microwave in ex-libris.
i guess i’m picking at straws here, but i think it’s just the fact that making a panel that’s twice as tall (or coming up with a design to acommodate your arrangement in the same size of control panel) is the initial barrier that designers haven’t been able to overcome yet.
the controls themselves need to match the same pattern.
it costs more than $500 to replace the on/off switch.
because of this,  you’re forced to stand with your hand over the stove, just to know that  turning the knob actually did something .
as far as the heating temperature, the feedback issues, and ‘close to off’ positioning, i am in full agreement.
it’s good to find a techno-savy youngster who can see the world from a non-technical perspective.
you just cannot map four object arranged in a square in a unique way to four objects arranged in a line.
by aza raskin 20 voices comments 20 voices add yours below.
see this picture of full heat controller: http://sphere.pl/~tomkh/amica.png (you can see a big and a small flame icon).
the “quick minute” button on microwaves forces the user to make a choice, andfewer choices mean fewer worries.
this is bad-design inertia at work.
ex libris has a knob microwave similar to the sanyo one atul linked to, and it is awesome, and nicer than mine.
since these fundamental settings are all located right on the horizontal and vertical axes of each knob, it’s easy to see at a glance how each burner is set, even if there are big pots blocking your view of the actual flame, and you can do it without bending over to see and decipher text or icons.
in order to change seconds, you pushed (and held) in the knob and turned it.
but today’s dive isn’t about the technological gizmos that we all know complicate our cooking lives.
chandler june 4th, 2006 12:38 pm how about a trapezoidal layout on the cooktop and a flattened trapezoidal control layout.
showing the heat there are two main stove varieties: gas and electric.
cooks generally agree that gas is preferable.
turning the knob changed minutes in one-minute increments, and you could feel the knob click at each increment.
but since owning it, i’ve realized how much easier and simpler it is to use, and i find it annoying to have to use the button microwaves at uncle joe’s and cobb coffee shop.
who can resist taking potshots at undecipherable microwave controls?
now go take a look at your stove.
knob 1, 2, 3, or 4? is that your final answer?
this is just a problem with how powerful the user expects the microwave to be.
our new (well, new to us) range solves the problem like richard’s, with knobs that go off–light/high–med–low, so finding the minimum flame setting is just a matter of turning the knob as far as it will go.
with stoves i’m accustomed to the convention of having the back burner knobs toward the center, but i have been frustrated by the impossibility of finding the lowest possible simmer on some units.
i’ll go out on a very thick limb and guess it has the bad co-linear knob configuration.
this was awesome because it is incredibly rare that i put something in the microwave for 2 minutes and 15 seconds — it’s usually 4, 8, 10 — so the discrete minutes worked.
a search on amazon.com yieldedthis sanyo microwave, which features a “60-minute digital rotary timer”… it seems to be getting decent user reviews, too.
because with the gas stove, the size of the flame gives immediate feedback: the larger the flame, the more quickly the food will cook.
but which knob would you turn to start the left  back burner?
and the analogue seconds were fantastic, because you quickly established a reflex action to push in the knob and twist it a little to (for example) reheat coffee for “a little bit”.
i don’t know how much time i’ve wasted–uncomfortably doubled over with my eye at flame level–trying to coax the stove to burn at the lowest possible temperature.
how do you help the user decide how long to cook it for?
we are jono dicarlo, aza raskin, scott robbin, atul varma, and andrew wilson.
in this quasi-mode, the seconds increased in an analogue fashion… no clicking.
the general interface  rule we can derive is thus: controls should retain the spatial or conceptual  relationship of the things they control.
the general interface rule we can derive is thus: controls should retain the spatial or conceptual relationship of the things they control.
so i don’t have to finish mine.
instead, a good knob layout should mirror the burner layout: simple.
aza raskin march 21st, 2007 5:06 pm that’s a great interface, kai.
do you know how to set  its clock?
cooks generally agree  that gas is preferable.
there aren’t many - i guess the compulsion to get immersed in technology is just too great for most: i like particularly the appreciation of the subtle benefits of manual systems which are so often overlooked.
(although mine also has a knob for choosing the power level!
okay, how about if you want to start the right back burner?
putting the knobs at differing vertical heights seems unwise.
i hope you boys finish your simplicity interface soon
it’d be interesting to do focus group studies on which would be preferred.
itlooks like this but older and less snazzy.
and the lowest flame or power should be at the beginning of the knob turn, never the reverse.
kate november 2nd, 2007 7:02 pm i actually prefer the knobs to be either on or above the cooktop, because then my kids can’t reach them.
but today’s dive isn’t about the  technological gizmos that we all know complicate our cooking lives.
you’d think that it would be standard–a simple change  effortlessly removes the everyday mistakes of stove use: i’d never again  burn the kitchen mitt i always leave on the front burner.
because with the gas stove, the size of the flame  gives immediate feedback: the larger the flame, the more quickly the food will  cook.
yeah, the people at viking should actually have to use their own stove tops at home.
so, what do you think about last comments ?
the ex-libris microwave has a bunch of text that may be such suggestions, but i’ve definitely never bothered to read it.
the display then reads “p - ” and then the user must press one of the numbers.
mike april 13th, 2006 10:27 am i’d have to say the best microwaves in theory are the ones with knobs.
also more advanced models has push-pull lighted knobs (i imagine if it is pulled it is not turning off when lowered to max).
who can resist  taking potshots at undecipherable microwave controls?
the best microwaves are the ones with knobs: as long as they’re properly marked, you can use the same simple, quick mechanism to heat your food for 1 minute, 40 seconds, or however long you want.
and it should always give that indicationimmediately.
(maybe if they had linear controls instead of knobs it would work?)
given that tactile feedback, i might even be able to pull off rice pudding while cooking an egg.
aza june 5th, 2006 11:08 am chandler, a trapezoidal layout is clever, simple, and effective.
and all because of  the natural mapping between the knobs and the burners.
because i never  quite know where the lowest setting is, i invariably turn the burner off at  least three times before getting it right.
off is at 12 o’clock, light/high is at 9 o’clock and simmer is at 3 o’clock.
it is because this rule is consistantly violated that many web sites disclaim “click the ‘order’ button only once” and the technically savvy wait until self-doubt sets in: “did i actually click the button?”.
i think a far simpler solution would be to provide large number identifying the burners.
i've wasted--uncomfortably doubled over with my eye at flame level--trying to  coax the stove to burn at the lowest possible temperature.
the coils of an electric stone do turn red–after a long  wait–but it’s hard to gauge the relative temperature from the  color.
maybe a knob with a digital readout would work… atul april 13th, 2006 11:46
i’ll go out on a very thick limb  and guess it has the bad co-linear knob configuration.
i’ve never actually come across a knob-contolled microwaves that didn’t have some give in the mechanism that limited my control of the microwave time to a range of plus or minus 30 seconds.
the answer is knob 2.
it is confusing, because one must first input with buttons, the time, then press the power setting.
no need for maps, numbers, or diagrams.
if you pick one way, someone else will pick another.
jack august 17th, 2006 9:10 pm great post.
help me simmer stove designers cleverly used the same knob that controls the temperature of the stove to also control whether the burner is on or off.
tom dobrowolski april 27th, 2006 8:17
it is because this rule is consistantly violated that many web sites disclaim  “click the ‘order’ button only once” and the  technically savvy wait until self-doubt sets in: “did i actually click  the button?”.
the first is a trapezoidal layout of the burners and in the second, the burners are in a rhomboid pattern.
instead,  its about re-evaluating an interface that we all take for granted; an interface  that is so ingrained in us that we don’t realize that it’s possible  to even think about making it better.
one tactile knob for a digital timer and one knob for a digital power setting would be great for this long running and reliable microwave.
forum about us i don't know how much time
ashley april 19th, 2006 12:32 pm the best microwaves are the ones with knobs
help me simmer stove designers cleverly used the same knob that controls the temperature  of the stove to also control whether the burner is on or off.
and i’m not about to dig out the manual with buttered fingers.
i don’t know how much time i’ve  wasted–uncomfortably doubled over with my eye at flame level–trying  to coax the stove to burn at the lowest possible temperature.
it may sound kind of nitpicky here, but every little extra choice the user needs to make can add up to one confusing interface.
and all because of the natural mapping between the knobs and the burners.
frankly, it doesn’t matter which knob the controls which burner–none of the possible mappings are good.
richard may 19th, 2006 7:02 pm my stove goes off->starter->high->medium->low.
but unfortunately, whenever i use it, my food explodes within 45 seconds.
it looks nice and  innocuous, doesn’t it?
in interface terms, an electric stove doesn’t give a good indication of its temperature.
doubtful, but i can keep dreaming.
none of them arenatural.
nobody’s sanity would be called into question if only websites provided some immediate feedback.
am that’s true, mike, although i believe that knob microwaves with digital readouts do exist.
jon august 20th, 2006 5:53 am i recently bought (largely thanks to my wife’s insistence) the cheapest of a couple dozen microwaves i’d looked at, not because it was inexpensive but because it had the fewest useless/confusing “features.”
phil bachmann april 11th, 2006 5:07 am
atul april 12th, 2006 9:31 pm
i think it’s the most useful button, but then you get problems when you don’t want your food to explode after just 40 seconds… about the stoves, you said “a simple change effortlessly removes the everyday mistakes of stove use”… but i wouldn’t call it effortless… the control panel on the stove design you suggested would have to be twice as tall as a normal, and would look sort of funny being so oblong with the two stacked dials.
a old-style volume control provides an instant volume change facility, instant volume recognition facility, ability to adjust quickly or slowly etc.
one could even have a matching of size (larger controls for larger burners and small for small).
this is a lesson  that i wishradio designers would learn.
so do i every time i go to use the stove, but that’s wrong.
you just cannot map four object arranged in a square in a unique way to four  objects arranged in a line.
pm on my stove (http://www.amica.com.pl/) there is a simply mapping of the heat controller… [off…min…max…min] so setting the heat to the minimum level is very simple (as well as maximum and turning off) and you can’t make mistake here.
frankly, it doesn’t matter which knob the controls which  burner–none of the possible mappings are good.
but they added a detente too (necessary at an off->high boundary), which probably would have sufficed.
(- from a former product designer turned stay-at-home-mom.)
this is bad-design  inertia at work.
phil bachmann ashley april 12th, 2006 12:07 am hmm… so what do you think of the “quick minute” button common to many microwaves?
because of this, you’re forced to stand with your hand over the stove, just to know that turning the knob actually did something .
take a good look at the picture of the stove above.
this is something that can’t be remedied by a digital readout.
yes, knobs controlling both temperature, on/off, and with digital-like settings that have both tactile feedback and that little click sound are the way to design for both electric and gas ovens.
perhaps we force cooks to learn a bit of an unnatural interface so they can cook quicker in the future?
staring at a red coil tells you much less about the cooking temperature than does a quick glance at the size of the flame: the red only tells you that the stove is hot, nothow hot.
it has pretty good timing precision.
such an obvious thing, in my opinion, but lost on product designers.
also imagine cooking on two burners.
i always found it startling that just turning the burner on resulted in a huge flame, but it makes sense from the “give me simmer” point of view.
if rethinking an interface as simple as your stove can make your life  better, imagine what rethinking the fundamental interface tools of computers  can do.
the coils of an electric stone do turn red–after a long wait–but it’s hard to gauge the relative temperature from the color.
knob 1 starts the front left burner.
you’d think that it would be standard–a simple change effortlessly removes the everyday mistakes of stove use: i’d never again burn the kitchen mitt i always leave on the front burner.
given  that tactile feedback, i might even be able to pull off rice pudding while  cooking an egg.
starts the front left burner.
i know how long it’s going to cook for, but i don’t know if that duration is right for my food or not.
how is that an improvement?
did you pick knob  1?
joan bobst october 27th, 2011 2:48 pm i truly appreciate your post.
and i’m not about to dig out  the manual with buttered fingers.
unfortunately, this knob design this means that “off” and “simmer” are only separated by a few degrees.
it’s rare to find two microwaves that take the same amount of time to heat the same amount of food to the same temperature.
and i hope they get stuck with a viking downdraft whose on/off switch stops working.
unfortunately, this knob design this  means that “off” and “simmer” are only separated by a  few degrees.
in interface terms, an electric stove  doesn’t give a good indication  of its temperature.
this leads to a general rule: interfaces should always give indication that lets the user know exactly what they’ve just done: turning the knob makes the flame grow.
instead, its about re-evaluating an interface that we all take for granted; an interface that is so ingrained in us that we don’t realize that it’s possible to even think about making it better.
though that might kill the look ;-)
it looks nice and innocuous, doesn’t it?
absolutely wonderful.
a comment please respect this public space name required email address required url comments: (html ok) live comment preview archives by month — july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 archives by category — commentary design fun life hack our products puzzler rant rave redesign software development ui design fundamentals is a small company based in chicago concerned with making the computer experience better.
you reach down and bump the top knob as you try to adjust the bottom knob?
you’ve got the pattern now: it’s knob 4.
but even mr. norman does not go far enough.
i actually guessed right on your questions, perhaps i do more cooking?
today’s bad interface is the stove.
my microwave has a knob… unfortunately, that’s not because i was being mindful of its usability or anything, but just because it was $5 on ebay (plus $20 shipping…).
nobody’s sanity would be called into question if only  websites provided some immediate feedback.
then i can focus my energy on something less difficult.
the back of each knob is round, but the flattish area you actually grip is thinner at one end, so it acts as a big, obvious arrow.