(kinda like the regular gas stove knobs, where  you have to push in, then turn them.)
i'd love one of those!
thanks for all the replies!
i now have great info, should that same opportunity appear  again!
another option is to possibly  consider something like this for that outdoor kitchen that i posted about a  couple of weeks ago!
diy - do it yourself » topics » old gas stove topic posted wed, october 4, 2006 - 3:52 pm by alex advertisement 'kay, i found a beautiful old gas stove/oven for freee!!!!
re: old gas stove wed, october 4, 2006 - 6:04 pm what kind of stove is it?
re: old gas stove sat, october 7, 2006 - 6:00 pm my stove is a 1950 wedgewood.
join to post - - alex 1 re: old gas stove sun, october 8, 2006 - 9:39 am oh, wedgewood is one of my dream stoves!
to turn the knobs, you have to push them all the way in, then turn.
it's not easy to do  it on purpose!
this makes lighting the stove a three  step process (1.
re: old gas stove fri, october 6, 2006 - 8:32 am forgive the  multiple postings.
i do  have two small boys (almost 6 and 4 yrs old), so the point about the knobs  being bumped and turning on the gas is a concern.
some apartment owner was remodeling, i guess.
at any rate...if you have someone come in to fix  the stove, make sure you ask ahead of time if they can repair vintage stoves.
removing the knobs would make them kid proof join to post - recent topics in "diy - do it yourself" topic author replies last post diy 12 cylinder engine cliff 11 march 2, 2012
the oven doesn't have a pilot light so it has to be lit by hand.
but i don't pay people for breaking things.
but, i'm not expecting to be able to afford a nice refurbished one of those.
white enamel, four  burners with a big empty (enameled) spot on top for setting pans and spoon  rests, and the bottom part was sorta divided in half -- two big doors with the  oven on the right, and two drawers below -- again the broiler on the right.
most homes that have a gas line to the kitchen will have a valve to cut the line right before it hits the stove.
the electronic ignition was touchy...wouldn't work if you got the littlest bit of grease on the burner.
unfortunately, after an extensive local and internet search, i  couldn't find the replacement part.
this makes lighting the stove a three step process (1.
sign in join - browse - tribes - people - events - blogs - reviews - - local favorites - - miscellaneous - - services - listings - - jobs - - housing - - for sale - post - blog post - personal message - photo - event - review - listing - create a tribe remember me help threaded | unthreaded | newest first tribes » cultures & community »
$15 for a single one.
however, do you think that  they make knobs for it that have a "catch" or "lock" or  something to help prevent that?
i did find one antique gas stove refurbisher who said that it's illegal in the state of california to modify this sort of thing.
lots of room on top to put  things while you were cooking, and it had an oven you could turn off half way  through and it retained the heat.
it likely wouldn't be used every day, and we'd be either doing the connection ourselves, or hiring a plumber, so we could put an in-line valve in if we want to.
ww join to post re: old gas stove fri, october 6, 2006 - 8:29 am lowes sells  piezo electric starter conversion kits for $30 for a two burner model.
the electronic ignition was  touchy...wouldn't work if you got the littlest bit of grease on the burner.
they are a snap to put in... literally.
the old stoves were mmanufactured with fewer or no regulations.
most building codes reguire safty devices on all gas appliances, requiring the modifacation for your stove, to be sold or used.
(what would be the procedure for that, anyway?)
any idea of the year and manufacturer? join to post - - cliff 79 re: old gas stove fri, october 6, 2006 - 7:21 am those older gas stoves are usually way better than the new ones.
however, do you think that they make knobs for it that have a "catch" or "lock" or something to help prevent that?
so, i guess you have to light it with a match every time you use it?
had to get used to the hotter burners again, but i wouldn't trade it for the world.
(it was just me with my two boys, in a vehicle too small to pick it up.
but, i'm not expecting to be  able to afford a nice refurbished one of those.
now i have my mom's  vintage 50's magic chef.
maybe there really aren't more dangers to using a non-piloted gas stove???
but if you  can hang with that, its unlikely your boys will ever turn on the gas by mistake.
join to post - - unsu...
if i remember right, you can  cap off the pilots to the top burners, but depending on the state you live in  it may not be legal.
join to post - - witchy 9 re: old gas stove fri, october 6, 2006 - 7:42 am i used to have a vintage 40's maytag stove
i don't remember what brand the stove was -- it definitely wasn't a major brand.
you just light the thing.
| advertise | terms of use | privacy | contact | faq copyright © 2012 utah street networks, inc.
and the burners were wimpy...
its a simple, in-line valve, and depending on where it is installed, you could easily turn off gas to the whole stove when not in use.
if i remember right, you can cap off the pilots to the top burners, but depending on the state you live in it may not be legal.
most residential gas cook tops cwill not produce more than 16 to 20 thousand btus that is entirely too little heat.
reason: new ones have to comply with the newer code regs for consumer stoves.
of course you can put in a shut-off valve!
its a simple, in-line  valve, and depending on where it is installed, you could easily turn off gas to  the whole stove when not in use.
i ended up buying a new ge stove  which i had for a few years and hated it.
however, there's a sticker on it that says that it has no pilot.
unfortunately, the oven pilot light kept going out, and the idiot who came to fix it ended up irreparably breaking it...banged things with a hammer that shouldn't have been banged, and broke a piece off.
but, hey, i live in arizona!
:d namaste, alex phoenix, az join to post - - andy 56 re: old gas stove tue, october 10, 2006 - 9:08 am  if safety is a concern, you should be able to do this either inside or out, the only reason the keep gas running to a stove is to feed the pilot.
highly unlikely you could turn them on by accident.
badly insulated oven...compared with the old maytag.
didn't get hot enough.
i should be able to just disconnect the gas when i'm not expecting to use it, shouldn't i?
unfortunately, after an extensive local and internet search, i couldn't find the replacement part.
(what would be the procedure for that,  anyway?)
no room on the top of the stove to put anything.
portions may be patented and or licensed under u.s. patent no. 6,175,831.
most of the time i had to light it by hand.
join to post - - alex 1
namaste, alex phoenix, az p.s.
another option is to possibly consider something like this for that outdoor kitchen that i posted about a couple of weeks ago!
as i said, i think this is pretty much code for any gas line in most states.
that question was regarding using this kind of stove in an outdoor kitchen.
unfortunately, the oven pilot light kept  going out, and the idiot who came to fix it ended up irreparably breaking  it...banged things with a hammer that shouldn't have been banged, and broke a  piece off.
:d namaste, phoenix, az join to post andy re: old gas stove tue, october 10, 2006 - 9:08 am  if safety is a  concern, you should be able to do this either inside or out, the only reason  the keep gas running to a stove is to feed the pilot.
re: old gas stove fri, october 6, 2006 - 8:32 am forgive the multiple postings.
re: old gas stove fri, october 6, 2006 - 8:29 am lowes sells piezo electric starter conversion kits for $30 for a two burner model.
azeeza 9 march 2, 2012 not sure if i asked for advice before azeeza 3 february 20, 2012 maker faire!
the pioot light issue is a non issue.
now i have my mom's vintage 50's magic chef.
but you have to drill a  hole for the button.
namaste, alex phoenix, az posted by: alex phoenix 1 friends join to post advertisement advertisement - dan 18 re: old gas stove wed, october 4, 2006 - 5:43 pm
join to post alex re: old gas stove sat, october 7, 2006 - 1:02 pm thanks for  all the replies!
i've searched on the internet, but haven't exactly been able to figure out what to use in the search.
white enamel, four burners with a big empty (enameled) spot on top for setting pans and spoon rests, and the bottom part was sorta divided in half -- two big doors with the oven on the right, and two drawers below -- again the broiler on the right.
all told it adds up to $$$$ some of the old stoves are worth it though.
lots of room on top to put things while you were cooking, and it had an oven you could turn off half way through and it retained the heat.
there are conversion kits, but they should be instaled by a pro .
join to post - - bloke 47 re: old gas stove sun, july 15, 2007 - 7:05 pm > the dials for turning/adjusting the heat on/off fell of my brothers outdoor-buiilt-in bbq and he adjusts with pliers.... reading this section of your post - a mental image of him adjusting the bbq flashed into my mind......
re: old gas stove tue, october 10, 2006 - 10:19 am thanks, andy!
namaste, alex phoenix, az join to post - - andy 56 re: old gas stove tue, october 10, 2006 - 2:48 pm most of my experience with outdoor gas lines is on gas grills, and yes, typically you turn off the gas on the pipe between uses.
to turn the knobs, you have to push them all the way in, then  turn.
re: old gas stove sat, october 7, 2006 - 1:02 pm
ww join to post - - unsu...
i would guess it was a 40s - 50s stove.
overall, it sounds like a really good option!
the idiot that broke my maytag wanted to charge me for the service call.
in other words, we wouldn't be stuck with whatever is there.
the oven doesn't have a pilot light so it has  to be lit by hand.
it's not easy to do it on purpose!
alex phoenix, az p.s.
anyway, one of the ones they were throwing out is in terrific shape -- only a couple of chips.
and the  burners were wimpy...
ask in the section where the bbq's are.
maybe there are some hard-core people who love fewer gadgets (i'm kinda in that camp) who could offer me some advice???
they cook your food gaster at higher tempratures.
had to get used to the hotter burners again, but i  wouldn't trade it for the world.
i don't remember what brand the stove was -- it definitely wasn't  a major brand.
it is more dangerous to not have a pilot, if you bump a handel and turn on the gas even slightly, you have a very bad situation.
i can't believe i didn't even think that gas lines would have the same kind of mechanism as water plumbing!
if you sont have one, you should.
re: old gas stove fri, october 6, 2006 - 7:42 am i used to  have a vintage 40's maytag stove
join to post alex re: old gas stove sun, october 8, 2006 - 9:39 am oh, wedgewood  is one of my dream stoves!
i think i'm going to hold  out for an older magic chef when we do our big kitchen remodel!
$15 for  a single one.
re: old gas stove sat, october 7, 2006 - 6:00 pm my stove is a  1950 wedgewood.
i do have two small boys (almost 6 and 4 yrs old), so the point about the knobs being bumped and turning on the gas is a concern.
a decent commercial burner will produce 26 - 36 thousand btus
i think i'm going to hold out for an older magic chef when we do our big kitchen remodel!
(kinda like the regular gas stove knobs, where you have to push in, then turn them.)
the older stoves are the shizzille.
but if you can hang with that, its unlikely your boys will ever turn on the gas by mistake.
but you can also buy handheld piezo lighters for a buck.
i should be able to just disconnect the gas when i'm not  expecting to use it, shouldn't i?
really basic, but in pretty awesome shape!
if you have kids, i would never risk it, being the little handle bumpers that they are !
the burners do have a pilot.
most homes that  have a gas line to the kitchen will have a valve to cut the line right before  it hits the stove.
re: old gas stove fri, october 6, 2006 - 8:30 am i forgot.
i ended up buying a new ge stove which i had for a few years and hated it.
but you have to drill a hole for the button.
norman 2 february 20, 2012 ^ top of page | view all topics | back to diy - do it yourself » advertisement boston | chicago | los angeles | miami | new york city | philadelphia | san diego | sf bay area | seattle | more cities » home | about | why join?
the flip side of this is: maybe it's actually better to have no electronic ignition and no pilot????
at any rate...if you have someone come in to fix the stove, make sure you ask ahead of time if they can repair vintage stoves.
no room on the top of the stove to  put anything.
my question is, an older gas stove like this (with no pilot) be "upgraded" with an electronic igniter?
apparantly the idiot lawmakers think we can't have a reasonably hot burner so they have down grades the btu speccs for stoves.
i now have great info, should that same opportunity appear again!