we'll verify your entry and send you and email message with your password.
posted by fireplaces.com | january 5 2012 fireplace safety tips when enjoying your fireplace, stove or insert, it’s important to  remember these basic safety precautions: • fireplaces, stoves and inserts become hot during operation.
pellet stoves operate by  slowly feeding fuel from a storage container called a hopper into the burn-pot,  creating a steady flame.
these appliances should be treated with the same caution as  hot range tops, ovens and clothing irons.
many feature programmable thermostats that adjust heat output and control room temperature automatically –a few simple adjustments by the homeowner and the stove does the rest!
wood pellets are typically sold in 40-pound bags for between $4 and $7  depending on the type of wood used and availability.
interested in how much you could  save?
• parents are advised to keep small children away from fireplaces,  stoves and inserts.
remember me on this computer * indicates a required fieldrecipient(s) email address * subject line message (optional)
pellet stoves burn very clean and are considered carbon-neutral, with low  outside air particulate emissions of between just 0.6 and 1.2 grams per hour.
* indicates a required fieldfirst name * last name * postal code * country already have an account?
• factory screens that are provided with the product and secondary  barriers such as free-standing screens help to reduce the risk of serious  burns, as they can prevent skin from coming into direct contact with the glass  or fire.
check out this video!
these appliances should be treated with the same caution as hot range tops, ovens and clothing irons.
according to the u.s. energy information administration, the cost of heating by  pellet is well below oil, propane or electric.
please enter your contact information: your name * your email address * your phone number* keep me up to date on special offers, new product info, maintenance tips and more.
pellet stoves burn very clean and are considered carbon-neutral, with low outside air particulate emissions of between just 0.6 and 1.2 grams per hour.
when considering a pellet stove for your home, it’s important to remember one size does not fit all.
spain sweden turkey united arab emirates united kingdom registering allows you to save, print and share your product selections online.
when considering a pellet stove for your home, it’s important to  remember one size does not fit all.
above is a photographs of a fireplace screen.
please enable javascript to experience this site fully.
privacy statement you selected the following to save to your folder: or create a new folder or create a new folder you selected the following to save to your folder: blog or create a new folder please enter the email address associated with your account, then click "get password."
according to the u.s. energy information administration, the cost of heating by pellet is well below oil, propane or electric.
how do i know which pellet stove is right for my home?
physical barriers, such as adjustable safety gates in doorways, can be used to keep children, as well as pets, a safe distance away.
a stove too large for the heat demand of your house may operate with slow, smoldering fires much of the time to avoid overheating the room, and an undersized stove can be damaged by frequent over-firing to keep up with heat demand.
posted by fireplaces.com | january 5 2012 how pellets are made curious how wood pellets are made?
this is a characteristic associated with their function of providing heat in the home.
they also help homeowners get closer to “living off the  grid” and produce less greenhouse gases than fossil fuel systems.
what are the green benefits of heating with pellets?
pellet stoves can also help your family save on heating bills.
enter your information below.
this is  a characteristic associated with their function of providing heat in the home.
pellets are a biomass product made of renewable substances including recycled wood waste and plant derivatives.
to find the stove that best suits your  particular home and heating needs, it’s best to consult with a pellet  stove dealer.
screens that are provided  with your fireplace, stove or insert help to prevent skin from coming into  contact with the glass and should never be removed.
select up to 4 products to compare
enter your name, email address and if you are a consumer or building professional, and click sign up to register for our e-newsletter us & canada argentina australia belgium chile china
a stove too large for the heat demand of  your house may operate with slow, smoldering fires much of the time to avoid  overheating the room, and an undersized stove can be damaged by frequent  over-firing to keep up with heat demand.
and, because pellet stoves produce less greenhouse gases than fossil fuel systems they are good are a good choice for those committed to protecting the environment.
if you're reading this, you're using a browser that doesn't support javascript or it is currently disabled.
they can be purchased at hardware stores, farm and fleet stores, and in big box outlet stores.
already have an account?
are there any other benefits of heating with a pellet stove?
you selected the following to save to your folder: or create a new folder name your idea gallery
email address you selected the following to save to your folder: or create a new folder name your comparison (optional)
they also help homeowners get closer to “living off the grid” and produce less greenhouse gases than fossil fuel systems.
screens that are provided with your fireplace, stove or insert help to prevent skin from coming into contact with the glass and should never be removed.
as with all heat generating appliances, fireplaces, stoves and inserts (and their surrounding material) will remain hot for a period of time after being turned off, so caution should be used at all times.
how are pellet stoves fueled?
in link below to log into this site with your existing account.
how many pellets will i need?
your account already exists on one or more of the hearth & home technologies websites.
they can be purchased at  hardware stores, farm and fleet stores, and in big box outlet stores.
in some areas of the country, bulk delivery is also an option.
similar in appearance to a wood-burning stove, a pellet stove is a heating  appliance that burns biomass fuels to create heat.
close * indicates a required fieldstep 2.
you can now create project folders specific to this site and save your desired content associated with this website.
check out the pellet fuel cost calculator here!
how do i control the heat, does it take a lot of work?
compare products (0)
when burned in a high efficiency pellet stove, a 40-lb bag of pellets can  provide about 24 hours of steady heat for 1500 square feet of living space.
when burned in a high efficiency pellet stove, a 40-lb bag of pellets can provide about 24 hours of steady heat for 1500 square feet of living space.
wood pellets are typically sold in 40-pound bags for between $4 and $7 depending on the type of wood used and availability.
however, screens also retain heat so touching them is not advised.
please click on the sign
pellet stoves operate by slowly feeding fuel from a storage container called a hopper into the burn-pot, creating a steady flame.
heating with pellets also  offers the ability for your family to better to control heating costs since  prices for pellets are much more predictable than that of propane, oil and  natural gas.
interested in how much you could save?
pellet stoves are fueled by small, tube-shaped pellets that generally  measure 1/4” in diameter and 3/4” in length.
pellets are a biomass  product made of renewable substances including recycled wood waste and plant  derivatives.
where can i buy pellets?
i'd like to contact a dealer about pricing, installation and any available incentives or promotions.
pellet stove faqs what is a pellet stove?
heating with pellets also offers the ability for your family to better to control heating costs since prices for pellets are much more predictable than that of propane, oil and natural gas.
in some  areas of the country, bulk delivery is also an option.
• factory screens that are provided with the product and secondary barriers such as free-standing screens help to reduce the risk of serious burns, as they can prevent skin from coming into direct contact with the glass or fire.
as with all heat generating appliances, fireplaces, stoves and  inserts (and their surrounding material) will remain hot for a period of time  after being turned off, so caution should be used at all times.
tags: fireplaces posted by fireplaces.com | march 3 2011 older posts >>older posts >> © 2012 harman-stoves.com all rights reserved 1 product added (msrp)
physical barriers, such as adjustable  safety gates in doorways, can be used to keep children, as well as pets, a safe  distance away.
pellet stoves are fueled by small, tube-shaped pellets that generally measure 1/4” in diameter and 3/4” in length.
tags: fireplaces posted by fireplaces.com | march 3 2011 older posts >>
and, because pellet stoves produce less greenhouse gases than
• parents are advised to keep small children away from fireplaces, stoves and inserts.
when burned in a high efficiency pellet stove, a 40-lb bag of  pellets can provide about 24 hours of steady heat for 1500 square feet of  living space.
if you don't have an account yet, you can register now.
denmark greece guatamala ireland italy japan mexico new zealand norway russia slovakia south africa spain sweden turkey united arab emirates united kingdomus & canada argentina australia belgium chile china denmark greece guatamala ireland italy japan mexico new zealand norway russia slovakia south africa
similar in appearance to a wood-burning stove, a pellet stove is a heating appliance that burns biomass fuels to create heat.
posted by fireplaces.com | january 5 2012 fireplace safety tips when enjoying your fireplace, stove or insert, it’s important to remember these basic safety precautions: • fireplaces, stoves and inserts become hot during operation.
this site makes heavy use of javascript and photography to provide an enhanced user experience.
to find the stove that best suits your particular home and heating needs, it’s best to consult with a pellet stove dealer.
many feature programmable  thermostats that adjust heat output and control room temperature automatically  –a few simple adjustments by the homeowner and the stove does the rest!
today’s stove technology is advanced.
fossil fuel  systems they are good are a good choice for those committed to protecting the  environment.