our phone lines are open: monday to friday 8:30am to 5:00pm saturday 9.00am to 4.00pm sunday 11:00am to 3:00pm stoves and fireplaces - the stoves are us showroom our recently refurbished showroom has a wide variety of stoves and  fireplaces on display in all materials to suit your needs.
our extensive stove range is guaranteed to suit any home and interior, from woodburners, log, multifuel, gas, electric and boiler stoves.
stoves are us offers an unrivalled selection of contemporary, modern designer stoves and traditional woodburner stoves, which can also be viewed in our west yorkshire showroom.
opening times: visit us at the old canteen, rosemount works, huddersfield road, elland, hx5 0ee
our experienced staff are happy to share information and assist in finding  the right stove for your home.
stoves are us is a specialist supplier of wood burning stoves, log stoves, multi fuel stoves, electric stoves, gas stoves, flueless gas stoves, and boiler stoves, as well as range cookers.
our phone  lines are open 7 days a week and we are always happy to offer advice and  information on any of our stoves and accessories.
fast track 100 company
we work closely with the leading stove manufacturers, in the uk and europe, to ensure we offer a selection of defra approved stoves and eco-friendly, fuel-efficient stoves, including the aga fusion wood-pellet stove.
the showroom is situated in elland, in the heart of west yorkshire, with easy access from the m62 from leeds, manchester, bradford, huddersfield and halifax.
stoves are us not only offer the best priced stoves, but we provide a wide range of other products, such as chimney flue systems, chimney liners, outdoor heaters, fires and fireplaces.
click for more details and a map to find us...more on showroom © 2012 stoves are us, part of the stores direct group.
stoves are us offers an  unrivalled selection of contemporary, modern designer stoves and traditional  woodburner stoves, which can also be viewed in our west yorkshire showroom.
company reg 5041152, vat reg 755940795
stoves are us pride ourselves on our excellent customer service and our trained team have completed the hetas solid fuel awareness course.
sunday times virgin fast track 100, examiner sme business of the year..
at stoves are us we are constantly striving to improve our product portfolio and find the latest trends in multi fuel and wood burning stove design.
opening times: monday to friday   10:00am to 5:00pm saturday 10:00am to 4:00pm sunday 11:00am to 3:00pm visit us at the old canteen, rosemount works, huddersfield  road, elland, hx5 0ee
our phone lines are open 7 days a week and we are always happy to offer advice and information on any of our stoves and accessories.
click for more details and a map to find us...more on  showroom installation surveys - installers required © 2012 stoves are us, part of the stores direct group.
free delivery free delivery to mainland uk destinations, with low cost delivery to other areas.. showroom many great items in our stove and fireplace showroom.. about us everything about stoves are us - the stove, fireplace and heating specialists.. business awards sunday times virgin fast track 100, examiner sme business of the year..
we have over 10 years experience supplying top stove brands, including aga, broseley, esse, franco belge, morso, villager and westfire stoves at the best discount prices online.
we currently hold a number of stoves in stock from the leading manufacturers, such as aga, broseley, westfire, morso, villager and firefox.
if you would like any additional help, or advice then please feel free to use ourcontact form, or call 01484 434321.
suppliers of quality stoves 01484 43 43 21
all rights  reserved.
call our expert team buy securely online – your card details are secure and encrypted: even safer than in a shop.
all our prices include vat and delivery to the mainland uk, there are no hidden costs.
our experienced staff are happy to share information and assist in finding the right stove for your home.
in-stock specials our most popular stoves for quickest delivery.. contemporary stoves the latest in modern style to fit your design.. multifuel stoves stoves to burn wood and solid fuels.. range cookers range cookers from aga, broseley and more.. defra approved stoves defra approved stoves can be used in smoke controlled areas..
we currently hold a number of  stoves in stock from the leading manufacturers, such as aga, broseley,  westfire, morso, villager and firefox.
if you would like any additional help, or advice then please feel free to use  ourcontact form, or call 01484 434321.
our recently refurbished showroom has a wide variety of stoves and fireplaces on display in all materials to suit your needs.
our extensive stove  range is guaranteed to suit any home and interior, from woodburners, log,  multifuel, gas, electric and boiler stoves.
in the top 100 uk companies sunday times virgin fast track stovesareus - quality stoves and expert advice stoves are us pride ourselves on our excellent customer service and our  trained team have completed the hetas solid fuel awareness course.
the showroom is situated in elland, in the heart  of west yorkshire, with easy access from the m62 from leeds, manchester,  bradford, huddersfield and halifax.
electric stoves simple to use and great looking.. gas stoves stunning flame effects on versatile gas stoves.. fireplaces fireplace suites with solid fuel and gas & electric fires.
variety of stone, iron and wooden finishes.. outdoor heating chimineas, patio heaters, barbecues and firepits.. stove glass replacement stove glass to fit a wide selection of stoves.. flue products all you need for your heating system.. chimney products cowls, pots and other accessories...