mobile heaters are highly efficient, providing instant heat and better control over your fuel costs self contained gas cylinder housed within body of stove
our buyers guide is here to help you with your purchase.
keyword search product search product search all manufacturers aga stoves agnews / cast tec fireplaces baxi fires be modern broseley stoves burley fires carron fireplaces & stoves celsi fires clearance courts pureglow fires creative fires crystal fires dimplex fires dovre stoves dunsley stoves ecowarm stoves eko fires elgin & hall euro flames stoves evolve faber fireplaces firebelly stoves flamerite fires flavel fires focal point fires franco belge stoves gallery fireplaces gavin scott design fireplaces gazco fires hillandale stoves hunter stoves kinder fires legend fires morso stoves nordpeis stoves restwell chairs robinson willey smeg flueless fires stovax stoves stove pipe & accessories superior fires valor fires verine fires vermont castings stoves wanders fires & stoves winther browne yeoman stoves all product types fireplaces gas fires electric fires wood burning stoves multi-fuel stoves solid fuel stove defra approved stoves boiler stoves flue liners, stove pipe & accessories high efficiency gas fires fireplace package deals flueless gas fires hole in the wall fires electric fireplace suites gas stove electric stove balanced flue gas fires power flue gas fires fanned flue gas fires lpg gas fires stone fireplaces marble fireplaces wooden fireplaces cast iron fireplaces fireplaces for solid fuel basket fires range cookers wall heaters wood burning cookers massage chairs recliner chairs rise & recliner chairs swivel recliner chairs fireside chairs adjustable beds & accessories all product styles contemporary style freestanding fires glass fronted gas fires hang-on-the-wall style hearth mounted fireplaces hole-in-the-wall style inset fires outset gas fires stove suitable for class 1 flues suitable for class 2 pre-cast flues suitable for class 2 pre-fabricated flues suitable for no chimney or flue traditional style browse products menu browse products - fires, fireplaces & stoves - fireplaces - gas fires - electric fires - wood burning stoves - multi-fuel stoves - solid fuel stove - defra approved stoves - boiler stoves - flue liners, stove pipe & accessories - high efficiency gas fires - fireplace package deals - flueless gas fires - hole in the wall fires - electric fireplace suites - gas stove - electric stove - balanced flue gas fires - power flue gas fires - fanned flue gas fires - lpg gas fires - stone fireplaces - marble fireplaces - wooden fireplaces - cast iron fireplaces - fireplaces for solid fuel - basket fires - range cookers - wall heaters - wood burning cookers - chairs & beds - massage chairs - recliner chairs - rise & recliner chairs - swivel recliner chairs - fireside chairs - adjustable beds & accessories most of our fabulous range of our wood burning stoves are offered with a quality stove installation kit absolutely free!
mr j sharples thank you for all your support on my query.
united kingdom geo: 53.546783n , -2.197814w
we can now deliver a selection of our fires & fireplaces and stoves throughout ireland.
availability: 7-10 working days* *subject to stock at suppliers delivery now available to france on all broseley wood burning stoves & cookers - please call/email for a quote broseley thurcroft flueless portable gas stove the broseley thurcroft mobile gas stove has a realistic living flame that gives the warmth, appearance and atmosphere of a traditional stove
fireside chairs adjustable beds & accessories most of our fabulous range of our wood burning stoves  are offered with a quality stove installation kit absolutely free!
click here> flue products we are happy to quote on all flue related products including gas flue liners & solid fuel, twin-wall flue systems.
or baffled by the terminology used on this site?
availability: 7-10 working days* *subject to stock at suppliers delivery now available to france on all broseley wood burning stoves &  cookers - please call/email for a quote broseley thurcroft flueless portable gas stove the broseley thurcroft mobile gas stove has a realistic living flame that  gives the warmth, appearance and atmosphere of a traditional stove
manufacturer broseley stoves fire type high efficiency gas fires flueless gas fires gas stove lpg gas fires product code broseleythurcroft product style freestanding fires glass fronted gas fires stove suitable for class 1 flues suitable for class 2 pre-cast flues suitable for class 2 pre-fabricated flues suitable for no chimney or flue traditional style model name thurcroft heat output 2.4kw efficiency rating
please let us know -  here rrp: £535
details > - home | - site map | - about us | - jargon buster | - contact us | - terms & conditions | - faq | © 2007 hotprice.co.uk limited fireplace blog hotprice.co.uk harpoon house sharp street middleton manchester m24 1ad
sided hole-in-the-wall gas fireplace elgin & hall
it has been a pleasure to have dealt with you.
- view my basket what our customers say... just to let you know our fire arrived today as you said it would.
click here> a small selection of popular gas fires, electric fires,  stoves and complete fireplaces recommended by our manager.
loading... customers who bought this item also looked at ... carron 7.3kw multi-fuel / wood burning stove - antique enamel crystal fires sunrise monarch 4
if you feel a chill anywhere around the house, just wheel your mobile  heater to wherever you need it.
main menu - home - about us - showroom - contact us - view basket - installation - clearance - faq keyword search i'm looking for ...
if you are looking for a job in the fireplace industry we would love to hear from you.
main content area broseley thurcroft flueless portable gas stove see "dimensions" tab below for sizes.
seen this product cheaper elsewhere?
visit our jargon buster page.
jargon explained confused by the type of flue you have?
thank you all so much for such an easy and enjoyable transaction...
thanks again for your assistance.
we are always looking for dynamic people to join our expanding team.
mobile heaters are highly efficient, providing  instant heat and better control over your fuel costs self contained gas cylinder housed within body of stove
to find a company who take the time and trouble to give such service to their customers as yours is hard to find.
click here> a small selection of popular gas fires, electric fires, stoves and complete fireplaces recommended by our manager.
the smallest sized room in which the appliance should be operated is 48m³ for a living room and 24m³ for other rooms except for basements, bathrooms and bedrooms where the appliance should not be used.
you dealt with my query promptly and professionally and demonstrated your knowledge of the products you sell and your concern that customers are happy with their order.
no installation or chimney required 100% efficient with a maximum heat output of 2.4kw up to 60 hours burning time from one 7 kg butane bottle (not supplied) peace of mind from an atmosphere sensing device which turns off the gas if  the flame goes out or if the level of oxygen in the room falls below a  recognised safe level high level user friendly control ventilation requirements use only in a well  ventilated room.
unsure  about what type of gas fire you need?
the  smallest sized room in which the appliance should be operated is 48m³ for  a living room and 24m³ for other rooms except for basements, bathrooms and  bedrooms where the appliance should not be used.
the room in which the heater is to be used must be provided with adequate ventilation at all times to ensure the proper removal of products of combustion and to reduce the possibility of condensation.
elissa marble fireplace suite valor brunswick multi-fuel / woodburning stove yeoman county wood burning stove (double door) need help? basket - contact sales - delivery information your basket is empty!
no installation or chimney required 100% efficient with a maximum heat output of 2.4kw up to 60 hours burning time from one 7 kg butane bottle (not supplied) peace of mind from an atmosphere sensing device which turns off the gas if the flame goes out or if the level of oxygen in the room falls below a recognised safe level high level user friendly control ventilation requirements use only in a well ventilated room.
jenny turner see all 194 reviews> to most mainland uk addresses fireplace buyers guide searching for gas fires, electric fires, wood burning stoves or complete fireplaces?
please let us know - here rrp: £535 £408 inc vat loading...
please email us with your requirements.
a permanent vent with an effective area of 62cm2 is required together with a window that can be opened.
100% flue size n/a flue options n/a warranty 12 months product options: step 1: choose optional extras carbon monoxide detector (+ £25)
main content area product broseley thurcroft flueless portable gas stove see "dimensions" tab below for sizes.
the room in which the heater is to be used must be  provided with adequate ventilation at all times to ensure the proper removal of  products of combustion and to reduce the possibility of condensation.
mr f webb hi, just to let you know that our fire is in, working and could not be better.
or baffled by the terminology used on  this site?
i will certainly be recommending your company to all my friends and relatives.
your advice and superb customer service is the best i have ever received both before and after the sale.
if you feel a chill anywhere around the house, just wheel your mobile heater to wherever you need it.
unsure about what type of gas fire you need?
a permanent vent with an  effective area of 62cm2 is required together with a window that can be opened.
i am very impressed at the high level of customer service offered post sale by hotprice.