participants observed that this was a ‘chicken-and-egg’ scenario: donors only want to roll out ‘already proven technologies’ but nobody apart from major companies like bp or phillips has the money to do the research needed to prove the technologies.
the turbulence of the gases/flame and the air control provided  a very clean combustion, measured by crispin and his furnace-emissions analyzer.
this year we seemed to have had more discussions of issues than in the past.
to get an overview and discover who had which type of specific interest, the participants were asked to raise hands on which aspects of application of the tlud principles they were interested in.
some people were too busy making stoves to be in the official photo.
rocketeers larry winiarski and dean
see the attached report for more detail submitted by tom miles on 19 february 2009 - 5:13pm finned pots as a means of increasing efficiency dale andreatta, ph.d., p.e., dandreatta@sealimited.com, february 13, 2009finned pot executive summary a pot with heat transfer fins has much greater surface area than pots with no fins.
i will be posting within a few days a document on how to make a  pp-plus gasifier.
next year, we hope to have some of those topics pre-identified and to  have discussion time about those issues.
resources for the interested include past conferenceproceedings () and reviews ( http://improvedstoves.blogspot.com/2007/02/ethos-2007-conference-report-and.html and the master site for all things related to biomass stoves is here:  www.bioenergylists.org.
the rocket stove produced in china.
true science and engineering  in action.
the “pp-plus” natural draft tlud from servals in chennai, india.
it was a windy, wet day, and the stove burned jatropha seeds pretty well.
the lucia stove by nat mulcahy.
in uganda this year a tlud-project with world bank funding will start.
we also used a rad 57 from masimo to non-invasively measure levels of co in the cook’s blood before and after cooking.
dr. paul anderson, a.k.a., “dr. tlud”, made the pitch for tluds and biochar throughout the conference.
the stove is currently being mass produced and sold in kenya.
those sessions still tended to be presentations, but there was somewhat more interaction and some effort to get to the underlying difficulties that need more discussion.
most were simple homemade devices made from “tincanium” (dr. anderson’s friday evening presentation on the wonders of “tincanium” was delightfully humorous).
alan berick did a masterful job of calling attention to simmering by the use of only charcoal, available from the fire that was used to bring the pot to boil.
it is a gasifier  intended as a start-up kit for aspiring gasifier enthusiasts, including  cleaning and cooling of the gases.
it uses the natural draft techniques combined by paul anderson and paal  wendelbo.
there was a raft of new stoves introduced this year, including the new biolight thermoelectric-powered-fan one for camping and more, the likewise fan powered lucia stove fromwww.worldstove.com (shown with developer nate mulcahy),crispin pemberton-piggott and the souped up peko pe natural draft gasifier presented by paul anderson (pictured with crispin pemberton-pigott, wielding his ever present combustion analyzer).rocketeers larry winiarski and dean still the venerable dr. larry winiarski and dean still are also shown here with the upcoming finned pot atop stovetec’s (www.stovetec.net) rocket stove - now 36,000 strong in the field just since last year.
i liked my own presentation about the low emissions of tlud gasifiers, especially if the charcoal is not burned in the tlud.
the theme this year constellated around health issues.
so this was more apparent at the conference.
there were  certainly other excellent presentations, but i am not trying to summarize the  entire conference.
the group felt there was a strong need to get more experience on the ground building and cooking on tluds.
funding has been secured for 2 years.
more apparent this year was interest in carbon credit funding and biochar (terra preta) applications, and all year long there has been an increased emphasis on refugee camp stoves (and more testing of stoves in the field, versus in the laboratory)
it is a gasifier intended as a start-up kit for aspiring gasifier enthusiasts, including cleaning and cooling of the gases.
submitted by erin rasmussen on 3 february 2011 - 5:17pm tom miles, ethos conference 2011 kirkland, washington, usa january 28th ~ 30th, 2011 the ethos stoves conference was last weekend, and it included demonstrations by some of the stove makers and manufactures, with the opportunity to talk to the people using and inventing the stoves.
specialist in micro-gasification.
(more about this in some future messages.)
contact aprovecho to get your stove (under us$30, plus shipping).
it's a flat pack design that can be assembled by local artisans.
reliable, economical, and this one had a very nice pot-skirt that attached to the pot and let the emissions/draft out through (20 mm??)
alan berick did a masterful job of calling attention to simmering by the  use of only charcoal, available from the fire that was used to bring the pot to  boil.
several types of fins can be retrofit to existing pots.
i may still have the burn on my finger from touching it when it was hot.
submitted by tom miles on 8 february 2009 - 8:21pm notes from the ethos conference of 2009, by paul s. anderson, 4 february 2009 i enjoyed (and benefited from) the 2009 ethos conference more than in most previous years.
copyright © 2006 - 2012 all rights reserved by the original contributor, creator and copyright holder.
so each attendee could only hear about 10 of them.
another report on the meeting  has been posted by kelpie wilson, with insights especially for the issues of  biochar: http://www.biochar-international.org/projectsandprograms/memberprojects.... login or register to post comments read more
visit:www.youtube.com/worldstove i will be writing more in another message about his “coaxial gasification” (vs. stratified gasification in tluds and most other small gasifiers).
the live-fire demo  was impressive.
jet city stoveworks brought their metal jatropha seed gasifier.
thanks to alex english for the original (crest/ repp) biomass stoves site design.
the top cube is a biomass burning t-char design, and the bottom cube is an improved charcoal cooker.
it performed very well, and was measured by crispin to have very clean combustion slightly better than the other four stoves shown this year.
dean still, organizer of the aprovecho stove camp has said the camp will focus on the tlud this year.
~100 researchers came from around the world to compare  notes on stove projects, stove designs, standards and testing procedures,  health impacts, other associated appropriate technologies, and so on.
this is for sale as a kit or as a set of  plans for construction.
the criteria were the emissions  readings from his furnace emissions analysis equipment.
peter scott and dr. andreatta were successful in creating an aluminum mitad with even temperatures for making injira.
contact  aprovecho to get your stove (under us$30, plus shipping).
nat presented about the lucia  stove (and some info about the larger worldstove).
we set up a test kitchen, in which stoves were tested, making posho (african corn meal mush).
jatropha seed tlud (top, lit, updraft design, using natural draft - no fan)
the theory and practice have been known for a long time, but they  impressively accomplished it in their attractive prototype, a variation of a  reed-style woodgas campstove.
and i led about controversial issues that need to be discussed was only moderately successful (in my opinion) because we spent our time identifying the issues and did not have time for discussions of those issues.
ethos is growing and evolving, and so are our stoves.
neither the stove body nor the teg power units are available for purchase, but they should be encouraged to continue their work.
login or register to post comments read more notes from the ethos conference of 2009 submitted by tom miles on 8 february 2009 - 8:21pm anderson notes from the ethos conference of 2009, by paul s. anderson, 4  february 2009 i enjoyed (and benefited from) the 2009 ethos conference more than  in most previous years.
about 30 people attended the tlud community discussion session.
this favorably relates  both to alan berick’s findings (above) and to the carbon credit and  biochar sequestration topics.
the better designs of finned pots performed well over a range of conditions using simulated stoves, and sometimes also with an actual wood burning stove modified to use natural gas to simulate a wood flame.
there were still about 30 somewhat standard (academic style) presentations,  usually with powerpoint slides.
economics of charcoal:
tests on actual stoves using wood as the fuel generally gave smaller improvements in performance, generally 1.33 or less, corresponding to a 25% or smaller reduction in fuel usage.
the criteria were the emissions readings from his furnace emissions analysis equipment.
mentioned previously.
i have volunteered to work on that, and mark b. has accepted my offer.
there were questions about the heat retained in a ceramic stove body,  etc., and certainly he will do more work on this.
the turbulence of the gases/flame and the air control provided a very clean combustion, measured by crispin and his furnace-emissions analyzer.
there were questions about the heat retained in a ceramic stove body, etc., and certainly he will do more work on this.
many people (including me)  purchased one of those stoves (and would like to get the skirt).
biomass can be burned to make char over a can or pot to reserve it later, or it can be used over a conventional charcoal stove.
the “lighting of the stoves” was sunday afternoon, with a light snowfall!!
neither the stove body nor the teg power units  are available for purchase, but they should be encouraged to continue their  work.
this is primarily a stick burning stove with both a plancha (even cooking surface) and pot rests.
the trend toward stove models like all these, designed for mass  manufacturing, continues, and this trend was recently discussed here: coming-of-corporate-biomass-stoves-mass.html).
and yours truly demonstrated in  light snow the new biomass gasifier (the red one) from all power labs here in  berkeley (www.allpowerlabs.org).
what participants committed to do: upcoming tlud events include a combined heat and biochar event in massachusetts on 9-13 august (contact paul anderson for more details) and the annual stove camp at aprovecho, 26 to 30 july.
in some tests the finned pot used more fuel than an unfinned pot.
if the fins were on the sides of the pot a greater than 2-fold improvement was achieved.
jonathan cedar and alex drummond discussed (and later showed) their “biolight” cookstove that includes an attractive device attached to the side of the stove to use the heat of the fire to create the electricity (via a teg = thermoelectric generator) to drive the blower to make the fire burn well.
paul --paul s anderson, ph.d. -- aka dr. tlud ("dr. tee-lud") biomass energy consultant with bef, & partner in chip energy.
nathaniel “nat” mulcahy attended ethos for the first time and (in my opinion) presented the most dramatic stove innovation i have seen since the day i met tom reed and his tlud prototype.
resources for the interested include past conferenceproceedings () and reviews ( http://improvedstoves.blogspot.com/2007/02/ethos-2007-conference-report-and.html http://improvedstoves.blogspot.com/2008/02/ethos-2008-conference.html) and the master site for all things related to biomass stoves is here: www.bioenergylists.org.
i spent some extra time with nat and can say that he has deep understanding of the issues, and he has solutions already in place.
they are also planning to sell the latest versions of their biomass cooking stoves this year.
the 2010 ethos conference is being held in kirkland, washington, on january 29th ~ 31st, 2010.
the open flames are not within the combustion chamber but above the fuel bed.
there were still about 30 somewhat standard (academic style) presentations, usually with powerpoint slides.
the “crispin awards” were inaugurated this year.
his website is underdeveloped, but he has 13 youtube items that will  partially bring you up to speed.
the following aspects were identified: participants at the tlud session participants made a list of tlud features as compared to other stove types such as the rocket stove: a few tlud problems/challenges were also identified: the group discussed in detail the following ideas for advancing tlud development: materials: light-weight ceramics are not necessarily needed for insulation of the combustion chamber, unlike in a rocket stove, as for tluds the temperature in the fuel bed stays at ambient temperature until the pyrolysis front passes through.
options for modular stove designs containing ceramic parts to be explored further.
modular systems could use a number of tlud burners under a large pot or grill.
this is not a cookstove.
[side note: the teg in the bottom of the innovative philips cookstove  (seen in previous years) has been removed and that stove is moving to the  marketplace with battery or plug-in for the required electric power.]
crispin gave  out three little bottles of “gold medal” canadian pure maple syrup  to stoves 3, 4, and 5 in the above list.
but this year four of the five were gasifiers, each  distinctly different from the others.
it is well manufactured, sturdy, was my favorite for cooking marshmallows and it sells for just under us$20.
this favorably relates both to alan berick’s findings (above) and to the carbon credit and biochar sequestration topics.
my paper is at the stoves internet  site:http://www.bioenergylists.org/andersontludcopm i think that in future  years we should have many papers placed there in advance of the conference.)
this report covers some of the discussions about tluds that took place at conference sessions.
funding is needed for research to get the combustion chamber to the application stage and to collect user feedback on a major scale.
the theory and practice have been known for a long time, but they impressively accomplished it in their attractive prototype, a variation of a reed-style woodgas campstove.
jonathan cedar and alex drummond discussed (and later showed) their  “biolight” cookstove that includes an attractive device attached to  the side of the stove to use the heat of the fire to create the electricity  (via a teg = thermoelectric generator) to drive the blower to make the fire  burn well.
crispin gave out three little bottles of “gold medal” canadian pure maple syrup to stoves 3, 4, and 5 in the above list.
as someone mentioned, in previous years usually only one gasifier was among  the stoves ignited.
the t-char is very much like a tlud but it has an open bottom.
more projects are needed.
the best designs were separated out in the lab, using natural gas to simulate a wood flame.
a huge gap between standard pottery and industrial ceramics was noted.
stoves were also tested under the emissions hood, and practice wbts were run without emissions measurements.
ceramics are cheap to fabricate, e.g. consumable stove components like the concentrator disk or the bottom plate of the fire chamber.
the gek downdraft gasifier.
these tests were done under a variety of conditions with a variety of stoves, including the open fire (3-stone fire).
you can see the presentations and results from stove camp by visiting http://www.aprovecho.org/lab/index.php.
related sites: bioenergy, gasification, biochar (terra preta)
see attached report presented to ethos 2009 submitted by tom miles on 11 february 2009 - 10:23pm ethos 2009 developing world cooking stove conference charlie sellers, february 11,2009
it uses the natural draft techniques combined by paul anderson and paal wendelbo.
we should all think more about  having two or more modes or devices for different cooking (as in  bringing-to-boiling vs. simmering vs. tea-for-two in the morning).
but they were in three concurrent sessions with  30 minutes (too much in my opinion) allocated to each presenter (who usually  did make sure to fill all of the minutes, often with background info that could  have been omitted, in my opinion).
about forty units are around the world.
modular advantages: tluds excel on high power output, e.g. boiling water, but don’t turn down the power so well.
attendees still need to read-between-the-lines and/or have some more private discussions to see some of the differences of position.
christa roth and amanda are in the top picture with the prototype of the new hot cube.
the biolight by drummond and cedar.
look soon for peter scott’s new rocket  stove design and application website atrocketstove.org.
i spent  some extra time with nat and can say that he has deep understanding of the  issues, and he has solutions already in place.
better results can probably be achieved with less effort by using skirts around the pot.
next year, we hope to have some of those topics pre-identified and to have discussion time about those issues.
still the venerable dr. larry winiarski and dean still are also shown here with  the upcoming finned pot atop stovetec’s (www.stovetec.net) rocket stove -  now 36,000 strong in the field just since last year.
on industrial fuel stoves using kerosene or alcohol, improvements were even less, with the finned pots giving 1.2 fold improvements or smaller.
as someone mentioned, in previous years usually only one gasifier was among the stoves ignited.
holes near the top of the skirt.
despite the advantages of the tlud there are very few stove programs using tluds.
there were topical “panels” of usually three or four qualified people.
the trend toward stove models like all these, designed for mass manufacturing, continues, and this trend was recently discussed here: coming-of-corporate-biomass-stoves-mass.html).
website:http://www.bioenergylists.org/wendelbopekope ).
in the second photo, paul anderson is showing off a brand new t-char protype.
and yours truly demonstrated in light snow the new biomass gasifier (the red one) from all power labs here in berkeley (www.allpowerlabs.org).
~100 researchers came from around the world to compare notes on stove projects, stove designs, standards and testing procedures, health impacts, other associated appropriate technologies, and so on.
the hottest parts of a tlud stove are the concentrator disk and the bottom of the fire chamber, where the remaining charcoal might be burnt creating high temperatures (if the char is not dumped out and conserved for other use e.g. as biochar).
copyright is retained by the original contributor to the discussion list and web site.
nathaniel “nat” mulcahy attended ethos for the first time and  (in my opinion) presented the most dramatic stove innovation i have seen since  the day i met tom reed and his tlud prototype.
the “lighting of the stoves” was sunday afternoon, with a light  snowfall!!
byjatropha seed tlud (top, lit, updraft design, using natural draft - no fan)
[side note: the teg in the bottom of the innovative philips cookstove (seen in previous years) has been removed and that stove is moving to the marketplace with battery or plug-in for the required electric power.]
those sessions still tended to be presentations, but there was somewhat more  interaction and some effort to get to the underlying difficulties that need  more discussion.
(i work with hot stoves all the time, and it amazes me how often i forget that metal that's been near fire is frequently hot).
i will comment on four of the nine that i was able to attend.
this is akin to the advocacy of retained heat cookers (rhc or “hayboxes”) for integrated cooking.
my paper is at the stoves internet site:http://www.bioenergylists.org/andersontludcopm i think that in future years we should have many papers placed there in advance of the conference.)
in summary, it was a beneficial conference.
so each attendee could only hear about 10 of  them.
there was a raft of new stoves introduced this year, including the new  biolight thermoelectric-powered-fan one for camping and more, the likewise fan  powered lucia stove fromwww.worldstove.com (shown with developer nate mulcahy), crispin pemberton-piggott and the souped up peko pe natural draft gasifier presented by paul anderson  (pictured with crispin pemberton-pigott, wielding his ever present combustion  analyzer).
stoves camp 2009 group photo stove camp featured many experiments.
all three were with force air, and even used true  blowers, not just small fans.
particulate matter and carbon monoxide were recorded in both the room air and at the nose/mouth of the cook.
i will be posting within a few days a document on how to make a pp-plus gasifier.
i have volunteered to work on that,  and mark b. has accepted my offer.
this was my third ethos (engineers in technical and humanitarian  opportunities of service – a long name for people who often just call  themselves “stovers”), and the seattle suburbs are as cold as usual  at this time of year.
the three winners did  share one thing in common.
a variety of types of finned pots were built and tested.
the metal between the gasifier top and the chimney is a warming area that was requested by the community that they are developing the stove for.
but really he called attention to the need to have “different” heat sources for boiling and simmering.
there were certainly other excellent presentations, but i am not trying to summarize the entire conference.
but really he called  attention to the need to have “different” heat sources for boiling  and simmering.
it performed very  well, and was measured by crispin to have very clean combustion slightly better  than the other four stoves shown this year.
the shark stove presented by john and flip anderson.
i liked my own presentation about the low emissions of tlud gasifiers,  especially if the charcoal is not burned in the tlud.
the blue 'tank' is a beautiful looking insulated charcoal stove that burn design lab (peter scott and co) has been designing.
(wendelbo’s extremely interesting life as a tlud  pioneer was highlighted at the friday night slide-show and is at the stoves
the institutional version of the stovetec stove for use in schools and other organizations, has an attached chimney and an a pressure cooker version.
the stove has been very well received, earning top marks from consumers.
while we often concentrate on the stove as the primary element of a cooking system, the efficiency of a stove is mainly determined by the heat transfer to the pot, and designing a better pot would be an easy way to make a more efficient stove.
the saving of char could become more popular if the produced charcoal were attributed more value (carbon offsets for biochar used in the soil, charcoal fines to be processed into charcoal briquettes, water filters etc.)
his website is underdeveloped, but he has 13 youtube items that will partially bring you up to speed.
it is a bit "tongue in cheek.
look soon for peter scott’s new rocket stove design and application website atrocketstove.org.
the three winners did share one thing in common.
the final two pictures highlight karsten and the metal tlud stove that he is building in uganda.
the pressure cooker is useful to shorten cooking times, and the fuel consumption, when cooking beans and small grains.
this is for sale as a kit or as a set of plans for construction.
office & res: 309-452-7072 submitted by erin rasmussen on 6 february 2010 - 4:57pm dale andreatta, ph.d., p.e. and alex wohlgemuth, january 2010 an investigation of skirts predicted heat transfer to various surfaces of the pot with a 10mm steel skirt submitted by erin rasmussen on 14 january 2010 - 7:47pm
developing world cooking stove conference charlie sellers,  february 11,2009 charlie sellers and gek
the “pp-plus” natural draft tlud from servals in chennai,  india.
the live-fire demo was impressive.
tlud designers art donnelly, christa roth, and hugh mclaughlin all had stoves on display.
here are some of the stand-outs from the demonstrations area, click on an image to view it in a larger size.
submitted by kelpie on 16 march 2010 - 9:07am report on tlud discussions at the 2010 ethos conference by christa roth and kelpie wilson submitted 8 march 2010 there was a good showing of tlud technology at the annual ethos stoves conference in kirkland, wa, usa on january 29-31, 2010.
this is akin to the advocacy of retained heat cookers (rhc or  “hayboxes”) for integrated cooking.
the topics of these plenary sessions were: carbon credits; stove testing issues (not results of specific stoves); safety; and stove standards.
production and dissemination: stoves should come as a kit: combustion chamber + pot stand/application + snuffer box for the char to be saved.
in theory, this could lead to greatly increased heat transfer to the pot for a given stove, and the pot would theoretically improve the performance of the stove under all conditions.
five stoves were fired up.
all three were with force air, and even used true blowers, not just small fans.
true science and engineering in action.
we should all think more about having two or more modes or devices for different cooking (as in bringing-to-boiling vs. simmering vs. tea-for-two in the morning).
burn has is responding to consumer pressure and offering a more effecient, and beautifully designed charcoal stove.
then temperatures get higher.
another report on the meeting has been posted by kelpie wilson, with insights especially for the issues of biochar: http://www.biochar-international.org/projectsandprograms/memberprojects....
attendees still need to read-between-the-lines and/or have  some more private discussions to see some of the differences of position.
(wendelbo’s extremely interesting life as a tlud pioneer was highlighted at the friday night slide-show and is at the stoves website:http://www.bioenergylists.org/wendelbopekope ).
the topics of these plenary sessions were: carbon credits; stove  testing issues (not results of specific stoves); safety; and stove standards.
if cooking lasts a long time, such as firing a grill at a restaurant, you could replace spent tluds with new ones to keep the heat going while you recharge spent tlud’s with new fuel.
more  apparent this year was interest in carbon credit funding and biochar (terra  preta) applications, and all year long there has been an increased emphasis on  refugee camp stoves (and more testing of stoves in the field, versus in the  laboratory)
many people (including me) purchased one of those stoves (and would like to get the skirt).
it is not recommended that finned pots be pursued as a means of increasing the efficiency of stoves.
these skirts could be attached to the pots with optimum dimensions.
the 2010 ethos conference aims to expand its reach from previous annual meetings, encouraging participation of southern partners, international stoves experts, and development specialists with field experience in the transfer of cooking technologies.
paal wendelbo, winner of the $250 prize for most interesting development, is the white haired gentleman two spaces to dean’s left.
there were topical “panels” of usually three or four qualified  people.
the reasons for this wide range of results is not known.
but they were in three concurrent sessions with 30 minutes (too much in my opinion) allocated to each presenter (who usually did make sure to fill all of the minutes, often with background info that could have been omitted, in my opinion).
with fins on or near the bottom of the pot the finned pots typically gave around a 1.76-fold improvement in heat transfer.
but this year four of the five were gasifiers, each distinctly different from the others.
and i led about controversial issues that need to be  discussed was only moderately successful (in my opinion) because we spent our  time identifying the issues and did not have time for discussions of those  issues.
by this stove features an abrasion and thermal shock resistant ceramic liner surrounded by sheet metal cladding.
nat presented about the lucia stove (and some info about the larger worldstove).
visit:www.youtube.com/worldstove i will be  writing more in another message about his “coaxial gasification”  (vs. stratified gasification in tluds and most other small gasifiers).
submitted by erin rasmussen on 31 january 2012 - 6:54pm ethos 2012, seattle, washington january, 2012 the annual lighting of the fires was well represented by various forms of tlud and t-char units.
this was my third ethos (engineers in technical and humanitarian opportunities of service – a long name for people who often just call themselves “stovers”), and the seattle suburbs are as cold as usual at this time of year.
the concept of having a different and/or smaller combustion unit for the simmering stage or replacing the continuous heat addition with a retained heat cooker should be explored further.
anderson had one example of a mass produced tlud that is manufactured in india.
discussed previously.
notice the even cooking on the pancakes, that even heat is partially due the ceramic shark teeth construction just under the cooking surface.
2010 ethos conference & registration on their website submitted by erin rasmussen on 13 august 2009 - 10:29am summary of ethos stove camp, august 3-7, 2009 dean still and nordica maccarty forty three folks attended stove camp this year coming from as far away as norway, germany, honduras, and mexico.
reliable, economical, and this one had  a very nice pot-skirt that attached to the pot and let the emissions/draft out  through (20 mm??)
here are the ones we know about: other than those listed above, there are no projects yet at a major scale.
submitted by tom miles on 14 february 2010 - 2:47pm from willie to richard: a family of tincanium stoves paul anderson,hugh mclaughlin a power point presentation presented at the 2010 ethos conference.
he brought a large collection of 20 different tluds.