learn more call 877-743-2269 | shopperschoice.com stores - customer service - contact us -
- we offer a 90 day no-hassle returns on all orders - feel safe & secure - please call us with questions: 1-877-743-2269 item reviewed: rasmussen 18 inch natural fireball set with vented natural gas custom embers pan burner - match light this item has not yet been reviewed.
no grate is needed or included with this burner.
it can  be used with legs for a clean look or without legs for a fire pit appearance.
this set has the most basic form of ignition methods.
to ensure the most suitable  product for their customers, rasmussen developed their own molding technique by  using real wood logs as patterns and have been capable of replicating even the  smallest of detail in the finest materials available.
all parts embers, lava rocks, sand & granules replacement logs fire backs, fenders & canopies contemporary decorative accessories log chunks, acorns, & pine cones
- bold, artistic and distinctly attractive - burns efficiently which helps preserve and protect natural resources full description: not everyone these days are as conventional and want something deviating from the typical gas log set.
all you have to do is place your match or lighter in the fireplace near the log burner and turn on the gas with your key valve already installed near your fireplace.
bag our price: $10.20 add to cart rasmussen ember magic embers and vermiculite - 6 oz.
now price match shipping returns request a return 100% customer satisfaction my account log-in sign up order status my cart about us
avoid measuring the space in front of your fireplace meant for cosmetic purposes, like a a brick ledge, glass door or mesh area, or any other decorative area.
this vented application burner is only for use in fully functioning wood-burning fireplaces.
you are able to install this burner on legs or flush to the floor, whichever application suits your needs best.
it can be used with legs for a clean look or without legs for a fire pit appearance.
help us build a better site for you.
the custom pan burners disperse the gas across the main burner tube creating a remarkable ribbon of flame.
be sure to  only measure theusable floor space of your fireplace.
shop by log styles shop by brand media kit keep me informed enter your email address below to receive our newsletters along with special offers via email.
simple shipping click on the links  below to see rasmussen product recommendations and accessories rasmussen accessories
if you need some extra assistance give us a call and one of our gas log specialists would be happy to assist you!
my account - create account - log-in - order status - my cart 877-743-2269 mon-fri 7-7 sat 9-3 cst gas log sets remotes & parts accessories contemporary alternatives information & inspiration all gas log sets shop all gas logs gas log categories vented gas logs vent-free gas logs see-thru gas logs outdoor log sets rumford sets logs only all gas log sets helpful articles how to measure your fireplace gas log faq vented vs vent-free how to buy gas logs advantages of gas logs how to videos troubleshooting videos featured brands peterson empire monessen rasmussen hargrove firegear view all brands remotes & parts shop all remotes & parts remotes variable flame control handheld wall mounted timer control thermostatic control view
rasmussen offersvented and ventless gas log sets along with a line of alterna® contemporary gas fireplace systems.
vented gas logs home / gas log sets home / shop by brand / rasmussen home / shop by brand / rasmussen / rasmussen alterna series rasmussen 18 inch natural fireball set with vented natural gas custom embers pan burner - match light item #: 523343 | view more fromrasmussen quantity: $278.80 reg: $328.00 | save: $49.20 (15%) free shipping ready to ship in 1-3 business days select options: log width: 18 inches 24 inches (+$93.50) 30 inches (+$164.90) ignition method: match light variable flame remote (+$426.70) customers also bought: extended warranty:
rasmussen consistently provides products with unparalleled craftsmanship, admirable value and supreme domination within this cultivating industry.
rasmussen offersvented and  ventless gas log sets along with a line of  alterna® contemporary gas fireplace systems.
all remotes pilot kits remote safety pilots remote ready view all pilot kits installation parts key valves & keys flex connectors view
type of suggestion confusing page information design or page layout suggestion misplaced or hard to find content other page suggestion e-mail address (optional): customer service contact us call me
light: the match light lighting method is the basic method  featuring no pilot valve assembly at all.
to ensure the most suitable product for their customers, rasmussen developed their own molding technique by using real wood logs as patterns and have been capable of replicating even the smallest of detail in the finest materials available.
this item you can buy this product for 27,880 points.
to cart rasmussen pine cone - 4 inches - medium our price: $10.63 add to cart platinum bright embers our price: $19.99 add to cart payment methods we proudly accept these payment methods for your convenience.
specifications: fuel type: natural gas burner type: vented fireplace type: standard log width: 18 inches certification: omni burner model:
rasmussen gas log accessories: controls & pilot kits log set enhancements flex connectors articles: about rasmussen gas logs rasmussen sizing info rasmussen vented vs. vent-free gas log sets rasmussen vented gas logs btu output shipping price: free shipping (read our simple shipping policy) $6.95 per order (read our simple shipping policy)
simple shipping click on the links below to see rasmussen product recommendations and accessories rasmussen accessories fire pit logs flex connectors log set enhancements valves and safety pilot kits universal accessories installation accessories why buy from us? customer reviews: - we have the best customer service (read our customer service testimonials)
prev next page 1 of 1 dimplex dmcs13r 13-inch mini electric stove our price: $99.00 peterson real fyre 18 inch split oak designer plus log set with vented natural gas g4 burner - match light our price:$377.40 peterson real fyre 18/20 inch rivers edge logs only no burner our price: $302.60 rasmussen 20 inch evening crossfire gas log set with vented natural gas flaming ember burner - match light our price: $433.50 classicflame 23ef025gra 23 inch electric fireplace insert with doors and remote - black our price: $529.99 dimplex cs1205 17-inch compact electric stove our price: $149.00 outdoor greatroom company 42 inch chat propane fire pit table with granite top and lazy susan our price: $1,439.10 bbq guys 42 inch stainless steel square fire pit - natural gas or propane our price: $1,216.14 landmann super sky stars and moons fire pit with georgia clay finish our price: $276.57 bbq guys 42 inch stainless steel octagon fire pit our price: $1,216.14 the blue rooster venetian style cast aluminum chiminea - charcoal our price: $429.95 12 inch stainless round double natural gas fire pit ring our price: $67.41 kay home products cast iron fire pit our price: $205.88 have a suggestion for this page?
instead, the logs sit directly  in the burner pan on top of the ember bed.
warranty: rasmussen accredits themselves for a well constructed product and they back it up with a warranty that says so.
control the flame height  by adjusting your key valve.
sleek, simple and stylish these fire balls will provide you and your family with an unforgettable arrangement.
all you need is the front width, back width, depth and height of your fireplace.
if you need some extra assistance give us a  call and one of our gas log specialists would be happy to assist you!
control the flame height by adjusting your key valve.
all you need is the front width, back width,  depth and height of your fireplace.
use our gas log calculator!
there is no valve included with this ignition method, therefore if you would like to regulate the gas at your log set instead of through the key valve installed in your wall, simply make your selection in the above option (on/off valve).
by phone (877-743-2269) | gas log guys.com is owned and operated by shopperschoice.com®
c burner: the rasmussen c burner is the original pan style burner.
instead, the logs sit directly in the burner pan on top of the ember bed.
ship time*:  usually leaves our warehouse in  1-3 business days *some orders received will go through our  fraud prevention department.
minimum middle width:    24 inches minimum depth required:    13 inches minimum height required:    16 inches btu:    75,000 overall dimensions:      weight:    64 pounds view spec sheet this item or brand was featured in the  following articles: best contemporary alternative  fireplace sets required fireplace dimensions check the minimum middle width, depth and height fireplace requirements for  your fireplace to see if this gas log set will fit your fireplace.
be sure to only measure theusable floor space of your fireplace.
no thanks 1 year warranty (+$19.99) 3 year warranty (+$209.97) 4 year warranty (+$319.96) 5 year warranty (+$599.95) convenience valve:
why buy from us - our history - testimonials - meet our team - policies - price match - rewards program -
no thanks yes, add valve (+$64.30) ember style: normal ember bed platinum bright ember bed (+$27.99) safe & secure shopping guaranteed $278.80 total price: click to enlarge move your mouse over the image below to zoom view larger image watch video
all rasmussen object castings and alterna burner assemblies are warranted for 2 years.
privacy policy | site map | feedback shop
c minimum middle width: 24 inches minimum depth required: 13 inches minimum height required: 16 inches btu: 75,000 log material: refractory ceramic overall dimensions: weight: 64 pounds view spec sheet this item or brand was featured in the following articles: best contemporary alternative fireplace sets required fireplace dimensions check the minimum middle width, depth and height fireplace requirements for your fireplace to see if this gas log set will fit your fireplace.
if your order is selected, you will be notified  and your order may be delayed up to three (3) additional business days.
found this item at a lower price?
about rasmussen gas logs rasmussen is a four-generation  family business that manufactures a superior selection of brilliant fireplace  attire.
winter isn't over yet!
if you have a suggestion about this page, see something confusing or in error, please tell us so we can improve your shopping experience.
all you have to do is place your  match or lighter in the fireplace near the log burner and turn on the gas with  your key valve already installed near your fireplace.
ship time*: usually leaves our warehouse in 1-3 business days *some orders received will go through our fraud prevention department.
customer service reviews safe purchase guarantee price match
light: the match light lighting method is the basic method featuring no pilot valve assembly at all.
free shipping on all orders over $249, includinggas log sets! call our experts for more information: 1-877-743-2269 home / shop by brand / rasmussen /
if you would like a response, please include your contact information along with your message.
rasmussen gas logs more categories [hide] you can find more products like this in these departments: home / contemporary gas alternatives home / contemporary gas alternatives / fireball sets home / gas log sets /
bag our price: $13.60 add
item #: 523343 model # : fb18-na + cs18 - description - shipping & returns - accessories - learn more - delivers a hefty 75,000 btus of radiant energy!
rasmussen gas log  accessories: controls & pilot kits log set enhancements articles: about rasmussen gas logs rasmussen sizing info rasmussen vented vs. vent-free gas log sets rasmussen vented gas logs btu output shipping price: free shipping (read our simple shipping policy) $6.95 per order  (read our  simple shipping policy)
write your own review recently viewed items:
avoid measuring the space  in front of your fireplace meant for cosmetic purposes, like a a brick ledge,  glass door or mesh area, or any other decorative area.
if that is what you are looking for, then fire balls are right up your alley.
fireplace accessories view more categories fire glass with burner without burner fire gems with burner without burner fire stones with burner without burner fireballs with burner without burner geo shapes with burner without burner outdoor outdoor contemporary alternatives view more categories helpful articles how to buy gas logs advantages of gas logs most popular vented gas logs most popular vent-free gas logs contemporary gas sets accessorize your gas logs videos how to videos troubleshooting videos ignition method videos
why shop with us our history meet our team corporate site testimonials in the news rewards program become a supplier careers helpful links gas log videos helpful guides deals & promotions learn about peterson learn about our brands
about rasmussen gas logs rasmussen is a four-generation family business that manufactures a superior selection of brilliant fireplace attire.
all seams are welded for maximum performance and durability.
simple shipping free shipping on orders over $249!
if your order is selected, you will be notified and your order may be delayed up to three (3) additional business days.
all of the safety controls, as well as other components, are warranted for 1 year from the date of purchase.
rasmussen consistently provides products with unparalleled  craftsmanship, admirable value and supreme domination within this cultivating  industry.
customer service center real people amazing service call us: 877-743-2269 why buy from us?
using the volcanic ash (propane) or sand (natural gas) included around the burner to create a pit look, makes this burner a front-runner in the vented category.
the match light method of lighting this set will consist of turning your key valve that has been or will be installed in your wall and holding a long match or long lighter close to a burner port.
related items read more about points rasmussen on/off valve with 6 inch removable handle our price: $49.30 add to cart rasmussen volcanic ash - 5 lb.