we had electric and were thinking of going to natural  gas because we like to cook on that better, but then i thought...hydrocarbon,  pipelines...etc.
however, if a new stove purchase is inevitable, then purchasing the most  energy efficient one you can afford would be optimal.
drop a line  and we'll do our best to find an answer!
i’m with  you; i prefer the cooking quality that gas stoves provide.
info from the mailbag: which stove is better for the environment, gas or  electric?
regarding electric vs. natural gas stoves, there appear to be at least two  main environmental issues associated with energy type that merit consideration:  air quality and habitat destruction.
we had electric and were thinking of going to natural gas because we like to cook on that better, but then i thought...hydrocarbon, pipelines...etc.
posted by jeremy graybill  at sep 28, 2009 01:00 pm | permalink   filed under: living green we received this inquiry a couple weeks back asking a common question  about the environmental comparison between electric and gas heat for cooking.
for natural gas stoves, the main environmental impact associated with the  extraction and transmission of natural gas.
regarding electric vs. natural gas stoves, there appear to be at least two main environmental issues associated with energy type that merit consideration: air quality and habitat destruction.
you can avoid those emissions by purchasingrenewable power from your utility, if available.
with an electric stove, the main environmental issue may be emissions of  greenhouse gases and other harmful air pollutants associated with coal-fired  electricity generation.
thanks, colin price, research director
that way you’re using the least amount of energy you can whether it’s electricity ornatural gas.
as with most choices, there are trade  offs involved.
when natural gas fields are  developed, they can destroy natural habitat and harm ecosystems.
pipelines can  have a similar effect.
instead if purchasing a new stove that has the embedded environmental impacts associated with its production (energy, virgin material extraction, manufacturing, etc.), would it be possible to repair the existing stove?
most residential customers in oregon receive approximately 40% of their electricity from coal sources.
judie  (neilson) hansen was efficiently managing in a small area full of mis-matched  furniture.
should  we stay electric or go gas?
drop a line and we'll do our best to find an answer!
| skip to navigation
there are numerous other environmental impacts associated with coal.
cinda, corvallis hello cinda, well, it’s a great question.
you can avoid those  emissions by purchasingrenewable power from your utility, if available.
if either of these options is a possibility, then perhaps the issue  is moot because the stove will remain electric.
colin price, our research director, did the math.
burning natural gas also produces air pollution, but in  smaller quantities than coal.
there are some interesting induction and solar-hybrid options that available if you are feeling adventuresome.
some tips for energy efficient cooking are included in this site.
the fact that you’re considering the environmental impact of your choices is a great step in the right direction.
instead if purchasing a new stove that has the embedded  environmental impacts associated with its production (energy, virgin material  extraction, manufacturing, etc.), would it be possible to repair the existing  stove?
colin  price, our research director, did the math.
as with most choices, there are trade offs involved.
with an electric stove, the main environmental issue may be emissions of greenhouse gases and other harmful air pollutants associated with coal-fired electricity generation.
there was recently an article in the daily green that may be of interest related to natural gas and energy policy.
i’m with you; i prefer the cooking quality that gas stoves provide.
if it were me, i  would try and fix the existing stove and purchase renewable energy.
pipelines can have a similar effect.
if you continue to apply that  same scrutiny to all your consumer choices, i believe in the long run  you’ll make the best decisions for the environment.
more… you are here: home  → community   → blog  → 2009  → september  → from the mailbag: which  stove is better for the environment, gas or electric?
there was recently an article in the daily green  that may be of interest related to natural gas and energy policy.
if repair is not possible, then perhaps purchasing a quality used one is  an option?
however, if a new stove purchase is inevitable, then purchasing the most energy efficient one you can afford would be optimal.
for natural gas stoves, the main environmental impact associated with the extraction and transmission of natural gas.
we need a new stove.
if repair is not possible, then perhaps purchasing a quality used one is an option?
there are some  interesting induction and solar-hybrid options that available if you are  feeling adventuresome.
i  went away from that first encounter with a copy of senate bill 100, which i  read that night in a toy-cluttered ne portland living room after my  preschoolers were tucked in.
when natural gas fields are developed, they can destroy natural habitat and harm ecosystems.
we received this inquiry a couple weeks back asking a common question about  the environmental comparison between electric and gas heat for cooking.
there are numerous other environmental impacts  associated with coal.
if either of these options is a possibility, then perhaps the issue is moot because the stove will remain electric.
if you continue to apply that same scrutiny to all your consumer choices, i believe in the long run you’ll make the best decisions for the environment.
so bottom line, it’s a tough call on which is better.
so which is best for the environment in the long run?
the fact that you’re considering the environmental impact of your  choices is a great step in the right direction.
we received this inquiry a couple weeks back asking a common question about the environmental comparison between electric and gas heat for cooking.
however, i also believe that supporting renewable energy sources is important for our long term security, public health, and overall environmental well-being.
taste your oregon oec community it's your oregon: maggie collins  little did i know what was in store in  january, 1973, when i walked into oec’s sw water street office.
i explained that oregon environmental council sounded like a good  place to volunteer because “environmental” was part of its name.
some tips for energy efficient cooking are included in  this site.
that way you’re using the least amount of energy you can  whether it’s electricity ornatural gas.
got a question for oec?
however, i also  believe that supporting renewable energy sources is important for our long term  security, public health, and overall environmental well-being.
if it were me, i would try and fix the existing stove and purchase renewable energy.
most residential customers in oregon receive  approximately 40% of their electricity from coal sources.
should we stay electric or go gas?
burning natural gas also produces air pollution, but in smaller quantities than coal.