please therefore look closely at that document before making any decisions about how your stove is installed hetas approved heating engineers harridge stoves is hetas approved.
where do i find a hetas engineer; can you recommend one?
but, secondly, and still more importantly, you need to install the stove well so that any creosote you do create is safely contained.
(if the existing liner you refer to was purchased from us then that is another matter entirely and we will do our best to help you.)
it is  important to buy the right sized stove (a large stove in a small room always  ends up being turned down low and creates much more creosote) and burning the  right kind of fuel at the right temperature (smokeless fuel or dry hard wood
we are able to recommend installers in our locality who are qualified to  complete twin-wall installations.
over time this can cause smells,  fires and other serious problems.
i am interested in a gas stove – can you help with the installation?
the  placement of a chimney is more science than art (whatever the architect  envisions!)
and it  can melt to liquid and drip down into fireplaces and on top of stoves.
how do i stop creosote from causing a problem?
gas stoves must be fitted in accordance with document j of the building  regulations and the work should be signed off by a gas-safe engineer.
but, secondly, and still more importantly, you need  to install the stove well so that any creosote you do create is safely  contained.
we are so experienced with the organisation of this kind of  work that these instances are rare.
how to guides: fitting your multi-fuel stove fitting a stove – background and frequently asked why is it any different for a stove than an open fire?
as most stoves have  5” or 6” size outlets, what this means for most of us is that the  liner must be either 6”, 7” or 8” diameter.
it is  clearly unsatisfactory to simply slot a smaller stove pipe inside a larger clay  or concrete liner (even with a register plate below) as the tar will not run  down the inside of the pipe into the stove to re-burn but down the outside of  the pipe onto the plate or appliance.
please therefore look closely at that  document before making any decisions about how your stove is installed hetas approved heating engineers harridge stoves is hetas approved.
the price of a visit depends on the distance for an engineer (please telephone us for more information) but in most cases it will not prove necessary.
the reasons for this are simple, and for your safety and the safety of others (as fireman sam would tell you!).
the price of a visit depends on the distance  for an engineer (please telephone us for more information) but in most cases it  will not prove necessary.
if a fitting component has been sourced and provided by  us
so they are  less likely to condense into creosote in the first place.
all of the electric stoves on our website have ordinary british plugs and plug straight in to the wall.
registered office: 124 the high street, midsomer norton contact via harridge stoves 01749 347272 or direct on 07967 125161 k&e fitting company
as most stoves have 5” or 6” size outlets, what this means for most of us is that the liner must be either 6”, 7” or 8” diameter.
this should ensure our customers are treated fairly.
this is true (it’s one of the many reasons we love  stoves) but it has consequences.
i am interested in a gas stove – can you help with the  installation?
the flame effects use ordinary coloured  light-bulbs.
sign up to receive information about our latest products and offers.
we recommend using  thegas-safe website to locate a suitable person for the work.
at the end of  the day, the person who signs off the installation is the one who takes  responsibility for it so the work must be completed to their standards and in  accordance with their opinions; anddocument j of the building regulations  stands as the guide for us all.
nowadays this is all covered by document j of the building regulations and most people need a chimney liner.
instead, an adaptor must be installed  around the outside of the clay flue which feeds into the inside of the stove  pipe.
and work like this is very costly if you get it wrong.
fitting a stove – background and frequently asked background
registered office: 124 the high street,  midsomer norton contact via harridge stoves 01749 347272 or direct on  07967 125161 k&e fitting company
we recommend using the  oftec website to locate a suitable person for the work.
11kw  upwards (large)
the information offered above is intended simply as a guide and represents  our experience and opinions only.
we are therefore unable to organise installations using others’ components.
will you organise the installation of my existing stove or of a stove i  have bought elsewhere?
will you site-visit my property before organising an installation?
we can’t cover all the details here but please  don’t simply assume one kind is right for you based on price or a sales  description (or the fact your fitter happens to have some in their garage);  give us a call so we can talk you through the strengths and limitations of the  liner choice you are making.
i am interested in an electric stove – do i need to be concerned about installation?
this certificate should  be kept with the deeds of the property and included in the ‘sellers  pack’.
most of the installation work we organise  proceeds without a site-visit; costs are estimated to within £50 through  a conversation with our sales team either in one of our showrooms or by  telephone.
you need to speak to the inspector in advance to ensure that the installation you have planned will comply with their wishes.
all of the electric stoves on our website have ordinary british plugs and  plug straight in to the wall.
burned hot is best).
and it can melt to liquid and drip down into fireplaces and on top of stoves.
once the stove is installed british building regulations require that a hetas certificate is issued to show that the appliance was installed safely and legally.
as long as we are confident that the stove complies with british  regulations and is compatible with our flue components we are normally happy to  organise its installation within our local area.
i am interested in an electric stove – do i need to be concerned  about installation?
customers purchasing  both the stove and the fitting components from us will of course be given  priority especially during the busy season.
this is either done through a twin-wall system (when there is no existing chimney at all) or through the use of a metal liner dropped down an existing masonry chimney.
harridge stoves is hetas registered but not oftec.
telephone: 01749 347272
the more you control and turn down the  burn of your fuel the more creosote you start to create.
i am interested in an oil appliance – can you help with the  installation?
email: info@harridgestoves.co.uk
if you do not have prior experience with these kinds of installations then please speak to us before making any decisions or purchases.
such a connection may prove simple, complex or even impossible; it will need to be considered carefully by an experienced person before you commit to doing it.
the placement of a chimney is more science than art (whatever the architect envisions!)
any surprises on the day (should the chimney turn out to be much taller than was indicated for example) are always dealt with fairly and should an installation prove to be impossible within the allotted budget then the work and stove purchase (if applicable) would be cancelled at no cost to the customer.
twin-wall is insulated flue which can  be used instead of a masonry chimney.
the days when you could simply stick a pipe horizontally through a wall and leave it at that never existed (much to some people’s surprise) and gone are the days when you could put a pipe straight into an existing chimney and call it job done (sadly).
so they are less likely to condense into creosote in the first place.
you need to speak  to the inspector in advance to ensure that the installation you have planned  will comply with their wishes.
there are many who have reached different conclusions and choose to install differently.
a beautiful stove with an attractively placed chimney is no good whatsoever if it fills the room with smoke!
unless you are choosing an electric or flue-less stove then the installation of your stove is extremely important and you need to be thinking about it in advance...
these components are more expensive than  ordinary chimney lining work and the location of the stove needs to be thought  about carefully in order to ensure the chimney is able to function well.
there are countless different types of flue liner and each has their own  pros and cons.
most people choose to buy a stove  because they know they will get much more heat from much less fuel than with  their open fire.
and, finally, it can be removed  should you ever wish to return to an open fire or should it need replacement.
we recommend using thegas-safe website to locate a suitable person for the work.
some people use clay or concrete linings (modern houses will  usually already have a lining of this kind inside the chimney).
since the ends of clay and concrete liners are not standardised,  neither are adaptors.
the difficulty with this kind of an installation is the connection at the  bottom of the liner into the metal stove pipe and the stove.
this should ensure our  customers are treated fairly.
then we are confident of its quality and have direct channels of  communication with the manufacturer.
the benefits of a metal liner are that it keeps  the flue gases warm and moving quickly at a fixed (small) diameter
if you don’t live in any of the above areas then please refer to the  hetas website where a list of qualified installers can be found, or contact  your local chimney sweep who will usually know a good person!
which kind of metal liner should i use?
this certificate should be kept with the deeds of the property and included in the ‘sellers pack’.
if you live locally to any of our showrooms then we will be glad to  recommend a hetas registered installer and even to liaise with them and  organise your installation for you.
the more you control and turn down the burn of your fuel the more creosote you start to create.
at the end of the day, the person who signs off the installation is the one who takes responsibility for it so the work must be completed to their standards and in accordance with their opinions; anddocument j of the building regulations stands as the guide for us all.
frequently asked questions
should this be the case with an existing clay or concrete lining it should be properly smoke-spillage and core-ball tested and, provided it passes, it can normally be legally connected to, whether it can be done practically however is another question... the difficulty with this kind of an installation is the connection at the bottom of the liner into the metal stove pipe and the stove.
customers purchasing both the stove and the fitting components from us will of course be given priority especially during the busy season.
as a discount supplier we are unfortunately unable to offer general site-visits free of charge.
should this  be the case with an existing clay or concrete lining it should be properly  smoke-spillage and core-ball tested and, provided it passes, it can normally be legally connected to, whether it can be done practically however  is another question...
and, finally, it can be removed should you ever wish to return to an open fire or should it need replacement.
we are therefore unable to organise  installations using others’ components.
you can get this certificate in one of two ways – if a  hetas registered engineer installs the stove they will issue one themselves; if  a non-registered person installs it (for example you or your builder) then it  must be done through your local council and a building inspector will need to  inspect the installation and issue the certification.
liners can be swept successfully and  closely by a small brush head which can normally be pushed up through the  appliance or through a flue access door.
the  building regulations require that (in most circumstances) a chimney lining is  no smaller than 6” diameter and no larger than 2” greater than the  outlet size of the appliance that is installed.
if you do not have prior experience with these kinds of installations
creosote is the  black tar-like substance you sometimes find in chimneys – open fires can  cause it, fire-boxes often do, but stoves are the real culprit!
if you wish to discuss this further then please contact us.
it will provide information of the installer, the materials used and the date of the installation so that a person working on the stove or chimney later has access to all the details they need.
oil stoves must be fitted in accordance with document j of the building  regulations and the work should be signed off by an oftec engineer.
our fitters are hetas approved therefore should you chose to have your stove fitted by us there will be no need to get a further visit from a building regs inspector.
the building regulations require that (in most circumstances) a chimney lining is no smaller than 6” diameter and no larger than 2” greater than the outlet size of the appliance that is installed.
if a fitting component has been sourced and provided by us then we are confident of its quality and have direct channels of communication with the manufacturer.
why is it any different for a stove than for an open fire?
the flame effects use ordinary coloured light-bulbs.
twin-wall is insulated flue which can be used instead of a masonry chimney.
liners can be swept successfully and closely by a small brush head which can normally be pushed up through the appliance or through a flue access door.
the main reason is efficiency.
gas stoves must be fitted in accordance with document j of the building regulations and the work should be signed off by a gas-safe engineer.
hetas approved heating engineers background
sign up to our newsletter sign up to receive information about our latest products and offers.
broadly speaking we work closely with  installers who operate across dorset, hampshire, somerset and sussex and in  some areas of berkshire, devon, gloucestershire, surrey and wiltshire.
registered office: 124 the high street, midsomer norton contact via harridge stoves 01749 347272 or direct on 07791 884241 back to top of page © harridge stoves direct ltd 2012 unit ab8a, bottom yard, anglo trading estate, commercial road, shepton mallet, somerset, ba4 5by
will the installers you recommend install to my existing liner?
since the ends of clay and concrete liners are not standardised, neither are adaptors.
oil stoves must be fitted in accordance with document j of the building regulations and the work should be signed off by an oftec engineer.
well, first of all, by trying not to create too much of it!
instead, an adaptor must be installed around the outside of the clay flue which feeds into the inside of the stove pipe.
the  reasons for this are simple, and for your safety and the safety of others (as  fireman sam would tell you!).
we can’t cover all the details here but please don’t simply assume one kind is right for you based on price or a sales description (or the fact your fitter happens to have some in their garage); give us a call so we can talk you through the strengths and limitations of the liner choice you are making.
landmann mendip morso stoves outback bbqs rayburn cookers romotop stoves signature tortoise firebox villager  stoves westfire stoves heat output (kw) please select1kw to 6kw (small) 7kw to 10kw (medium)
broadly speaking we work closely with installers who operate across dorset, hampshire, somerset and sussex and in some areas of berkshire, devon, gloucestershire, surrey and wiltshire.
we think the best way to do this is by discharging the gases into a metal  flue.
nowadays this is all covered by document j of  the building regulations and most people need a chimney liner.
in the unlikely event of any problems arising with it we are able to examine similar items and installations and pursue claims through the correct channels.
price please selectup to £250 £250 to £500 £500 to  £750 £750 to £1,000 £1,000 to £2,000 £2,000  to £3,000 £3,000 upwards best sellers aarrow ecoburn 5 multi-fuel stove aarrow ecoburn 5 multi-fuel stove £713.00 aga little wenlock classic multi-fuel stoves aga little wenlock  classic multi-fuel stoves £630.00 £599.00
we are able to recommend installers in our locality who are qualified to complete twin-wall installations.
registered  office: 124 the high street, midsomer norton contact via harridge stoves  01749 347272 or direct on 07791 884241 back to top of page product search keyword manufacturer please selectaarrow stoves aga stoves broseley stoves  charnwood stoves cleanburn stoves di lusso droof stoves eco-ideal enders  firebelly stoves harridge heaven chef hunter stoves
once the stove is installed british building regulations require that a  hetas certificate is issued to show that the appliance was installed safely and  legally.
there are countless different types of flue liner and each has their own pros and cons.
we are so experienced with the organisation of this kind of work that these instances are rare.
harridge stoves is hetas registered but not gas safe.
the information offered above is intended simply as a guide and represents our experience and opinions only.
such a connection may prove simple, complex or even  impossible; it will need to be considered carefully by an experienced person  before you commit to doing it.
if  you wish to discuss this further then please contact us.
some people use clay or concrete linings (modern houses will usually already have a lining of this kind inside the chimney).
will you organise the installation of a stove where there is no existing  chimney?
this is true (it’s one of the many reasons we love stoves) but it has consequences.
creosote is the black tar-like substance you sometimes find in chimneys – open fires can cause it, fire-boxes often do, but stoves are the real culprit!
it is important to buy the right sized stove (a large stove in a small room always ends up being turned down low and creates much more creosote) and burning the right kind of fuel at the right temperature (smokeless fuel or dry hard wood burned hot is best).
are there other alternatives to a metal liner?
as long as we are confident that the stove complies with british regulations and is compatible with our flue components we are normally happy to organise its installation within our local area.
if you don’t live in any of the above areas then please refer to the hetas website where a list of qualified installers can be found, or contact your local chimney sweep who will usually know a good person!
the benefits of a metal liner are that it keeps the flue gases warm and moving quickly at a fixed (small) diameter
if you live locally to any of our showrooms then we will be glad to recommend a hetas registered installer and even to liaise with them and organise your installation for you.
these components are more expensive than ordinary chimney lining work and the location of the stove needs to be thought about carefully in order to ensure the chimney is able to function well.
we recommend using the oftec website to locate a suitable person for the work.
the days when you could simply stick a pipe horizontally through a wall and  leave it at that never existed (much to some people’s surprise) and gone  are the days when you could put a pipe straight into an existing chimney and  call it job done (sadly).
there are many who have reached  different conclusions and choose to install differently.
it will provide information of the installer, the materials used  and the date of the installation so that a person working on the stove or  chimney later has access to all the details they need.
the liner also  creates a smooth run for creosote so that it can drip back down into the inside  of a stove rather than on top of it.
(if the existing liner you  refer to was purchased from us then that is another matter entirely and we will  do our best to help you.)
it’s nice and easy!
who should be installing my stove?
this is either done through a twin-wall system (when there is no  existing chimney at all) or through the use of a metal liner dropped down an  existing masonry chimney.
most of the installation work we organise proceeds without a site-visit; costs are estimated to within £50 through a conversation with our sales team either in one of our showrooms or by telephone.
it’s flammable and it causes chimney fires.
will you organise the installation of a stove where there is no  existing chimney?
then  please speak to us before making any decisions or purchases.
the liner also creates a smooth run for creosote so that it can drip back down into the inside of a stove rather than on top of it.
as a discount supplier we are unfortunately unable to offer general  site-visits free of charge.
unless you are choosing an electric or flue-less stove then the  installation of your stove is extremely important and you need to be thinking  about it in advance...
any surprises on the day (should the chimney turn out to be much  taller than was indicated for example) are always dealt with fairly and should  an installation prove to be impossible within the allotted budget then the work  and stove purchase (if applicable) would be cancelled at no cost to the  customer.
most people choose to buy a stove because they know they will get much more heat from much less fuel than with their open fire.
creosote is acidic and over time it eats through brick and stone work causing leaky chimneys.
creosote  is acidic and over time it eats through brick and stone work causing leaky  chimneys.
it is clearly unsatisfactory to simply slot a smaller stove pipe inside a larger clay or concrete liner (even with a register plate below) as the tar will not run down the inside of the pipe into the stove to re-burn but down the outside of the pipe onto the plate or appliance.
in the unlikely event of any  problems arising with it we are able to examine similar items and installations  and pursue claims through the correct channels.
a  beautiful stove with an attractively placed chimney is no good whatsoever if it  fills the room with smoke!
manor fitting company
our fitters are hetas approved therefore  should you chose to have your stove fitted by us there will be no need to get a  further visit from a building regs inspector.
over time this can cause smells, fires and other serious problems.
we think the best way to do this is by discharging the gases into a metal flue.
you can get this certificate in one of two ways – if a hetas registered engineer installs the stove they will issue one themselves; if a non-registered person installs it (for example you or your builder) then it must be done through your local council and a building inspector will need to inspect the installation and issue the certification.