and i haven't heard the greatest things about magic chef.
it was pretty expensive to run the line, of course you will need a new stove.
but that is how i used to feel about aqua, turquoise, and the like because they reminded me of the ‘80’s, but you do aqua right and jennifer: http://jennifersjunkylife.typepad.com/whimsical_junk/ has helped too.
but, oh happy day to that new pot.
it goes a million times faster!replydelete that recipe just found itself on a card in my recipe box!
but i agree, both with the bad stuff from the 80's and how much i don't prefer my electric cooktop.
wow that is one cool pot!
meaning you either scorch your food or have to slow cook it to prevent burning.
it  randomly will be a billion degrees and then ice cold for no reason.
not  good for toffee crack making.
even if it  doesn't solve mycooktop issues, i now like it 2575 besides, one of the burners is broken and now has an actual  purpose in life.
now i love the color, especially along side red!
but i've grown used to cooking with electric again since buying our house.
i'm sure i know the person behind that gift...
oh yeah...happy birthday last week!
start on one that is high and then have another that is on a low setting and move the pot midway through.
;) i have a 3 year old electric stove
and i hope you get a new one soon...
i don’t know if it is for sure true for everyone but it is for us because our stove is soooo ancient.
even though purple is my favorite color, i know your nemesis!!
and she probably wanted to keep it herself!
those kinds of things make me so crazy it is worth the expenditure even if you feel that if "it aint broke, dont fix it" it's not exactly working for you either though?
but if one burner is dead, maybe one day you'll find yourself with an actual need for a new stove.
you can also put warm water from the tap into the pot to make it faster, and of course, turn the heat as high as it will go.
posted by julie @ joy's hope  at 8:26 am labels:random
what kind is it?replydelete only cool kids have aqua pots.
but i must point out that i see your cooktop is a magicchef and my mil currently has a new mc microwave which comes on and runs all by itself even when the door is open...and no one will own up to taking it back or replacing...so she's stuck with unplugging it after every use!!
and i am so glad you like your pot.
want to be her.... still.
i always boil my water in an electric kettle and then pour it into a pot on the stove top.
we have a pretty large microwave and now i boil so many things in the microwave because i read an article that said microwaves are more energy efficient.
replydelete um, i came from the 80's!
she's from the 80's too!replydelete i've had to adjust to cooking on electric as well.
good luck!replydelete happy be-lated birthday julie!
~keri i have an electric cook top.
so, if you are stuck with electric forever, perhaps a nice electric range would do the trick.
pretty much only the  smiths.
can i say loathe instead of hate, because that is how strongly i feel.
super cute n fun!replydelete this aqua lovely is made by le creuset and it is le fabulous!reply
is there any way you could repost your toffee crack recipe or let me know which post it is on.
to be the resting place of my new aqua gorgeousness.
that you simply must make.
if only i had 2575 nickels for everytime that has happened....
it takes 30 minutes to boil a pot of water.
pancakes, which we make every week, are a major point of contention between me and my electric.
sorry about the electric range, i am also a gas girl.
i'm a good thing that came from the 80's!
i instead will try to find another good cause for my handmade items to go to.)
it may be possible to have gas back eventually.
i know there are those out there that heart themselves some  electric.
and mine's from like 1970 and the oven overcooks everything, too.
i know that i will especially love it when those ice storms come through and kill our electricity.
those 320 girls are fabulous :)
and i had my cry over it, told my husband how upset i was, and now am making peace.
and i have kind of started to love ‘80’s stuff more lately, does that make me old!?
it would sit out all the time here in my kitchen too.
;) thanks and have a great weekend!
i'll bet that pot makes a fabulous pot of chili.
for someone who is a major fail at time management and  planning, this is oftendisastrous to normal meal times.
argh!replydelete i totally missed telling you happy birthday.
ugh! btw...i make megan's stuffed shells all the time.
and speaking of…about how much cocoa or coffee do you put in the frosting for the mason jar cupcakes?
making peace with an enemy.
we currently have an electric from the mid 90s and we are getting ready to move to a house with a gas stove.
i hate, i mean, don't prefer, electric either.
i simply cannot cook on electric.
i can do a large amount of noodles in the microwave and have it done in 12-15 minutes!
i can’t wait to try them all!
i would be one rich momma!
maybe even scratch and dent?
;) look on craigslist for a new/used stove.
we've been in our house six months and i still have not gotten used to it and mess things up all the time on it.
the only good part of that cooktop is the gorgeous pot.
good luck!!replydelete
(and just so you know i never sent the package.
ugh!replydelete oooh my mom has one and i can't stand trying to boil water at her house when i have super gas burners on my stove top.
all i have to say is jem.
the smurfs were pretty good.
put a little salt in your water, it will help it boil more quickly.
should you also maybe dislike how awful the stove tops are to clean when your meal boils over?
unless my goal is to ruin every single batch of  toffee crack and break my addiction to it.
i’ve been writing down all the recipes from yours and meg’s blog!
we are moving to ohio now and gas stove was on my must list for buying a new house.
maybe you don't ever do that....
i do not prefer my electric cooktop for many reasons.
and i will be trying some of these recipes next week.
i am actually looking forward to it.
enter your email address: delivered by feedburner
it annoys me that if you have the heat up a little to high you have to wait 10 minutes for the burner to cool down to where you want it.
and i hear ya on electic.
what kinda of pot is it?
thirty stinking minutes.
i hope you will still be my friend.
we had one growing up.
i most definitely do not prefer it!
i’d like to go back to electric for safety reasons, but i know it will be hard to do, for the reasons you mentioned.
i think it costs about $2575 to put a gas line in.... um, hello - rainbow brite, the care bears, jem and myself are all rad things from the 80's!
yes, i know lots of people with gas that prefer gas, but if you found something newer, you'd be much happier.
i really really really do not prefer electric either.
not much good came  from the 80's, besidesthe smiths and...
but i just tear up everytime i see all the good things other people seemed to be able to send and do for project 320.
delete we have had an electric burner situation as well.
did you get such a fabulous pot??!!
but until then the aqua pot will still look great sitting there!!!
this momma loves 'the smiths', loves the aqua pot, loves you, but hates electric for cooking!
and once again, you make me laugh so much my face hurts.
replydelete i am so with you on the electric cook top.
they usually put that brand in apartments.
baking more gifts this year!!
it could just be the stove.
and mel and the heathers....
i am not having any luck finding it and it sounds so good this time of year.
and i do not like electric either.
you are making me love aqua all the more!
i wanted a gas line and a new stove but that line would have cost $1000 and natural gas out here is like, $100 a month.
holla for your awesome pot - so glad you love it, and i'm so glad you got a good photogaph of it!!replydelete
if not, you will lose 75% of the energy out of the top of the pot.
replydelete diggin' your pot!replydelete wow, that is beautiful!!!
that pot is so pretty.
i miss cooking with gas
and you're forgetting about rainbow brite.
my mom used to use different burners for just one pot of carmels.
which makes watching water boil so much more fun.
i am trying  to adjust to electric, but two months in i still dread cooking on it.
glad you like it, you deserve it!!!!
i have just had some issues over at my house.
we are moving again (long sad story) and the thing i keep saying to myself to make things seem a little better is, at least i'll have a gas cook top back!
i love bright fun colors like aqua n such!
i have had to deal with electric for the past 3 years because having gas appliances is a rarity in fl.
this is going to sound like a dumb question, but do you put a lid on the pot when you boil water?
| custom blog design by penny lane designs
(love how lindsey teaches her kids to say that!)
well i would say that aqua pot would make the electric burner "situation" better too...
i was raised around an electric stove, but we have had gas for awhile now.
anyhow, our last house in ohio was originally electric stove and my husband (who i should note is not at all mechanically inclined or handy) ran a gas line to it.
but at the end of every "i don't prefer my  80'scooktop" rainbow there is a pot of... aqua!!!
replydelete holla for the awesome pot!
it's known for being a crappy brand.
we rent right now so the stove isn't exactly the best quality because why would the owners invest in a fancy stove for renters.
would love to have a gas one instead.
i had mine ripped out and ran a gas line to my island
you made my birthday the.
i think your pot is pretty.
that is a great big pot of fabulousness--right there!
anyway, if you can, get rid of that magic chef asap.
glad you had a nice little birthday party :)
until then, that pot is a beauty!replydelete happy late birthday!!
looks like the perfect pot for making the pioneer woman's cinnamon rolls...
but at least we have one.
thanks and by the way, the blue pot is awesome!!!!replydelete i love sunshine, happy people, and the power to delete.
reply delete that awesomely colored pot would make having to live with that cooktop worth it...
love your aqua pot though.