here at c&h headquarters, we'd like to consider ourselves impartial judges, and have compiled a pros and cons list for each to help you decide.
the best part about these projects?
read more kitchens katy ryan | comments (  view ) | previous page read all entries in the archive categories
if not,  you can install a propane tank and the appropriate piping, but be prepared to  spend at least $1,000 for the process.
if you want a gas stove, for instance, you'll need to make sure your home has access to natural gas.
they heat rapidly, turn off instantly and you  can use the flame for tasks like charring peppers and roasting marshmallows.
there are, of course, some considerations you'll have to take into account if  you want to switch the type of stove you use.
write on the refrigerator.
and in response to increased consumer demand for quartz surfaces, three of the collection's most popular colors--antique pearl, vela brown and abyss black--are now available in the lowest zodiaq price point, making the material an affordable yet stylish option for all.
the natural slate and quartzite material ranges in thickness from  .04" to .12", and "brings the beauty of stone applications in a  thin, lightweight stone facade surface," according to daltile.
read more when you're creating colors for kitchen surfaces, what better inspiration is there than food?
quick kitchen projects: 1.
read more if you can't afford a kitchen remodel but want to change the look of it, you have a few options in updating your space.
zodiaq quartz surfaces five new colors are available in the quartz surface, a versatile material that dupont says "can be used in a variety of residential applications, including kitchen and bathroom countertops, backsplashes, wet bars, fireplace surrounds, tub decks and tub and shower surrounds.
think of a kitchen infused with the warmth of chicory, or a fresh burst of  cilantro.
the natural slate and quartzite material ranges in thickness from .04" to .12", and "brings the beauty of stone applications in a thin, lightweight stone facade surface," according to daltile.
the best part about these  projects?
available later this spring, slimlite is designed to be installed on  various surfaces, including in the kitchen and bathroom, to provide a fresh,  new look without the burden of heavy resurfacing materials and expensive  alternatives.
two to three coats create the best chalk writing surface.
if you have a dated  refrigerator and can't afford to replace it yet, jump on the trend to paint  your appliance with chalkboard paint.
zodiaq quartz surfaces five new colors are available  in the quartz surface, a versatile material that dupont says "can be used  in a variety of residential applications, including kitchen and bathroom  countertops, backsplashes, wet bars, fireplace surrounds, tub decks and tub and  shower surrounds.
two to three coats create the best chalk  writing surface.
read more read all entries in the archive copyright © 2012 charles & hudson llc all rights reserved | contact |privacy policy
available later this spring, slimlite is designed to be installed on various surfaces, including in the kitchen and bathroom, to provide a fresh, new look without the burden of heavy resurfacing materials and expensive alternatives.
"we wanted to capture the spirit of crafting a well-seasoned meal in a finely appointed kitchen, including the anticipation, creativity and satisfaction that naturally emerge," says lori alzamora, north american marketing manager for dupont building innovations.
read more kitchens lauren chorpening | comments (  view ) | daltile introduces slimlite surfacing products at this year's kitchen and bath industry show, daltile unveiled several new  products, including slimlite slate and quartzite, "a line of innovative,  thin and lightweight surfacing products," according to the company.
not only are they affordable, but they're quick, so you can implement  a budget-friendly makeover in a few hours or a weekend.
here at c&h headquarters, we'd like to consider ourselves impartial  judges, and have compiled a pros and cons list for each to help you decide.
read more kitchens katy ryan | comments (  view ) | quick and affordable kitchen fixes if you can't afford a kitchen remodel but want to change the look of it,  you have a few options in updating your space.
not only are they affordable, but they're quick, so you can implement a budget-friendly makeover in a few hours or a weekend.
this hides how old the refrigerator is  while giving it a practical, fresh look.
"we wanted to capture the spirit of crafting a well-seasoned meal in a  finely appointed kitchen, including the anticipation, creativity and  satisfaction that naturally emerge," says lori alzamora, north american  marketing manager for dupont building innovations.
and in the ultimate test of the material's diy-friendly application, slimlite can be cut with scissors, paper cutters or tin snips, the company said.
new hardware can get pricey if you are looking for extra  details so if you're on a budget, look for something shiny and sleek.
those who have used gas and electric stoves overwhelmingly agree that gas stoves are much better when it comes to cooking.
if you want a gas stove, for  instance, you'll need to make sure your home has access to natural gas.
you can pick up a quart of chalkboard  paint at your local hardware store.
read more kitchens katy ryan | comments (  view ) | dupont unveils new zodiaq, corian countertop colors when you're creating colors for kitchen surfaces, what better inspiration  is there than food?
" this year's collection, inspired by spices, includes coarse pepper,  caraway, poppy seed, chicory and sage.
by  changing old knobs and pulls with new, stylish ones, you can really impact the  look of your space.
dupont's new color collections in zodiaq quartz surfaces  and corian solid surfaces are inspired by spices and ingredients, respectively.
those who  have used gas and electric stoves overwhelmingly agree that gas stoves are much  better when it comes to cooking.
it seems people  have some pretty adamant opinions as to which is best when it comes to  performance and cost.
it seems people have some pretty adamant opinions as to which is best when it comes to performance and cost.
keurig platinum single serve coffee system review create invisible kitchen storage how to move and replace your dishwasher kitchen showdown: gas ranges vs. electric stoves have you ever noticed that talking about gas stoves vs. their electric  counterparts can get a little, er, heated?
read more at this year's kitchen and bath industry show, daltile unveiled several new products, including slimlite slate and quartzite, "a line of innovative, thin and lightweight surfacing products," according to the company.
if you have a dated refrigerator and can't afford to replace it yet, jump on the trend to paint your appliance with chalkboard paint.
and in the ultimate test of the material's diy-friendly application,  slimlite can be cut with scissors, paper cutters or tin snips, the company said.
" this year's collection, inspired by spices, includes coarse pepper, caraway, poppy seed, chicory and sage.
gas stoves: the good *superior performance.
this hides how old the refrigerator is while giving it a practical, fresh look.
in the event of an electrical outage, your gas stove will  still work, which can be a huge benefit if you experience an extended outage  during a natural disaster like a hurricane or ice storm.
keurig platinum single serve coffee system review create invisible kitchen storage how to move and replace your dishwasher have you ever noticed that talking about gas stoves vs. their electric counterparts can get a little, er, heated?
and in response to increased consumer demand for quartz surfaces, three of  the collection's most popular colors--antique pearl, vela brown and abyss  black--are now available in the lowest zodiaq price point, making the material  an affordable yet stylish option for all.
in the event of an electrical outage, your gas stove will still work, which can be a huge benefit if you experience an extended outage during a natural disaster like a hurricane or ice storm.
by changing old knobs and pulls with new, stylish ones, you can really impact the look of your space.
think of a kitchen infused with the warmth of chicory, or a fresh burst of cilantro.
there are, of course, some considerations you'll have to take into account if you want to switch the type of stove you use.
they heat rapidly, turn off instantly and you can use the flame for tasks like charring peppers and roasting marshmallows.
hardware is like the jewelry of cabinets.
dupont's new color collections in zodiaq quartz surfaces and corian solid surfaces are inspired by spices and ingredients, respectively.
you can pick up a quart of chalkboard paint at your local hardware store.
new hardware can get pricey if you are looking for extra details so if you're on a budget, look for something shiny and sleek.
if not, you can install a propane tank and the appropriate piping, but be prepared to spend at least $1,000 for the process.