and  that was true for many years until now when our us and intl patent pending wax  gas generating system (wggs) became a reality.
your right it's probably not going to be the best in the wind (there is a plan for homemade wind breaker on the page) and won't have the btu of the much bigger stoves.
franco post number: 8 camper10469 group: members posts: 4302 joined: feb. 2002
palau island trust territories virgin islands wake island zip code: address 2: email: (required)
if i like backpacker, i'll pay just $12.00 and receive a offer valid in us only.
inventors note; the g-micro psl is not intended to replace the present crop of  turbocharged pressurized gas stoves when used under normal circumstances.
please let me know if anyone has used one.
the clip on the web page shows the guy lighting a stream of gas it looks pretty neat when it lights off.
+- trailhead register +- storytelling +- the political arena +- photo gallery
1) there was a time when we at gatt-gen, llc  were offended when the word candle was used to describe the g-micro psl.
blows  every other stove away especially if it's used with the dyi wind breaker on our  tips n tricks page.
sounds like maybe something got tightened too much when servicing it?
quick reply wax gas stove?
i hate liquid fuel its a pain so one time i tried a pressurized iso butane stove and it hardly worked on the ice so never again.
optimum wellness timber home living snews whole foods market magazine yellowstonepark.com
n they thought it was great.
i will probably order one and give it whirl as if i don't have enough stoves already.
© 2006 ikonboard.com powered by ikonboard 3.1.5 © 2006 ikonboard name: address 1: address 2: city: state: - select - apo/fpo americas apo/fpo europe apo/fpo pacific alabama alaska arizona arkansas california colorado connecticut district of columbia delaware florida georgia hawaii idaho illinois indiana iowa kansas kentucky louisiana massachusetts maryland maine michigan minnesota mississippi missouri montana north carolina north dakota new hampshire new jersey new mexico new york nebraska nevada ohio oklahoma oregon pennsylvania rhode island south carolina south dakota tennessee texas utah virginia vermont west virginia washington wisconsin wyoming american samoa f.s. micronesia guam marshall islands mariana islands puerto rico palau island trust territories virgin islands wake island zip: (required) email:
i'm heading up north for a week on the ice with a couple of buds and thinking of getting one to lighten my load.
national parks quicklinks -select-
i'm a low environmental impact guy so no stinky spilled fuel or canisters sounds good me.
posted on: dec. 26 2011, 7:27 pm paraffin stoves go way, way back.
however, for the uncompromising minimalist who wants to toss a  g-micro and fuel in his / her pocket and is content with waiting a few more  minutes for 2 cups of water to boil then later use it for illumination /  lantern there is no equal.
+- international +- mid-atlantic +- midwest +- southwest +- southern +- rocky mountains +- pacific northwest
this is only possible because,  unlike any other small stove, the wax fuel is hardened and will not spill or  flair up.
offer valid in us only.
this is where i found it www.gattgen.com
good thing it was not lit or i might have a different story to tell.
perhaps ask the comany to do a demo to light it on the mountain instead of his kitchen?
just be careful it gets very hot.
post number: 3 snowfox group: members posts: 20 joined: dec. 2011
2)  if the flame is set too high
anyway i did get a reply from  the wax stove company inventor, which is cool and here it is below.
it seems new to me i am just hoping that someone who has one or tried one will post. post number: 6 camper10469 group: members posts: 4302
they  are excellent stoves having a much higher btu mostly due to their much larger  physical size.
[ track this topic :: email this topic :: print this topic ] topic: wax gas stove?, what's up with this  post number: 1 snowfox group: members posts: 20 joined: dec. 2011
my whisperlite cracked but i did tighten the valve nut too much (first time servicing it in 15 years), slight ooze but no spray.
if its windy i have lit the capillary  wick under my parka before exposing to wind.
cruz bay publishing, inc. an active interest media company forum software ©2010 geek layer web services inc. powered by ikonboard 3.1.5
i hope you'll follow up on this?
yes the wggs  produces volumes of highly volatile combustible gas from solid wax.
it was sooty n not very easy to light in the wind.
as mentioned, i also made a tuna can with cardboard rolled up n waxed
ask him to melt about a quart of snow?..
posted on: dec. 27 2011, 3:12 am snowfox "i used what they called a paraffin stove in europe but it burned liquid kerosene'
acadia adirondacks arches big bend boundary waters bryce canyon canyonlands capitol reef catskills channel islands denali everglades glacier glen canyon grand canyon grand teton great sand dunes great smoky mts.
in england kerosene is called paraffin.
posted on: dec. 27 2011, 1:00 am if you are into experimenting, try making the tuna can wax stove?
the tiny g-micro pslboils 16 oz water  [ track this topic :: email this topic :: print this topic ] page 1 of 3123>> forum jump ----------- >
posted on: dec. 26 2011, 10:37 pm it looks kinda cheesie, more like a candle than a stove.
posted on: dec. 31 2011, 5:45 pm gobluehiker thank you for bringing some sanity to  this world the camper person is stressing me out already!!
find another thread  to post will ya please some of us just want chat.
ib code buttons you are posting as: do you wish to enable your signature for this post?
yes you  will get some soot on the pot but this is normal for any high molecular weight  fuel.
my favorite question reliable cold weather operation .....
like any stove device a wind screen is a good tool to have outside if there is  wind.
post number: 4 camper10469 group: members posts: 4302 joined: feb. 2002
haleakala isle royale joshua tree kings canyon lassen volcanic mount rainier north cascades olympic rocky mountain sequoia shenandoah white mountains wrangell-st. elias yellowstone yosemite zion subscribe | newsletters | maps | videos | blogs | marketplace | contests full name: city: address 1: state: - select - apo/fpo americas apo/fpo europe apo/fpo pacific alabama alaska arizona arkansas california colorado connecticut district of columbia delaware florida georgia hawaii idaho illinois indiana iowa
dear brad, thank you for the inquiry, i will reply to your  questions personally.
wyoming american samoa f.s. micronesia guam marshall islands mariana islands puerto rico
canadian subscriptions | international subscriptions close window facebook digg twitter home destinations gear skills survival nature community video photos events apps newsletters contests editor's choice backpacker.com :: forums website forums contact your moderator: bp2go »welcome guest [ log in :: register ] forums » skills and wisdom » ultralight forum »
the web page say's its a lantern also almost looks and sounds too good to be true but who knows.
powerful: our 1350 f. wax gas flame is adjustable from 3 to 8 inches.
unusual the pump of the dragongly cracked.
if for any reason i decide not to continue, i'll write "cancel" on the invoice and owe nothing.
you'd do better with a whisperlite or any preasurised liquid fuel stove for winter use.
there is no equal you will love it hands down!
as a matter  of fact, because of the g-micro psl's small size, one of our greatest  engineering challenges was to throttle back gas production enough to produce a  clean soot free flame.
i also doubt you'll get that thing going in the wind.
canadian subscriptions | international subscriptions destinations | gear | skills | nature | community | video | blogs | photos |newsletters | marketplace find hikes in: major us cities | us states | national parks and regional parks subscribe to backpacker magazine | subscription services | contact backpacker | backpacker masthead | backpacker magazine mission | employment at backpacker | backpacker contributor guidelines | advertise with backpacker | gear testing policy | reader service | sponsorship policy | terms of use/privacy policy | contests explore other active interest media brands: yoga journal better nutrition vegetarian times american cowboy log home living equine.com
post number: 2 big_load group: members posts: 19402 joined: jun. 2004
for an explorer like todd carmichael   www.subzerosolo.com  (check out his photo page) who carries two  g-micro psl's in his kit it's an enabler.
but, having said that once warmed  up to full operating temperature the g-micro will take a surprisingly stiff  cross wind especially if a pot is on top.
all you need to do is cut a strip of couragated carboard the height of the can, roll it up till it fills the can.
full one-year subscription (9 issues in all), a 73% savings off the newsstand price!
posted on: dec. 26 2011, 8:22 pm i used what they called a paraffin stove in europe but it burned liquid kerosene.
but that was a toy n never really worked very well.
do you wish to enable emoticons for this post? track this topic view all emoticons view ib code forums » skills and
to answer your question the g-micro  psl is not a candle and is different in many ways the most obvious is it that  it does not have a consumable wick like a wax candle and it has a metallic  burner element (watch our video) that burns paraffin wax gas.
discussions -----------
we did this with the boy scouts
wisdom » ultralight forum »
also as a kid we wrapped cardboard in in a cat food can and filled it with wax
however,  if the flame height is adjusted correctly the mostly white  / blue flame will not deposit soot.
great feature to have and only available on the psl.
posted on: dec. 26 2011, 6:51 pm does anyone out there own or tired the g-micro psl wax fueled stove?
this one apparently turns wax into a gas.
+- health and fitness +- backpacking with kids +- ultralight forum +- mountaineering forum +- women +- nature forum >destinations ------------
then comes the hard work of  teaching people that wax can be much more then a candle and is a very potent  high density, safe alternative fuel source.
location: the big apple, nyc post number: 7 franco group: members posts: 1985 joined: feb. 2005
posted on: dec. 27 2011, 8:33 am according to the site info he's not refering wax as kerosine...
location: the big apple, nyc post number: 5 snowfox group: members posts: 20 joined: dec. 2011 posted on: dec. 26 2011, 11:18 pm i have a dragonfly and the darn plastic pressure pump cracked on me and sprayed the fuel out.
now drip hot wax over the top till it won't eat anymore.
wax is inert, nontoxic, and lightweight yet as powerful as kerosene!
or just someone who wants the  security of having a fire making device that can be fueled with candle wax  chips in calamity, disaster or vehicle break down it's a life saver.
if i like it and decide to continue, i'll pay just $12.00, and receive a full one-year subscription (9 issues in all), a73% savings off the newsstand price!
how long does it take to boil a cup of water?
put a whick in the center to light it.
+- how to... >skills and wisdom ----------------- +- backcountry cooking +- find a hiking partner +- gear +- book reports and podcast alerts!
but it looks real small with solid wax for fuel and a lantern light too at under 4
kansas kentucky louisiana massachusetts maryland maine michigan minnesota mississippi missouri montana north carolina north dakota new hampshire new jersey new mexico new york nebraska nevada ohio oklahoma oregon pennsylvania rhode island south carolina south dakota tennessee texas utah virginia vermont west virginia washington wisconsin
but  over time we became aware that in most peoples mind wax =
when fitted with a glass lantern globe and  the flame is not covered with a pot there is absolutely zero soot.
especially on a non pressurized stove.
oh the channels of the couragation are up n down in the can.