ask a lot of questions and try the coffee!
there is no such thing because nobody should be eating on a bus, streetcar or subway.
i was taught by one of my chefs to “make it taste like the sea”.
i prefer gas, but i’ve been using a lot of electric as well these days.
mainly because i find that those shows are produced for entertainment purposes rather than showcasing the food itself.
blog at wordpress.com.
for a stove: gas or electric?
how do i find a good espresso/cappuccino maker?
if we’re talking “living or dead” then i’m going to  have to go with johnny carson.
why do you shop at restaurant supply shops?
again, it’s almost impossible to pick just one.
if we’re talking “living or dead” then i’m going to have to go with johnny carson.
when boiling pasta, do you salt the water?
try to find a place that sells more than one brand.
new  york city (providing you stay away from the tourist and celebrity restaurants),  vancouver, montreal, buffalo (yes,the buffalo.
i can’t think of anything worse than a subway car  full of people who have to smell whatever it is some guy (or girl) brought on  board with them.
i’m told ottawa has a growing restaurant scene and i’ve been wanting to visit philadelphia and washington dc.
plenty of awesome,  non-chain and non-tourist restaurants there… you just have to look) and  chicago.
it’s too hard to pick just one place that i really love.
although i do occasionally enjoyiron chef america and restaurant makeover.
but that being said, if you’re making a dish that has a lot  of salt in it (pasta with prosciutto or pancetta, for example) then i ease up  on the salt in the pasta water.
plenty of awesome, non-chain and non-tourist restaurants there… you just have to look) and chicago.
there is no such thing because nobody should be eating on a bus,  streetcar or subway.
what type of food do you enjoy the most?
theme: fresh & clean by aj clarke.
it’s a personal preference and while many say that gas is better (and i do love it)
it’s a personal preference and while many say that gas is better  (and i do love it) you can make a fine meal on an electric stove too.
if you have something you want to know and you think the ol’ foodfella could help, send it along and maybe it will be on this page.
easily toronto is one of the best, followed by (in no particular order)
if something is  designed to withstand the abuse it will get in a restaurant kitchen, then  chances are it will last almost forever in a household kitchen.
what’s are your favorite “restaurant cities” ?
how come thefoodfella.com isn’t just about food?
i find the quality of the products there to be really good.
i’d say my favorites include some traditional french (because that’s what i learned), classic american as well as barbecue, italian, spanish, mexican, seafood, sushi and japanese, thai and contemporary canadian.
there are tons of great food blogs out there – many of which that are  far better than mine.
i wanted to share  parts of my life, both food and non-food related and add something of a  personal touch to it… the same way i do with cooking.
you can make a fine meal on an electric stove too.
best food to eat on the ttc?
they focus on the human struggle and the competition as well as the drama.
mainly because i find that those shows are produced for  entertainment purposes rather than showcasing the food itself.
but that being said, if you’re making a dish that has a lot of salt in it (pasta with prosciutto or pancetta, for example) then i ease up on the salt in the pasta water.
i wanted to share parts of my life, both food and non-food related and add something of a personal touch to it… the same way i do with cooking.
if it’s just “living” then  that’s an easy answer… my wife.
if you have something you want to know and you think the ol’  foodfella could help, send it along and maybe it will be on this page.
what’s your favorite restaurant in toronto?
i’d say my  favorites include some traditional french (because that’s what i  learned), classic american as well as barbecue, italian, spanish, mexican,  seafood, sushi and japanese, thai and contemporary canadian.
i’m told ottawa has a growing restaurant scene and i’ve  been wanting to visit philadelphia and washington dc.
they focus on  the human struggle and the competition as well as the drama.
i prefer gas, but i’ve been using a lot of electric as well these  days.
do you watch the food-related reality shows?
so i wanted to do something different.
go to specialty stores.
there are so  many great places, so the best way to find out if there’s a restaurant  that stands out is to look on the reviews page.
i can’t think of anything worse than a subway car full of people who have to smell whatever it is some guy (or girl) brought on board with them.
there are so many great places, so the best way to find out if there’s a restaurant that stands out is to look on the reviews page.
recipes faq i’ve gotten a lot of questions about food as well as everything else  over the years, so i did what anyone else with tons of time on his hands would  do: i started an faq page.
i’ve gotten a lot of questions about food as well as everything else over the years, so i did what anyone else with tons of time on his hands would do: i started an faq page.
if it’s just “living” then that’s an easy answer… my wife.
i was taught by one of my chefs to “make it taste like the  sea”.
there are tons of great food blogs out there – many of which that are far better than mine.
if something is designed to withstand the abuse it will get in a restaurant kitchen, then chances are it will last almost forever in a household kitchen.
although i do  occasionally enjoyiron chef america and restaurant makeover.
new york city (providing you stay away from the tourist and celebrity restaurants), vancouver, montreal, buffalo (yes,the buffalo.
if you could have dinner with one person, who would it be?