the old porcelain has to be sandblasted off before new porcelain can be fired on.
- a: we have some new knobs and handles please check the stove parts section for other items you may need.
vintage antique gas stoves printable shipping labels for sending your antique stove parts in to  be restored rebuilding section for your thermostat safety valve burner valve clock  and timer repair of your burner heads - grates - simmer caps restored visit our coming soon section for stoves that we are going to restore  or stoves that are in the restoration process.
q: can the grates and burner heads on my stove be refinished/reporcelained?
you must have a  rebuildable original thermostat, or we will have to provide you with one.
- q: the adjustment valves on my stove top burners are difficult to turn, don't turn at all, or they don't work right.
- there are many more reasons to have an antique stove please call our office for more details.
- q: my light switch in the oven doesn't push in or work can it be replaced?
replacement thermostats are available, but they are expensive, and will not match the style of your stove.
replacement thermostat
we can quote you  prices to reporcelain the pieces that you need to have reporcelained.
- a: most parts can be reporcelained to like new condition.
the gage of metals used is far better.
q: do you have new knobs and handles for my old stove?
copyright © 2006 antique gas stoves ®  all rights reserved.
some  parts cannot be reporcelained to look exactly like the original part.
we have reprinted a few operating instruction/manualsreprint manuals.
- a: original owner's manuals/cookbooks are difficult to come by.
contact us for a quote and instructions on  how to arrange a rebuild.
we have shown on our website themost common springs and don't forget to check the stove parts section for other items you may need.
q: can you assess the value of my stove?
q: can you install modern electronic igniters in my antique gas stove?
a: yes we need at least 4 quality photos of your stove we charge $25.00  per stove ( no jpeg or gif photos)
roper dixie apartment size stove 1950's vintage aristocrat o'keefe & merritt stove glossary of stove part names.
all the components work.
is your clock  in the manual setting (m)?
- q:why do you show so many pictures of the stoves that you sell?
a: there are many reasons but here a just a few.
- for more information and photos click this link reporcelain - q: the chrome parts on my old stove are scratched up or rusted.
it is designed so you do not have to  change all of the orifices on the stove.
we sell door switches, panel switches, light sockets and other  electrical parts.
q: how can i change my stove from natural gas to propane gas or from  propane to natural gas ?
- new porcelain coatings can add many more years of care free use to the stove.
can they  be rechromed?
it is designed so you do not have to change all of the orifices on the stove.
if they have  any questions they can call us for help.
- q:do you have a warranty on the stoves that you sell?
it generally takes 10 working days from the time we receive the parts and payment to have your parts ready to reship.
we can also sometimesexchange  your good, but ugly, parts for parts that have already been reporcelained.
if you wantreporcelain or rechrome we also provide information for these services.
if the metal is too thin because of rust or too much exposure to flame, it will pinhole or blow through during the sandblasting.
- q: are you licensed to do repairs/restoration and sells of stoves?
the stoves we sell are comparable to any commercial stoves sold.
q: the adjustment valves on my stove top burners are difficult to turn,  don't turn at all, or they don't work right.
burner valve rebuild information is here.
if so and the oven/broiler won't come on you may  have a problem with you safety valve or your thermocouple.
check out about antique gas stoves section for questions about antique stoves & ranges shipping services for parts or shipping of your new restored stove - we provide shipping world wide of our fully restored.
a: we have some new knobs and handles please check the stove parts section  for other items you may need.
q:why do you show so many pictures of the stoves that you sell?
q: on the stoves that you sell do the clocks and timers work?
cleaning is much easier once the parts have been reporcelained.
burner valve  rebuild information is here.
so if your power fails you can still bake and use the stove  top unlike the new stoves with electronic ignition.
we can rebuild most safety valves,how to remove the safety valves and thermocouples the thermocouples will have to be replaced.
the burner valves can be rebuilt to turn and function properly.
it generally takes 2-4 weeks from time we receive the parts and payment to have your parts ready to reship.
the part can be reporcelained, but it will no longer have the lettering.
we have  reprinted a few operating instruction/manualsreprint manuals.
a: original owner's manuals/cookbooks are difficult to come by.
if you do not have the original, or if pieces are missing from your original, the price will be considerably higher.
- q: why should i have the grates and burner heads on my stove refinished?
more rebuild information is here.
can they be rechromed?
again, you must have original valves for us to rebuild (no replacement valves).
click here for reporcelain information - q: i don't know how or i don't want to remove the parts that i want to have restored what can i do?
a: you can call an appliance repair company or a handyman to remove &  reinstall the parts that you want to send to us for restoration.
there is no need to have power to the stove in most cases except for the clock and lights.
contact  us for a quote and instructions on how to arrange a rebuild.
q: my light switch in the oven doesn't push in or work can it be replaced?
- q: my pilot light is on in the oven or broiler but my oven or broiler won't come on.
it is against california state law to change or modify any system,  along with the fact that you would ruin the best cooking features of the stove.
- q: can i take my chrome pieces to a local chrome shop and have the work done instead of sending the parts to you?
if they are not broken or burned through, if the parts are broken  or burned through.
- cleaning is much easier once the parts have been reporcelained.
we have also reprinted some thermostat cooking guides and clock and timer instruction sheets.
- the stoves are of superior quality of stove made today.
another option would be to ship them to us right before you go on vacation.
it adds a fresh new look to the stove top making the stove look new and  well cared for.
if you don't know what your antique appliance part is called this will help view our full line of antique appliance parts gas leak detector, shut-off valves, replacement mini pilots, replacement thermostats, thermostat block-off kits, teflon tape, flex gas line, propane or natural gas regulators, thermocouples, adapters & clips, burners and gasket sealer.
an  example would be a front control panel with lettering that is made into the  porcelain.
yes we are licensed by the state of california and anyone that is going  to do repairs/restorations or sells of stoves in the state of california has to  be licensed by the state of california.
q: can i have my chipped porcelain pieces powder coated, or should they be  reporcelained?
we have also  reprinted some thermostat cooking guides and clock and timer instruction sheets.
- a: there are many reasons but here a just a few.
can this be corrected?
most scratches and light surface rust can be removed prior to being rechromed.
if you wantreporcelain or rechrome we also provide information for these  services.
can they be  restored?
q: do we have to join a old appliance club to get help with restorations  we want to do on our stove?
- a: we sell a converter /regulator
powder coating will not withstand the temperatures reached during the cooking process, it will discolor.
most  scratches and light surface rust can be removed prior to being rechromed.
toreporcelain the grates  (what you set the pots & pans on) and burner heads (what the fire comes out  of).
porcelain will remain beautiful for years.
you can send them one side at a time if you cannot do without them for that long.
guides for international automatic oven timer & international  interval timer.
- q: can you install modern electronic igniters in my antique gas stove?
contact us for a quote and instructions on how to arrange a rebuild.
you can send them one side at a  time if you cannot do without them for that long.
a: most parts can be reporcelained to like new condition.
we show you photos of the stove inside and out and under the stove tops so when you purchase from us you know you have received the highest quality workmanship available.
sometimes the metal is too thin to be reporcelained.
- a: you should have the pieces reporcelained.
q: my oven or broiler door won't close all the way or stay closed are  there springs for the doors?
- q: do we have to join a old appliance club to get help with restorations we want to do on our stove?
q: why should i have the grates and burner heads on my stove refinished?
it generally takes 10 working days from the time we receive the parts and  payment to have your parts ready to reship.
- q: do you have new knobs and handles for my old stove?
an example would be a front control panel with lettering that is made into the porcelain.
- a: you can call an appliance repair company or a handyman to remove & reinstall the parts that you want to send to us for restoration.
q: do you have an owner's manual for my old stove?
the temperature in the oven is not what it says on the control.
if you don't have the originals, the price will be considerably higher.
the stoves are of superior quality of stove made today.
if your parts are broken or burned through we can repair most grates and burner heads at an additional cost.
illustrated help section for removing your thermostat safety valve  burner valves clock and or timer & burner heads we can rebuild your robertshaw thermostat grayson thermostat can be rebuilt at antique gas stoves antique gas stoves rebuild section for wilcolator thermostats assessment service for the value of your classic vintage stove .
it generally takes 2-4 weeks from time we receive the parts and  payment to have your parts ready to reship.
see our fully restored antique vintage stoves reporcelain / porcelain service for your vintage antique stove rechrome / chrome service for your vintage antique stove see how we restore the vintage styled gas stoves that we sell have a good time looking at some our beautiful vintage antique gas stoves o'keefe & merritt antique stove western holly retro stove classic wedgewood stove tappan antique gas stove custom color green
burner valves clock and or timer & burner heads we can rebuild your robertshaw thermostat grayson thermostat can be rebuilt at antique gas stoves antique gas stoves rebuild section for wilcolator thermostats assessment service for the value of your classic vintage stove .
we provide a help section on how to remove and reinstall your  parts.
occasionally a piece is so badly pitted that the pits cannot be completely  removed.
- the stoves we sell are comparable to any commercial stoves sold.
a: the thermostat (temperature control) is no longer working properly and  it needs to be rebuilt.
- a: we can rebuild most clocks & timers.
q: can you rebuild my clock or timer from my stove?
click here for reporcelain information - q: the temperature control on my oven doesn't seem to work.
vintage antique gas stoves printable shipping labels for sending your antique stove parts in to be restored rebuilding section for your thermostat safety valve burner valve clock and timer repair of your burner heads - grates - simmer caps restored visit our coming soon section for stoves that we are going to restore or stoves that are in the restoration process.
yes most oven and or broilers have springs.
see our assessment pagemore assessment  information here q: can you reporcelain my bathtub or sink?
we can quote you prices to reporcelain the pieces that you need to have reporcelained.
if you can't find the answer to your questions please call or email  us.
but please click the link to view one of many email's that we receive, about why you should use our service instead of using your local chrome shop that is not familiar with the old stoves.chrome services - q: i have chips in the porcelain on parts of my old stove.
- a: did you reset the safety valve for the oven or broiler ?
once the porcelain coating has burnt away it can cause damage to the cast iron parts.
occasionally a piece is so badly pitted that the pits cannot be completely removed.
porcelain sockets, bulbs, range wire, heat shrink tubing, ready lights, switches and ceramic wire nuts oven door spring, cables, rods, & oven - range insulation o'keefe & merritt griddle knobs, knob rings, handles, salt & pepper shakers, oven door handles, heat vent covers & oven and griddle glass for your antique stove old original parts for vintage stoves reprint manuals are available for o'keefe & merritt western holly stoves thermostat guides for robertshaw , grayson , wilcolator & lorain thermostats.
a: did you reset the safety valve for the oven or broiler ?
q: can you restore my wood burning or electric stove?
copyright © 2006 antique gas stoves ® all rights reserved.
see our assessment pagemore assessment information here - q: can you reporcelain my bathtub or sink?
a: we sell a converter /regulator
we can usually rebuild your original thermostat, assuming no one else has taken it apart and the pieces are all there.
- q: my oven or broiler door won't close all the way or stay closed are there springs for the doors?
we provide a help section on how to remove and reinstall your parts.
a: we can rebuild most clocks & timers.
check out about antique gas stoves section for questions about antique  stoves & ranges shipping services for parts or shipping of your new restored stove -  we provide shipping world wide of our fully restored.
there are many more reasons to have an antique stove please call our  office for more details.
a: there are several reasons you should consider having the grates and  burner heads reporcelained here are a few: porcelain is a protective coating against the constant heat from the flame  at the burner head and to the grate.
if so and the oven/broiler won't come on you may have a problem with you safety valve or your thermocouple.
- q: can you restore my wood burning or electric stove?
if they have any questions they can call us for help.
- q: how can i change my stove from natural gas to propane gas or from propane to natural gas ?
- q: can i have my chipped porcelain pieces powder coated, or should they be reporcelained?
q: are you licensed to do repairs/restoration and sells of stoves?
most of  the other stove sellers only show one photo of the stove
we sell only full restored stoves.
more rebuild information is  here.
guides for international automatic oven timer & international interval timer.
- q: do you have an owner's manual for my old stove?
can this be  corrected?
- a: the thermostat (temperature control) is no longer working properly and it needs to be rebuilt.
such as holes to burner heads and cracks to grates.
toreporcelain the grates (what you set the pots & pans on) and burner heads (what the fire comes out of).
illustrated help section for removing your thermostat safety valve
you must have a rebuildable original thermostat, or we will have to provide you with one.
it would depend upon whether or not we have them in stock.
a: you should have the pieces reporcelained.
q:do you have a warranty on the stoves that you sell?
most of the other stove sellers only show one photo of the stove - a: your question should be why are the other stove restorers not willing to show you the details of their work or close ups of knobs, clocks interiors of the stove etc.
click here to see how we restore the stoves that we sell.
- a: there are several reasons you should consider having the grates and
- it adds a fresh new look to the stove top making the stove look new and well cared for.
the part can be reporcelained, but it will no longer have the  lettering.
click here for reporcelain information q: the temperature control on my oven doesn't seem to work.
- q: can you assess the value of my stove?
replacement thermostats are available, but they are expensive, and will not  match the style of your stove.
if  you do not have the original, or if pieces are missing from your original, the  price will be considerably higher.
frequently asked questions to antique gas stoves frequently asked questions - q: can you explain why i should buy or restore an vintage / antique stove?
see our fully restored antique vintage stoves reporcelain / porcelain service for your vintage antique stove rechrome / chrome service for your vintage antique stove see how we restore the vintage styled gas stoves that we sell have a good time looking at some our beautiful vintage antique gas  stoves o'keefe & merritt antique stove western holly retro stove classic  wedgewood stove tappan antique gas stove custom color green roper dixie  apartment size stove 1950's vintage aristocrat o'keefe & merritt stove glossary of stove part names.
a: your question should be why are the other stove restorers not willing  to show you the details of their work or close ups of knobs, clocks interiors  of the stove etc.
we received this beautiful email and wanted to share it with everyone click this bar to read reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of antique gas stoves is prohibited.
but please click the link to view one of many email's that we  receive, about why you should use our service instead of using your local  chrome shop that is not familiar with the old stoves.chrome services q: i have chips in the porcelain on parts of my old stove.
- the gage of metals used is far better.
- q: can you rebuild my clock or timer from my stove?
we can also sometimesexchange your good, but ugly, parts for parts that have already been reporcelained.
burner heads reporcelained here are a few: - porcelain is a protective coating against the constant heat from the flame at the burner head and to the grate.
it  would depend upon whether or not we have them in stock.
click here for reporcelain  information q: i don't know how or i don't want to remove the parts that i want to  have restored what can i do?
we sell door switches, panel switches, light sockets and other electrical parts.
it is against california state law to change or modify any system, along with the fact that you would ruin the best cooking features of the stove.
read our frequently asked questions to antique gas stoves see what we are cookin up on our site how to contact us at antique gas stoves examples of o'keefe & merritt vintage antique stoves examples of wedgewood antique gas stoves examples of western holly vintage stoves examples of roper classic gas stoves examples of tappan retro stoves examples of antique chambers stoves examples of vintage gaffers & sattler stoves
for more information and photos click this link reporcelain q: the chrome parts on my old stove are scratched up or rusted.
once the porcelain coating has burnt away it can cause damage to the cast  iron parts.
the  temperature in the oven is not what it says on the control.
if you can't find the answer to your questions please call or email us.
some parts cannot be reporcelained to look exactly like the original part.
new porcelain coatings can add many more years of care free use to the  stove.
if they are not broken or burned through, if the parts are broken or burned through.
- q: can the grates and burner heads on my stove be refinished/reporcelained?
yes we need at least 4 quality photos of your stove we charge $25.00 per stove ( no jpeg or gif photos)
porcelain sockets, bulbs, range wire, heat shrink tubing, ready  lights, switches and ceramic wire nuts oven door spring, cables, rods, & oven - range insulation o'keefe & merritt griddle knobs, knob rings, handles, salt &  pepper shakers, oven door handles, heat vent covers & oven and griddle  glass for your antique stove old original parts for vintage stoves reprint manuals are available for o'keefe & merritt western holly  stoves thermostat guides for robertshaw , grayson , wilcolator &  lorain   thermostats.
can they be restored?
if they are not pitted badly they can usually be rechromed.
q: can i take my chrome pieces to a local chrome shop and have the work  done instead of sending the parts to you?
q: my pilot light is on in the oven or broiler but my oven or broiler  won't come on.
we can rebuild most  safety valves,how to remove the safety valves and thermocouples the  thermocouples will have to be replaced.
q: can you explain why i should buy or restore an vintage / antique stove?
yes we are licensed by the state of california and anyone that is going to do repairs/restorations or sells of stoves in the state of california has to be licensed by the state of california.
we can usually rebuild your original thermostat,  assuming no one else has taken it apart and the pieces are all there.
on the stoves we sell we give a one full year warranty.
if the metal is too  thin because of rust or too much exposure to flame, it will pinhole or blow  through during the sandblasting.
if you don't know what your antique  appliance part is called this will help view our full line of antique appliance parts gas leak detector, shut-off valves, replacement mini pilots,  replacement thermostats, thermostat block-off kits, teflon tape, flex gas line,  propane or natural gas regulators, thermocouples, adapters & clips, burners  and gasket sealer.
the old porcelain has  to be sandblasted off before new porcelain can be fired on.
there is no need to have power to the stove in most cases except for the  clock and lights.
if your parts are broken or burned through we can repair  most grates and burner heads at an additional cost.
another option would be to  ship them to us right before you go on vacation.
- q: on the stoves that you sell do the clocks and timers work?
powder coating will not  withstand the temperatures reached during the cooking process, it will  discolor.
we show you photos of the stove inside and out and under the  stove tops so when you purchase from us you know you have received the highest  quality workmanship available.
is your clock in the manual setting (m)?
so if your power fails you can still bake and use the stove top unlike the new stoves with electronic ignition.
we have shown on our  website themost common springs and don't forget to check the stove parts  section for other items you may need.
it is a different process than we use.
we only restore antique gas stoves.