in addition, please remember us if you are in need of any storm repairs at your home.
she used to say that whoever thought the cell phone was a great invention never had to use the outhouse in the middle of the night.
the process will also cool the outside air which can be an advantage in your laundry room or garage.
if you have a moment, please check out our “sweet” specials for the month.
best wishes to you and your family.
we are  offering free estimates, so please give us a call at 602-246-0656 if we can be  of assistance.
remember qualtire plumbing & construction has been your phoenix plumber and remodeler since 1964.
qualtire plumbing & construction does provide free estimates for gas lines and services such as these.
we hope that you were pleased with our service and will take a few minute to share your experience with us and others.
and don’t forget, they qualify for a federal tax rebate of up to 30%.
call us at 602-246-0656 for a free in-home evaluation of your kitchen.
what can we say about kitchens that has not already been covered a multitude of times?
if anyone has any specific topics you would like to discuss or have me address, please let me know.
aside from the gifts to purchase and cards to write, we begin to think of the guests that will be arriving and if our homes are ready to accommodate them and the holidays.
since there are pros and cons to each, it really just boils down to what you like and are comfortable with.
we always appreciate referrals, too, if you know of anyone looking for a dependable licensed contractor.
qualtire plumbing & construction has been your phoenix plumbing and remodeling company since 1964.
if you have guest bathrooms that haven’t been utilized much, now is the time to check to see if the bathroom fixtures are operating correctly.
we’re always here to answer your questions and give you the best advice we can.
call qualtire plumbing & construction at 602-246-0656 and schedule your free kitchen consultation.
some other advantages are that it comes with a ten year warranty, has the trusted energy star rating, fits in the same location as your old water heater using existing water and electrical connections, and has multiple settings for vacation and high demand for when you have guests.
because we always like to offer affordable options, another possibility is refacing or painting your existing cabinets.
we have discussed painting, countertops, fixtures, tile, stoves, etc.
or subscribe via email.
with refacing, you can even order just doors and hinges.
sweet february and storm damage
if you have a moment, please check out our “sweet” specials for  the month.
but the right stove can make a big difference in meal preparation.
convenience gas will get hotter faster and also cool down faster.
we have been installing a number of new  roofs, patio covers, etc.
now is the time to take care of those pesky kitchen and bathroom plumbing repairs before the festivities begin and the guests arrive.
you might want to start with new plumbing fixtures, i.e. faucets, sinks, garbage disposals.
being out of town some this past month, i haven’t written as many kitchen remodel blogs as i had intended so i’m going to continue with kitchen remodeling ideas into september.
there are a number of products out there to fit any budget.
i have since leaned that is not altogether true.
winters in nebraska can be harsh, try carrying water in from the well when it’s freezing outside.
qualtire plumbing & construction has been your phoenix plumbing and remodeling company since 1964, and we are always here to answer your questions.
factory-made cabinets are the most cost effective, and custom cabinets are the most complete for your existing space.
try bathing 11 kids and heating all that water.
she explained to me how all the years she was growing up it was one of her many chores to carry water in from the well that would be used throughout the day for cooking, cleaning, doing the dishes, washing up, etc.
if you wanted it hot, you had to heat it on the wood or coal burning stove.
we always appreciate referrals, too, if you know of anyone  looking for a dependable licensed contractor.
accent tiles come in myriad colors and styles, so you can get very creative with your backsplashes to give your kitchen a custom and unique appearance.
best  wishes to all of you this month and happy valentine’s day!
from the new formicas to custom soapstone, you can get any look you like.
in addition, is everything working adequately in the kitchen?
july and august have been kitchen remodeling months here at qualtire plumbing & construction.
we are offering free estimates, so please give us a call at 602-246-0656 if we can be of assistance.
by karen qualtire · comments  (0) sweet valentine hi all, can you believe it’s february already?
in order to do a complete makeover of your kitchen, new cabinets are a must.
we are offering december specials to help you with those repairs, so give us a call at602-246-0656, and let us help you get ready for the holidays.
it draws cold water from the bottom of the tank and circulates it through the heater pump and back into the tank.
if anyone has any specific issues you would like us to discuss, by all means, please let us know.
maybe something as simple as a new kitchen faucet to replace that old, crusty dripping one; or maybe a complete kitchen remodel with new modern cabinets, counter tops and lighting.
just remember, your cabinet boxes should be in good shape.
generally, you had to take them all apart just to get at the mess.
as i have said before, we have extended our kitchen remodel specials into september so take advantage of the savings and update that kitchen before the holidays.
i used to think that when you updated your kitchen you had to do cabinets, countertops, sinks, the whole ball of wax.
we at qualtire plumbing and construction hope you have a wonderful thanksgiving and have time to pause and reflect on the little things that make our lives better and for the family and loved ones that make life worthwhile.
she said it never stopped amazing her how all you had to do was just turn a handle and water was at your fingertips.
we do our own warranty work, too, so you always know who to call!
enter your email address: delivered by feedburner 3518 w. bethany home road phoenix, arizona 85019(602) 246-0656
needless to say, bath water was shared.
professional cooks, as i’m sure you’ve noticed if you watch the cooking shows, often prefer the gas stove.
we suggest when installing backsplashes, you can use matching granite or a complimentary tile splash with your solid countertop.
we want to make sure our “new kitchen” is leak free before we proceed.
electric sometimes takes a little more getting used to as it heats slower and cools slower.
we are in the midst of the hustle and bustle of the holiday season, but we are never too busy to remember our friends.
now i understood why she never minded doing all those dishes or bathing the grandbabies and great grandbabies in the kitchen sink.
did you know that in the phoenix area your water heater is the second largest user of electricity?
when you are cooking with electric and are through, you need to remove the pan from the burner as it stays hot.
hybrid electric heat pump water heaters can save you about $320 in your electric bill per year.
here are some basic differences.
newer electric stoves come with easy clean glass solid tops, eliminating this problem.
best wishes to all of you this month and happy valentine’s day!
this cost will depend on how far from the gas meter the stove is located.
that were damaged from the october storm.
we’ve weathered the storms together (including the october hail storm which brought many new roofs and repairs to the valley) and look forward to a brighter future.
call qualtire today at 602-246-0656 for more information or to schedule a technician to come to your home and see if this water heater is right for you.
just make sure you install all new piping, valves, and those non-burst faucet supplies under that new, maybe stainless steel, sink.
dennis and i will be celebrating our 30th wedding anniversary on valentine’s day, so it’s a special month for us.
gas stoves require a little extra effort as you must clean the burner grate and the area underneath.
operational costs are fairly comparable.
qualtire plumbing & construction has been serving phoenix and the greater valley as your trustworthy plumber and remodeler since 1964.
it increases the value and look of your kitchen.
we have been installing a number of new roofs, patio covers, etc.
we look forward to many more years of friendship and being there for you when you need a trusted plumber, remodeler, or just need advice when it comes to construction or electrical repairs.
cost electric stoves either traditionally or the new easy clean are generally less expensive to purchase than gas units.
qualtire plumbing & construction has been your phoenix plumbing and remodeling company since 1964, and we value the many friendships we have made through the years.
cabinets come in a variety of sizes and finishes to satisfy your taste and budget.
that’s the hard part.
dennis and i will be  celebrating our 30th wedding anniversary on valentine’s day, so  it’s a special month for us.
whatever your project, we can handle it from design to completion.
a few years ago i asked my 96 year old grandmother what she thought the greatest technological advancement was in her lifetime and without any hesitation, she replied hot and cold indoor running water.
so dennis and i wish all of you a happy and prosperous 2011.
now comes the big one – cabinets.
if your house has only an electric outlet for the stove and you would like to purchase a gas stove, you would have an additional cost to install a gas line to the unit (if you have a gas provider in your area).
gas stoves will cool as soon as you shut the gas off so pans don’t have to be removed immediately.
the reason for starting with the sink is to eliminate any existing leaks which could cause future problems – mold or mildew.
we wanted to take a moment to wish all of you a wonderful and joyous holiday.
cleaning traditional stoves were hard to clean.
as we enter into the busy holiday season, we start our lists and begin checking things off.
qualtire plumbing & construction has been your phoenix plumbing and remodeling company since 1964, and we are always just a phone call away.
this is a nice budget conscious way to go.
one of the unique aspects of our company is that we are licensed plumbers, general contractors, and electrical contractors and can consequently handle your kitchen remodel from start to finish.
when she was in her 20′s, she finally moved into a home that had indoor plumbing.
remember qualtire plumbing & construction has been your phoenix plumbing and remodeling company since 1964, and we are always just one phone call away.
qualtire plumbing & construction is offering $500 off a new ge hybrid water heater and installation.
you can call us at 602-246-0656 or email us at info@qualtire.com.
as karen said previously, this month we will be discussing individual items that will make your kitchen look like new.
her idea of a family car was a wagon pulled by a team of horses; surely there were much better advancements than hot and cold running water, that’s just something we take for granted.
sweet valentine hi all, can you believe it’s february already?
she said none of those innovations improved the quality of life and health for her family as hot and cold running water.
i was rather surprised by this reply; after all, she was born in 1913 and raised with 10 other brothers and sisters on a farm in nebraska.
you can call us at 602-246-0656 or email us atinfo@qualtire.com.
today let’s discuss countertops and backsplashes and how they can make that tired old kitchen look new.
we have been serving phoenix and the greater valley since 1964 and want to say a big thank you for your continued patronage through these difficult times.
a couple of years ago, my wife decided we needed to spruce up the kitchen, the cabinets were not quite ten years old, so she suggested that we install new granite kitchen countertops and backsplashes.
it wasn’t too many more years before they had electricity and a party telephone line.
thank you for allowing us the opportunity to serve you, and we wish you and your family the very best!
it has been a difficult few years but thanks to all of you and your loyalty, we continue to be your phoenix plumbing and remodeling company.
categories : customer information
in addition, please remember us if you are in need  of any storm repairs at your home.
it saves electricity by using a heat pump on top of the water heater that takes warmth out of the ambient air and pumps it into the water tank.
these items are readily available and can be installed for a nominal cost.
qualtire plumbing & construction has been your phoenix plumbing and  remodeling company since 1964, and we are always just a phone call away.
almost instantly, a new look but not at a huge cost.
sometimes your stove can just be an unused appliance since we all rely on those microwaves so much these days.
that’s $3,200 over a ten-year period!
my grandmother is no longer with me to stand at the kitchen sink this thanksgiving and help with the dishes and tell stories about growing up in the early 1900′s; but i think about her often when i turn on the faucet and just like her, i’m thankful for something that i take for granted everyday.
appliances are an important part of updating that kitchen, and stainless steel is still quite popular whether you choose a gas or electric stove.