you may automatically want a gas sauna heater if you live in a gas-heated home or an electric sauna stove if electricity provides the heat in your home.
the use of a wood burning heater can also help foster a more intimate relationship with nature – one in which the sauna bather may hew and carry his or her own wood and tend to the fire.
to find out which type would best suit your needs, seek out a qualified sauna manufacturer or dealer.
the resulting ambience will likely be less enticing for some people, but others will appreciate the added convenience, particularly when it comes time to clean the heater.
one advantage is  that the heat in a gas sauna has a tendency to be more consistent and easier to  regulate, making the gas sauna stove more user-friendly.
“if you live in the country where firewood is plentiful and fires have minimum environmental impact,” aaland contends, “the wood burning stove is the best performer and must be considered the first choice.”
if you live in the usa , click on the american flag below to see all of the us sauna pages.
unlike wood  burning stoves, electric and gas sauna heaters create no ashes.
in some areas, however, local building codes, insurance costs, and regulations about wood burning stoves may strongly discourage you from owning or using this type of sauna heater.
while gas sauna heaters and wood burning sauna stoves each have their own  following, the electric sauna heater is the most popular type of sauna stove  available, particularly in and around urban centers where electricity is  universally utilized.
but be warned: if they can’t answers your questions about sauna stoves,  the odds are they don’t know much about saunas either.
electric sauna heaters, wood burning sauna stoves, and gas sauna heaters each contribute in their own unique way to make bathing in the soothing setting of a personal sauna an almost addictive experience.
if you live in canada, click on the canadian flag below to  see all the latest canadian sauna pages.
if you live in canada, click on the canadian flag below to see all the latest canadian sauna pages.
which type of sauna heater or sauna stove is best is truly a matter of opinion.
marketed on their efficiency, sleekness, safety features and wide assortment of sizes, electric sauna heaters also attract attention because, unlike the wood burning and gas varieties, electric stoves don’t give off any odor when they’re operating.
few people would refute the claim that wood burning sauna stoves help to create an almost seductive ambience for the sauna bather – one of soft heat, an agreeable outdoorsy aroma, and the calming sound of a crackling fire.
and the author asserts that it’s a decision that may be influenced by geographic location.
if that’s so, you may have to choose  between an electric and gas sauna heater.
one type may be better than another in certain conditions and circumstances, but the bottom line seems to be that electric sauna heaters, gas sauna heaters, and wood burning sauna heaters each have unique appeal.
while gas sauna heaters and wood burning sauna stoves each have their own following, the electric sauna heater is the most popular type of sauna stove available, particularly in and around urban centers where electricity is universally utilized.
from its 30,000 sf sauna factory-superstore, great saunas ships  the best selection of 100+ home sauna kit models, infrared saunas, dry sauna  kits everywhere in north america great saunas inc. -  features and specifications are subject to change without notice ©  1997-2012
and the  author asserts that it’s a decision that may be influenced by geographic  location.
according to sauna authority mikkel aaland, who wrote sweat, a 1978 history of international bathing customs, “whether to use an electric, gas, or wood burning stove is the first decision in sauna building.”
the use of a wood burning heater can also help foster a more intimate  relationship with nature – one in which the sauna bather may hew and  carry his or her own wood and tend to the fire.
site map welcome to the largest sauna website serving canada & the usa...
also, there may be  areas where it’s difficult to access electricity, so a gas heater would  then be the more practical choice.
prices in usd$  prices in cad$  other countries in usd$ sauna stoves wood burning, electric or gas? - 904 which type of sauna heater or sauna stove is best is truly a matter of  opinion.
unlike wood burning stoves, electric and gas sauna heaters create no ashes.
in some areas, however, local building codes, insurance costs, and  regulations about wood burning stoves may strongly discourage you from owning  or using this type of sauna heater.
to find out which type  would best suit your needs, seek out a qualified sauna manufacturer or dealer.
one advantage is that the heat in a gas sauna has a tendency to be more consistent and easier to regulate, making the gas sauna stove more user-friendly.
the resulting ambience will likely be  less enticing for some people, but others will appreciate the added  convenience, particularly when it comes time to clean the heater.
electric sauna heaters, wood burning sauna stoves, and gas sauna heaters  each contribute in their own unique way to make bathing in the soothing setting  of a personal sauna an almost addictive experience.
few people would refute the claim that wood burning sauna stoves help to  create an almost seductive ambience for the sauna bather – one of soft  heat, an agreeable outdoorsy aroma, and the calming sound of a crackling fire.
marketed on their efficiency, sleekness, safety features  and wide assortment of sizes, electric sauna heaters also attract attention  because, unlike the wood burning and gas varieties, electric stoves don’t  give off any odor when they’re operating.
welcome to the largest sauna website serving canada & the usa...
one type may be better than another in certain conditions and  circumstances, but the bottom line seems to be that electric sauna heaters, gas  sauna heaters, and wood burning sauna heaters each have unique appeal.
also, there may be areas where it’s difficult to access electricity, so a gas heater would then be the more practical choice.
but be warned: if they can’t answers your questions about sauna stoves, the odds are they don’t know much about saunas either.
“if you live in the country where firewood is plentiful and fires  have minimum environmental impact,” aaland contends, “the wood  burning stove is the best performer and must be considered the first  choice.”
afford some thought, however, to the argument that gas sauna stoves may offer some economic advantages over their electric counterparts.
afford some thought, however, to the argument that gas sauna stoves may offer  some economic advantages over their electric counterparts.
you may automatically want a gas sauna heater if you live in a gas-heated  home or an electric sauna stove if electricity provides the heat in your home.
according to sauna authority mikkel aaland, who wrote sweat, a 1978 history  of international bathing customs, “whether to use an electric, gas, or  wood burning stove is the first decision in sauna building.”
if that’s so, you may have to choose between an electric and gas sauna heater.