going with gas would cost you an additional $120/yr.
bringing gas into the home or keeping oil presents risks for carbon monoxide poisoning and gas/oil leaks.
additional indoor units add $1.5k each to the initial $4k.
here are some other things to consider if you are on the fence about  switching from oil: upfront v. operating costs.
a ductless heat pump requires the least amount of maintenance.
option c could mean installing a forced air or ductless heat pump.
previous post< previous post enter your email to subscribe to our feed: delivered by feedburner
the heat pump’s outdoor unit, while quieter than traditional air conditioners, will be noisier than a gas furnace.
seattle city light’s monthly  base service charge is $3.30 and puget sound energy’s is $10.
oftentimes it makes more financial sense to improve the insulation and air seal your home so that your costly oil furnace runs less often.
a forced  air unit will be more expensive option ($8k) compared to $4k for the ductless  unit.
option b could mean installing a high efficiency gas furnace that costs about $5k or a standard gas furnace that is 15% less efficient and costs about $3k.
many homeowners do not want to buy homes that have oil heat.
a house that needs less heat also requires  a smaller furnace so you can save money by buying a smaller heater if you have  already done work to keep heat inside the house.
to upgrade  this system, three options generally include: a) keep maintaining the old  furnace and replace it with a new oil furnace when it breaks; b) installing gas  or c) install an inverter driven heat pump.
the forced air, however, will heat a larger area of the house than a ductless model.
many homeowners do not want to buy homes  that have oil heat.
if you want a gas stove for the better cooking experience, consider  an induction stove top which is the not only the most efficient but also the  top performing cooking appliance (yep, even better than gas).
at current energy prices, a high efficiency gas furnace would cost half as  much as an oil furnace and an inverter driven heat pump would cost about a  third as much as an oil furnace.
natural gas and oil furnaces would lock you into one fuel type; a heat pump could be powered by many different fuel types depending on what the utility chooses to generate.
saving money is just one of them.
while the upfront costs of  some of these options are significantly higher than others, the added  efficiency of these more expensive heaters will pay for themselves over time.
gas and electric utilities, such as puget sound  energy and seattle city light, often offer rebates for insulation to help keep  the heat inside your home.
this is  in contrast to your oil furnace that is either on or off, which results in wide  temperature swings in the house.
base service charges.
the heat pump can operate in reverse and provide cooling in the summer time.
if you convert to electricity or gas, you may become eligible for additional incentives to weatherize your home.
additional indoor units add $1.5k each to  the initial $4k.
both the gas/oil furnace and heat pump will  require a similar level of regular maintenance.
a gas water heater is also less efficient  than a heat pump water heater but may be less costly to operate than an  existing electric water heater.
inverter driven heat pumps can modulate their fans and heaters to perfectly match the heating demands of the house.
going with  gas would cost you an additional $120/yr.
one benefit to the ductless system is that you can locally heat one part of the house instead of heating the entire house with a forced air system.
high efficiency gas furnaces can modulate too  but they are more expensive than standard models.
the heat pump can operate in reverse and  provide cooling in the summer time.
the gas and oil furnace is a fossil fuel and the heat pump could run on renewable energy sources.
if you want a gas stove for the better cooking experience, consider an induction stove top which is the not only the most efficient but also the top performing cooking appliance (yep, even better than gas).
a ductless heat pump would allow you to remove all the ductwork in the basement and reclaim some headroom and space including the closet the furnace is currently in.
to upgrade this system, three options generally include: a) keep maintaining the old furnace and replace it with a new oil furnace when it breaks; b) installing gas or c) install an inverter driven heat pump.
oil is an expensive way to heat your house, and those who heat with oil should consider some other options for replacing this system.
cooking does not account for a large  amount of energy use, and an electric stove is about twice as efficient as a  gas stove.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
you may not be planning on replacing these other two appliances  and doing so may cost a lot of money.
if you convert to electricity or gas, you may become  eligible for additional incentives to weatherize your home.
at current energy prices, a high efficiency gas furnace would cost half as much as an oil furnace and an inverter driven heat pump would cost about a third as much as an oil furnace.
this is in contrast to your oil furnace that is either on or off, which results in wide temperature swings in the house.
inverter driven heat pumps can modulate their  fans and heaters to perfectly match the heating demands of the house.
gas and electric utilities, such as puget sound energy and seattle city light, often offer rebates for insulation to help keep the heat inside your home.
gas and oil require you to keep your ductwork.
leave a reply click here to cancel reply.
an induction  stove top is, however, very expensive ~$2k.
option b could mean installing a high efficiency gas furnace that costs  about $5k or a standard gas furnace that is 15% less efficient and costs about  $3k.
a switch from oil provides tremendous positive opportunities for  homeowners.
cooking with gas releases more pollutants in the house and it would be best to have a better functioning kitchen exhaust fan in that scenario.
posted february 16, 2012 | leave a comment photo: old oil fuel truck (source: http://freepages.history.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~dickbolt/spfldfueloiltruck.jpg) submitted by charlie rogers, habitat home energy specialist (http://www.habitataudits.com/)
both the gas/oil furnace and heat pump will require a similar level of regular maintenance.
if you heat with oil, you are probably spending between $1000 and $2000 annually on oil to heat your home, and possibly more based on fluctuating crude prices.
locally heating is more efficient than heating the entire house.
insulate & air seal.
a ductless heat pump requires  the least amount of maintenance.
a house that needs less heat also requires a smaller furnace so you can save money by buying a smaller heater if you have already done work to keep heat inside the house.
the gas and oil furnace is a fossil fuel and  the heat pump could run on renewable energy sources.
you may not be planning on replacing these other two appliances and doing so may cost a lot of money.
natural gas and oil furnaces would lock  you into one fuel type; a heat pump could be powered by many different fuel  types depending on what the utility chooses to generate.
a  ductless heat pump would allow you to remove all the ductwork in the basement  and reclaim some headroom and space including the closet the furnace is  currently in.
a switch from oil provides tremendous positive opportunities for homeowners.
one benefit to the ductless system is that  you can locally heat one part of the house instead of heating the entire house  with a forced air system.
seattle city light’s monthly base service charge is $3.30 and puget sound energy’s is $10.
a gas water heater is also less efficient than a heat pump water heater but may be less costly to operate than an existing electric water heater.
an induction stove top is, however, very expensive ~$2k.
the heat pump’s outdoor unit, while quieter  than traditional air conditioners, will be noisier than a gas furnace.
oftentimes it makes more  financial sense to improve the insulation and air seal your home so that your  costly oil furnace runs less often.
pse’s deal to help cover the cost of bringing gas to your house may require you to change over your water heater and stove to gas.
making the switch from oil – the most expensive way to heat your home posted february 16, 2012 | leave a comment photo: old oil fuel truck (source:  http://freepages.history.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~dickbolt/spfldfueloiltruck.jpg) submitted by charlie rogers, habitat home energy specialist   (http://www.habitataudits.com/)
while the upfront costs of some of these options are significantly higher than others, the added efficiency of these more expensive heaters will pay for themselves over time.
pse’s deal to help cover the cost of  bringing gas to your house may require you to change over your water heater and  stove to gas.
the ductless units are good for heating large open spaces like your living room/kitchen/entry area.
here are some other things to consider if you are on the fence about switching from oil: upfront v. operating costs.
cooking with gas releases more  pollutants in the house and it would be best to have a better functioning  kitchen exhaust fan in that scenario.
high efficiency gas furnaces can modulate too but they are more expensive than standard models.
bringing gas into the home or  keeping oil presents risks for carbon monoxide poisoning and gas/oil leaks.
oil is an expensive way to heat your house, and those who heat with oil  should consider some other options for replacing this system.
a forced air unit will be more expensive option ($8k) compared to $4k for the ductless unit.
if you heat with  oil, you are probably spending between $1000 and $2000 annually on oil to heat  your home, and possibly more based on fluctuating crude prices.
locally heating is more efficient than heating the  entire house.
cooking does not account for a large amount of energy use, and an electric stove is about twice as efficient as a gas stove.
the ductless units are good for heating large open spaces like  your living room/kitchen/entry area.
the forced air, however, will heat a larger area of the house than a  ductless model.