delivery fast, free delivery direct to your door to most addresses in mainland united kingdom security our online payment section has the very latest security encryption available in the united kingdom.
shop online securely with total piece of mind.
rrp: £535 broseley  winchester cast iron gas stove save £124 elegance and sophistication describe this stove.
pages: 1  2  3  4  5  6 (6 pages) reasons to shop at hotprice... knowledge we have years of experience in the british fireplaces  industry and are able to offer expert design and technical advice.
our buyers guide is here to help  you with your purchase.
pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 (6 pages)
click here> a small selection of popular gas fires, electric fires,  stoves and complete fireplaces recommended by our manager.
today's housing interiors demand slim line appliances and the canterbury gas fits the requirement by ensuring it sits adequately on any standard size hearth.
pages: 1  2  3  4  5  6  (6 pages)
click here> a small selection of popular gas fires, electric fires, stoves and complete fireplaces recommended by our manager.
all broseley stoves are manufactured in the traditional way and are the perfect choice for many rooms, whether for continuous or occasional use.
combining both pure lines and soft curves, the gazco riva nemos balanced flue  gas stove has an allure that is immediate.
the broseley  winchester incorporates unique side viewing windows so the beauty and warmth of  the fire can be seen and felt from all aspects of your living room.
this is a clean and effective cast iron stove with the beauty of real flames and the convenience of both natural or propane gas.
our buyers guide is here to help you with your purchase.
your advice and superb customer service is the best i have ever received both before and after the sale.
rrp: £929 broseley  lincoln cast iron balanced flue gas stove save £150 designed especially for homes without a chimney or flue!
click here> flue products we are happy to quote on all flue related products including gas flue liners & solid fuel, twin-wall flue systems.
rrp: £989 clearance - gazco riva nemos balanced flue gas stove save £789 clearance product -  new and in stock!
the broseley winchester incorporates unique side viewing windows so the beauty and warmth of the fire can be seen and felt from all aspects of your living room.
please  email us with your requirements.
mr f webb hi, just to let you know that our fire is in, working and could not be better.
what our customers say... just to let you know our fire arrived today as you said it would.
unsure  about what type of gas fire you need?
rrp: £2,389 £1,600 inc vat dovre 1800 gas fireplace stove save £££'s whether built-in as part of a conventional fireplace or combined with one of dovre's canopies to create an impressive inglenook setting, this superb fireplace offers traditional style and atmosphere with the convenience of gas.
rrp: £2,389 dovre  1800 gas fireplace stove save £££'s whether built-in as part of a conventional fireplace or  combined with one of dovre's canopies to create an impressive inglenook  setting, this superb fireplace offers traditional style and atmosphere with the  convenience of gas.
so the fire not only looks highly realistic but  also provides you with effective and controllable warmth.
it has been a  pleasure to have dealt with you.
rrp: £929 £836 inc vat broseley thurcroft flueless portable gas stove save £127
we can now deliver a  selection of our fires & fireplaces and stoves throughout ireland.
jenny turner see all 194 reviews> to most mainland uk addresses fireplace buyers guide searching for gas fires, electric fires, wood burning stoves or complete fireplaces?
united kingdom geo: 53.546783n , -2.197814w
if you feel a chill anywhere around the house, just wheel your mobile heater to wherever you need it!
i am very impressed at the high level of customer service offered post sale by hotprice.
unsure about what type of gas fire you need?
rrp: £929 £836 inc vat broseley lincoln cast iron balanced flue gas stove save £150 designed especially for homes without a chimney or flue!
dovre 280 cast iron balanced  flue gas stove save £££'s for homes without a chimney or flue, the balanced flue version of dovre's  280 gas stove features a realistic log fuel effect and has the option of remote  controls.
or baffled by the terminology used on this site?
the broseley canterbury balanced flue gas stove follows on from the phenomenal success of the electric and conventional gas versions.
today's housing interiors demand  slim line appliances and the canterbury gas fits the requirement by ensuring it  sits adequately on any standard size hearth.
sort products by: product name price - lower first  price - highest first broseley canterbury cast iron balanced  flue gas stove save £150 balanced flue gas products benefit from their ability to be installed into  properties which do not have a conventional chimney.
incredible savings on the stunning, contemporary gas stove.
dovre 280 cast iron gas stove save £££'s an all-new model, the 280 gas stove blends dovres pedigree in casting with the latest gas flame technology.
this is a  clean and effective cast iron stove with the beauty of real flames and the  convenience of both natural or propane gas.
details > - home | - site map | - about us | - jargon buster | - contact us | - terms & conditions | - faq | © 2007 hotprice.co.uk limited fireplace blog hotprice.co.uk harpoon house sharp street middleton manchester m24 1ad
sort products by: product name price - lower first price - highest first broseley canterbury cast iron balanced flue gas stove save £150 balanced flue gas products benefit from their ability to be installed into properties which do not have a conventional chimney.
rrp: £989 £890 inc vat clearance - gazco riva nemos balanced flue gas stove save £789 clearance product - new and in stock!
your advice and superb customer service is the best i have ever received both  before and after the sale.
visit our jargon buster page.
main content area you have searched for: product type - gas stove (68  products found!)
delivery fast, free delivery direct to your door to most addresses   in mainland united kingdom security our online payment  section has the very latest security encryption available in the united  kingdom.
thanks again for your assistance.
the broseley thurcroft mobile gas stove has a realistic  living flame that gives the warmth, appearance and atmosphere of a traditional  stove.
i am very  impressed at the high level of customer service offered post sale by hotprice.
dovre 2700 gas fireplace stove save £££'s enjoy all the convenience of a realistic gas fire with the traditional characteristics of a built-in or canopied fireplace in the excellent dovre 2700 gas.
main menu - home - about us - showroom - contact us - view basket - installation - clearance - faq keyword search i'm looking for ...
the lincoln gas stove is an efficient, effective, medium output stove at an affordable price suitable for any modern or traditional home.
jargon explained confused by the type of flue you have?
thank you all so much for such an easy and enjoyable transaction...
you dealt with my query promptly and professionally and demonstrated your  knowledge of the products you sell and your concern that customers are happy  with their order.
or baffled by the terminology used on  this site?
to find a company who take the time and trouble to  give such service to their customers as yours is hard to find.
rrp: £1,239 broseley york midi cast iron gas stove save £99 the broseley york midi gas stove offers heat output of up  to 4.6kw.
main content area gas stove you have searched for: product type - gas stove (68 products found!)
keyword search product search product search all manufacturers aga stoves agnews / cast tec fireplaces baxi fires be modern broseley stoves burley fires carron fireplaces & stoves celsi fires clearance courts pureglow fires creative fires crystal fires dimplex fires dovre stoves dunsley stoves ecowarm stoves eko fires elgin & hall euro flames stoves evolve faber fireplaces firebelly stoves flamerite fires flavel fires focal point fires franco belge stoves gallery fireplaces gavin scott design fireplaces gazco fires hillandale stoves hunter stoves kinder fires legend fires morso stoves nordpeis stoves restwell chairs robinson willey smeg flueless fires stovax stoves stove pipe & accessories superior fires valor fires verine fires vermont castings stoves wanders fires & stoves winther browne yeoman stoves all product types fireplaces gas fires electric fires wood burning stoves multi-fuel stoves solid fuel stove defra approved stoves boiler stoves flue liners, stove pipe & accessories high efficiency gas fires fireplace package deals flueless gas fires hole in the wall fires electric fireplace suites gas stove electric stove balanced flue gas fires power flue gas fires fanned flue gas fires lpg gas fires stone fireplaces marble fireplaces wooden fireplaces cast iron fireplaces fireplaces for solid fuel basket fires range cookers wall heaters wood burning cookers massage chairs recliner chairs rise & recliner chairs swivel recliner chairs fireside chairs adjustable beds & accessories all product styles contemporary style freestanding fires glass fronted gas fires hang-on-the-wall style hearth mounted fireplaces hole-in-the-wall style inset fires outset gas fires stove suitable for class 1 flues suitable for class 2 pre-cast flues suitable for class 2 pre-fabricated flues suitable for no chimney or flue traditional style browse products menu browse products - fires, fireplaces & stoves - fireplaces - gas fires - electric fires - wood burning stoves - multi-fuel stoves - solid fuel stove - defra approved stoves - boiler stoves - flue liners, stove pipe & accessories - high efficiency gas fires - fireplace package deals - flueless gas fires - hole in the wall fires - electric fireplace suites - gas stove - electric stove - balanced flue gas fires - power flue gas fires - fanned flue gas fires - lpg gas fires - stone fireplaces - marble fireplaces - wooden fireplaces - cast iron fireplaces - fireplaces for solid fuel - basket fires - range cookers - wall heaters - wood burning cookers - chairs & beds - massage chairs - recliner chairs - rise & recliner chairs - swivel recliner chairs - fireside chairs - adjustable beds & accessories most of our fabulous range of our wood burning stoves are offered with a quality stove installation kit absolutely free!
if you are looking for a job in the fireplace industry we would love to hear  from you.
the broseley thurcroft mobile gas stove has a realistic living flame that gives the warmth, appearance and atmosphere of a traditional stove.
rrp: £1,499 £1,349 inc vat broseley canterbury cast iron gas stove save £93 the broseley canterbury slimline gas stove follows on from the phenomenal success of the electric version.
the lincoln gas  stove is an efficient, effective, medium output stove at an affordable price  suitable for any modern or traditional home.
dovre 280 cast iron gas  stove save £££'s an  all-new model, the 280 gas stove blends dovres pedigree in casting with the  latest gas flame technology.
to find a company who take the time and trouble to give such service to their customers as yours is hard to find.
please email us with your requirements.
you dealt with my query promptly and professionally and demonstrated your knowledge of the products you sell and your concern that customers are happy with their order.
i will certainly be recommending your company  to all my friends and relatives.
rrp: £1,499 broseley  canterbury cast iron gas stove save £93 the broseley canterbury slimline gas stove follows on from the  phenomenal success of the electric version.
all broseley stoves are manufactured in the traditional way and are  the perfect choice for many rooms, whether for continuous or occasional use.
dovre 280 cast iron balanced flue gas stove save £££'s for homes without a chimney or flue, the balanced flue version of dovre's 280 gas stove features a realistic log fuel effect and has the option of remote controls.
what our customers say... just to let you know our  fire arrived today as you said it would.
if you are looking for a job in the fireplace industry we would love to hear from you.
i will certainly be recommending your company to all my friends and relatives.
thank you all so much for such an easy  and enjoyable transaction...
we can now deliver a selection of our fires & fireplaces and stoves throughout ireland.
combining both pure lines and soft curves, the gazco riva nemos balanced flue gas stove has an allure that is immediate.
the broseley canterbury  balanced flue gas stove follows on from the phenomenal success of the electric  and conventional gas versions.
rrp: £535 £408 inc vat broseley winchester cast iron gas stove save £124 elegance and sophistication describe this stove.
it has been a pleasure to have dealt with you.
fireside chairs adjustable beds & accessories most of our fabulous range of our wood burning stoves  are offered with a quality stove installation kit absolutely free!
rrp: £929 broseley  thurcroft flueless portable gas stove save £127
the slimline design means the broseley lincoln balanced flue gas stove is ideally suited to combine within a fireplace on a standard sized hearth rrp: £1,499 £1,349 inc vat broseley lincoln cast iron gas stove save £93 today's housing interiors demand slim line appliances and the broseley lincoln gas stove fits the requirements by ensuring it sits adequately on any standard size hearth.
dovre 2700 gas  fireplace stove save £££'s enjoy all the convenience of a realistic gas fire with the traditional  characteristics of a built-in or canopied fireplace in the excellent dovre 2700  gas.
click here> flue products we are happy to quote on all flue related products  including gas flue liners & solid fuel, twin-wall flue systems.
if you feel a chill anywhere around the house, just wheel your mobile  heater to wherever you need it!
pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 (6 pages) reasons to shop at hotprice... knowledge we have years of experience in the british fireplaces industry and are able to offer expert design and technical advice.
we are always looking for dynamic people to join our expanding team.
the slimline design means the broseley lincoln balanced flue gas stove is  ideally suited to combine within a fireplace on a standard sized hearth rrp: £1,499 broseley lincoln cast iron gas stove save £93 today's housing interiors demand  slim line appliances and the broseley lincoln gas stove fits the requirements  by ensuring it sits adequately on any standard size hearth.
jenny  turner to most  mainland uk addresses fireplace buyers guide searching for gas fires, electric fires,  wood burning stoves or complete fireplaces?
rrp: £1,239 £1,115 inc vat broseley york midi cast iron gas stove save £99 the broseley york midi gas stove offers heat output of up to 4.6kw.
mr j sharples thank you for all your support on my query.
so the fire not only looks highly realistic but also provides you with effective and controllable warmth.