multi-fuel stoves sound best, but i know little about them.
if i decide to skip the fireplace or stove, i am thinking of covering the brick  somehow.
the vent is a little ugly, it's silver.
i would assume there's all  kinds of options for covering up the vent portion.
last edited by joy; 08-07-2011 at 01:04 am.
it has this  corner brick and old natural gas heater/stove, that i need ideas for.
if i put a fireplace or stove, perhaps i can still have drywall there.
i'm trying to decide if i should remove the stove, or get something else like a fireplace.
if it's not modern looking, it should look quaint in an old-fashioned way.
the paneling is only in the corner behind the stove.
the  rest of the room is drywall.
i'm renovating a room that will be a main room.
check out some ideas: natural stove vintage design - google search forum rules
the paneling is only in the corner behind the  stove.
if i decide to skip the fireplace or stove, i am thinking of covering the brick somehow.
also, if i remove the stove, i would put drywall instead of the paneling.
i  consider the whole corner ugly.
here is a link to some images for ideas.
if it's  not modern looking, it should look quaint in an old-fashioned way.
the rest of the room is drywall.
i suggest not getting rid of it, but designing around it so that its surroundings are more modern.
there are plenty of chic vintage designs that incorporate natural gas stoves.
heater.jpg the stove vents to the chimney already, so are there fireplaces which are easy to attach up the same way?
i have some interest in wood burning stoves, or something more versatile / efficient / environmentally friendly.
they are also expensive, and i need the cost to be reasonable.
seems smart to save money over electric heaters.
3 renovation ideas - fireplace, stove for heating?
a fireplace might  work better in a different location, instead of fitting one here in the corner.
multi-fuel  stoves sound best, but i know little about them.
i would assume there's all kinds of options for covering up the vent portion.
anything i choose should be relatively pet safe.
the carpet is being replaced with wood laminate.
the stove itself adds the vintage touch - and in that case, the rusty old metal will look great, rather than shabby.
a fireplace might work better in a different location, instead of fitting one here in the corner.
i consider the whole corner ugly.
heater.jpg the stove vents to the chimney already, so are there fireplaces which are easy  to attach up the same way?
it has this corner brick and old natural gas heater/stove, that i need ideas for.
they are also expensive, and i  need the cost to be reasonable.
i'm trying to decide if i should remove the  stove, or get something else like a fireplace.
or add a coat of paint to the stove to bring it up-to-date a bit.
i have some interest in wood burning stoves, or  something more versatile / efficient / environmentally friendly.