let's look at the most important tools you'll need: wok the wok is a semi-spherical pan useful for tossing and cooking a lot of food easily and quickly.
off goes the stalk, and the shucks and inner silk almost fall off by themselves!)
choose the style that works best for you, or make do with a good heavy cast-iron skillet and learn to work around its limitations you can make good chinese food without a wok if you cook carefully!
mine, illustrated, has two  short handles, but i'd find it easier to use with a single long handle.
if all  you know is that it involves a wok, here's the full picture: chinese cooking involves many techniques.
water must be replaced in the wok as it evaporates  during cooking.
i have never seen any model of "electric wok" that can  develop the serious heat needed to cook chinese food properly, and it is too  wide and flat to make a good electric deep-fryer.
it absorbs the great pre-heating that makesgood wok cookery possible on a western stove, and it is the model i recommend.
and many, even most of these techniques can be done in a  wok!
the medium size, which is best for most general  use, is about 4" high with a blade about 6" long.
although i am a "purist" about some things, i am no good with a sharpening stone and steel i am perfectly happy with the zippy little $10 knife sharpener i got at a restaurant supply store.
chinese kitchenware how much do you know about chinese cooking?
its shape makes it decidedly unstable on the flat  burner of a western electric or gas stove.
you can stack several steamers, with items that need more  vigorous steaming places in the lower rack.
you can stack several steamers, with items that need more vigorous steaming places in the lower rack.
you can use it for  slicing, shredding, chopping and mincing, and one great summer use: shucking  corn!
i found a heavy cast-iron wok with a round-bottomed interior and a flat bottom!
simply rinse with water instead.
my kids say  to remind you that in addition to teaching cooking and staying up till 2am  writing e-books, you might benefit from exercise.
and it will switch itself off  when the rice is perfectly cooked, and keep the cooked rice warm for several  hours.
(if you wonder what i mean about serious heat, get a peek behind the scenes in a chinese restaurant and you'll see the equivalent of a blast furnace under the wok!
wire strainer used for deep-frying foods, the frying strainer is made from wire mesh with  a flat bamboo handle.
you can do without it, yes, and you can also do without indoor plumbing, a car,  air conditioning and a phone.
if all you know is that it involves a wok, here's the full picture: chinese cooking involves many techniques.
the electric rice cooker is a "switch it on and forget it"  device.
(if you wonder what i mean  about serious heat, get a peek behind the scenes in a chinese restaurant and  you'll see the equivalent of a blast furnace under the wok!
also, you can even serve food right  in them (very atmospheric!)
i find that a  wooden spoon works well enough, but this works better.
water must be replaced in the wok as it evaporates during cooking.
"screen" strainers are shaped wrong for use in the wok, and perforated metal ones don't drain quickly enough.
it cleans in the dishwasher and will serve you in many other cuisines  as well.
if you receive one, take it back  to the store!
a very helpful tool for stir-frying and scooping up food.
i am perfectly happy with the zippy little $10 knife sharpener  i got at a restaurant supply store.
there are "electric woks," which plug into the wall and look like a neat gift idea.
you can do without it, yes, and you can also do without indoor plumbing, a car, air conditioning and a phone.
you will also either need to sharpen it frequently.
all have square, thick blades of  easily-sharpened carbon steel.
the electric rice cooker is a "switch it on and forget it" device.
the chinese  restaurant range delivers 160,000 btu/hr while the best home gas ranges max out  at 16,000 btu/hr.)
the  plain uncoated steel wok is the most popular, and it will serve you well if you  keep it seasoned as you would cast iron.
and it will switch itself off when the rice is perfectly cooked, and keep the cooked rice warm for several hours.
the chinese restaurant range delivers 160,000 btu/hr while the best home gas ranges max out at 16,000 btu/hr.)
the high heat at the center/bottom cooks the food  quickly, and stirring or tossing moves the cooked food to the cooler sides.
the plain uncoated steel wok is the most popular, and it will serve you well if you keep it seasoned as you would cast iron.
buy one appropriately sized to the size of your wok.
i  found a heavy cast-iron wok with a round-bottomed interior and a flat bottom!
as discussed in the chapter on "rice,"  you can get one for a few dollars; certainly don't spend over $50.
manufacturers supply a metal ring to  fit underneath the round wok, allowing it to sit over a gas burner, but that  same ring keeps it away from an electric heating element, and the round bottom  would contact the electric heat poorly anyway.
cleaver chinese cleavers come in 3 sizes.
a 14" size is a good choice for the home.
a very handy item indeed.
the medium size, which is best for most general use, is about 4" high with a blade about 6" long.
stacking bamboo steamers with lid this wonderful and picturesque item fits right inside the wok over some  boiling water.
choose  the style that works best for you, or make do with a good heavy cast-iron  skillet and learn to work around its limitations — you can make good  chinese food without a wok if you cook carefully!
how much do you know about chinese cooking?
you will also either need  to sharpen it frequently.
metal steamer you may see simple flat perforated plates offered for steaming things in  your wok, but they just don't have the charm of bamboo and they are harder to  handle and keep level.
the high heat at the center/bottom cooks the food quickly, and stirring or tossing moves the cooked food to the cooler sides.
wire strainer used for deep-frying foods, the frying strainer is made from wire mesh with a flat bamboo handle.
yes, it's an essential … you really, really need it, i assure you!
yes, it's an essential you really, really need it, i assure you!
in china, the wok fits into a hole in  the top of a wood stove.
stir-frying is the use most  people know for the marvelous pan called a "wok," but other common  cooking techniques used in chinese cuisine include boiling, steaming,  deep-frying, and more.
it will hold plenty of water (no more running dry) and it has all the capacity you want!
it cleans in the dishwasher and will serve you in many other cuisines as well.
avoid detergent when washing bamboo steamers, as the bamboo  will absorb the flavor of the soap.
if you are steaming large quantities of food, like a lot of dumplings, you may want a large metal steamer dedicated to that task alone.
it will hold plenty of water (no more running dry) and it has all the capacity  you want!
electric rice cooker
off goes the stalk, and the  shucks and inner silk almost fall off by themselves!)
manufacturers supply a metal ring to fit underneath the round wok, allowing it to sit over a gas burner, but that same ring keeps it away from an electric heating element, and the round bottom would contact the electric heat poorly anyway.
although i  am a "purist" about some things, i am no good with a sharpening stone  and steel …
in china, the wok fits into a hole in the top of a wood stove.
stacking bamboo steamers with lid this wonderful and picturesque item fits right inside the wok over some boiling water.
just add a measured amount of dry rice plus 1½ that amount of  water (no salt, butter or anything else, please!)
"screen" strainers  are shaped wrong for use in the wok, and perforated metal ones don't drain  quickly enough.
flat-bottomed wok designs solved the problem in a way, but the heat is no longer concentrated as well right at the center, so more oil is required, and it's harder to toss ingredients.
if you know a lot, you're probably beyond what i'm teaching here.
a 14" size is a good  choice for the home.
i do not find any need for teflon or other nonstick coatings, especially in view of the need for very hot pre-heating,which is very harmful to nonstick coatings.
i have never seen any model of "electric wok" that can develop the serious heat needed to cook chinese food properly, and it is too wide and flat to make a good electric deep-fryer.
its shape makes it decidedly unstable on the flat burner of a western electric or gas stove.
it absorbs the great pre-heating that makesgood wok cookery possible on  a western stove, and it is the model i recommend.
mine, illustrated, has two short handles, but i'd find it easier to use with a single long handle.
metal steamer you may see simple flat perforated plates offered for steaming things in your wok, but they just don't have the charm of bamboo and they are harder to handle and keep level.
avoid detergent when washing bamboo steamers, as the bamboo will absorb the flavor of the soap.
i do not find any need for teflon or other nonstick  coatings, especially in view of the need for very hot pre-heating,which is very  harmful to nonstick coatings.
if you receive one, take it back to the store!
also, you can even serve food right in them (very atmospheric!)
a rice cooker and his electric rice cooker.
just add a measured amount of dry rice plus 1½ that amount of water (no salt, butter or anything else, please!)
as discussed in the chapter on "rice," you can get one for a few dollars; certainly don't spend over $50.
and many, even most of these techniques can be done in a wok!
my kids say to remind you that in addition to teaching cooking and staying up till 2am writing e-books, you might benefit from exercise.
let's look at the most important tools you'll need: wok the wok is a semi-spherical pan useful for tossing and cooking a lot of  food easily and quickly.
a dull knife is frustratingly ineffective.
i find that a wooden spoon works well enough, but this works better.
all have square, thick blades of easily-sharpened carbon steel.
stir-frying is the use most people know for the marvelous pan called a "wok," but other common cooking techniques used in chinese cuisine include boiling, steaming, deep-frying, and more.
there are "electric woks," which plug  into the wall and look like a neat gift idea.
if you are steaming large quantities of food, like a lot  of dumplings, you may want a large metal steamer dedicated to that task alone.
flat-bottomed wok designs solved  the problem in a way, but the heat is no longer concentrated as well right at  the center, so more oil is required, and it's harder to toss ingredients.
you can use it for slicing, shredding, chopping and mincing, and one great summer use: shucking corn!
buy one appropriately  sized to the size of your wok.