gas burns more cleanly than coal (which is used to produce the vast majority of residential electricity in the united states).
gas burns more cleanly than coal (which is  used to produce the vast majority of residential electricity in the united  states).
if you drink your tea with a meal, use the same burner you cooked with to heat your kettle while the burner is still hot.
a cup of tea, made by boiling only the amount of water you need, produces about one tenth of the carbon footprint generated by a large cup of cappuccino.
**”source: “best way to boil water” by luke and comments by gregory hancock, august 2009 http://blog.plotwatt.com.
this takes advantage of  the residual heat left in the burner, and reduces the energy necessary to heat  your water.
and don’t forget to bring  your water containers back to the store to be refilled.
the cold-brew method eliminates the energy needed to heat your water and takes advantage of an appliance (your refrigerator) that is already running in your home.
tea is a relatively energy-efficient beverage.
these are much more energy-efficient than the microwave and often boil your water in half the time.
**”source: “best way to boil water” by luke and comments by  gregory hancock, august 2009 http://blog.plotwatt.com.
if you are making iced tea, opt to use the cold-brew method rather than the hot-brew method.
** for electric stove users.
** cold-brew iced tea.
check here foran easy step-by-step guide to how to make iced tea – eco-friendly cold-brew method.
and don’t forget to bring your water containers back to the store to be refilled.
these  are much more energy-efficient than the microwave and often boil your water in  half the time.
this reduces the amount of packaging material necessary to transport the water, and typically saves you some cash, too.
* here are a few tips to make your tea habit even more eco-friendly: measure and then fill.
if you  are making iced tea, opt to use the cold-brew method rather than the hot-brew  method.
put only enough water in your  kettle to fill your teapot or mug.
by taking care to boil only as much  water as you need, you’re not wasting any water, and you’re not  expending any more energy than necessary to bring it to the right temperature.
the shorter the distance your spring water has to travel to reach you, the less  carbon is emitted into the atmosphere.
to put this into  perspective, if you drink four cups of black tea every day for a year, you will  have used as much energy as a single 40-mile car ride.
natural gas is definitely not a perfect solution for all of our energy  needs, but until technology and renewable energy markets develop further,  it’s still better than coal.
also, if you plan on resteeping your tea with leftover water boiled  for the first infusion, turn the power to the stove off in between infusions,  but leave the kettle on top of the stove to absorb the leftover heat.
put only enough water in your kettle to fill your teapot or mug.
opt to use tap water first if you have safe drinking water that is relatively free of strong smells and tastes.
if not, use natural spring water when brewing your tea and opt for local spring water if available.
eco-brewing tips tea is a relatively energy-efficient beverage.
for tea drinkers at the office.
consider using an ac-powered (plug-in) kettle as an alternative to a microwave.
*source: “the world’s water, 2008-2009″ by peter gleick, et al, www.waterfootprint.org.
a cup of tea, made by  boiling only the amount of water you need, produces about one tenth of the  carbon footprint generated by a large cup of cappuccino.
if you drink your tea with a meal, use the same burner you cooked  with to heat your kettle while the burner is still hot.
on the other hand, the  energy involved in a three-a-day latte habit is equivalent to flying halfway to  europe!
by taking care to boil only as much water as you need, you’re not wasting any water, and you’re not expending any more energy than necessary to bring it to the right temperature.
consider  using an ac-powered (plug-in) kettle as an alternative to a microwave.
the shorter the distance your spring water has to travel to reach you, the less carbon is emitted into the atmosphere.
generally speaking,  it’s more energy-friendly to use a gas stove than an electric stove or  ac-powered (plug-in) kettle.
the cold-brew method eliminates the energy needed to heat your  water and takes advantage of an appliance (your refrigerator) that is already  running in your home.
also, if you plan on resteeping your tea with leftover water boiled for the first infusion, turn the power to the stove off in between infusions, but leave the kettle on top of the stove to absorb the leftover heat.
to put this into perspective, if you drink four cups of black tea every day for a year, you will have used as much energy as a single 40-mile car ride.
generally speaking, it’s more energy-friendly to use a gas stove than an electric stove or ac-powered (plug-in) kettle.
this takes advantage of the residual heat left in the burner, and reduces the energy necessary to heat your water.
if not, use natural  spring water when brewing your tea and opt for local spring water if available.
*source: “the world’s water,  2008-2009″ by peter gleick, et al, www.waterfootprint.org.
natural gas is definitely not a perfect solution for all of our energy needs, but until technology and renewable energy markets develop further, it’s still better than coal.
try our eco brewing tips to minimize  your impact on the earth!
check here foran easy step-by-step guide to how to make  iced tea – eco-friendly cold-brew method.
on the other hand, the energy involved in a three-a-day latte habit is equivalent to flying halfway to europe!
opt to use tap water first if you have safe drinking  water that is relatively free of strong smells and tastes.
this reduces the  amount of packaging material necessary to transport the water, and typically  saves you some cash, too.