don’t have an account yet?
use the wastebasket for garbage.
if you don't hear gas coming out when the burner is turned on, gas isn't getting to the stove.
you may have to grip it with pliers to unscrew it.
it could be as simple as turning the dial to a cooler setting.
someone may have bumped the dial while putting away the milk or an inquisitive toddler may have twisted the knob.
sign up today for free and become part of the family handyman community of diyers.
reader’s digest | fresh home magazine | taste of home recipes | on the house
our pro plumber says it's not uncommon to find that the refrigerator controls are set wrong.
one of the most common causes of insufficient heat or cooled air is a plugged furnace filter.
yes and they are usually tied to the same circuit as the bathrooms in the home.
check to make sure the gas is turned on.
you do not know how many calls i have had to come out and push a button.
+ add your comment+ add your comment
even gas stoves need power.
another common cause of cold rooms during heating season is a blocked cold air return.
the outlet was completely clogged with a tangled web of plastic dental floss holders, which had to be removed one at a time with needle-nose pliers.
save x log in to my account log in to enjoy membership benefits from the family handyman.
if the stove is getting gas and has power, clean the igniter near the burner or clean out the pilot light hole.
member benefits: hello log in or join us get timely diy projects for your home and yard, plus a dream project for your wish list!
look in the circuit box for a gfci circuit breaker and in bathrooms, kitchens and laundry rooms for gfci outlets.
many of these plumbing, heating, electrical, air conditioning, and appliance repairs are simple things that homeowners overlook.
if it is, try turning the packing nut about an eighth turn with a wrench.
usually the answer is yes, and the fix is easy.
remove the aerator by turning it clockwise when you're looking down on it.
this may solve your problem.
also try spreading the terminals slightly to create a tighter connection.
when you slid the burner back into the top, the terminal didn't engage with the receptacle under the stove top or the plastic terminal block got knocked out of its holder.
home > diy projects > home  repair > diy tips on home repair > saving money: diy repair tips saving money: diy repair tips our pros share their favorite simple fixes for repairing common plumbing,  electrical, heating, cooling and appliance problems.
before you call the plumber, remove the metal cover located at the bottom of the water heater or simply look through the glass door to see if the pilot is lit.
the next time you see a suspicious puddle of water, look for a leaky valve before you call the plumber.
if you have one of these, check your owner's manual before you reach for the phone.
there are some household repairs that are so simple that even the pros feel bad about charging for them (really!).
if you hear gas coming out but the burner won't light, make sure the stove is plugged in.
remove the front grille and vacuum the coils.
the first thing our pro plumber asks is, “did you clean the stove recently?”
change inexpensive woven fiberglass filters once a month or buy a better-quality pleated filter and change it every three months to avoid heating and cooling problems.
over time, aerators get clogged with minerals or other bits of stuff that break loose from the inside of the pipes.
once it's off, you can take the parts out of the aerator and clean them, but it's usually better to simply replace it.
address remember me on this computer forgot your  password?
take it along to the hardware store to find an exact thread match.
i am a handyman and here in florida there also may be a gfci which btw stands for ground fault circuit interupter in the of all places the garage.
save yourself a service call.
© 2012 home service publications, inc.
the fix usually involves reinstalling the terminal block.
some high-efficiency water heaters don't have a pilot light that stays lit all the time.
log in to enjoy membership benefits from the family handyman.
our pro plumber got a call to unplug a toilet he had recently installed.
lift the stove-top to see what the problem is.
member benefits: get a free traditional bookcase project plan sign up for free diy newsletters save projects to your project binder ask and answer questions in our diy forums share comments on diy projects and more!
some outlets are protected by upstream gfcis or gfci circuit breakers.
email address sign up today for free and become part of the family handyman community of diyers.
if you don't see a small pilot light flame, follow the instructions for relighting the pilot on the label pasted to the tank.
look at the valve to see if water is leaking out around the valve stem.
member benefits: share what's on your mind and see what other diyers are thinking about.1 - 1 of 1 comments show per page: 20 all july 12, 7:18 pm [gmt -5] i would like to add somthing to the below repair tip: reset your gfci electrical outlets some outlets are protected by upstream gfcis or gfci circuit breakers.
$50.00 dollars please.
be sure your couch or an area rug isn't covering a cold air return vent because this can slow the entry of heated air into the room.
sign up today for free and become part of the family handyman community of  diyers.
other solutions in this collection are less obvious, but all of these repairs can save you a big chunk of change the next time something goes wrong.
he was surprised because he had put in a toilet that he knew was almost impossible to clog.
after repeated attempts with a plunger and a toilet auger, he gave up and removed the toilet to look in from the bottom.
if tightening the nut doesn't stop the leak, you'll have to shut off the main water valve, remove the handle and nut, and add to or replace the packing material—still a pretty easy fix.
cooling coils completely caked with pet hair and dust are also incredibly common.