when you see the condition of these old timers you won't believe it.
we  have how to manuals, rare products, books, reproduction parts, chrome and  porcelain services, thermostat refurbishment, custom safety valve systems,  etc… the list goes on just waiting to get you started in the right  direction.
the duck brothers fix it corner and cartoon and to leave you with a laugh, when fun was free!
quantity: pik n clik 2004 fall, x4 2004 summer, x3 2004 spring, x2 2004 winter, x1 2003 fall 2003 summer 2003 spring 2003 winter 2002 fall 2002 summer 2002 spring 2002 winter 2001 fall 2001 summer 2001 spring 2001 winter 2000 fall 2000 summer 2000 spring 2000 winter 1999 fall 1999 summer 1999 spring 1999
many of which have belonged to the american stove dynasty.
this is the first miller that we have seen and now is completely restored.
it changes from vacuum  cleaner to a carpet sweeper, k&m waffle baker, dr. leo baekelandt - father  of bakelite, g.e. coffee maker/dispenser, g.e. toasters, handyhot electric jr.
last 4 issues + mem + 4 back issues call (805) 643-3532  or  email  toac@sbcglobal.net   for assistance.
since still embracing the 50s fifty years later was released,editors from newspapers and home magazines have contacted us to do more old appliance interviews this year.
1995 summer - cover - c.1940s sunbeam toaster, 1931  g.e. hot plate, ‘31 g.e. washer, ‘32 norge fridge,’37
people who  lived in the country sorely missed having refrigeration due to lack of  electricity and gas service.
the rexair cleaner developed all the way back in the 1930s  used no dust bag at all, yet it trapped dirt and dust like no other cleaner  using just water!
there are some wonderful  bargains in there including a frigidaire electric stove in turquoise blue  enamel.
click to order spring 2001 issue featuring  - universal stove line of 1940 plus ge monitor top and the cp stove specifications universal stove line - a hand picked fine selection of their most  popular stoves.
an entire 50s ge kitchen in turquoise is for sale and it is totally complete!
theres a great picture of the original ad featuring old white sox in a magazine ad too all from many, many years ago.
remember the great look of the 50s actresses??
the history of chambers.
by the way, if you are longing to find a special service on old appliances, this issue has the largest directory ever!
click to order winter  2001 issue featuring - chambersville - large, medium and small extended issue
an arkansas gal by the name of launa morphew did.
grand prize winner receives $25.00 credit towards any product or service from our core company, j.e.s. enterprises, plus one past issue of the old road home.
first the 1931 toastermaster eight slice toaster and them the big kahuna savory radiant gas toaster that can brown 1,440 slices an hour!
click to order issues or 'combos' below summer 2002 first feature article - g.e. monitor top water cooler wonderland!
you have never seen any mt quite like this before.
1998 summer - in search of the lost bendix feature **, ge monitor top trucks, armstrong table stove, salt and pepper shakers, 1939 ge refrigerator, nesco tea ryte tea pot, peninsular stove, wedgewood gas range, silver king vacuums, open coil and calrod surface heating units, ohio state stove, moore brothers stove, 1933 frigidaire "air conditioned bed", kate smith's cookbook recipes - 'god bless america'.
this is a very handsome and artfully crafted stove that any old stove lover will want to see.
make it nice and brown by james apthorpe.
as a member of the old appliance club, you get the old road home magazine for free!
this is a terrific story by a gal who just couldnt do without an old range in her new kitchen.
how rare frigidaire with ancient frigidaire refrigerators, frigidaire automatic washer, red devil floor polisher '50, chips magic secret 1999 fall - (extended issue)
still alive and well - see a wonderful 1921 gurney electric range.
it is time to discover the magnificent roper.
besides everything you have just read about we have a terrific mail bag, old, odd and unusual appliances, also picture this -- the old maytag automatic washer with gyrafoam action and maytag dutch oven ad and the 1946 admiral appliance truck, all kinds of manuals to help you restore your stove, and dealers that are experts in restoration, parts and service.
it was just as large as the wedgewoods, o'keefe and merrits and other good ranges of the day.
glad you are an old stove lover.
membership + any 8 back issues specify which when you order 8 in 'comments'.
if you have ever wondered what goes on inside this  slab-sided chrome toaster you will definitely enjoy this feature.
last but not least, we have a six burner (with griddle) o'keefe &  merritt gas stove from the 1930s that was shipped new to brazil and spent 6  decades there before returning to california for a complete restoration.
if you love old stoves, this time around we are presenting the chambers  b model "imperial line" - see these magnificent, huge and  unusual ranges.
she also has other old appliances and grandmas wedgewood all of which you will see in her article.
here are two stoves rarely ever seen anywhere -- except in torh 2001.
it has eight burners and multiple ovens and sort of looks like 3 20 stoves welded together.
show everyone that your bubblingfountain of friendliness can neutralize even the dumbest, most irritating, idiotic behavior known to mankind... the electric triangle is zooming right
besides everything you have just read about we have a terrific mail bag, old, odd and unusual appliances, appliances found in the wilderness like an ancient conover dishwasher and glenwood range, all kinds of manuals to help you restore your stove, and dealers that are experts in restoration, parts and service.
the old, the odd, the unusual - one of the strangest heating devices of all time is the g.e. electric luminous heater ca.1915.
both light and efficient many people today are still big fans of this washer similar which can be likened to the little crosley cars from many days gone by.
click to order issues or 'combos' below jumbo extended edition the wonderful world of wedgewood stoves
some of the other curious vintage appliances are the early american beauty electric iron, the look-a-like sunbeam, a real electric egg beater (not a mixer), dripping-in-chrome old toasters, a huge combination oil/coal/gas magic chef combination stove from the 1930s, the homozone ancient home air purifier, for the home and a prime 100% restored okeefe & merritt range rebuilt from "ground up" for a very well known actor.
two features, wash n' dry &  steam n' press, 1930 westinghouse refrigerator assembly, magic chef 1000  series, hoover upright vac dusting set, universal table stove, underwood  electric dryer shaver, 1927 roper purple line stoves, royal culinaire food  mixer, irons - canadian ge hotpoint, knapp-monarch, proctor, miracle,  montgomery ward, rival and universal, the cook with gas truck, bugs bunny  waffle iron, 1930 ge air conditioner/radio cabinet, 1951 stove 2000
we are glad to say you will find all the contact information in torh  2001.
great old-time ads and displays ­ see the christmas model 1948 g.e. space maker refrigerator, a g.e .portable  mangle, a 1931 dormeyer mixer/juicer that stands on its head, and four  important, yet different styles of “modern” washers that were  introduced many decades ago for the home laundry.
letters include: shed trip over a cordless phone, burned down school to get him out of third grade, and hed starve to death in a supermarket picturing the ge commercial unit c-450 with glass doors and a mirror!
you will enjoy this article without a doubt.
few have heard of this unit and less have ever seen one in a-1 condition.
its a wild but sturdy looking unit that perhaps is still around in some kitchens today.
boasting a fully enameled surface, 6 burners, warming closet and double ovens, this stove has gone on to take its rightful place as one all time favorites in the gas range hall of fame.
and well – wait until you see the hardwick challenger gas stove that was rescued from a memphis junkyard and  refurbished!
wait until you see the 2,040-pound quick meal model #983-3!
and it’s kitchen partner a 1950 single door  frigidaire refrigerator.
is a trend about to happen?
in the article we were lucky enough to include a full blowup diagram of the parts too.
fun was free's "new ideas for older products".
we have a real  treat for you.
the third leg upcoming in 2004 is the finished product from paso robles, ca.
the kaiser 5 minute dishwasher - 1948 full page ad describing the totallynon-electric dishwasher - runs on waterpower!
see an ancient ge monitor top clock, a 50s okeefe & merritt gas range with left side heater (northwestern edition), a 1930s buck rogers style premier vac-kit with anaconda type hose, a built in stainless steel g.e. drop in electric stove with built-in wall controls plus two slick chrome and white small appliances that look almost identical except the one is a hand mixer and the other an iron!
remember the deep well pots made by wearever for chambers?
from nightmare to dream stove
some of the appliances they own are aritz black angus electric barbecue from the 50s, a chambers b model, a 1948 dixie gas range, 2 g.e. refrigs from the 40s and 50s, toasters, classic metal kitchen cabinets and more!
the duck brothers fix it
you'd better haveyour cuppa sitting close by to sip along as you enjoy.
like the pyramids, there was a secret that few people knew - special portable crane - marvel at this ingenious idea in the spring 2001 issue.
the duck brothers fix it column and cartoon lou and lee never disappoint.
one door closes, three more open – the end of the  general electric trail.
1997 spring - selling the sizzle feature 1950 coolerator refrigerators/freezers, 1930s merit-made tosater/coffee warmer, 1949 hardwick challenger stove, 1935 norge range, magic maid mixer, g.e. 1930s hotpoint electric stove, 1933 oster frapaiser, 1942 g.e. refrigerator, 1947 sunbeam space heater, porcelier waffle maker, selling the sizzle ads include a picnic in your kitchen with your roper range, 1952 international harvester speed queen wringer washer, ge why work in a sweat box this summer, westinghouse roaster, hotpoint electric range, 1947 bendix dryer, 1938 kelvinator refrigerators, lewyt prest-o!
if you have never had the chance to see some of the advance design appliances from the 1960s, we have some of the first and best you can ever see.
one of the most mouth-watering cakes we have ever tasted to date was presented to us from one of our own models - alana e'dahlia.
anyone that wishes to give their older appliance a new home, at no cost to the next owner, will enjoy the ads we donate to promote a healthier planet through second, third, fourth etc. ownership.
without them the machines would be worthless!
we recommend you hire a qualified, licensed service technician diagnose your stoves problem first as we do not diagnose mechanical problems over the telephone.
see the old appliance club
summer 1996 spring 1996 winter 1995 fall 1995  summer 1995 spring 1995
two weeks later i was surprised i received a call from his secretary, joann nunec.
warranty service is in effect for the stated period only.
savory toaster, barlow & seelig roll-type ironer,  1938 montgomery wards deluxe electric washer, 1840s icemaking machine, 1921  frigidaire icebox.
people who lived in the country sorely missed having refrigeration due to lack of electricity and gas service.
mike shares history, pictures, a chart full of technical information and his point of view on why this elder cooler should not be scrapped.
she is the 2001 version of the 1940s pinup girl without a doubt.
remember we try and keep the landfills less stocked, especially of appliances.
maytag washer delivery in the 1930s thanks to an unknown photographer sometime in the early thirties we have one of those terrific men-at-work photos.
we’ll see you all down on the old road home real  soon.
last but not least, we have a six burner (with griddle) o'keefe & merritt gas stove from the 1930s that was shipped new to brazil and spent 6 decades there before returning to california for a complete restoration.
we even have the original magazine ad that introduced  it to the public way back in the 1940s!
shane is the proud owner of a sharp late 30s spark stove and a 40s frigidaire refrigerator.
over fifty and still going strong with great anticipation we are always delighted to receive your stories and pictures with personal tales of old appliance restoration and use.
we don’t know what it is but, if you can  prove you do, we will send the first person that is correct any one back issue  of the old road home appliance magazine 1995-2000.
perhaps you may even be lucky  enough to find one today for your mid-century retro-kitchen!
the story of the last days of an early monitor top refrigerator, broken during a move from california to new york city but  there is a happy resolve with a new 3-door monitor.
i sent him an original shock and in about two weeks he  sent back ten brand new shiney shocks.
shipping is non-refundable on all orders unless stated.
florence made gas, lp and electric ranges in quite a few configurations.
who doesn't love cake and a pretty cook!
everything you need is right here in this edition of the old road home!
when fun was free - it's a contest!
1995 spring - cover - 1893 michigan 30 ton detroit jewel  stove, 1909 vulcan stoves, 1936 o’keefe & merritt range,  perfection heaters, sunbeam mix master furniture buffer, g.e. refrigerator, tricks of the trade.
come with us for a most remarkable trip down appliance memory lane.
remember to consider, the vehicles that did deliver this time around we have a picture of the first ironrite ironer that was air-expressed to new york city.
click to order issues or 'combos' below 10th anniversary year begins volume x, issue 1 sunbeam 1920s gas/electric stove retrofit by far this is an article that will finally tell the tale of how to get the best of both fuels ~ gas and electric.
in winter 2002 you will see the brand name that kicked it all off  – the quick meal.
they restore them so well and so accurately you will think they just rolled off the assembly line.
vac lovers, this one is in super condition and  you are sure to enjoy the nice tight design of the unit.
the way she blends older equipment in a newer home is something that works like dew on morning grass.
that's what people said when they heard about it.
gee, they used to have such good ideas didnt they?
class of 47 stoves feature - see twelve different ranges w/ features from 1947, 1930s g.e. monitor top refrigerator showroom, 30s g.e. flat-ironer, spin-washer, new vintage-style reproduction parts and services plus wooden electric fridges, 1935 ge mixer, irons, coffee pots, toaster display by jim apthorpe, bridge beach stove, restored chambers model "c" range, jim stulgas rare g.e. double door monitor top refrigerator and story, 1906 ge electric cooking table and products, 1951 vita-aire conditioner, matchbook cover appliance ads, part i of peter mintuns glorious vintage kitchen.
westinghouse washer/dryer salt & pepper shakers, general mills model gmsa, g.e. x-4
read and see everything you ever wanted to know about the classic frigidaire automatic washer.
sorry .alana won't be able to deliver her cake personally except in this issue of the old road home.
if you love old stoves, this time around we are presenting the chambers b model "imperial line" - see these magnificent, huge and unusual ranges.
well a brace of pages loaded with more pictures sent to us from all of you old appliance lovers across america.
this 1930 model is an all cast aluminum 4-slice model with mica windows.
and, there is a 4 slice toastmaster toaster, of the same vintage, that has to make some of the most mouth-watering crunchy toast anywhere.
click to order summer 2001 issue  featuring - the crosley
we have stoves, refrigerators,  vintage stove hoods and many other types of household appliance ads where you  can locate what you need, sell something you have no further use for or buy  just the item you have been searching for.
buy/sell ads and free old appliances check out our classified section ... the place to locate great old fridges, stoves and just about any other domestic appliances.
what's really cool is that you did an issue on electrics.
are you ready to start your restoration work?
we have selected over one dozen quick meals stove so you can see a complete  cross-section from the smallest to the largest units ever constructed in 1928.
** bendix feature addendum.
geoff searched for and eventually found the stove of his  dreams - amagic chef 6300 eight-burner gas stove.
looks like a big garden hose wrapped around the compressor.
the orignal shocks were as old as the machines and  were somewhat worn.
click to order issues or 'combos' below extended issue
see a super sharp 56 g.e. refrigerator, a 40 1950s universal gas range, a spark combination range, an occidental gas/wood combo stove from the 30s and more including free appliances just waiting to be picked up.
like vintage g.e. monitor top refrigerators?
the fridge was found sinking in mud inside a dilapidated shed.
now, see the whole centerfold story of chip ruhls huge rescue in pennsylvania.
balltop refrigerator, servel gas refrigerator, o’k  & m 1950 gas range, favorite gas range 1930s, magic chef 1935 range, lee  maxwells washing machines includes rare 1920s voss, double tub abc, maytag  dairy farms, the famous bluebird record"you can’t kiss a  frigidaire".
mike donated rare ads and pictures of the easy for this piece from his own archive.
eureka we found it!
well yes, we have it ...
california television producer, brad harlan, hasmany of them.
guess what it is and get a free back issue of torh!
here is a picture of a stock factory o'k&m without and grease tray or griddle!
don’t miss the mangle irons especially love the lady that looks  like she is pulling a giant sheet of lasagna through the roller!
the eight issue combo !
a growing crop appliance detective jim apthorpe from florida stops by with even more great finds he has just uncovered.
yes, my dear friends, 2004 was a huge year for antique appliance interest, but by all measure 2005 has swamped everything these last 10 years since the toac was first founded and movie and sitcom set designers, producers of cooking shows and interior designers all are calling along with private owners for resources and experts and guidance.
and well wait until you see the hardwick challenger gas stove that was rescued from a memphis junkyard and refurbished!
the last installment of our yearbook is just about crammed into the suitcase.
the summer can be hot, but years ago without air conditioning it was downright brutal.
if you like toasters you will surely love this fascinating story.
all of ottos neighbors benefited.
if you need someone to silverstone or teflon coat an aluminum griddle or repaint your favorite old refrigerator, washer, dryer or ?, we now have wonderful sources you can use to get this unique work accomplished once and for all.
vac lovers, this one is in super condition and you are sure to enjoy the nice tight design of the unit.
volume ix, issue 3 the 60s first feature sixties appliance field trip
ask anne & nan another holiday treat is a visit from ourtribes-girl anne adams.
25% restocking fee will be charged.
25% processing fees will be charged on all cancelled orders.
display ads – for all you old stove lovers there are  some real beauties for sale in our fall periodical.
vintage appliances ads galore!
also included in this double page spread are
and, to wrap it all up with a smile -- when fun was free's "postcards".
hope you can join us to see and enjoy all the goodies mentioned above.
if you are a new or soon to be new member of the old appliance club, issue #2 of our hot cha series for 2004 will 'clue you in' to all the fascinating fifties facts relating to the vintage appliance field.
don’t forget to check  out the “breakfaster” too ­ a type of streamlined early toaster  oven with a warming plate on top.
click to order click to read about the latest issue 10th anniversary edition benefits for club members...plus pick any back issues of the old road home antique kitchens and appliance magazine, see toac club for exciting details...
there’s even a massive vulcan gas stove with 6 burners and 2  huge warming closets on top.
don't miss the excellent photos of the excel deluxe whistle-t-ket-l and the exel corn popper, too.
dexter twin tub  washer, 1951 o’keefe & merritt range, g.e. monitor top   refrigerators, youngstown kitchens, frigidaire freezers, wedgewood 1950s range.
also - now available new pilot replacements for vintage magic chef stoves, new safety systems for chambers ranges, original thermostat and safety valve rebuilding services, restoration services like premium plating, new porcelain enamel processing, how to do-it-yourself antique stove manuals, custom burner head gaskets,plus new east and west coast restoration and rebuilding companies that have just come on-line with toac!
the old road home, summer 2001 issue also features the most popular models of vintage 1950s o'keefe & merritt ranges along with their correct factory model numbers.
since the time he was just a tyke, brads parents,true lovers of a great cuppa, must have inspired him to start his coffee-maker collection that he admits he is so afflicted with today.
one old hotpoint vehicle almost looks like a dump truck!
it looks great and tastes even better.
majestic refrigerators dont move by ray folsom.
1996 winter - quickmeal/ magic chef feature, 1948 philco fridge,  1933 sunbeam mixer & attachments, a&b 6 burner 2 oven range, bakewell  stove, magic chef - 1000 series, magic chef 8 burner gas range.
lets face it pardners, we all have our favorites, but one thing everyone would like to know is how to make the appliance last as long as it can!
he even located the ice cube trays and as mentioned previously, the philco radio to perch on top of the fine fridge.
the next generation new tribe members are loving their old appliances and it shows!
you will see an incredibly rare picture of 6 monitor top household refrigeration units suspended in a basement water tank with all sorts of gizmos, blowers etc. to cool the offices above, way down.
the old, the odd and the unusual theres no shortage of odd stuff in this issue.
no need to worry - you'll read how powell crosley brought his famous icy ball to rural homes and solved the dilemma.
sales tax will be applied to all california orders.
the old, the odd, the unusual - one of the strangest heating devices  of all time is the g.e. electric luminous heater ca.1915.
john eichinger  -- st. paul ,  mn every issue is a tightly-packed fact-filled, fun-filled frolic  thru appliance-land.
view a balltop x-4 g.e. fridge from the 30s and learn how to move a chambers stove the way the movers do it.
summer 1999 spring 1999
if you are fascinated by old time toasters, this time around we are presenting how the famoustoast-o-lator toaster works.
it’s all contained in the pages of the old road home!
1940 was a colossal year for cp - universal gas  ranges - gotham marlboro, oxford and strand.
1999 spring - detroit michigan stove company 75th diamond jubilee (1864-1939) feature,  dj 8 burner, cabinet model range, step  stove and monel top range, a salute to hollywood 1936, 1930s fairbanks-morse  conservador refrigerator, g.e. 1935 garbage disposal, manning-bowman  hotplate-double boiler combo, 1930s sunbeam iron, 1950s gibson refrigerator,  gibson electric stove, 1950s g.e. electric toaster, hoover constellation  vacuum, kenmore convertible 1940s range, 1920s-sunbeam smoker set, sunbeam  infra-red heater, sunbeam smokemaster, sunbeam wafflewitch, g.e. drape-o-matic,  1930s philco appliance truck, kitchenaid found in florida, abc-o-matic washers,  george wilson - world's first 'stove musician'.
toaster lovers – there is a picture of the first g.e. toaster from  1905 and a wonderful time-line history of the toaster article for you to pick  through called, the crispy golden years of toaster manufacturing.
then i decided to write leon viars,  president of gabriel ride control.
old appliance service and parts providers
if you are seeking to reduce the tonnage on your plot, check out the wanted column.
1996 spring - g.e. monitor top history feature 1996 summer - cleaning up with maytag feature, 1930 glenwood gas range,  sunbeam appliances, vacuums, 1921 g.e. fan, aristocrat range, 1947 t-20  toaster, chambers and american enterprise stove pictures.
three huge  bologna-shaped light bulbs affixed in an ornately detailed floor style cabinet.
see theflavor-zone range.
gabriel ride control went out of the way to help me.
4 issues + 1 extra issue = $45
59 culinaire mixer, edison electric urn, osterizer, wafflemaster, 1936
quickmeal 6 burner range, fostoria sandwich grille,  sunbeam flat toaster #4, 1951 wedgwood stove, silex internally lit coffee  percolator, 1936 canadian-built tiny frigidaire refrigerator, 1929
magic chef feature double bonus – the magic chef  6300.
just when it looks like all is lost, he rescues an early ge dr monitor top and lives to tell about it and the amphibian he discovered living inside.
yes, it is another extended 40 page issue.
plus, in this all important electric category is: jackies electric kitchen lovingly redone in the fashion of the 1920s andthe traveling edison -- an example of a labor of love that was definitely worth the effort to save this very fine 1920s electric restaurant range.
outside usa or canada - must have usa address for all orders.
quite a few people pour over the classifieds in torh for goods that are needed by others.
1930s toastmaster, kenmore 1950 stove, frigidaire double french door electric range, g.e. fan story - the breeze and i, merrywell mixer 1930s, toastove 1920s, crankup fan, 1919 hotpoint six burner electric range, 1936 g.e. white delivery truck, part 2
wait until you see the 'ham baker' chambers and the nifty two burner  chambers with thermodome circa 1925?
washers, tripletter toaster, g.e. monitor top compressor, g.e. monitor top tape  measure, 1930s g.e. catalog.
even frosty the snowman is on it.
save $2.00 every four issues $35 + $38 = $73 quantity: combo:
make sure to see the  important instructions next time you have to move a classic cooler.
2000 winter - (extended issue) kitchenaid feature  w/ six  different  models, makeover at mintun's - unbelievable kitchen restoration  feature utilizing a myriad of hand-picked vintage appliances.
in winter 2002 you will see the brand name that kicked it all off the quick meal.
all sales final on:  pdf files, printed materials and  electrical parts, used parts and services.
perhaps you may even be lucky enough to find one today for your mid-century retro-kitchen!
we have all the info for you in this article including the color charts as well.
its a 1956 kenmore; coral in color with aluminum trim.
yes, we have it and dont you dare miss it!
1998 winter - the magic chef house feature, bendix washers, 1934  magic chef range, 1936 ge monitor top, 1949 portable ge dishwasher, electrolux  vacuum, waring blender, ironrite mangle, ge and hotpoint antique appliance  delivery trucks, toastmaster display piece, magic chef cooking 1946 cookbook  recipes.
it  mysteriously doubled as a mirror too.
find out exactly what cooking process goes on as bread enters on one side of the toaster tunnel, then a short time later arrives fully browned and crisp on the other end.
we especially  like the "built like a bridge" circular, double-bay.
the o'keefe & merritt aristocrat  range and history feature article, 1930 thor agitator ad with speed iron  attachment, 1940s side by side g.e. refrigerator found in florida, bonnie's  n'awlins beauty - a functional kitchen makeover, pictures of the westinghouse  emperor range built-in cigarette lighter, ge hotpoint electric range egg  cooker, gray's electric water heater, armstrong perc-o-toaster, history of the  electrikbroom, and pick up an old toaster-without getting burned.
all of  otto’s neighbors benefited.
he chuckled, i designed these shocks for bendix!what luckto find the man that designed these shocks over 40 years ago, still working at gabriel.
brad shows many  terrific styles and a wonderful story about coffee we guarantee you won’t  soon forget.
all are original to the home and covered in chic stainless steel still in exceptional condition.
the old, odd and unusual new york city toac member peter mintun shares 2 wonderful old toaster articles and pictures we have never seen before.
this is the kind of eye candy that any old stove lover cannot resist drooling over.
we have featured hundreds of stoves in the old  road home over the years.
twin washer/dryer, turnover and well-type toasters, g.e. monitor top clock, 1930s detroit jewell gas range, 1929 monitor top refrigerator, 1920s single slice toastmaster, kitchenaid a-9 coffee mill, oster 40 mixer, sunkist commercial juicer, g.e. f-4 fan, never-lift proctor iron, 1932 g.e. manor deluxe range, g.e. dx-18 three door monitor top refrigerator w/solid crock interior.
need a wooden washer, 6 burner 2 oven gas range, easy copper tub washer,  maytag wringer, church pews or just about any antique item for the house or  garden?
sources - don't forget if you need to find vintage appliances, parts, service or information the old road home is the only quarterly of its kind in the world.
looks like a “paired-down” version of an o’keefe  & merritt aristocrat.
sources -  don't forget if you need to find vintage appliances, parts, service or  information the old road home is the only quarterly of its kind in the world.
1997 summer - servel gas refrigerators feature, 1949 wedgewood  style-setter gas range, 1928 orange-ade refrigerated vending machine, 1951  abc-o-matic washer, 1920s range leg cups, 1930s magic chef, 1948 anderson gas  range, 1950s
you just cannot find anything that looks like  this or the urn these days.
the best of the best vintage appliance services and parts suppliers.
this is the way to serve toast even at the most glamorous of parties.
by eureka jack white sox corwin presents his 1922 eureka sweeper that is still working today at his home in orlando, florida.
its all contained in the pages of the old road home!
we even have the original magazine ad that introduced it to the public way back in the 1940s!
dont miss the mangle irons especially love the lady that looks like she is pulling a giant sheet of lasagna through the roller!
twin washer/dryer, turnover and well-type toasters, g.e.  monitor top clock, 1930s detroit jewell gas range, 1929 monitor top  refrigerator, 1920s single slice toastmaster, kitchenaid a-9 coffee mill, oster  40 mixer, sunkist commercial juicer, g.e. f-4 fan, never-lift proctor iron,  1932 g.e. manor deluxe range, g.e. dx-18 three door monitor top refrigerator  w/solid crock interior.
this quarters super-feature philco advanced design refrigerators if you own a classic range, usually the next major appliance you will  be in the market for is a vintage refrigerator.
a rare  model indeed, black and white in color, blind embossed panels, dripping in  chrome trim and rare extras.
there are plenty of pictures of ropers, details, history, specs, parts and even the advertising used way back 50-60 years ago.
ask george wilson, hes a pro at turning old appliances into surprisingly interesting sounding instruments also watch for him on channel 11, the la times plus more.
brad shows many terrific styles and a wonderful story about coffee we guarantee you wont soon forget.
it’s a weird-one too.
yes, it is definitely time to rub your chin finn and take another look at roper a company that started all the way back in the 1800s.
if you like 60s frigidaire bottom freezers in turquoise or a ranch house that housed a solid 1949 okeefe & merritt range and a three burner magic chef in a one seat barber shop, we have that too!
if you don't find it in this quarterly, as a private party member of toac you can advertise for it world wide -- free.
see these great cars from days gone by.
winter great deal ...
join right away and have the first 10th anniversary issue of the old road home sent to you now!
lots of new pictures of old appliances fresh from our members homes around the country we have pictures of the following for you: a fully restored late 1920s hotpoint electric range, universal coffee urn (1924), a hoover iron model 4001, fully chrome plated sunbeam model 12c, 1949 youngstown double sink cab/combo in perfect condition (remember them?), a strange steam iron set up with a huge plastic water tank and direct patch h20 line to the side of the iron for steam and last but not least, a most unusual one burner nestle hot chocolate cooker for the winter time.
find out exactly what cooking process goes on as bread enters on  one side of the toaster tunnel, then a short time later arrives fully browned  and crisp on the other end.
thanks lana you were a pleasure to work with -- the blonde hair, turban and  short shorts didn't hurt either!
two features, wash n' dry & steam n' press, 1930 westinghouse refrigerator assembly, magic chef 1000 series, hoover upright vac dusting set, universal table stove, underwood electric dryer shaver, 1927 roper purple line stoves, royal culinaire food mixer, irons - canadian ge hotpoint, knapp-monarch, proctor, miracle, montgomery ward, rival and universal, the cook with gas truck, bugs bunny waffle iron, 1930 ge air conditioner/radio cabinet, 1951 stove 2000
have a classic appliance you no longer need?
follow geoff on his own personal quest half way across america in locating, transporting and beautifully restoring the elusive 6300.
spring 2002 winter 2001 fall 2001 summer 2001 spring 2001 winter 2000 fall  2000 summer 2000 spring 2000 winter 1999 fall 1999
also on the block are 1933 model #30 maytag washer, a 1938double door g.e. refrigerator (fabulous), 38 restored frigidaire refrigerator, combination moore bros. stove, chambers ranges, okeefe & merritt, magic chef, sears country kitchen electric range, big built-in western holly, ropers and much more.
see the eject-o-cubetray, the revolving steel shelf and the built-in salad crisper.
what a line up of wonderful treats in this bi-fold bevy of vintage appliances.
it almost looks like something you  would pull around the golf course and yet it’s a vacuum!
torh always has free antique appliances.
the old appliance club parts, service, information for antique stoves and appliances theoldapplianceclub.net / 805-643-3532 sponsored by j.e.s. enterprises, inc. and ...
to wrap up everything in our fish wrapping of 40 not-to-be-missed pages of edutainment.
pictures of the toasters, owners (edith and paul) and carole are in news trom the trenches.
westinghouse appliances for 1932 a sensational dual-page of westinghouse home appliances.
stove design of the 1930s 10 pictures of the latest and greatest in stove design of the 1930s.
quantity: all issues: all back issues get all forty back issues plus toac membership with full benefits !
not having enough room for all the grunow goodies, this time around more photos were shared by toac members bernie nagengast and mike arnold.
see the classified section for the goodies this time around.
join us to enjoy all the models, dimensions, color combinations and features.
click to go order form... see this issue for new chambers b fold-down top spring assembly, pilot replacements for vintage magic chef stoves, quality safety systems custom built for chambers and older antique ranges, original mid-century and older thermostat and rare safety valve rebuilding services.
theres even a massive vulcan gas stove with 6 burners and 2 huge warming closets on top.
do you have a cp logo on the front of your classic stove?
when fun was free - twiddle-twattle !
all best from seattle, larry willits the heavy stove, discovered by an electrical engineer, required that the floor be buttressed...
there is a great personal loss involved, but there is a great triumph as well.
shipping is non-refundable on all orders unless  stated.
see the toast  master waffle iron ca.1940.
last 4 issues + mem + 4 back issues call (805) 643-3532 or email toac@sbcglobal.net for assistance.
see all of the styles that were new in 52!
remember our magazine the old road home is sent free to all members of the old appliance club.
others just want to know where they can get theirs fixed, refurbished or just find that cool, old, cloth covered cord that used to come with an appliance.
the general electric product hit parade for 1932 thanks once again to mike arnold for sending a potpourri of g.e. appliance pictures for your eyes to behold.
see the different models and descriptive information that applied to each different kettle the singles, doubles, triples, even the double boiler model!
as bernard  nagengast, refrigeration historian, wrote, “people who lived in the  country may not have had electric refrigerators, but they sure did have icy  balls.”
this could become a trend!
* sizzling hot ** kelvinator root beer barrel and early refrigerated soda machines.
not liable or responsible for any damage or delays due to shipper.
the hoover spin drying washer for small homes or apartments this washer/spin dryer was all the rage in the 1960s.
the publicity photos showing a taste test (god forbid) and more.
click to order issues or 'combos' below appliance revolution feature how the 'sixties' refined appliances developments to ease our lives.
you just cannot find anything that looks like this or the urn these days.
that’s the most unusualcourtesy coffee maker you will  find on the same page of the fall issue -- a very odd contraption to say the  least.
next, were off to visit jim apthorpes sunbeam beauty pageant for one in leesburg, florida.
how were old appliances delivered?
plus, you get a brief of all the catalogue numbering system changes along the way.
so much of the background on old companies and inventors disappears over the years.
did you ever see a coffee cooker that mounts on the wall?
jack has been a long time fan of old appliances and this is one piece he has had for many years.
some models could have very low original parts availability.
like the rest of us, bruce likes to save money!
splish-splash what happens when old appliances turned art-objects take on a new life as an outdoor display?
you wont believe how he cured his tired out, leaky water heater so it can last, last, last.
fun was free's "new ideas for older  products".
like the pyramids, there was a  ‘secret’ that few people knew -  special  “portable  crane” - marvel at this ingenious idea in the spring 2001 issue.
is a trend about to happen???
it changes from vacuum cleaner to a carpet sweeper, k&m waffle baker, dr. leo baekelandt - father of bakelite, g.e. coffee maker/dispenser, g.e. toasters, handyhot electric jr. washers, tripletter toaster, g.e. monitor top compressor, g.e. monitor top tape measure, 1930s g.e. catalog.
2000 summer - (extended issue)
dr. bruce has paved the way for you to outsmart the old water heater and be able to say to it ah ha once and for all.
did you know there is a solution to fix those great old steam irons of the  past to work properly again – even if you have to use hard water?
if you like chambers stoves, you will want to see the complete kitchen design layout this lass did.
fall 2001 feature - magic chef 1000 series ranges this quarters super-feature the old road home fall 2001 magic chef 1000 series the 1930s magic chef 1000 series was  originally developed and targeted for use in larger homes and mansions across  america.
click to order issues or 'combos' below volume x, hot-cha issue 2
after reluctantly giving up a one of a kind wedgewood gas range, reatha finally decided that this was one item she could not do without.
see 2 rare and fantastic looking reliable ranges (american stove co.) 4 and 6 burner models with multiple ovens -- restoration fresh.
we have published the original photo taken just minutes after the stove was installed decades ago.
this is such a wonderful and heartfelt story i dont think i can describe it any better than a tale that will get you right in the throat.
and well we roam the usa to checkout old appliances that are still hard at work for their owners.
how on earth did they move those heavy icing units into place?
a happy camper after decades of waiting, linda oneill finds just the right home to utilize her 61 c chambers range.
quickmeal 6 burner range, fostoria sandwich grille, sunbeam flat toaster #4, 1951 wedgwood stove, silex internally lit coffee percolator, 1936 canadian-built tiny frigidaire refrigerator, 1929 hoover vacuum,
see a complete cut-a-way of this novel conveyor-belt  type toaster.
they showed all of the information to one of their engineers, sirnath  nandyall.
love your wonderful magazine.
we will stake you to a free ad as long as you are giving the item away at no cost.
also included in this double page spread are a 1952 caloric range with custom copper pleated backsplash and nu-tone overhead hood and its kitchen partner a 1950 single door frigidaire refrigerator.
rather than add to the landfill, many people are now donating their older appliances so they can be repaired and used for many years to come.
larry boysen, sf, ca member owns some ultra cool old appliances and audio equipment from 1928.
we have how to manuals, rare products, books, reproduction parts, chrome and porcelain services, thermostat refurbishment, custom safety valve systems, etc the list goes on just waiting to get you started in the right direction.
someone might need exactly what you have and would behappy to get it.
included is a full page vintage ad on the grunow entitled, whats inside the coils.
maybe it’s a gas heater or claw foot tubs or a vintage tv, radio,  washer, dryer or perhaps you need how to fix-it yourself books.
folks needing to buy or  sell all sorts of vintage appliances, parts and information are just an e-mail  or a call away.
2000 spring - (extended issue)
the o'keefe & merritt aristocrat range and history feature article, 1930 thor agitator ad with speed iron attachment, 1940s side by side g.e. refrigerator found in florida, bonnie's n'awlins beauty - a functional kitchen makeover, pictures of the westinghouse emperor range built-in cigarette lighter, ge hotpoint electric range egg cooker, gray's electric water heater, armstrong perc-o-toaster, history of the electrikbroom, and pick up an old toaster-without getting burned.
a cadillac toaster that is.
did you know there is a solution to fix those great old steam irons of the past to work properly again even if you have to use hard water?
to restore old appliances, parts or sometime entire units are desperately needed.
i am so happpy to have them as they are as important as the motor itself.
its prime for the time, you wont believe how it looks or works.
also keeping things toasty on cold nights is the ca.1940 coleman kerosene heater made in canada.
the 'three majesticeers' overcome all the obstacles.
maybe its a gas heater or claw foot tubs or a vintage tv, radio, washer, dryer or perhaps you need how to fix-it yourself books.
from a crumbling hunk of rusting metal, see this transformed 6 burner, double oven with warming closet reborn into a fully functional safe piece of kitchen art.
if you have ever had water heater problems, you will not want to miss this article.
our printer said, “wow, where on earth did you find  that ‘hottie’?”
1996 fall - o’keefe & merritt feature, ice, electric &  gas fridges, 1932 g.e. dishwasher, 1949 portable dishwasher, gas iron,  quickmeal six burner / two oven stove, 'the lure of old toasters', 1928  chambers range, 1935 manning-bowman coffee service, 1940s pacific trash burner  stove.
if you are  giving one away at no cost, we will let you advertise it for free!
proud member articles abound just in time as we show and tell all before national moth season begins to devour all the woolens the hoover 1946 mothimizer plus, 'old appliance aficionados' the scherling's fabulously detailed our beloved vintage kitchen story is a very fine example of a complete original 1920s to 30s era restored-remuddled kitchen includingall appliances, cabinetry and lighting.
click to order issues or 'combos' below back issues from -- 1995 to 2000 -- click for order form below ...
michael sheafe, owner of toaster central and member of the old appliance  club stops by to deliver'the man behind the toastoy’.
see the toast master waffle iron ca.1940.
mike arnold via jim stulga sent in the photo of the huge william c. grunow mausoleum nestled just above the des plaines river.
if you have questions on how to vent a classic range in your kitchen we have reproduced a feature on the topic that will show you step by step exactly how to do so.
see alma chambers in fall 1997
join right away and have any issue of the old road home sent to you now!
theres a grunow in them thar hills
many of which have belonged to the american stove  dynasty.
we wanted to share what happened… jack,  i called gabriel ride control a few years ago searching for shock  absorbers for the duomatics.
and, yes this is the issue that all mid-century roper owners will want to keep for years to come.
dont miss thishot electric issue, appliance aficionados; its better than summer saltwater taffy.
besides his 50s sunbeam toaster and westinghouse twin washer and dryer, the pride and joy refrigerator in his kitchen is a philco.
see a rare hotpoint ra-57 electric range with  deep well cooker still in use since 1938.
1bs  toasters, dormeyer 3000-a mixer, electric buffet, round 50s kenmore washer,  copper chambers 61c,dishwashers-walker bros. 1909 to 1918, first combo  sink/dishwasher, first square, ge/hotpoint, front controls, early conover,  hobart's kitchenaid centrifugal pump/rocker arm, 1895-1920 ads-baird, wolcott,  kitchen service, western electric, electric maid and whirlpool, postcards,  bungalow range, 20lb.
if you need someone to silverstone or teflon coat an aluminum griddle or  repaint your favorite old refrigerator, washer, dryer or ?, we now have  wonderful sources you can use to get this unique work accomplished once and for  all.
everything and anything is needed and hopefully you can supply it, make a few bucks and maybe even make a new friend!
bringing the old stove home
rather than add to the landfill, many  people are now donating their older appliances so they can be repaired and used  for many years to come.
a rare model indeed, black and white in color, blind embossed panels, dripping in chrome trim and rare extras.
great 1947 lauderall ad displays features of the completely automatic home laundry with top-fil-dor, re-verso-rol action for no tangling and roto-drier.
1b9 toaster, jay raymond’s vintage irons, frigidaire  oak and glass cooler, electrolux vacuum moth-proofer.
all stated warranties on thermostats, safety valves or any other equipment  start from the day the customer receives the order regardless of when the unit  is installed.
all stated warranties on thermostats, safety valves or any other equipment start from the day the customer receives the order regardless of when the unit is installed.
if you own a classic range, usually the next major appliance you will be in the market for is a vintage refrigerator.
few people have ever seen the domestic style kitchen-aid from decades ago.
toaster lovers there is a picture of the first g.e. toaster from 1905 and a wonderful time-line history of the toaster article for you to pick through called, the crispy golden years of toaster manufacturing.
free vintage appliances!
thats the most unusualcourtesy coffee maker you will find on the same page of the fall issue -- a very odd contraption to say the least.
1b9 toaster, jay raymonds vintage irons, frigidaire oak and glass cooler, electrolux vacuum moth-proofer.
learn the all-important weights (just in  case you are thinking of installing one in your house) and see why these   massive cookers were the #1 choice of  estates and country roadhouse  restaurants for years.
coffee cookers, coffee, coffee, coffee everyone that enjoys coffee normally has their own favorite brewing pot.
their restoration pictures and tale are amazing.
look for norm howe's beautiful ca.1935 wards "glory" coal and wood range with upper warming ovens, a lovely large chicago metallic electric coffee urn ca.1940 that is said to make a wonderful "cuppa" even though it is 60 plus years old.
old electric washer fans – see maytag “baby grand”  washing machine built between 1917-22; used a very different principle based on  a “millrace” idea, and sleek 1938 montgomery wards washer.
some of the other curious vintage appliances are the early american beauty  electric iron, the look-a-like sunbeam, a real electric egg beater (not a  mixer), dripping-in-chrome old toasters, a huge combination oil/coal/gas  magic chef combination stove from the 1930s, the homozone ancient home air  purifier, for the home and a prime 100% restored o’keefe & merritt  range rebuilt from "ground up" for  a very well known actor.
do you have a “cp” logo on the front of your classic  stove?
in the past 15 months we have noticed that orders for supplies, rebuilt original thermostats, elements and safety systems for classic built-ins have greatly increased.
it’s prime for the time, you won’t believe how it looks or works.
"uncovering a new species" an exciting feature article on old refrigerators arrives in this issue from ray folsom and don simoneau.
three more chrome cuties happy toaster fans heres an estate #77 four slice, dainty maid #1 send more information or pix if you have them, and a kenmore #874.63290 - almost an exact clone of the old toastmaster 1b14 but with a slight difference.
included in the article are the  original prices of several of their biggest selling models.
todd miller from san luis obispo, california sent in some wonderful pictures of his kitchen - loaded to the teeth with terrific looking vintage appliances.
its a full-fledged fabulous article that goesall the way from the beginning of the early 1900s thru 1944, including pictures of the full-line of heating devices fromhughs, hotpoint and ge.
fun was free - "with enough hot sauce
the story of a refrigerator.
summer 1996 spring 1996 winter 1995 fall 1995 summer 1995 spring 1995
premier vacuum cleaner company story is a great tale of how just one ironic twist of fate changed 3 brothers lives totally around and made them very rich too!
you'd better haveyour cuppa’ sitting close by to sip  along as you enjoy.
watch for an especially interesting letter concerning vintage range thermostats.
the panoramic centerfold showing hordes of great antique stoves and refrigerators resemble a very long train;all of which chip personally saved from the crusher.
and there is more vintage appliance news from the trenches, display ads of all kinds of old appliances for sale, antique appliance dealer ads for parts, service and information, new retro-parts, safety systems for your antique stove, and the duck brothers fix-it corner and cartoon.
if you ever take a tour of the magic chef house in st. louis, this is the very range you will find in the kitchen today.
and well – a triple-door 1950s refrigerator with  elliptical glass door inserts?
you may have read about this unbelievable stove rescue in jack santoros old appliance communique - the motherlode the motherlode of old stoves and refrigerators
click to order issues or 'combos' below back issues from -- 1995 to 2000 --  click for  order form below ... 1995 winter - cover - 1937 detroit jewel stove, 1932 johnson  floorwaxer, 1940s crosley shelvador fridge, picture ad of 1949
if you want to see one of the finest restorations on an early range this is it.
buy/sell/locate the classifieds in the old road home have increasingly become the conduit between folks that need to buy, sell or locate vintage appliances, parts and information.
rounding up the whole issue is when fun was free the wheels of justice grind slowly but surely.
if you like search, salvage and restoration adventures, wait until you read about the antique grunow refrigerator ray and don from paso robles, california saved!
new products and books
a stove – if you have questions on how to vent a  classic range in your kitchen we have reproduced a feature on the topic that  will show you step by step exactly how to do so.
when  you see the condition of these old timers you won't believe it.
again, many of these units are still around today with the demand definitely increasing.
the 1960s appliances started a significant change and now you can see where the evolution began.
hotpoint stoves and frigidaire refrigerators are the featured appliances.
the wisecracking logic of our own duck brothers lou and lee, has got to be summertime cartoon fun at its best.
in the last issue of the old road home, there were 2 feature articles on the grunow refrigerator.
last but not least, if you think hoover only made cleaners we have a big surprise for you.
our printer said, wow, where on earth did you find that hottie?
a special thanks goes to sirnath nandyall, designer for bendix.
it almost looks like something you would pull around the golf course and yet its a vacuum!
production was so heavy that over 1,000 workers were added over the companys previous peacetime peak to keep up the demand.
it really has survived in spectacular original condition.
i am so happpy to have them as they are  as important as the motor itself.
free appliances and parts check through the classifieds and you will find free appliances in each issue of torh if you are a private party with an old appliance or parts that you are thinking of tossing, hold on!
jack santoro, founder of the old appliance club, takes you for a refreshing trip through water cooler wonderland of a bygone era.
gee, they used to have such good ideas  didn’t they?
as we put this article together several members of the old appliance club sent in items which we just had to include into the mix including a vintage philco radio, a matching philco electric range in white porcelain and chrome and even a can of philco polish from the 50s that was available from dealers to keep all philco products sparkling and shining!
embracing the 50s fifty years later by jack santoro.
the philco had the wonderful cathedral-style corners and highly plated hardware that gave it a look all of its own.
no problem -- you will find everything you need in torh!
savory toaster, barlow & seelig roll-type ironer, 1938 montgomery wards deluxe electric washer, 1840s icemaking machine, 1921 frigidaire icebox.
refrigeratin jim apthorpe conducts a long, hot safari in florida.
then she discovers the folks she lent the stove to years before thought it was theirs!
we especially like the "built like a bridge" circular, double-bay.
for almost a decade the old road home has displayed just about every type of antique appliance one can imagine.
see a rare hotpoint ra-57 electric range with deep well cooker still in use since 1938.
third feature philco stoves for 1964 see the philco 1964 stove models with every sort of feature and color available.
westinghouse frost-free fridge, a suit-sharpe 30s electric range and a ancient quick meal gas range still cooking up a storm in the town of st. louie where it was born.
it almost resembles a radio in some aspects, but its job was to keep its owners warm on chilly eves.
we've got a whatzit.
for our refrigerator fans we have a 2-door mid-1930s  refrigerator that is not only all porcelain but has blind-embossed doors.
our old friend from leesburg, florida, jim apthorpe, recently came across a stunning example.
i sent him an original shock and in about two weeks he sent back ten brand new shiney shocks.
it almost resembles a radio in some aspects, but its job was to  keep its owners warm on chilly eves.
winter - how rare frigidaire feature, universal  dishwasher-in-a-range, son chief toaster, 1895 estate peerless gas stove, clark  jewell seven burner 1920s gas range, g.e. portable tank-type vacuum,  westinghouse 1950s upright freezer, 1950s g.e. mixer, g.e. monitor top clock,  the frigidaire man, 1928 air way vacuum cleaner, g.e. round rolling vacuum  cleaner, ronald reagan w/ g.e. partiocart, janet’s heaters-10 historic  electric heaters, when fun was free, 'scared stiff'.
a must see for all antique refrigeration buffs.
best monitor top back issues are: spring 1996, fall 1999, summer 2000, winter 2000, spring 2001, summer 2001, winter 2001 summer 2002 click to order issues or 'combos' below read about feature back issues below... hello...i've recently become a member of toac.
chargebacks: customers must attempt to return merchandise before proceeding with a chargeback.
the apthorpe files old appliance sleuth jim apthorpe from florida uncovers an amazing toastmaster toaster.
she is the 2001 version of the 1940s pinup girl without a  doubt.
if you think you are in the market for a older built-in, make sure all the parts are there and check for damage.
a 35 oldsmobile and a farnsworth -old appliance rescue-master jim apthorpe from leesburg, florida shares one of the most heart-warming stories you will ever read.
how on earth did they move  those heavy icing units into place?
not responsible for parts or orders left after 30 days unless previously arranged.
it’s a 1956  kenmore; coral in color with aluminum trim.
the best of the bestclassic appliance sales, service and parts suppliers appear in each issue of the old road home.
no. to-71 toaster, a canary yellow sunbeam model 12 mixmaster, the vita-mix 3600 blender and the very collectible sunkist commercial juicer type 6.
this issue will quench everybodys thirst for knowledge about these fascinating inventions from way back when.
display ads for all you old stove lovers there are some real beauties for sale in our fall periodical.
vacuum cleaner fans hark!
second philco feature – “phabulous philco” many of our old appliance friends across the miles contact us to display  some of the classics they use in their kitchens.
feature (brad and don’s impressive 50s chrome collection), philco  refrig., 1937 servel electrolux kerosene refrigerator, 1939 eaton universal gas  stove, proctor thermostatic toaster, 1946 sunbeam shavemaster, 1952  westinghouse electric roaster & timer, jim apthorpe "appliance  detective", sunday nite "sammiches", crosley xervac hair  restoring machine, apollo vacuum, roto-verso vac, broil-o-mat broiler, steem  electric iron, detroit-michigan stove co.'s 30 ton stove!
25% restocking fee will be charged on new parts that have been returned.
items are subject to inspection before eligible for full or partial refund credit.
the three main powerhouses of electrical efficiency in antique stoves - read about it the proceeding outline ... also...
the good news is that it can be revamped for modern use.
check out the old switch board and phone pictures too.
folks have been clamoring for this wet and wild feature article.
kitchenaid feature w/ six different models, makeover at mintun's - unbelievable kitchen restoration feature utilizing a myriad of hand-picked vintage appliances.
royal vacuum cleaner 1945
if you catch the toast, its free.
plus, this summer's fun with...
buy/sell/locate – the classifieds in the old road home have  increasingly become the conduit between folks that need to buy, sell or locate  vintage appliances, parts and information.
see what theyre up to with: ideas as hot as heartburn, dont forget to brush, and dishwasher strikes back.
a kindly aunt, a magic chef stove,
wood range, the beautifully restored 1950s retro-kitchen featuring a classic 6 burner caloric gas stove, an abc 1930s wringer washer and a sunbeam butter churner the old, odd and unusual see the genuflecting g.e. ball top at a florida hardware store auction, a 1929 air-way vac with butt-cleaning attachment and a most unusual 1933 combination 4 burner stove with oven, broiler and bottom refrigerator all powered by natural gas.
this time around they show and tell a very rare col-temp refrigerator.
not responsible for parts or orders left after 30 days unless  previously arranged.
the old, the odd and the unusual we have a picture of the1st experimental g.e. monitor top refrigerator.
follow geoff on his own personal quest half way across america in locating,  transporting and beautifully restoring the elusive 6300.
free vintage appliances – don’t forget to check out  thefree appliances offered too.
mike arnold's 'i remember' - "number please" - everyone loves going down memory lane and when you have mike arnold at the helm, you will always enjoy a great piece of history about old appliances.
talk about super rare photos – see the 1931 edison handy ann mixer or  the 1930s electric "heetaire" room warmer, an electric dish drainer  with automatic forced air drying system and germicidal ultra-violet bulb!
a rare look into how we heated homes many decades ago.
1999 summer - (first extended issue) nesco feature, a salute  to hollywood, magic chef and servel, northwind 1930 fans, 1949 oster stim-u-lax  junior vibrator, 1920s
" that's the title of shane weissman's feature article.
the toaster looks like a chrome plated building and check out the special built-in toast slicer too.
frigidaire home fountains plus vortex and lilly cup dispensers included too!
todd miller from san luis  obispo, california sent in some wonderful pictures of his kitchen -   loaded to the teeth with terrific looking vintage appliances.
connect with others, share your interest and fill a need.
1995 winter - cover - 1937 detroit jewel stove, 1932 johnson floorwaxer, 1940s crosley shelvador fridge, picture ad of 1949 dexter twin tub washer, 1951 okeefe & merritt range, g.e. monitor top refrigerators, youngstown kitchens, frigidaire freezers, wedgewood 1950s range.
tammy said, battery powered tools are a must take-a-long.
the philco had the wonderful cathedral-style corners and highly plated  hardware that gave it a look all of its own.
you will find many pleasant surprises and have a ton of fun with the duck brothers 'fix-it' column and cartoon, our mailbag and to wrap it  all up with a smile --when
winter 1998 fall 1998
this is the first time the  style-sheets have been published in 65 years!
unless stated used parts are not  rebuilt.
if you are giving one away at no cost, we will let you advertise it for free!
you will find many pleasant surprises and have a ton of fun with the duck brothers 'fix-it' column and cartoon, our mailbag and to wrap it all up with a smile --when
this is for those of you who are interested in or own your own lectric stoves rising in popularity as they are still quite reasonable plus good lookin.
second feature how to make a water heater last over 60 years !
dont miss the classifieds!
if you want to be inspired, this is the refrigerator you should see.
people like you, wholove old appliances how to manuals toac shop classifieds electric elements club benefits thermostats rebuilt safety systems safeties rebuilt stove guides back issues used parts new parts information, stories, resources, antique stoves, refrigerators, appliance parts, service, information, buy/sell... find it all in the old road home magazine back issues ...
jim says it works great too!
pay special attention to how the cords used to look way back when.
third feature dont judge a rusty refrigerator why would anyone want a rust-freckled 50s fridge from a burned down gym?
others just  want to know where they can get theirs fixed, refurbished or just find that  cool, old, cloth covered cord that used to come with an appliance.
looks like a paired-down version of an okeefe & merritt aristocrat.
all you need to do is to correctly name the one entertainer on the page that went on to a make a huge success of himself.
news from the trenches announces the toaster collection association club octoasterfest 2004 listing at www.toastercollector.com, plus new dealer members special restoration experts announcements, moves and tips on purchasing a classic stove.
next up is a gorgeously restored 1930s universal with six burners, two ovens, broilers and upper warming oven from colorado.
the oldy-coffee shop from switzerland sent in photos of carole, the blonde toast-catcher winner from naples.
join us in this 10th anniversary issue for all of the above and you will also enjoy - news from the trenches, the duck brothers fix-it corner and cartoon, it came from the mailbag, classified ads, antique appliance dealer ads, display ads andwhen
wait until you see the 'ham baker' chambers and the nifty two burner chambers with thermodome circa 1925?
all sales final - no refund nor replacement on: any thermostat rebuilding  orders or thermostat exchanges, custom fabricated safety systems, safety  valves, pilot assemblies, minipilots, combination pilot replacements or  specific rebuild orders.
their comic this time around is entitled tis the season to be jerky and boy they dont disappoint!
something for everyone jim apthorpes article on his recently found electrochef b-2 range, willys word in wisconsin featuring an early monitor-top g.e. fridge and kalamazoo .
magic chef feature double bonus
he chuckled, “i designed these shocks for bendix!”what  luckto find the man that designed these shocks over 40 years ago, still working at gabriel.
warranty service is in effect for the stated  period only.
the best of the best classic appliance sales, service and parts suppliers appear in each issue of the old road home.
carrene was the refrigerant used in the grunow refrigerator and it was thought to be absolutely safe!
if you have them these appliances or parts hanging around you can earn some bucks and help to save someone elses old appliance too.
the story of the last days of an early monitor top refrigerator, broken during a move from california to new york city but there is a happy resolve with a new 3-door monitor.
second feature mike arnolds i remember series brings back vivid memories of the 60s appliances when refrigerators and stoves started appearing with square corners, magnetic door closures and totally frost free systems.
if you love cake as much as we do, you will surely want to make this for your next party.
click to order issues or 'combos' below i remember the grunow part i by mike arnold ace vintage refrigeration expert mike arnold steps into the spotlight to deliver a super-tight history on the grunow refrigerator.
refunds for new or used parts must be received within 30 days or no credit  will be issued.
more nonsense for those that like to be tickled and tickled.
if you are fascinated by old time  toasters, this time around we are presenting how the famoustoast-o-lator  toaster works.
**all credits must be used within 6 months from  issue date or they will be void.
the asking price jim later found out from the seller was $900.00!
it came from the mailbag your letters from across the world about old appliances.
all factory numbers, weights, measurements and model names are included.
all sales final on: pdf files, printed materials and electrical parts, used parts and services.
no problem  -- you will find everything you need in torh!
alexander graham bell was a genius until it came to working on draining his swimming pool, turning it into a study and trying to air-condition it.
fabulous wahful makers from jim apthorpe and a husband tamer universal stroke saver iron presses clothing as flat as a stamp (even if it wasnt hot its heavy!)
don’t miss the chambers range with custom built  convenience shelf and the rogerette vintage travel iron and jack santoro’s  latest find, a 1946 w-2 sunbeam 4 bay waffle iron in “out of the box”
1997 fall - chambers gas ranges feature, proctor appliances for  1948, 1930s angelus electric marshmallow toaster, 1930s magic chef tubular gas  range, 1949 hotpoint electric refrigerator and range, g.e. canadian electric  tea kettle, electrolux vacuum, armstrong "old south" waffle maker,  toastmaster model.
1995 fall - cover - maytag washer, 1930s gaffers sattler refrigerator, 1931 g.e. monitor top christmas refrigerator ad, 1932 artyle magic chef range, 1941 easy laundry equipment, 1942 okeefe & merritt stove, kelvinator chest freezers, perfection oil range.
join us for a swing through the 1960s once again.
boasting a fully enameled surface, 6 burners, warming closet and  double ovens, this stove has gone on to take its rightful place as one all time  favorites in the gas range hall of fame.
ask anne & nan – another holiday treat is a  visit from ourtribes-girl anne adams.
he shares so many rare pictures and stories with toac, and this picture is a blockbuster!
join us as we visit donna christys backyard in oregon to see the fascinating results.
if you wish to see a spectacular 1925 eight burner, three oven gas range built by reliable range company see page 17 of this issue.
we have selected over one dozen quick meals stove so you can see a complete cross-section from the smallest to the largest units ever constructed in 1928.
1998 fall - holiday special edition
(this range is  considered by many to be the hope diamond of the vintage stove group from the  1930s.)
items are subject to  inspection before eligible for full or partial refund credit.
original advertising on this model and other toastmaster toasters (including the 3, 4 and 8 slice models) are featured.
the old, the odd and the unusual – we have a  picture of the1st experimental g.e. monitor top refrigerator.
1996 winter - quickmeal/ magic chef feature, 1948 philco fridge, 1933 sunbeam mixer & attachments, a&b 6 burner 2 oven range, bakewell stove, magic chef - 1000 series, magic chef 8 burner gas range.
oldy-coffee uses all older appliances for cooking in their shop and sponsors the toast catching contest for fun.
one of the most inspiring stories that we have received to date is from geoff williamson.
all this plus it came from the mailbag, news from the trenches, the duck brothers fix-it corner and cartoon by lou and lee, all kinds of dealer products and services for old appliances, how to manuals, classified and photo display ads and on thecover - chris hogan's norm the cat and his magic chef 1000 series stovefriend.
remember our magazine the old road home is sent free to all members of the old  appliance club.
a must read for the holiday season.
we have stoves, refrigerators, vintage stove hoods and many other types of household appliance ads where you can locate what you need, sell something you have no further use for or buy just the item you have been searching for.
plus, 50s spe-de wee-nee, 1950 thor combination that could either wash your clothes or your dishes, an iron for your clothes that not only used no electricity, wasnt heated on a stove but carried its own gas tank, ra-dryer decided to build a clothes-drying machine that looked like a chest freezer, the electric egg scrambler with penetrating, vibrating needle looks like a mini-mix master, take a 1934-41 maytag multi-motor washing machine build a racing car around it and add a kid or two for a washer demo.
balltop refrigerator, servel gas refrigerator, ok & m 1950 gas range, favorite gas range 1930s, magic chef 1935 range, lee maxwells washing machines includes rare 1920s voss, double tub abc, maytag dairy farms, the famous bluebird record"you cant kiss a frigidaire".
next, we’re off to visit jim apthorpe’s sunbeam beauty pageant  for one in leesburg, florida.
paypal orders: use email toac@sbcglobal.net and describe your order.
remember the great look  of the 50s actresses??
1999 spring - detroit michigan stove company 75th diamond jubilee (1864-1939) feature, dj 8 burner, cabinet model range, step stove and monel top range, a salute to hollywood 1936, 1930s fairbanks-morse conservador refrigerator, g.e. 1935 garbage disposal, manning-bowman hotplate-double boiler combo, 1930s sunbeam iron, 1950s gibson refrigerator, gibson electric stove, 1950s g.e. electric toaster, hoover constellation vacuum, kenmore convertible 1940s range, 1920s-sunbeam smoker set, sunbeam infra-red heater, sunbeam smokemaster, sunbeam wafflewitch, g.e. drape-o-matic, 1930s philco appliance truck, kitchenaid found in florida, abc-o-matic washers, george wilson - world's first 'stove musician'.
– if you are inspired  after reading some of the great vintage appliance stories in the old road home,  you needn’t search any further for your dream appliance, part or service.
this all-inclusive feature article covers hughs, hotpoint and ge
find it all in  the old road home kick-off issue 2001.
here you have the best of both and even more.
watch out for the big town and country roper in the article too.
cp stove requirements - 22 mandatory plus an extra optional 10 requirements - page 14.
each back issue is only $10.00 (order below) or get the combo-pack - includes current membership plus any fourback issues notify us of the 4 issues you want to order in the order form 'comments' section - you will automatically get all membership benefits: one full year free consultation, expert resources, four text ads, one estimate of value - just send in your stove pictures for dates or free estimate information plus any four issues of the old road home!
chambers - "a work of art" - we love getting stories from the gals who have rescued antique stoves and we truly love getting feature articles that have a greattwist to them.
if you have ever wondered what goes on inside this slab-sided chrome toaster you will definitely enjoy this feature.
i tried to  locate some for years with no success.
after coming across an old butter-yellow magic chef gas range from the 1930s in an antique store, a flood of childhood memories resurface recalling a kind aunts many good deeds.
each back issue is only $10.00 (order below) or get the combo-pack  -  includes current membership plus any fourback issues notify us of the 4 issues you want to order in the order form 'comments'  section - you will automatically get all membership benefits: one full year free consultation, expert resources, four text ads, one  estimate of value - just send in your stove pictures for dates or free estimate information plus any  four issues of the old road home!
if the name grunow sounds familiar, it may be because the company was well known for the finely engineered radios manufactured within quality furniture cabinets.
anyone that wishes to give their older  appliance a new home, at no cost to the next owner, will enjoy the ads we  donate to promote a healthier planet through second, third, fourth etc.
just wait until you see the  terrific comparison of monitor tops we have for you.
read this note from larry willits and his story and photos in the magazine about hisedison electric range.
also included in the article are wonderful pictures from a variety of sources featuring trucks delivering coal and coke as well cartoons showing how imconvenient it was to have ashes hauled away to the dump or into the ocean.
jim says it works  great too!
" a hot new beginning mike arnolds 'i remember' feature is truly a story that few people today have any knowledge of.
here is one of the cleanest that is totally original and works like a gangbuster.
we never seem to run out of grin-making old appliance pictures and this issue certainly proves it.
the orignal shocks were as old as the machines and were somewhat worn.
... save $2.00 quantity: current issues + mem + any 1 back issue quantity: get all forty back issues (no membership)
all warranties on thermostats or safety valves start from the day the  customer receives the order regardless of when the unit is installed.
when he finished disassembling,  painting and even changing the door opening rotation you will see a  masterpiece!
as we put this article together several members of the old appliance club  sent in items which we just had to include into the mix including a vintage  philco radio, a matching philco electric range in white porcelain and chrome and even a can of philco polish from the 50s  that was available from dealers to keep all philco products sparkling and  shining!
displayed are one of  the very first and last of the line.
1998 winter - the magic chef house feature, bendix washers, 1934 magic chef range, 1936 ge monitor top, 1949 portable ge dishwasher, electrolux vacuum, waring blender, ironrite mangle, ge and hotpoint antique appliance delivery trucks, toastmaster display piece, magic chef cooking 1946 cookbook recipes.
this time around it's entitled 'life sentence in two words'.
also  keeping things toasty on cold nights is the ca.1940 coleman kerosene heater
last but  not least,1934 frigidaire moving follies on page 36 with the ups and downs of  moving a 700 lb.
if the unit is sent in for warranty service the customer is  responsible for shipping charges.
click to go order form... see this issue for new pilot replacements for vintage magic chef stoves, quality safety systems custom built for chambers and older antique ranges, original mid-century and older thermostat and rare safety valve rebuilding services.
display ads if you are trying to find some of the best and most rare old appliances, see this issue.
click to order issues or 'combos' below 2003 fall / winter, issue 4 of the old road home exciting roper edition covering 1948 and 1955 models.
if you have an oven with a thermostat that cannot be rebuilt, or if your older range never had a thermostat at all, you must see this range to see how rick pulled off a perfectly clean restoration and retrofit that proves it can be done!
ed. note: the following  is a letter from john eichinger who wrote the feature bendix article for summer  1998 back issue titled "the lost bendix" with super pictures and  text...
it's her pastel cuatro leches (or, four milks cake).
this time around mike shares his memories about post war telephone service, party lines and when the operator personally vocalized the phrase - "number please".
the old appliance club broadcasts the news across the miles so you can see what is going on coast to coast so hopefully it will inspire you to do the same.
a full suitcase that has a portable iron built right into the handle.
when he finished disassembling, painting and even changing the door opening rotation you will see a masterpiece!
wait until you see what the cooler looks like after she rescued and restored her cathedral-style old philco dream machine.
as you can guess they were no longer available.
g.e. monitor top refrigerators were the vintage electric chillers with the compressor on top.
it is an astounding piece of kitchen machinery!
why with  old appliance trucks, of course!
the restoration and repair make a great story we are sure you will find very enjoyable.
the equipment really came out like new.
iron fun on the run from 'the apthorpe files', jim apthorpe found something that we have never seen in 33 years in the old appliance business.
plus, one of the most massive chambers ever - 1926 fireless and..frigidaire fold-back surface unit.
bern never ceases to amaze us when it comes to the history of refrigeration.
everything and anything is needed and hopefully you can supply it, make a few bucks and maybe even make a new old appliance friend!
the space-saving construction, super-power and unique automatic defrost system were just a few of the reasons this classic cooler became so popular.
paypal account not necessary ...
crosley electric stove owners usually feel left out as crosley's are hard to find in good shape.
no return if new parts have been damaged or worn.
thanks to people like mike and bern we are able to show you what it was like when the products were new!
1998 spring - mixmaster memories feature, 1936 norge unit kitchen,  1936 perfection oil refrigerator, 1930 wedgewood range, toast-o-lator, 1930s  westinghouse refrigerator, caloric "ultramatic" range, 1940s nesco  cooker, vacuum cleaner history, kitchenaid mixer, eureka table top range, ge  pre-payment fan, sunbeam cookbook recipes, 1930 hotpoint electric range with  glenwood wood/coal attachment.
need a timer or clock repaired, any  kind of special plating, parts fabricated, appliance brokering, sales or  service?
last but not  least, see a cast- aluminumportable oster hair dryer from 1930s and a  universal fold-down red handled travel iron -- both still working and in fine  condition.
if you are inspired after reading some of the great vintage appliance stories in the old road home, you neednt search any further for your dream appliance, part or service.
when fun was free kindling kindness when someone or something brings you to the brink of blistering anger, instead of becoming as hot as molten lava--relax!
sure makes me feel like having hot cocoa again.
the old, odd, and unusual pictures a double-whammy 1936 monitor top, a hotpoint electric stove with wood heater, gas sunbeam 4 burner and an ornate 1912 humphrey water heater.
fall 2001 feature - magic chef 1000 series ranges this quarters super-feature the old road home fall 2001 magic chef 1000 series the 1930s magic chef 1000 series was originally developed and targeted for use in larger homes and mansions across america.
geoff searched for and eventually found the stove of his dreams - amagic chef 6300 eight-burner gas stove.
talk to one, talk to all for expert services.
so, come on along - join in the fun in the old road home ...
since the  time he was just a tyke, brad’s parents,true lovers of a great cuppa, must have inspired him to start his coffee-maker  collection that he admits he is so afflicted with today.
our core stove business that sells rebuilt operating systems (safety valves, thermostats, pilot assemblies, etc.) has witnessed a sharp rise on older roper equipment.
the rare grunow fridge, which used the unusual refrigerant carrene was in production from 1933-1937.
thanks lana you were a pleasure to work with -- the blonde hair, turban and short shorts didn't hurt either!
early single slice toastmaster toaster trio, the all copper universal coffeematic coffee maker, 1950s
check out the features of each model, measurements and pictures of these most sought after antique ranges.
"a tale of panic, excitement and discovery!
need a wooden washer, 6 burner 2 oven gas range, easy copper tub washer, maytag wringer, church pews or just about any antique item for the house or garden?
insurance coverage or signature confirmation delivery available on request.
displayed are one of the very first and last of the line.
'speedy' delivered ...
if the unit is sent in for warranty service the customer is responsible for shipping charges.
this year we have had more people than ever before joining the old appliance club; everyone wants to see, learn about or share their old appliance experience.
maybe it could be sitting in your kitchen soon?
directly after world war ii there was a big push to complete the natural gas pipeline bringing a standardized vaporous fuel to the entire country.
our old friend from leesburg, florida,  jim apthorpe, recently came across a stunning example.
o'keefe & merritt full size stove from the 50s without a griddle?
a gorgeous group of domestic equipment any old appliance lover would love to own.
notice the oven door glass.
find it all in the old road home kick-off issue 2001.
son chief drop side;toastmaster
still alive and well heres a mix that cant be beat.
find out their secret on how they get their kitchen goodies.
winter 1998 fall 1998 summer 1998 spring 1998 winter 1997 fall 1997 summer 1997  spring 1997 winter 1996 fall 1996
the rexair cleaner developed all the way back in the 1930s used no dust bag at all, yet it trapped dirt and dust like no other cleaner using just water!
dealer ads and services there are many great specialists to choose from in the old appliance club.
how do you play an old stove???
apparently everyone there was so impressed by the restoration photos i sent in, leon gave the word to call me and let me know they were going to help out!
we have a real treat for you.
corner - lou and lee are out of the shop and "up on the roof" acting more  like the hunchback of notre dame than ever before!
displayed here is a lineage of the wonderful old time kitchen-aid mixers from the 3-a up to and including the 4-c models.
mi take advantage of special offers for back issues of the old road home ...
their readers are thirsting to understand what is being collected, what can be restored, and the amount of antique appliances that are being bought and sold throughout the world.
i like my range, and i wonder why more people can't find innovative uses for the technology.
come with us for a most remarkable trip down appliance “memory  lane”.
save $18 for 36 issues... $342 + 35 toac member = $377 (plus shipping) quantity: choose one or several of your favorite back issues $10 each issue pick n click - then, come back here for your next pick specify which when you order in 'comments' .
here are two stoves rarely ever seen  anywhere -- except in         torh  2001.
quantity: pik n clik 2004 fall, x4 2004 summer, x3 2004 spring, x2 2004  winter, x1 2003 fall 2003 summer 2003 spring 2003 winter 2002 fall 2002
rick sharpe, toac member from alabama, will walk you through how he actually turned his 1920s sunbeam gas stove into a combination stove.
these california cooler men love their fridges.
if you order a part without sending in the required e-mail pictures first, there is no refund or exchange.
the miller stove ... (la machina) complete with 6 burners, a huge warming oven, broiler and 3, thats right 3 heat controlled ovens all in 72 inches.
now in our tenth year !
last but not least, see a cast- aluminumportable oster hair dryer from 1930s and a universal fold-down red handled travel iron -- both still working and in fine condition.
also, you will see larry boysens collection of small antique appliances that look like they just came out of the showroom.
summer 1998 spring 1998 winter 1997 fall 1997 summer 1997 spring 1997
how rare frigidaire with ancient  frigidaire refrigerators, frigidaire automatic washer, red devil floor polisher  '50, chip’s magic secret 1999 fall - (extended issue) class of ‘47 stoves feature - see  twelve different ranges w/ features from 1947, 1930s g.e. monitor top  refrigerator showroom, 30s g.e. flat-ironer, spin-washer, new vintage-style  reproduction parts and services plus wooden electric fridges, 1935 ge mixer,  irons, coffee pots, toaster display by jim apthorpe, bridge beach stove,  restored chambers model "c" range, jim stulga’s rare g.e. double door monitor top  refrigerator and story, 1906 ge electric cooking table and products, 1951  vita-aire conditioner, matchbook cover appliance ads, part i of peter  mintun’s glorious vintage kitchen.
the always reliable six burner has a vertical broiler, c curve warming closet, coffee warmer burners and is real pretty in light blue with cream all over ahead of its time for the 1930s.
theres even an antique copper chambers displayed, which although was a freestanding stove, still adds to the sassy blend of equipment and finishes available.
find out why a cp range stands apart from all the rest, no matter what the brand of stove.
you  cannot help but wonder why no company today can make such an outstanding and  attractive range.
one old hotpoint  vehicle almost looks like a dump truck!
it is a site to behold.
the chrome connection feature (brad and dons impressive 50s chrome collection), philco refrig., 1937 servel electrolux kerosene refrigerator, 1939 eaton universal gas stove, proctor thermostatic toaster, 1946 sunbeam shavemaster, 1952 westinghouse electric roaster & timer, jim apthorpe "appliance detective", sunday nite "sammiches", crosley xervac hair restoring machine, apollo vacuum, roto-verso vac, broil-o-mat broiler, steem electric iron, detroit-michigan stove co.'s 30 ton stove!
we were so happy to get this hot story into the summer issue; we had to stop the presses so we could include this frosty thirst quencher!
this is just a small part of the ever increasing collection of jim apthorpe's antique appliances.
contact toac@sbcglobal.net for further details.
see below... five issue combo-pack: pic n' choose any five issues + membership ...
do you know how to move a vintage refrigerator?
parts, service, information ...
theres a 20 inch philco gas range, a handsome 1939 frigidaire electric fridge and a stout g.e. monitor top that are in need of a new home.
the beautifully decorated home and kitchen pix with entertaining, home-spun stories of their move, the nice-sized 1937 monitor top purchase (plus it doesnt dry food out!), triumph stove, and penninsular stove are truly an inspiration.
this was a monster of a job, but chip reels out his story with wit, fun and adventure that will capture everyone who reads it.
a very sweet gal by the name of reatha thran from nevada shares one of the nicest old stove stories you could ever read, pardners.
in the article we  were lucky enough to include a full blowup diagram of the parts too.
the old road home, summer 2001 issue also features the most popular  models of vintage 1950s o'keefe & merritt ranges along  with their correct factory model numbers.
fun was free - sweeten my coffee, by jack santoroto wrap up everything in our fish wrapping of 40 not-to-be-missed pages ofedutainment.
wedgewood stoves, from post wwii to the mid-50s were very much alike except for minor body changes.
jill of all trades laura wolf handywoman at large up michigan way shares pictures of her favorite vintage appliances that she has acquired along her journey in restoring old houses.
chambers, "a work of art" serelco stoves florence embassy ranges -
**all credits must be used within 6 months from issue date or they will be void.
look for other goodies too like the unusual stewart warner refrigerator.
todd started with a $150.00  “second-hand” store refrigerator.
hoover  vacuum, 1930s toastmaster, kenmore 1950 stove, frigidaire double french door  electric range, g.e. fan story - the breeze and i, merrywell mixer 1930s,  toastove 1920s, crankup fan, 1919 hotpoint six burner electric range, 1936 g.e.  white delivery truck, part 2 feature -
bruce is a phd consultant in physical electro-chemistry.
some of the goodies for sale this time around are a 6300 eight burner magic chef gas range, okeefe & merritt stoves, chambers b, c and the rare martha washington models.
home sweet home by lynn & jerry sample
as bernard nagengast, refrigeration historian, wrote, people who lived in the country may not have had electric refrigerators, but they sure did have icy balls.
and well photo gallery -
parts, services & information for antique stoves.
glad you asked dear friends.
all members of toac have free consultation, search and referral help available for a full year.
this was a significant design breakthrough that was truly a sight to behold.
what beauties they are too.
you can almost hear the swishing and sloshing of clothes being cleaned and smell the clean detergent-clean smell.
you cannot help but wonder why no company today can make such an outstanding and attractive range.
a must see for all 60s philco stove fans.
make sure to see the important instructions next time you have to move a classic cooler.
they showed all of the information to one of their engineers, sirnath nandyall.
... save $2.00 quantity:           current  issues + mem + any 1 back issue quantity: get all forty back issues (no membership)
2000 winter - (extended issue)
this should keep your heater going for decades.
a real dive what the heck was he thinking?.
don’t miss the classifieds!
we were so happy to get  this hot story into the summer issue; we had to stop the presses so we could  include this frosty thirst quencher!
if you own a florence and have never seen any advertising on them here is a rare piece of stove history.
vintage vacuums – more and more these days we are seeing folks  collecting and using vintage vacuums.
winter - how rare frigidaire feature, universal dishwasher-in-a-range, son chief toaster, 1895 estate peerless gas stove, clark jewell seven burner 1920s gas range, g.e. portable tank-type vacuum, westinghouse 1950s upright freezer, 1950s g.e. mixer, g.e. monitor top clock, the frigidaire man, 1928 air way vacuum cleaner, g.e. round rolling vacuum cleaner, ronald reagan w/ g.e. partiocart, janets heaters-10 historic electric heaters, when fun was free, 'scared stiff'.
vacuum cleaner fans – hark!
mike not only has wonderful facts on the belt drives (once the most popular of all units) but archive photos of the 1935 ge belt drive, thenorge rollarator unit and the model aw used in belt driven frigidaire refrigerator models ap-18, ap12 and multi-cold frigidaires.
theres a nice vintage cover shot of admiral built-in appliances for the home as well as the philco frostless double door refrigerator/freezer.
westinghouse streamline refrigerator a full page 1930s ad featuring one of the most sought after and beautiful antique refrigerators you could ever own.
check out this early 50s crosley in this issue.
need a thermostat rebuilt, dials made, porcelain services, refrigerator parts, even old t.v., radio and phonograph help?
don't miss it bendix fans.
for the first time the old road home presents a full lineup of wedgewoods for 1952.
(this range is considered by many to be the hope diamond of the vintage stove group from the 1930s.)
anne will teach you the best way to clean those burnt cookie sheets, solve iron cleaning problems and scour pyrex glass cooking utensils.
toac members appliances on parade - still alive and well.
corner - lou and lee are out of the shop and "up on the roof" acting more like the hunchback of notre dame than ever before!
g.e.  “monitor top” refrigerators were the vintage electric  “chillers” with the compressor on top.
westinghouse washer/dryer salt & pepper shakers, general mills  model gmsa, g.e. x-4
read all about it in the fall issue of the old road home.
1996 fall - okeefe & merritt feature, ice, electric & gas fridges, 1932 g.e. dishwasher, 1949 portable dishwasher, gas iron, quickmeal six burner / two oven stove, 'the lure of old toasters', 1928 chambers range, 1935 manning-bowman coffee service, 1940s pacific trash burner stove.
and sitting right on the front cover, in the reprise role of alma  chambers is none other than pretty tina conte, our first old road home model  (who just happens to have a chambers 'c' in her home.
your appliances on parade this member's uniquely shaped very old bendix washer had an auto soap injector and a water saver switch, detroit star transitional modern gas unit, pint-sized 40s light green frigidaire, deep red monitor top, plus an 8 osterizer and it works!
click to order issues or 'combos' below extended issue the crosley icy ball
59 culinaire mixer, edison  electric urn, osterizer, wafflemaster, 1936
how about a red-enameled chambers, a marbled magic chef patrician, a 1921 direct action , a super-sharp 50sphilco staggered-element electric range, two magic  chef 6300 series with chrome front trim, and much more.
heres a question for you.
two weeks later i was surprised i received a  call from his secretary, joann nunec.
kitchen-aid mixer collection part of the great collection of small older appliances from jim apthorpe of leesburg, florida.
we never seem to run out of  grin-making old appliance pictures and this issue certainly proves it.
1997 fall - chambers gas ranges feature, proctor appliances for 1948, 1930s angelus electric marshmallow toaster, 1930s magic chef tubular gas range, 1949 hotpoint electric refrigerator and range, g.e. canadian electric tea kettle, electrolux vacuum, armstrong "old south" waffle maker, toastmaster model.
1995 fall - cover - maytag washer, 1930s gaffers sattler  refrigerator, 1931 g.e. monitor top christmas refrigerator ad, 1932 artyle  magic chef range, 1941 easy laundry equipment, 1942 o’keefe & merritt  stove, kelvinator chest freezers, perfection oil range.
1998 summer - in search of the lost bendix feature **, ge monitor  top trucks, armstrong table stove, salt and pepper shakers, 1939 ge  refrigerator, nesco tea ryte tea pot, peninsular stove, wedgewood gas range,   silver king vacuums, open coil and calrod surface heating units,  ohio state stove, moore brothers stove, 1933 frigidaire "air conditioned  bed", kate smith's cookbook recipes - 'god bless america'.
the magnetic expression piano was mad by the mills novelty co.
if you would like to see toac model alana e'dahlia (above) in more presentations please drop us a line attoac@sbcglobal.net.
click to order issues or 'combos' below spring 2003 ninth year anniversary issue colors offered in enamel were rainbow-like.
the old, the odd and the unusual if you would like to see what an egg coddler used to look like in the early days of electric cookery there is a fine copper coddler by heinrich.
these brand-new versions are a pleasure to use!
all you need to do is pick them up.
every old stove lover hunting for their own dream range should not miss this inspiring article.
the streamline was well advanced for the era and even had a full drop down door tray.
1997 summer - servel gas refrigerators feature, 1949 wedgewood style-setter gas range, 1928 orange-ade refrigerated vending machine, 1951 abc-o-matic washer, 1920s range leg cups, 1930s magic chef, 1948 anderson gas range, 1950s
plus, 50s spe-de wee-nee, 1950 thor combination that could either  wash your clothes or your dishes, an iron for your clothes that not only used no  electricity, wasn’t heated on a stove but carried it’s own  “gas”  tank, ra-dryer decided to build a clothes-drying machine  that looked like a chest freezer, the “electric” egg scrambler with  penetrating, vibrating needle looks like a mini-mix master, take a 1934-41  maytag multi-motor washing machine build a racing car around it and add a kid  or two for a washer demo.
yes, it is electric, well made and positively unique.
son chief drop side;toastmaster 1bs toasters, dormeyer 3000-a mixer, electric buffet, round 50s kenmore washer, copper chambers 61c,dishwashers-walker bros. 1909 to 1918, first combo sink/dishwasher, first square, ge/hotpoint, front controls, early conover, hobart's kitchenaid centrifugal pump/rocker arm, 1895-1920 ads-baird, wolcott, kitchen service, western electric, electric maid and whirlpool, postcards, bungalow range, 20lb.
the end of the general electric trail.
all warranties on thermostats or safety valves start from the day the customer receives the order regardless of when the unit is installed.
if you order a part  without sending in the required e-mail pictures first, there is no refund or  exchange.
he also gives us a birds-eye-view of his 40 year career in service and sales of vintage electronics and appliances.
you know those duck brothers??
when you read this solar power article, it sounds as fresh as fallen snow, yet it was released in 1938!
paypal orders: use email  toac@sbcglobal.net  and describe  your order.
coca-cola refrigerators double feature works great!
just wait until you see the terrific comparison of monitor tops we have for you.
look for norm howe's beautiful ca.1935  wards "glory" coal and wood range with upper warming ovens, a lovely  large chicago metallic electric coffee urn ca.1940 that is said to make a  wonderful "cuppa" even though it is 60 plus years old.
this is one heck of a stove with all the bells and whistles of the day.
and, there is a 4 slice toastmaster toaster, of the  same vintage, that has to make some of the most mouth-watering crunchy toast  anywhere.
a full display of the latest in bullet-style vacuums from royal for post wwi.
crosley icy ball - here is one of the most delightful stories on vintage refrigerators.
second feature easy washing machines appliance specialist, mike arnold of 20th century restorations, recalls the old easy washing machine.
see the different models and descriptive  information that applied to each different kettle – the singles, doubles,  triples, even the double boiler model!
if you are looking for a wedgewood this information will chart out everything you need to know.
this is truly a knock out!
if you like  toasters you will surely love this fascinating story.
they all await you inspection.
here you will see 1930s products like genuine general electric mazda light bulbs, the g.e. sewing machine, the semi automatic single slice side dispensing toaster, the dog-bone handle iron, g.e. washing machine, and the fabulous general electric cooking range for 1932.
see all of our 1960s tribute issue plus it came from the mailbag (see what happens to a monitor top fridge when it blows out of a pickup truck at 65 mph.
1998 spring - mixmaster memories feature, 1936 norge unit kitchen, 1936 perfection oil refrigerator, 1930 wedgewood range, toast-o-lator, 1930s westinghouse refrigerator, caloric "ultramatic" range, 1940s nesco cooker, vacuum cleaner history, kitchenaid mixer, eureka table top range, ge pre-payment fan, sunbeam cookbook recipes, 1930 hotpoint electric range with glenwood wood/coal attachment.
when i received reathas letter, the first thing i thought was, the kitchen rangers have to know about this.
belt driven refrigeration here is another fine article penned by none other than old appliance guru mike arnold of twentieth century of troy, new york.
in the same display is yet another coleman heater from the same period that was a heater with a full team of radiants inside along with stylish grillework only comparable to the automotive industry of that period.
winter 1996 fall 1996
i remember the grunow, part ii
anne will teach you the best way  to clean those burnt cookie sheets, solve iron cleaning problems and scour  pyrex glass cooking utensils.
it is sure to make a big splish-splash when you share it with your friends.
merit-made toaster model a, westinghouse cat.
deep frying mini-tanks, an o’keefe & merritt  “periscope” stove, even a potbelly “dripping in chrome”
check these features out: it came from the mailbag, news from the trenches.
the introduction of color television by mike arnold in his column i remember makes 1953 history of tv for rca announcement interesting and fun first ntsc-compatible colour tv available to the public is pictured.
we were thrilled to get a lovely pack of pictures and a terrific story from toac members tammy scitar and joe gentile on what they have been up to.
interviews - what the new generation is noticing about the good ol days and what theyre saying is theyre loving em.
your cp antique range is fully explained below in the old road home cp issue love your monitor top?
one door closes, three more open
wanted ads all sorts of items needed here.
this time around you will see a super sharp 1920s direct action gas range, a brand new 1950 tappan cook top (found in a warehouse with original suggested retail price tag), a one-slice solid chrome deco toastermaster toaster from the 30s, a super cool ec-6 silex electric coffee pot~all chrome and glass, and a very, very old simplex electric iron that looks like it could do double-duty as doorstop its so muscular.
there is even a free chambers model b in great condition in this issue.
vintage vacuums - do you marvel over vintage vacuums?
in the same display is yet another  coleman heater from the same period that was a heater with a full team of  radiants inside along with stylish grillework only comparable to the automotive  industry of that period.
yes, it is filled with sensational old appliances, news, fun, services and pictures.
glenwood, smoothtop, roper, westinghouse, edison/g.e., detroit vapor, a.b. stove co., doric, estate and even an armstrong stove that could be hung on the wall!
michael sheafe, owner of toaster central and member of the old appliance club stops by to deliver'the man behind the toastoy.
great photos of restored model 'a' chambers stove, dormeyer mixers, home size deep frying mini-tanks, an okeefe & merritt periscope stove, even a potbelly dripping in chrome 50s g.e. coffee pot.
find out why a cp range stands apart from all the rest, no matter what  the brand of stove.
every old stove lover hunting for their own dream range should not  miss this inspiring article.
for those of us that thought that using solar energy to power a  stove or refrigerator is just on the horizon, read an article that will astound  you about how to operate a stove and icebox with the sun’s power.
revivals like this bring hope to all old appliance lovers.
fall - (extended issue)
much is needed and hopefully you can supply it, make a few bucks and maybe even make a new old appliance friend!
anne & nan have been around for years and  know all the secrets to problems throughout the household.
see a kenmore table top washer, a folding electric stove (recently found in a ravine), a very early kitchenaid mixer which looks like it could have been built from an erector set and last but not least, a cadillac for your kitchen?
second philco feature phabulous philco many of our old appliance friends across the miles contact us to display some of the classics they use in their kitchens.
50s  g.e. coffee pot.
ed. note: the following is a letter from john eichinger who wrote the feature bendix article for summer 1998 back issue titled "the lost bendix" with super pictures and text...
more nonsense for those that like to be tickled and  tickled.
three huge bologna-shaped light bulbs affixed in an ornately detailed floor style cabinet.
get help instantly... we accept debit cards, mc, visa, amex, discover and diners club too.
your choice - just type them in the 'comments' section when you order.
great shots of alana edahlia with her appliance collection and having fun atop her fostoria tru-heat iron that isshaped for speed .
here’s a question for you.
their 1952 toaster shoots toast out like a cannon.
you will rarely see one like this anywhere.
for our refrigerator fans we have a 2-door mid-1930s refrigerator that is not only all porcelain but has blind-embossed doors.
remember the ‘deep well’ pots made by wearever  for  chambers?
winner to be announced in the next exciting issue.
they were both good looking and extremely rugged.
great photo’s of restored model 'a' chambers stove, dormeyer mixers,  home size
the rarest of rare of the refrigerating machines.
1995 spring - cover - 1893 michigan 30 ton detroit jewel stove, 1909 vulcan stoves, 1936 okeefe & merritt range, perfection heaters, sunbeam mix master furniture buffer, g.e. refrigerator, tricks of the trade.
this issue the old road home will carry more ads than ever before.
for those of us that thought that using solar energy to power a stove or refrigerator is just on the horizon, read an article that will astound you about how to operate a stove and icebox with the suns power.
vacuum cleaner lovers -- feast your eyes on a convertible model from 1926  called “the vacuette”!
todd started with a $150.00 second-hand store refrigerator.
click to go to member order form... see this issue for ads for new pilot replacements for vintage magic chef stoves, new safety systems for chambers ranges, original thermostat and safety valve rebuilding services, restoration services like premium plating, new porcelain enamel processing, how to do-it-yourself antique stove manuals, custom burner head gaskets,plus new restoration and rebuilding companies that have just come on-line with toac!
postwar appliance assembly line mike arnold sent us this 1945 production line full pager featuringapex washing machines.
why with old appliance trucks, of course!
one of the most inspiring stories that we have received to date is from  geoff williamson.
toast catching contest winner from naples
apparently everyone there was so  impressed by the restoration photos i sent in,  leon  gave the word to call me  and let me know they were going to help out!
way back in 1928, a new york doctor utilized an experimental water chiller designed by frank faust of general electric.
their 1920s cottage kitchen is filled with fully restored large and small working antique appliances.
it slurps down a whopping 2,750 watts of power too!
the delivery plane looks like the old dc series.
old appliance pictures galore see a full size model ac home comfort stove, an ironrite mangle, a chrome-plated dormeyer toaster and camfield mixer and thewhat z it?
coffee cookers, coffee, coffee, coffee – everyone that enjoys coffee normally has their own favorite brewing pot.
more and more these days we are seeing folks collecting and using vintage vacuums.
there is a "twist" to it that you will find astounding.
no replacement or refund on any item that has been lost or recorded as  delivered by carrier.
1997 winter - the porcelain process feature estate gas & electric 8 burner stove, 1905 hughes electric stove,  salesmen samples - g.e., hoover, hotpoint, home oakland wood stove, 1953 tappan  gas range, hoover vacuum model 825, miniature g.e. toaster salt and pepper  shaker, 1920s frigidaire 3 door refrigerator, early g.e. triple beater mixer,  monitor and ball tops g.e. refrigerators, hotpoint 1920s iron car, westinghouse  line of home appliances for late 1940s, estate electric toaster #77, 1920s  combo stove/fridge, oven/radio combo.
we have published the original photo  taken just minutes after the stove was installed decades ago.
a majestic refrigerator - model 150 was saved from the junkyard many years ago and sat quietly waiting on a porch in florida for someone to find it and restore it.
dont miss the chambers range with custom built convenience shelf and the rogerette vintage travel iron and jack santoros latest find, a 1946 w-2 sunbeam 4 bay waffle iron in out of the box condition!
love your old appliances?
still alive and well
brands like revco, marvel and even gaffers sattler with built in double wall ovens and in the counter appliances.
did you know that an old appliance or part that you have sitting in your garage, house or shed could not only save someone elses unit but bring you money as well?
well, their fix-it corner and cartoon  is back yet for its 7th year anniversary with some really good ideas on fixing  broken ceramic insulators and a complete photo depicting the pre-50s  westinghouse electrically illuminated, fold-out closet ironing center!
this is the hottest issue yet
john eichinger -- st. paul , mn every issue is a tightly-packed fact-filled, fun-filled frolic thru appliance-land.
this is such a wonderful and heartfelt story i  don’t think i can describe it any better than “a tale that will get  you right in the throat”.
the evolution of dishwashers feature , electrolux vacuums - 1924 to 1979, ge monitor top sugar bowl, tape measure,  telechron clock, ashtray, s&p, water bottle, book and matchbook cover,  monarch range w/top mounted broaster, early mdl.
and thanks to wonderful members like handywoman laura wolf in michigan, we became aware of one heck of a brilliant guy dr. bruce graves.
and sitting right on the front cover, in the reprise role of alma chambers is none other than pretty tina conte, our first old road home model (who just happens to have a chambers 'c' in her home.
time and patience is the key.
a triple-door 1950s refrigerator with elliptical glass door inserts?
appliances in the wild want to see what appliances look like way, way back in the woods, yall?
maytag  washer, ‘46 sunbeam mixer, g.e. monitor top water bottle, glenwood range,  puritan water heaters, new perfection home heaters, kelvinator electric stoves  and refrigerators, the officialold road home pound cake recipe.
powerhouse, general electric was responsible for this cool, state of the art, advanced, functionality and design - all featured right here in this sizzlinghot summer 2003 issue.
need a timer or clock repaired, any kind of special plating, parts fabricated, appliance brokering, sales or service?
i will not spoil the tale by snitching here, but this is the first time i have ever heard a stove story like this.
perfect shape and everything works like a charm and its free to a good home that can take good care of it.
lydia robertson tells her story in this issue of torh and it is unlike any other we have ever carried.
icy ball extended issue the crosley icy ball
see these monitor tops that were built solely to be used as water coolers.
hot lectric cookin featuring the electric triangle is so hot it's cool.
no credit on any damaged non-useable items.
refunds for new or used parts must be received within 30 days or no credit will be issued.
1998 fall - holiday special edition the chrome connection
volume x, hot-cha issue 3 highlights if you are a new or soon to be new member of the old appliance club, red hot issue #3 of our hot cha series for 2004 will cement the fact that 2004 was a huge year for antique appliance interest, but by all measure 2005 has swamped everything!
a sixties issue for people in love and at peace with their 60s stoves.
toastermaster toaster and hospitality tray
like reading the latest news about old appliances?
a wonderful article by robert seger includes pictures of his fascinating automatic washer collection.
i just wanted to thank you for publishing my stuff.
you will be surprised to see all of the attachments that came with this home appliance too.
(the 6300 is the  big eight burner with multiple ovens, broiler, warming closet and full chrome  trim.)
the mystery of the malt shop root beer barrel revealed!
paypal accepts all major credit cards.
a 1952  caloric range with custom copper pleated backsplash and nu-tone overhead hood
that was until the epa found what it could really do to humans!
even the government wanted to know how he did it.
love toast-o-lators (the conveyor style toasters from mid-century).
this is the first time the style-sheets have been published in 65 years!
all sales final - no refund nor replacement on: any thermostat rebuilding orders or thermostat exchanges, custom fabricated safety systems, safety valves, pilot assemblies, minipilots, combination pilot replacements or specific rebuild orders.
we reserve the right to refuse or cancel service or orders to anyone for any reason not prohibited by law without explanation.
bernard nagengast, toac member and expert refrigeration historian shares this one of a kind photo with our tribe.
we have featured hundreds of stoves in the old road home over the years.
by the way, if you are longing to find a special service on old appliances,  this issue has the largest directory ever!
perfect shape and everything works like a charm and it’s free to a  good home that can take good care of it.
we are carrying the biggest classified to date.
the second leg of the story was getting the fridge ready for a trip across the usa to california for restoration.
check out the maytag men in their factory shop coats loading the early equipment.
free vintage appliances dont forget to check out thefree appliances offered too.
dont forget to check out the breakfaster too a type of streamlined early toaster oven with a warming plate on top.
then i decided to write leon viars, president of gabriel ride control.
i think this contraption is from the early 50s.
no replacement or refund on any item that has been lost or recorded as delivered by carrier.
anne & nan have been around for years and know all the secrets to problems throughout the household.
its so cute you'll want to pinch the page when you see it.
even the government wanted to know how he did  it.
these are custom-built to look just like the wood and glass styles of past decades comes with interior lighting, too!
it mysteriously doubled as a mirror too.
restoration services or new porcelain enamel processing, how to do-it-yourself antique stove manuals, custom burner head gaskets,plus new restoration and rebuilding companies that have just come on-line with toac!
we dont waste the amount of food we used to with a frostless refrigerator.
also featured are a chambers 1100 pound imperial 6 burner gas range, a tuxedo sharp magic chef 1930s range, a rarely heard about jackson hand iron, a 1940s knapp-monarch dual beating mixer and one of the prettiest waffle bakers ever made the porcelier.
hotpoint hallmark range 1963
it features a 1932 chevy pickup being loaded to the teeth with maytag washer crates.
coca-cola inspiration strikes twice!
1996 spring - g.e. monitor top history feature 1996 summer - cleaning up with maytag feature, 1930 glenwood gas range, sunbeam appliances, vacuums, 1921 g.e. fan, aristocrat range, 1947 t-20 toaster, chambers and american enterprise stove pictures.
unless stated used parts are not rebuilt.
1940 was a colossal year for cp - universal gas ranges - gotham marlboro, oxford and strand.
if you are a roper fan that owns a range from the 40s or 50s this feature article is bigger and longer, and filled to the brim with information than any other stove piece to date.
also pictured in this series is an early appliance parade float on the back of a 1920s flatbed truck.
join us to enjoy all the  models, dimensions, color combinations and features.
premier vacuum  cleaner company story is a great tale of how just one ironic “twist of  fate” changed 3 brothers’ lives totally around and made them very  rich too!
another double-shot of those big bruisers -- hard working trucks of years ago hauling domestic household appliances from years ago.!
all sales final - no refund nor replacement on rebuilt or new electrical parts or elements due to damage from a malfunctioning appliance that caused the replacement part to arc and burn out.
for the first time we are carrying a full page ad from 1951 of the florence embassy range.
since these last 10 years that toac was first founded, movie and sitcom set designers, producers of cooking shows and interior designers all are calling along with private owners for resources and experts and guidance.
pictures of westinghouse 1950
click to order issues or 'combos' below extended issue the old road home winter 2002
it tasted just fine!"
toast-o-lator toaster lovers!
o'keefe &  merritt fans are in for a fabulous fifties treat.
don't miss the excellent  photos of the excel deluxe whistle-t-ket-l and the exel corn popper, too.
folks needing to buy or sell all sorts of vintage appliances, parts and information are just an e-mail or a call away.
last but not least, if you think hoover only made  cleaners we have a big surprise for you.
see a complete cut-a-way of this novel conveyor-belt type toaster.
plus uncovering a new species!
great old-time ads and displays see the christmas model 1948 g.e. space maker refrigerator, a g.e .portable mangle, a 1931 dormeyer mixer/juicer that stands on its head, and four important, yet different styles of modern washers that were introduced many decades ago for the home laundry.
quantity: all issues: all back issues get all forty back issues plus toac membership save $18 for 36 issues... $342 + 35 toac member = $377 (plus shipping)
well, their fix-it corner and cartoon is back yet for its 7th year anniversary with some really good ideas on fixing broken ceramic insulators and a complete photo depicting the pre-50s westinghouse electrically illuminated, fold-out closet ironing center!
prices subject to change without notice.
there are some wonderful bargains in there including a frigidaire electric stove in turquoise blue enamel.
old odd unusual must see: located in a garage sale ... a $5,000 toast-o-lator!
it's a blast to the past you won't want to miss.
the dual automatic refrigerator (looks like a huge radio cabinet), the deluxe automatic iron, and other goodies like a westinghouse fan, vacuum, washer, electric china coffeemaker, plus the westinghouse flip-flop toaster.
right here and now - see our new model, lana wells, of hollywood,  california doing a wonderful job of displaying our new chambers silverstone  griddle and parts.
some folks have asked for a source for old toasters or mixers.
see one of the sharpest looking refrigerators ever to be constructed, the philco advanced design refrigerator.
shipping is nonrefundable.
the evolution of dishwashers feature , electrolux vacuums - 1924 to 1979, ge monitor top sugar bowl, tape measure, telechron clock, ashtray, s&p, water bottle, book and matchbook cover, monarch range w/top mounted broaster, early mdl.
the picture tells the whole, strange story.
click to order issues or 'combos' below plus ge monitor top and the cp stove specifications extended issue universal stove line - a hand picked fine selection of their most popular stoves.
i tried to locate some for years with no success.
parts, services & information  for antique stoves.
did you ever see a coffee cooker that mounts  on the wall?
look for other goodies too like the  unusual stewart warner refrigerator.
1997 spring - selling the sizzle feature 1950 coolerator refrigerators/freezers, 1930s merit-made tosater/coffee  warmer, 1949 hardwick challenger stove, 1935 norge range, magic maid mixer,  g.e. 1930s hotpoint electric stove, 1933 oster frapaiser, 1942 g.e.  refrigerator, 1947 sunbeam space heater, porcelier waffle maker, selling the sizzle ads include a  picnic in your kitchen with your roper range, 1952 international harvester  speed queen wringer washer, ge why work in a sweat box this summer,  westinghouse roaster, hotpoint electric range, 1947 bendix dryer, 1938  kelvinator refrigerators, lewyt prest-o!
chambers gas ranges model bs, model cs, ropers, universal oxford, 1930s okeefe & merritt, monarch maleable electric/wood combination range, smith and anthony heater, 50s ge fridges, wedgewoods, western holly, maytag dutch oven range, parlor, log, combo and wood heater stoves, 2 super rare 1955 ge wall mounted triple door refrigerators and even a golden ge monitor top just restored.
besides everything you have just read about we  have a terrific “mail bag”, old, odd and unusual appliances,  appliances found in the “wilderness” like an ancient conover  dishwasher and glenwood range, all kinds of manuals to help you restore your  stove, and dealers that are experts in restoration, parts and service.
learn the all-important weights (just in case you are thinking of installing one in your house) and see why these massive cookers were the #1 choice of estates and country roadhouse restaurants for years.
second feature article - frigidaire automatic washer history
ropers are coming back strong and are still a terrific investment.
right here and now - see our new model, lana wells, of hollywood, california doing a wonderful job of displaying our new chambers silverstone griddle and parts.
this is one fine and absolutely unique looking 5 cu.
well see you all down on the old road home real soon.
old appliance services and products see the first new product release of the model 90-c chambers eyebrow light replacement.
how about a red-enameled chambers, a marbled magic chef patrician, a 1921 direct action , a super-sharp 50sphilco staggered-element electric range, two magic chef 6300 series with chrome front trim, and much more.
pic 'n choose or get all back issues... listing below...
we wanted to share what happened jack, i called gabriel ride control a few years ago searching for shock absorbers for the duomatics.
see one of the sharpest looking refrigerators ever to be constructed, the  philco advanced design refrigerator.
included in the article are the original prices of several of their biggest selling models.
the kaiser ‘5’ minute dishwasher - 1948 full page ad  describing the totallynon-electric dishwasher - runs on waterpower!
now he has gas burners and an electric oven.
tammy and joe will tell you all about it.
linda sets out on a hunt and locates another model 61c chambers that ends up being named, the duchess.
save $2.00 every four issues save $18 - 40 issues $360 minus $18 = $342 (plus shipping)
quantity: choose one or several of your favorite back issues pick n click - then, come back here for your next pick specify which when you order in 'comments' .
own an electric stove?
no credit on any  damaged non-useable items.
do we have any oriole stove fans out there?
we dont know what it is but, if you can prove you do, we will send the first person that is correct any one back issue of the old road home appliance magazine 1995-2000.
yes, we have it and don’t you dare miss it!
vintage appliance delivery truck pictures!
another double-shot of  those big bruisers -- hard working trucks of years ago hauling domestic  household  appliances from years ago.!
vacuum cleaner lovers -- feast your eyes on a convertible model from 1926 called the vacuette!
the first release of the san marin ts-7 safety valve; the first improvement in 50 years, the western-holly 1948 full line of stoves featuring all sizes and goodies galore and the new heavy-duty chambers replacement legs.
old electric washer fans see maytag baby grand washing machine built between 1917-22; used a very different principle based on a millrace idea, and sleek 1938 montgomery wards washer.
get help instantly... we accept debit cards, mc, visa, amex, discover  and diners club too.
we are glad to say you will find all the contact information in torh 2001.
no need to worry - you'll read how powell crosley  brought his famous icy ball to rural homes and solved the dilemma.
we recommend you hire a qualified, licensed service technician  diagnose your stoves problem first as we do not diagnose mechanical problems  over the telephone.
here is a full page ad of the then state of the art hotpoint hallmark range.
news from the trenches find out the latest in the world of old appliance news.
this time around we feature a kitchenaid mixer with all attachments, which actually sold for $89.50 during the depression!
1999 summer - (first extended issue) nesco feature, a salute to hollywood, magic chef and servel, northwind 1930 fans, 1949 oster stim-u-lax junior vibrator, 1920s
if you want to be  inspired, this is the refrigerator you should see.
last but not least,1934 frigidaire moving follies on page 36 with the ups and downs of moving a 700 lb.
yes, this was the company that made  gauges…but, appliances too.
all sales final - no refund nor replacement on rebuilt or new  electrical parts or elements due to damage from a malfunctioning appliance that  caused the replacement part to arc and burn out.
general electric table top rotisserie oven before the showtime cooker, wonderful table top roasters like the roto-broil and the g.e. rotisserie were available.
antique stove preservation.
yes, this was the company that made gauges but, appliances too.
duck brothers cartoon in positively negative by lou and lee starring negative nick.
1997 winter - the porcelain process feature estate gas & electric 8 burner stove, 1905 hughes electric stove, salesmen samples - g.e., hoover, hotpoint, home oakland wood stove, 1953 tappan gas range, hoover vacuum model 825, miniature g.e. toaster salt and pepper shaker, 1920s frigidaire 3 door refrigerator, early g.e. triple beater mixer, monitor and ball tops g.e. refrigerators, hotpoint 1920s iron car, westinghouse line of home appliances for late 1940s, estate electric toaster #77, 1920s combo stove/fridge, oven/radio combo.
the old, the odd and the unusual calling all monitor top refrigerator fans!
pictures of  westinghouse 1950
save $2.00 every four issues $35 + $38 = $73 combo:
old appliances products and services see it in the old road home new antique-style refrigerators!
1995 summer - cover - c.1940s sunbeam toaster, 1931 g.e. hot plate, 31 g.e. washer, 32 norge fridge,37 maytag washer, 46 sunbeam mixer, g.e. monitor top water bottle, glenwood range, puritan water heaters, new perfection home heaters, kelvinator electric stoves and refrigerators, the officialold road home pound cake recipe.
besides his 50s  sunbeam toaster and westinghouse “twin” washer and dryer, the pride  and joy refrigerator in his kitchen is a philco.
if you ever take a tour of the magic chef house in st. louis, this is the  very range you will find in the kitchen today.
this is the first leg of a journey that old appliance sleuth jim apthorpe conducted.
the space-saving construction, super-power and unique automatic defrost  system were just a few of the reasons this classic cooler became so popular.
if you don't find it in this quarterly, as a private party member of toac you  can advertise for it world wide -- free.
(the 6300 is the big eight burner with multiple ovens, broiler, warming closet and full chrome trim.)
the famous tilt-top, the quick-chef and galaxie electric range line with double ovens are fully displayed in this piece.
the technique is a winner and the dollar outlay is very modest.
there is a  "twist" to it that you will find astounding.
talk about super rare photos see the 1931 edison handy ann mixer or the 1930s electric "heetaire" room warmer, an electric dish drainer with automatic forced air drying system and germicidal ultra-violet bulb!
if you need to feelinspired , this is the story to read.
o'keefe & merritt fans are in for a fabulous fifties treat.