my knives are 10 years old (from when i set up housekeeping on my own.)
as far as purchasing stuff goes, my personal philosophy is the more frivolous and expensive the purchase (jacuzzi, guitar, game console) the more waiting time required to decide if the purchase is worthy.
add your voice ask the readers share a personal story write a guest  post we want to talk to you
the new kitchen, which is nice but not top-of-the-line, gives us significantly more space (both cupboard and countertop), and is a joy to work in.
i guess once it’s done, just print it out and stick it on the fridge and resort.
reply @april: i totally agree with the decision process, just something about putting it into a flow chart hit a nerve – that’s all lol.
not sure whether is it just me but from experience, i realise that i always spent more money buying the brand/item i wanted in the first place after compromising for a cheaper alternative.
with my feet firmly back on the ground, the fancy cooktop and double oven were erased from our kitchen plans.
pretty interesting approach and can be used in a lot of situations.
and it’s only $150, compared to similar wool coats on sale.
which i paid for without problem, in cash.
even when i saw the hefty price tag, i thought maybe we could find other ways to cut back so that we could afford the dream oven.
this chart corrals them sequentially which greatly increases their effectiveness.
i’m not going to claim the new kitchen will save us money over the long haul, but if it means we spend even $50/month less eating out, it’s certainly something to consider.
i should mention that i cook more than anyone i know and the kitchen works just fine with kenmore and ge profile.
to pretend otherwise — to spend tens of thousands of dollars or more on a kitchen before learning how to cook, as is sadly common — is to fall intothe same kind of silly consumerism that leads people to believe that an expensive gym membership will get them into shape or the right bed will improve their sex life.
i know we’ll want a few nicer features in our home, but it’s important that our spending decisions are made consciously.
overall point: yes, this is a worthy exercise.
i have no coat like it, i could definitely use a coat like it, it’s more dressy than the heavy hoodies that i normally don in the fall/winter.
the relation between expensive appliances and quality is tenuous at best, an outright lie at worst.
brilliance flows from those who are able to improvise around what they don’t have, including and especially under duress.
on a positive side, i find that the joy of using something i wanted and not a compromise saves me money in the long run as i will continue to use it until the item breaks down.
i have no other coat like it, nor am i prone to purchasing coats.
the only way to combat this is to be conscious of what we buy — and why we are buying it by constantly keeping a check on ourcredit report.
if other homes that are comparable to yours have thermador stoves and built-in sub-zero fridges, you might be justified in saying it’s an investment.
however, the stainless kenmore line and the dual fuel kenmore range are significantly more expensive than many others available from sears.
that wasn’t my conscious thought as i was drooling over appliances at lowe’s, but bittman’s article made me question my motives (and probably saved me a couple thousand dollars).
also, what i’ve found from reading consumer reports and cook’s illustrated is that the most expensive appliance or gadget isn’t necessarily the best performing.
also, there’s no reason you can’t put a double oven in your new home — just get two “regular” ovens — iirc they are something like $500 each.
our current place has the laundry room just steps away from the master bedroom — another layout choice i’m really grateful for.
but when he posted a photo of his kitchen on his blog, readers were shocked.
i’ve been considering a kitchen remodel, but i decided replacing the roof (which needed replacement anyway, badly) with a metal one and adding gutters and a rainwater collection system was a higher priority for me.
thanks so much for the advice!
but how would one put in in perspective with the bigger picture of “given that we previously bought a suit and new khakis, but found used shoes…” or “we kept the home to 1500
did you start with an overall number, and are now in the midst of allocating it towards specific parts of the build?
a flow chart can be helpful (at the very least as a demonstration method for making logical decisions), as long as you fully define the goal and know what the constraints really are.
but any potential buyer looking at my house would still prefer the higher-end stainless appliances from sears over the cheap-looking and non-stylish (& cheaper) models.
i can be cooking at the stove, and even though the kitchen is tiny, my partner can get things out of the fridge, get the silverware, and tend to both the microwave and oven without even walking behind me.
(338) ask the readers: how much do you spend on clothes?
reply love the flowchart.
basic tips on tipping how to get rid of ants without calling an exterminator most talked about  most talked about which online high-yield money market & high-interest savings account  is best?
while i advocate frugality and wise money management, it is not bad to splurge on a “sinful” extravagance loading....
-is this a flaw that really needs to be corrected?
we now live in a house with a ge profile smoothtop stove.
good grief, that’s what 99% of whatever is on television is trying to do!
(no under-stove storage area.)i’s around $800, so it’s a bit more than a single stove, but i know she finds it really useful.
reply my wife and i just finished redoing the kitchen of the house we recently moved into.
this is a very interesting post to me, and i’d like to see more of this flavor.
good luck on your new house!
as runners run and writers write, cooks cook, under pretty much any circumstance.
i remodeled the kitchen in my last house, and although i loved my new ovens and induction cooktop, the change that made the biggest difference was moving the island one foot further away from the fridge.
it doesn’t get any better than this .
i just applied it to a purchase i want to make and got stopped at the first box (“can you afford it?”)
the author and her hubby wanted the proverbial big house in the country and a passle of kids on one salary.
we do love to cook — and we like to think we’re pretty good at it — but we don’t need a 36″ thermador to let the world know that, hey, in case you weren’t aware, we’re serious about food.
the value/money equation is not linear — it’s asymptotic.
i could definitely use it.
good quality appliances add a huge amount to the resale value of a kitchen, plus they last longer and actually work well while you are using them.
i relate to the ideas.
there are so many decisions to make it starts making your head spin, and even though we have a budget, there are tons of times when i say, but i really want that.
i’m no real estate expert, but a consistent message i hear from the real estate agents i’ve spoken with and from almost every hgtv show i’ve watched, are that kitchens with modern appliances help sell a home.
then i happened upon an article by mark bittman, who writes the minimalist column in the new york times.
the success of her (2) tightwad book(s) helped!
okay, here’s my thing: i see the concept.
the only ways i can justify spending extra money on any given item is by considering how long the item will be used (therefore invest extra for longer endurance/timeless look) and if we can notice a difference in the higher quality.
how to evaluate purchases.
i also quite like erika’s (#9) suggestion to keep your actual and budgeted expenses so you know as you progress if you’re saving or overspending, as that will help inform your final decisions on some items.
it’s especially important for those big ticket items like kitchens!
i think life is about balance and if you both love to cook, get what you really want.
so, that means that we have a home with outstanding “bones”, excellent insulation, efficient heating systems, excellent windows, and a large kitchen that actually cost less than that fireplace.
every year or so we look at new ovens and get dismayed by the lack of quality at the low end but don’t want to spend thousands on a better one.
some things can be added later, some can’t.
everything was easy to clean and maintain, and there wasn’t so much “stuff” so you could spend more time doing stuff you wanted and relaxing than being owned by the house.
a free and simple budget planner free debt snowball spreadsheet
disclaimer: all information provided at get rich slowly is for informational  purposes only.
my only feedback on this is that my boyfriend really pushed “gas stove” hard.
reply i can definitely relate to the flow chart.
and i have a small kitchen in a one-bedroom apartment (i’m a recent university grad).
reply i disagree–i think kitchen remodels can be a great investment that yields an enormous value in ease and delight of use!
i really like the flowchart.
when we found a bigger house to rent in our new location, his main criterion was “gas stove!”
it is such a great, simple tool.
so go cheaper on the stove if you want, but do run the gas line.
my home is a modest one in a lower-middle class neighborhood that i purchased for $140k several years ago.
they are even available with the stainless steel look if that’s what you want, too.
and i also have to agree with # 16 – does a purchasing decision actually warrant digging this flowchart out and checking it?
reply and this needs a flowchart?
on the topic of making due with what you have though, great points.
i just buy things, and sit on it for 2 weeks, or whatever the return policy is and return it, if i think it’s not worth it.
it sounds so weird, and it is.
what i’m saying is that it’s a much better idea to go with the top of the line models in the types of things are that appropriate to the size/value of your home, than to pinch pennies by buying the cheaper models.
reply layout is more important than appliances.
if not, seriously consider spending the money.
because we’re building a house, it dawned on me that this is just the beginning of along list of decisions we’ll have to make — each one with a price tag.
to help us stay on track, i started thinking about questions to ask ourselves as we’re faced with more and more building decisions.
after passing this 2 questions, i will normally buy the item that i wanted and not look for cheaper alternatives.
i am very aware that kenmore isn’t considered “luxury”!
it seems like a fairly standard thought process for people who have a brain (like you seem to).
so if you want that thermador cooktop — go ahead.
everyone watches hgtv, not just people who can afford the houses they feature!
maybe due to the fact that i create decision matrices for work, the actual layout and design of the flowchart itself is so flawed and hard to read that it bothers me.
this was their holy mission and keeping that in mind allowed them to accomplish it, even though it seemed impossible at first.
i hate the small space.
after you’ve made so many choices and seen the giant numbers you’ve spent it’s easy to think what’s another $200 for this and $500 for that.
then you can look at each of the options and determine how each choice fits the goals and affects the other choices.
“surely if we’ve managed with a slightly cantankerous oven for this long, we’d be just fine with a new, moderately-priced range.”
after spending 12 years cooking (a lot) for my family in a kitchen that was barely functional when we first moved into the house, i am *totally* enjoying every single thing about my renovated kitchen.
need to gently simmer something?
while i was digging myself out of debt, i went thru a similar process for anything over $50.
one might be suspect, but….will this increase the value of the home?
or, if you don’t want to spend the money right now, you can always set up the cabinetry with the right connections for a second oven so you can add it easily, later on.
good example of this for me will be ipod.
i don’t like making things work.
it is in this space that he develops most of the recipes for his cookbooks.
our times square apartment had a kitchen that was maybe 18 sq ft.
(houses will sell without the high end appliances thrown in.)
reply i love the flowchart!
we know where the hot spots are on the stovetop, and we’ve learned how to position the racks just so for even browning.
i bet it cost about 1/10th of the thermador’s price but it does a much better job.
i’m not interested in “how i got into/out of debt” but rather “i’m fortunate to have alot of extra room in my budget now, i’m working to become independently wealthy, but i also enjoy certain material things.”
the perfect is the enemy of the good how to beat the procrastination habit a simple way to get more out of life luck is no accident 9 methods for mastering your money
i have the money for it.
there’s being frugal, and then there’s being so frugal that all the products you buy need to be replaced in five years (or less).
little upgrades here and there could easily add up to a sizable mortgage in the end.
surely if we’ve managed with a slightly cantankerous oven for this long, we’d be just fine with a new, moderately-priced range.
i think at some point we need to include the evaluation of “will i enjoy it” or “which will i enjoy more”.
this simple flowchart is a great technique to help you minimize that effect that emotions will have on the buying process.
reply @escapevelocity–we’re going with a metal roof and rainwater collection, too!
can i bring myself to buy it?
i have an additional way of evaluating a future purchase: i ask myself whether the purchase will solve a problem i have, or allow me to do something that i couldn’t do before.
to us, eating well is one of the best ways to enjoy life.
@karen–i would never suggest buying cheap applicances.
yes, the wall oven cost more compared to a standard stove, but the microwave doesn’t take up counter space, of which we have precious little, and all the pots and pans are right under the stove, and my partner and i have a less frustrating time cooking together, and subsequently we eat at home much more often than we did before.
personally, i have been using it a lot lately but with a slight twist.
a friend got an expensive new kitchen a while back and although he said they were happy with the kitchen – “the food still tastes the same”.
i still can’t seem to justify it, though…….
our latest idea is that we’ll find an old, used, non-functional aga (or equivalent) and my guy will repair and install.
3) i’m sorry to inform you, but by buying kenmore, you bought “cheap” appliances in the eyes of people looking at thermador, wolf or viking kitchen equipment.
visions of sleek, thermador cooktops and double ovens danced in my head.
rates & offers from advertisers shown on this website change  frequently, sometimes without notice.
dustin engagedmarriage.com loading....
(795) a place of my own (569)
anyone who is fighting a daily battle with spending/debt should consider this a tool before making a new purchase.
cheap ways to stay warm how much should i tip?
based on your article, you’ve been pretty prudent with your finances.
normally, i will consider only whether i can afford it and whether i need it/can live without it.
i thought this sounded like a great way to watch your budget while still considering your dreams.
for some reason, i just can’t.
13 ft by 7 ft, and some of that taken up by a jog!
we only spent about $10k on the kitchen including cabinets, counters, and appliances because we can easily upgrade it later.
what i liked about them was that they were simple, on the small size but extremely functional, with durable and long wearing but not high end materials and furnishings.
consumer reports has consistently reported similar results over the years, too — the “boring” brands like ge, kenmore, whirlpool, maytag, etc deliver far greater value and less hassle than the “premium” brands like thermador, viking and sub-zero.
still, we cooked many extravagant meals there–the stove and oven worked same as any other kitchen.
reply great flowchart that could apply to any purchase, really.
reply i think the flowchart is useful for people who are new to the world of frugality.
when making decisions on home construction, ask yourself these questions: -can i upgrade it later?
this chart could be used for small, personal purchases, as well.
in the book “creating the not so big house” they show several houses that were designed to be upgraded later, one to be enlarged, the other to have nicer finishes.
getrichslowly.org makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, suitability or validity of any information on this site and will not be liable for any errors or omissions in this information or any damages arising from its display or use.
however if you are a long time and experienced saver the flowchart is already part of your lifestyle.
these are just logical thinking processes that should happen without any need for a flowchart.
there were several other guitars at the store for hundreds or thousands of dollars, however since he has little experience with an actual guitar, he would have a harder time hearing and feeling the difference between a more expensive guitar, and a generic one.
sure, i’ll have to cope with the quirky nuances of our oven, which loves to cook my cupcakes unevenly just to spite me, but i’ve learned its ways and i work around it.
curbing wants, focusing on needs
http://www.google.com/products/catalog?q=double+oven&oe=utf-8&cid=3228456804211954955&sa=title#p loading....
here’s my issue, though: i’m not overspending at all.
vince at #31, you do realize that hgtv is paid by those same high-end appliance sellers to deliver “programming” (really, program-length advertising) to convice you of that.
it’s a similar story with bathroom remodels and other home renovations — don’t improve the house so much that you end up pricing yourself out of your own neighborhood.
i think (and consumer reports agrees), that there are quality, mid-priced options.
website notify me of followup comments via e-mail subscribe without commenting e-mail: copyright © 1999-2012 by getrichslowly.org all rights reserved privacy policy terms of service
really hope to here more about this in the future.
(397) the official grs referral swapping thread (379) ask the readers: how much do you spend on food?
i’ve long been suspicious of the investment in top equipment by ordinary people.
reply @karen — the problem with kitchen (and bathroom) remodels, as well as other consumer goods (like wine) is that people forget a couple of things: 1)
we’ve got an oven that only we can use because the temperature control knob temps don’t correspond to the actual oven temps.
reply we’re rehabbing a house
if there’s one thing i’ve learned from being in credit card debt, it’s that the seemingly small things accumulate quickly.
when we talked about it, we both agreed we’d rather wait another year or two for a new car and get the new kitchen.
what’s really important is what we should be looking at… we have a year/year and a half before the actual move so this will help immensely.
reply great article, and great flowchart.
last month, our architect asked us to start thinking about the make and model of the kitchen appliances we want for our home.
the lesson my mother and grandmother pounded into my head (refugees in wwii) was to always buy the best quality you can afford and then keep it forever.
however, not everything should be measured solely against the “need” category.
few of us buy cars strictly for economy.
anything that could be cooked on a fancier stove can be cooked on a standard one.
reply this thing looks like that thingamajig that programmers use to make software.
reply one important consideration that seemed overlooked with the oven as well as the flowchart is resale value.
it seems like something pretty simple has been turned into something quite complex for little added benefit.
i like the flowchart idea.
i think that if i kept bittman’s words in mind, i’d save even more than a few thousand dollars… if i made it a lifestyle, i’d save potentially a hundred thousand or more over my lifetime!
i’ll agree with april — don’t buy the cheapest thing because it’s the cheapest thing — buy things that deliver the best value, which is an entirely different thing — and not determined by sticker price.
we also identified the new kitchen (or at least certain aspects of it) as a “want” that we were willing to give up other “wants” for.
photo by lifesundeath.
this ultimately save me money?
it’s white, with big black buttons and in a classic cut, something that won’t go out of style….
maybe the flowchart helps force people to make these decisions instead of glossing over them….. meh good article though on checking your spending and doing a little research and internal dialogue before buying loading....
but we plan to make it a little jewel.
we have struggled with “stuffitis” and resisted the move up to a bigger house that would stretch us financially.
if comparable homes are all arrayed with kenmore appliances, the money you dump into high-end stuff likely isn’t going to come back to you, since people will shop for things like number of bedrooms, price range, proximity to work, school districts and price first.
i think everyone may have their own personal mental chart that is a process they go through in their head when making a decision like this.
this article is about consumerism, house and home, shopping, tools stay connectedstay
we really like his simple approaches to cooking that usually turn out fantastic.
like @24, i’m curious about the whole process by which you decided to do it, looked for and acquired the land, and settled on home site/design.
after all, we’re both avid cooks.
sq ft, but went with the expensive jacuzzi tub, but used low-end washer and only a clothesline…”?
get out of debt as seen in: the wall street journal, money  magazine...
it looked good, but it absolutely failed as a cooking appliance.
the double wall oven has been so worth it!
you may discover that you really don’t like something on your floor plan.
reality check from a minimalist
in the meantime we just keep cooking with the crappy one that works just fine, once you understand it.
hiring a housekeeper: how i made my peace
and then people blame the contractor or the architect when the home costs more than originally quoted, even though the owners were the ones adding the “extras.”
so i would propose an amendment to this flowchart to consider ‘resale value’.
secondly, as someone who’s looking forward to building a new house down the line, i’m curious about the overall budgeting process for such an enormous undertaking.
when they actually show up, they’ll say “wow there’s a viking range here”, but the offer they make will likely be more in line with the houses with kenmore equipment.
my current dilemma: i found a beautiful fall/winter (it’s cotton, so maybe winters where i live it’d make due) coat that i’m coveting.
i empathize with your oven situation.
i think a better principle would be “buy the very best you can afford and you’ll never regret it…as long as it’s something you actually care about.”
it’s ok to get “wants” if you can afford them and if you have properly identified them.
and it’s awful advice to say that you should buy cheap appliances because you won’t be able to tell the difference.
how much do i need to save for retirement?
it’s a good deal and typical for it’s price range, and a higher quality than just going to the mall and picking one out without thinking.
however, they tend to swirl around like buzzing bees in annoying random order.
as far as kitchen appliances go, we just remodeled our kitchen, and like jason, we bought ge profile
burner supports on the stove slip and the pots tilt (not dangerously).
is it worth it to spend $2-3000 more?
i definitely like this flowchart.
seems like there needs to be a tie to the main goal somewhere.
that’s way to much for my simple mind to handle!
keeping in mind the problems you are trying to solve is a great way to make the right decisions when remodeling, and i imagine it could be applied to building new, too.
get the good kitchen, but skip the hot tub, giant deck, 2 suvs, etc. loading....
great article in runner’s world too… topic: healthy eating, less meat.
my husband and i are in the process of building a home on 4.5 acres in the texas hill country.
bittman writes: [chefs and food writers] know that when it comes to kitchens, size and equipment don’t count nearly as much as devotion, passion, common sense and, of course, experience.
the previous kitchen was old, badly designed, and ugly.
cleaning the thing was a major hassle, as well.
reply what a great flow map.
having spent a little too much time in the kitchen section at home depot while my husband was comparing fridges, i totally can see how quickly one could wipe out a budget doing a kitchen remodel.
we have a tiny kitchen too!
designing something on paper is so different than reality.
reply i think your flow chart could be a big help in a long project like your house.
for most people, they only build one custom home, we’re in the very early stages of planning a custom home – to be build in probably 10 years, and it is so easy to upgrade appliances, upgrade windows, add green technology (expensive but saves money), custom build-ins (again expensive, but can reduce size of home if building smart), fancy closets, upgraded design elements, etc. loading....
there is a reason why the average cost overrun for building a custom home is 30-50%.
reply first of all, the 42 square foot kitchen makes me laugh.
we used this to justify the large lodge-style fireplace.
in addition to the flow chart, a chart of expenses, expected and actual, is helpful.
topic: money talks: tips on talking about money with your family when: wednesday, december 7th at 4:00pm est get an email reminder ... manage your financesmanage your finances this post is from grs staff writer april dykman.
or are you starting with what you’d like, and then seeing if that’s affordable?
we want the flexibility that a lower house payment affords us.
reply having built a custom home, complete with cost overruns, i don’t think the chart is that helpful.
my mom has a double stove like this one, the maytag mer6741baw – white 30 inch freestanding electric range.
for the second questions, normally a cooling period works wonder!
the flowchart suggests we should purchase the less expensive option.
ask the readers: how much do you spend on housing?
reply i love this post.
but they’d be ugly, less functional (& for me, ugly also translates into less functional–asthetics matter!), and less likely to wow” a later buyer.
that’s my ideal for housing, and we keep that in mind while in the process of remodeling our house.
if possible, mock up your kitchen plan and make sure you can move around comfortably.
our goal is to keep expenses down as much as possible so that we don’t feel owned by our mortgage payment.
are there other options i should look into?
while it might seem that ‘buy a stove’ is the goal, it’s really more ‘make our kithen an efficient, non-frustrating and enjoyable workspace for us to work in at the same time, on a budget of $##,000, so that we can eat healthy at home and have fun cooking together’.
(wool is nice, but probably overkill for where i call home at the moment.)
they are total bliss to use!
and i’m really happy with them (i bought a gas cooktop and convection oven, a great combo if you love to cook.)
you can negotiate anything how to get out of debt irs red flags that lead to audits best of get rich slowly  best of get rich slowly 2010 grs personal finance video contest winners all 2010 grs video contest entrants the psychology of happiness how to build confidence and destroy fear
(332) money tools  money tools using spreadsheets to learn about money powerful personal finance programs free financial spreadsheets from google docs check your federal tax refund status how to get your free credit report online should i buy it?
the sink & cooktop are one work area, and the oven & fridge are another.
it makes me happy to save a few bucks here and there, and if i’m under, sometimes i’ll splurge on something (like tile) because i love it and because i can.
reply we are in the process of looking for a new place for the first time together and think that this post is perfect for us as we start shopping for furniture, down to new curtain ties.
if: you saved $1 million or more for retirement you bought a home without a mortgage you paid for college for three  or more children share your opinion: take a quick poll join our next getrichslowly tweetchat topic: money talks:
i do think that as you go along with this huge project and discuss how you actually made the decisions (like one upgrade vs. another) will be interesting.
if it’s for just me, i feel insanely guilty.)
for example, i’ve been coveting a blue yogitoes towel for my yoga practice.
i got top of the line stainless kenmore dual-fuel range & hood, a kenmore french door fridge, and a super quiet stainless bosch dishwasher.
we have a small kitchen – the floor space is just 4 x 7, but one of the things it has that makes the tiny kitchen work is that the cooktop (a cheap glass top one from the sears scratch & dent) is separate from the double wall oven (a non-cheap one).
overall, though, some unexpected expenses from rehabbing (mostly electrical/water issues) have kept that from happening!
a viking range would just be stupid.
as for the flowchart – i would suggest putting your brand new house purchase to the test.
we always hear the mantra, “buy the very best you can afford and you’ll never regret it,” but i don’t know if that applies to every situation.
spend more money on quality and you’ll spend less money in the long run.
so my viking range is 8 years old and has moved house with me 3 times.
as to the flowchart, i think it works well for one-off decisions like buying a new jacket.
new custom built houses are very expensive.
disclaimer:all information provided on this site is for informational purposes only.
i suppose you could go with a lower end oven and get more bang for your initial buck, but when you sell the home, that oven may take away from the lustre your kitchen has for potential buyers.
instead, we’ve chosen to simply enjoy life in our current little house…at least for a few more years!
reply “i’m no real estate expert, but a consistent message i hear from the real estate agents i’ve spoken with and from almost every hgtv show i’ve watched, are that kitchens with modern appliances help sell a home. ”
we want to pay off the house early.
of course in that case, who cares if your kitchen is functional or not? loading....
his skills make this a safe and sane endeavor for us, obviously this isn’t a solution for everyone.
that stuff just used to pass over my head and its nice to see that there are other applications other that geeky computing but be that as it may i think to some extent that it is unrealistic as one has to follow such a set pattern like a robot of a piece of software.
it’s highly doubtful you will recover the cost.
and i really identified with this.
reply name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
@ebyt–we definitely plan to budget for some wants, but we don’t need the rolls-royce of ovens when an accord gets the job done.
reply i love that flowchart!!
strictly speaking, we could have functioned in the old kitchen.
i was amazed at how many “little” purchases i ended up not getting.
i was using my second gen ipod (15gb) until it broke down and was extremely happy with it.
and i still can’t apply it to my life right….
the grs garden project the road to wealth is paved with goals homemade gifts how to buy a mattress a yard sale checklist: 10 tips for garage sale prep how i cut my television bill in half ten things your supermarket wont tell you how to make more money on ebay mortgage prepayment made easy: own your home in half the time embracing the thrift store ethic: 18 tips for buying used clothes how to win the lottery how to buy a side of beef how much should i spend on an engagement ring?
(433) basic tips on tipping: how much and to whom?
great concept and great post loading....
contact (546) the lazy way to investment success (489)
let’s look at how this would work using my cooktop example: our result?
i totally disagree with you being frugal in an area that you really don’t have to be.
at the moment, we’re still in the planning phase — not quite ready for blueprints.
it’s got two ovens in the space of one.
this same concept applies to not only to stoves but every other purchase that you can consider.
reply tell us more about buying land and planning for the house!
the problem with this logic being that a moderately-priced range from somewhere like lowes will probably last you less than half the time a more high-end stove, like a viking, would.
my fear is that we’ll be faced with so many decisions that we might lose sight of our goals.
surprisingly the most functional (and to me attractive) solutions are not the most expensive.
i did replace the range vent hood at the same time, since it vents through the roof, and i’m very happy with that upgrade (old one didn’t really do much except make noise).
there’s no doubt we’d use it, so the purchase makes sense.
and the non-stick frying pans come from the restaurant supply section at sam’s club.
connected fantastic concept, april.
i organized the set of questions into a flowchart, which we’ll use as a tool to help ignore emotions and evaluate need.
is a money merge account a good way to pay off your mortgage?
it was literally a small closet, with french doors to hide it from the living room.
reply reminds me of this snl skit: http://www.hulu.com/watch/1389/saturday-night-live-dont-buy-stuff –brian loading....
and yes, the flow chart is a fairly standard process, but so is “spend less than you earn” and “burn more calories than you consume.”
this should just be a conscious checklist.
we didn’t even have a full-size fridge, just a large dorm room style mini fridge under the counter.
per ftc guidelines, this website may be compensated by companies  mentioned through advertising, affiliate programs or otherwise.
the stovetop heats and allows a wide range of cooking, the oven heats evenly throughout.
this flow map could be useful in so many situations where you have to make a decision to spend money or not.
reply some of my most enjoyable times in my life have been on trips staying in modest cabins and beach houses.
the good news is that you likely got a good value for your money, with a quality appliance for a good price.
we don’t need top-of-the-line appliances to do what we love.
however, the point of being frugal, the point of managing money well, the point of doing all the the things we do to build wealth is to enjoy some of the fruits of our efforts.
i am thinking that whoever wrote this doesn’t cook of use a kitchen very much/at all.
visit referenced sites for current  information.
she can bake a casserole in the top while cooking a meat dish in the bottom.
it is a zero-clearance fireplace that is more like a furnace, so it also saves us heating costs….but ultimately, we figured it would add more value to the home than it cost.
one of my favorite books, ten years ago: the tightwad gazette.
with respect to resale value, people forget what their home will be compared to by the next buyer.
we’re also big bittman fans in our house.
(and i’m not even spending the money on my cars or anything, it’s just sitting in the bank, waiting for a job, waiting for a purpose or to be used.
for example, it’s likely delayed our purchase of a new (or new to us) car.
the gas burners were constantly in need of adjustment and put out too much heat, even on the lowest setting.
i just can’t bring myself to spend my money in large chunks.
there’s some ideas about which things you are better off investing in right away and which things you can add later.
there are also the enjoyability and comfort factors and we spend a few extra dollars to be comfortable and feel good when we drive.
if cooking is an important hobby there’s nothing wrong with making a purchase to upgrade for a more ejoyable experience as long as it does not compromise other more important fiancial goals.
(unless it’s on a car.
we would not have enjoyed cooking in that space.
reply another factor to consider is timing.
take away anything in my house and sure, i probably won’t miss it that much.
in “so your kitchen is tiny.
reply we lived in a house with the fancy thermador stove and oven.
(336) ask the readers: how much do you spend on health insurance?
good windows, insulation, heating systems…they can all have big payoff in money and comfort
our house currently has a tiny kitchen, so this article really hit “home” with me.
it makes me think of the ‘thinking maps’ i use in class to help kids organize their thoughts before writing.
“how to cook everything” is definitely the go-to cookbook for many of the meals we eat!
flowchart says don’t buy it.
however, we would have been frustrated with it, and would probably have eaten out more as a result.
what i think is helpful about this chart is that all these same thoughts float through my head when i make a purchase.
reply i think its a fantastic idea.
having a visual aid is definitely useful.
i could have easily paid $2500-3000 less total for the appliances by going with the lower-quality models with the white fronts, etc.
so what?” he describes how he makes do with42 square feet of kitchen space, precious little counter space, and a stove that sometimes doubles as storage for pots and pans.
we had a ceran stove previously and i do like the gas one better.
bittman appeared in this month’s edition of runner’s world, and another pic of him in his kitchen is in it.
reliability and ergonomics were at the top of the list for me.
also, a gas dryer will save you a bundle on your electric bill.
my pots and pans were purchased one at a time — usually on sale or from a marshalls or tjmaxx.
it’s just a way to ground ourselves before deciding what to buy.
(376) what are the differences between the rich and the poor?
and, using it every day, i totally see why.
the oven couldn’t hold temperature and cookies inevitably burned on some racks, undercooked on others.
we spent big bucks on the foundation, upgraded insulation, soundproofing in the floors and walls, high end radiant heating system, etc.
i hope you continue to keep up updated on the house building process!
tips on talking about money with your  family when: wednesday, december 7th at 4:00pm est get an email reminder ... essential money skills  essential money skills an introduction to money market accounts the best online high-yield savings accounts highest cd rates at online banks how to start a roth ira (and where to do it) how to choose a credit card 25 of the best books about money make the most of your checking account how to stop buying clothes you never wear how to eat healthy while keeping it cheap earn extra cash in your spare time should you rent or buy?
if you can afford a better kitchen, do it.
maybe i’m just in a bad mood this morning, but i think that designing a flow chart is a bit much, and probably unnecessary.
with such an overwhelming number of decisions to make about the tiniest details, i think it would be easy to “treat” ourselves to too many upgrades.
it almost seems overwhelming to make so many decisions all at once.
for a kitchen remodel, is it worth it to spend $2-300 more for the model with the high ranking in consumer reports versus an entry level model?
my husband has had a passing interesting in the guitar for years, however we only just bought him a starter pack ($100) two weeks ago.
tangible tools that help lead to conscious spending.
reply i kinda like this, it makes sense especially with the added step of “is the lower cost option high quality”
but i spend hours every single day in my kitchen feeding my family (even though i work full time).
is it something i need or lack?
best of luck in your new house.
i know i need to ask myself that, but it’s a helpful reminder to see that i should ask myself that first — before picking out the perfect model.