a big benefit here is that perennials and even shrubs in  containers will overwinter and come back bigger and better in subsequent years.
oddly, it's actually been more fun to design containers using what i  already have in the ground and in the house than what i find in the store.
dramatic reading spurs discussion of addiction at  psychiatric conference in philly  1336495381 may 8 - maiken  scott s m t w t f s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12  13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
when they fill in, this will be a bubbling cauldron of succulents (nicole  juday for newsworks)
interesting hostas are great in containers, as are heucheras.
the 70-mph speed limit idea is  something of a throwback.
she had been jobless for two years and receiving a monthly stipend from pennsylvania to support herself and her daughter.
these displays aren't seen that often anymore,  and when i come across them i have a flashback to 2007 and the pre-lehmann  brothers, pre-bernie madoff days.
click here to refresh
use the pulldown to filter comments  based on other users' ratings: positiveneutralall your comment e-mail (required, but will not  display)
i have a dwarf japanese pine tree in a big  pot that looks good all year, especially in winter, and another pot planted  with a 'sky pencil' japanese holly with space around it for annuals (i do still  like annuals, even if i don't use them that much.)
to prove you're a person, enter this string of characters below before clicking submit.
the past few years i've been experimenting with containers filled mostly  with plants i've divided from my garden, and while the effect may be subtle, it  can be very effective.
the 70-mph speed limit idea is something of a throwback.
last year more »germantown's 1874 unsolved child abduction case 1336496400 child abduction: a perennial fear in 1979, six-year-old etan patz disappeared on his way to school in new york city.
stems of both these can be snapped off the parent plant and stuck directly in the dirt, where they will form roots quickly.
germantown's 1874 unsolved child abduction case   1336496400 may 8 - jonathan zimmerman, for newsworks child abduction:
these mixed containers look  fantastic, but lately i've been looking for a new formula.
having almost exhausted the topic and the reader here, i'll just add that lastly, it's worth considering that the container makes as much of an impact as what's inside it.
interesting hostas are great in containers, as are  heucheras.
traditionally, containers gardens are designed with annuals, using something tall in the back, a trailing plant in the front, and a medium height plant with colorful flowers in the center.
i plunked one of each into two containers on my neighbor's shady  landing a few years ago and they're still going strong and look great.
make your gift  today.
i'm not sure she's ever watered them.
mary wilson a new speed limit could soon be in place on the pennsylvania turnpike if a  plan to raise it from 65 mph to 70 mph advances.
using a cheap plastic planter is fine, but you may want  something more attractive and more permanent like terra cotta, ceramic, or  metal, all of which should last for many years.
when they fill in, this will be a bubbling cauldron of succulents (nicole juday for newsworks)
houseplants like fancy-leaved geraniums and different succulents can also work in outside containers.
they should fill in soon, and next fall i'll pull them out and bring them back inside again.
if you register or log in to newsworks, you won't need to fill in your name and email address each time you comment--and you'll earnben bucks.
i'm not  sure she's ever watered them.
the key is to choose plants for their foliage, not their flowers.
« more from ground level support local journalism.
most  perennials have a short bloom season, so the leaves need to hold the interest  for the rest of the year.
container plantings are perfect for gardeners with limited outdoor space, and they're great for making entrances, decks, and patios feel more welcoming.
most perennials have a short bloom season, so the leaves need to hold the interest for the rest of the year.
today she keeps chickens and  bees, grows a lot of flowers, and writes and speaks about gardening and natural  history.
a desire to learn the  basics of gardening eventually led to a career change, and the has worked in  the horticultural field for more than a decade.
houseplants like fancy-leaved geraniums and different succulents can also  work in outside containers.
maybe we should start a movement, and call it recession gardening.
by entering a comment, you agree to observe the guidelines.
using a cheap plastic planter is fine, but you may want something more attractive and more permanent like terra cotta, ceramic, or metal, all of which should last for many years.
the past few years i've been experimenting with containers filled mostly with plants i've divided from my garden, and while the effect may be subtle, it can be very effective.
nicole juday njuday@whyy.org april 24, 2012by nicole juday
this is because except for driving a hummer, to me nothing says pre-recession like a big container of expensive annuals that have to be replaced several times a year.
i have a dwarf japanese pine tree in a big pot that looks good all year, especially in winter, and another pot planted with a 'sky pencil' japanese holly with space around it for annuals (i do still like annuals, even if i don't use them that much.)
she's a single mom to a toddler with chronic asthma.
oddly, it's actually been more fun to design containers using what i already have in the ground and in the house than what i find in the store.
these mixed containers look fantastic, but lately i've been looking for a new formula.
see what else she’s up to at www.nicolejuday.com.
a perennial fear in 1979, six-year-old etan patz  disappeared on his way to school in new york city.
ask a question when they fill in, this will be a bubbling cauldron of succulents (nicole  juday for newsworks)
this is because except for driving a hummer, to me nothing says  pre-recession like a big container of expensive annuals that have to be  replaced several times a year.
if you browse yard sales, flea markets and thrift shops you might find some good deals and unique containers to use as planters.
as spring marches onwards, now is when gardeners look at empty pots and  planters and think about what to put inside them.
you can also try evergreens as an anchor in your containers, and fill in with some small plants seasonally.
as spring marches onwards, now is when gardeners look at empty pots and planters and think about what to put inside them.
in more » pennsylvania programs  for welfare-to-work push job seekers, but offer less support  1336496400 may 8 - emma jacobs and holly otterbein alexis bethel is 21.
these displays aren't seen that often anymore, and when i come across them i have a flashback to 2007 and the pre-lehmann brothers, pre-bernie madoff days.
container plantings are  perfect for gardeners with limited outdoor space, and they're great for making  entrances, decks, and patios feel more welcoming.
a big benefit here is that perennials and even shrubs in containers will overwinter and come back bigger and better in subsequent years.
having almost exhausted the topic and the reader here, i'll just add that  lastly, it's worth considering that the container makes as much of an impact as  what's inside it.
traditionally, containers gardens are designed with annuals, using  something tall in the back, a trailing plant in the front, and a medium height  plant with colorful flowers in the center.
subject (required) to prove you're a person, enter this string of characters below before  clicking submit.
if you browse yard sales, flea  markets and thrift shops you might find some good deals and unique containers  to use as planters.
if you register or log in to newsworks, you won't need to fill in your name  and email address each time you comment--and you'll earnben bucks.
stems of both these can be snapped off the parent  plant and stuck directly in the dirt, where they will form roots quickly.
and last month, a fruitless search for patz' remains in a new york basement prompted a more »dramatic reading spurs discussion of addiction at psychiatric conference in philly 1336495381 more blogs »partners theartblog.org whyy homepagewhyy homepage © 2012 whyy - email newsworks built by delmarva group, llc..
you can also try evergreens as an anchor in your containers, and fill in  with some small plants seasonally.
in more »pennsylvania programs for welfare-to-work push job seekers, but offer less support 1336496400 alexis bethel is 21.
submit cancel about nicole juday nicole juday started  gardening when she became the owner of an overgrown yard and realized she  didn’t know the names of anything growing in it.
i plunked one of each into two containers on my neighbor's shady landing a few years ago and they're still going strong and look great.
a few weeks ago i filled a big copper kettle from a flea market with soil and planted the top with jade plants, aloe, sedums, and echeverias that had been in different pots in the house during the winter.
a few  weeks ago i filled a big copper kettle from a flea market with soil and planted  the top with jade plants, aloe, sedums, and echeverias that had been in  different pots in the house during the winter.
turnpike speed limit may rise to 70 mph in some areas   1336500815 may 8 -
they should fill in soon, and  next fall i'll pull them out and bring them back inside again.
she had been jobless for two years and receiving a monthly stipend from  pennsylvania to support herself and her daughter.
click here to refresh newsworks  has discussion guidelines to foster lively, civil dialogue.
and last month, a fruitless  search for patz' remains in a new york basement prompted a  more »
submit a new speed limit could soon be in place on the pennsylvania turnpike if a plan to raise it from 65 mph to 70 mph advances.