my favorite perennial for pots in the sun you already know — sedums of all types.
the potting medium these days, soil-less potting “media” are popular — all  bagged up at the hardware store or garden center.
on gardenrant elizabeth asked the design question: to mix plants within one pot or not?
mostly i’ve had better luck with single species pots.”
i agree with the other experts who suggestevery two  or three weeks.
i recently saw one that snaked up the posts of a deck  to automatically water all the pots on the deck.
in any event, don’t use regular garden soil — it’s heavy, not as freely draining (which is of supreme importance in containers) and it may come with pests.
the debate is between plantings of  mixed plants or filling each pot with lots of only one particular plant.
you can accomplish these arrangements in one large, stand-alone container or by using several containers of different sorts with a variety of plants.
still, it’s hard to water often enough if the basket is hung in the hot  afternoon sun.
sources recommend  containers that are as wide as they are tall for stability and for good  insulation of roots.
for something you can leave outdoors all year he suggests trees, either deciduous or evergreen, plus some perennials or annuals for color — and all but the annuals will winter over.
hanging baskets are often lined with sphagnum moss to better hold water.
and definitely on the  negative side, they look cheap.
plus, plant roots need all the soil they can  get.
i recently saw one that snaked up the posts of a deck to automatically water all the pots on the deck.
don recommends just one pot of flowers or cluster of pots to one side of the front door rather than pots evenly matched on both sides.
don engebretson, the renegade gardener, writes: “plants grown in pots and other containers open up a whole new dimension of design possibilities.
automatic watering systems can work like a dream, i’m told.
activities and events all about gardening in containers to be honest, container gardens are more work than in-ground gardens, the  exception being potted succulents, like my sedum collection that happily bakes  in the sun with no supplemental watering.
ginny stibolt suggests choosing plants for three levels: “the tall or spiky plant, the bushy medium height plant, and the vining or trailing plant that will hang gracefully from the sides.
i’ve tried some trees in pots, korean and bosnian pines, and a couple of short junipers, but one of the pines quickly outgrew its pot and the other one i feared wouldn’t last long, so i’ve moved them both to the garden.
got a deck you’d like to enliven with flowering vines?
these days, soil-less potting “media” are popular — all bagged up at the hardware store or garden center.
in the photo  above, most of the planters are fiberglass and they cost about $60 each.
one possible solution i’ve seen suggested is to line  the inside of the pot with a thin layer of packing wrap, which will expand and  contract against the side of the pot — or at least that’s the idea.
beltsville store - 11300 baltimore avenue beltsville, md 20705 - 301-937-1100 potomac store - 9545 river road potomac, md 20854 - 301-983-9200 behnkes florist - 9545 river road potomac, md 20854 - 301-983-4400 planting service - beltsville: 301-937-1100 - potomac : 301-983-9200 contact us | hours & directions | behnkes garden blog | shop behnkes online | sitemap copyright 2012
this three-layer idea is practically universal (certainly in japanese flower arranging) and fine gardening magazine coined the terms “thrillers, spillers and fillers” for them.
fill the container with the growing medium to within one inch from the rim — to leave room for watering without water spilling over the side.
so, for  example, in my zone 7a garden i choose plants hardy to zone 5 or colder for  pot.
and he likes oddness: “the odd-numbered arrangement will always look better than two or four or six pots together.
one  of the best gardeners i know plants coleus in12″-tall pots in the spring,  then places the pots strategically throughout one of her numerous flower beds.
to be honest, container gardens are more work than in-ground gardens, the exception being potted succulents, like my sedum collection that happily bakes in the sun with no supplemental watering.
(i’ll repeat here: they’d better be hardy to at least one zone colder than where you live.)
next, how much sun ya got?
begonias, and bacopa.
glazed ceramic pots look great but need more drainage holes, and again if  you live where winters include freezing temps, make sure they’re hardy  before you buy it, unless you’ll be bringing them indoors.
containers are also great when our soil is horrible for planting.
if a  container that size looks bad on the deck, maybe it can be put on the ground  (as in this photo) and the vines trained up and over the structure you’re  trying to cover.
and asked about clematis, aker warns that they really “resent”  hot weather and he’s seen them grown successfully rarely, and only when  given some protection from the sun.
i’ve tried some trees in pots, korean and bosnian pines, and a  couple of short junipers, but one of the pines quickly outgrew its pot and the  other one i feared wouldn’t last long, so i’ve moved them both to  the garden.
don recommends just one pot of flowers or cluster of pots to one side of  the front door rather than pots evenly matched on both sides.
now what about using those “water-saving crystals” or hydrogels we see in the stores?
(see more about wintering over below.)
watering if they’re sitting in the midday or afternoon sun, most pots need watering daily, if not more often.
then add a half-inch of  mulch to preserve moisture, prevent weeds and most obviously, to keep soil from  splashing up onto your plants — ugh.
one possible solution i’ve seen suggested is to line the inside of the pot with a thin layer of packing wrap, which will expand and contract against the side of the pot — or at least that’s the idea.
mostly  i’ve had better luck with single species pots.”
otherwise use a mulch that cools, like  bark chips or my favorite, shredded pine bark.
they clearly provide better  drainage than plastic, though.
many gardeners bring their pots indoors for the winter, preferably to a basement or garage that stays between 40 and 60 degrees f. (but who has that?
when their roots expand  outward enough to contact the pot itself, those freeze-and-thaw cycles are  murder on them.
my garage gets too cold and my basement stays too warm.)
“just say no” to them.
then  take note of a plant’s watering requirements and ask yourself if  you’ll really be watchful about watering daily, for instance.
landscape designer michelle derviss suggests choosing containers that match the color or style of the house.
and containers are portable, so we can move plants around the garden or even indoors for the winter, especially with the help of plant dollies.
those soil-less mixtures have the advantage of being lightweight,  well-draining and disease-free, but do need all their nutrients provided by  you, don’t forget.
or you can do what’s frequently suggested — leave your not-hardy-enough plants outdoors but wrap them up in burlap or bubble wrap or something equally unattractive.
it’s best to use an organic fertilizer that’s diluted in water, like fish emulsion and liquid seaweed.
he also recommends large containers — a cubic yard of potting soil to support enough vine to at least partially cover a pergola, for example.
it’s best to use an organic fertilizer that’s  diluted in water, like fish emulsion and liquid seaweed.
(most of my in-ground plants are a zone or two hardier than technically required, too, but when plants are in pots it’smandatory.)
it’s practically gardening tradition to cover drainage holes with  broken terra cotta chards or an inch of gravel, but respected horticultural  authoritylinda chalker-scott says studies have shown that the practice actually impedes drainage - because water does not travel well from the potting  mix to the coarse gravel mixture.
plus, plant roots need all the soil they can get.
work with odd numbers of plants, and  maybe add a nice rock or art object to enhance the arrangement.
insert plants so they meet the soil  again about an inch from the pot’s rim and add or remove soil so that the  soil surface is smooth and also an inch below the rim.
terra cotta pots look better, but are a lot heavier, and most won’t  withstand the freeze-and-thaw cycles of winter.
its  flowers are a mix of peach, pastel orange and light yellow.
lerner suggests these perennials for pots in the shade : rhodea, hellebore, astilbe, japanese painted fern, evergreen wood fern, bleeding heart ‘luxuriant’, hosta, columbine, cardinal flower, hardy begonia, and woodland phlox.
next, how  much sun ya got?
now what about using those “water-saving crystals” or  hydrogels we see in the stores?
the best-looking shrub-in-a-pot i’ve grown is that most  malleable of shrubs, theacuba.
the debate is between plantings of mixed plants or filling each pot with lots of only one particular plant.
i agree with the other experts who suggestevery two or three weeks.
many gardeners bring their pots indoors for the winter, preferably to a  basement or garage that stays between 40 and 60 degrees f. (but who has that?
plants for containers in the sun my favorite perennial for pots in the sun you already know —  sedums of all types.
then  give it a good soaking before planting.
by july the perennials and annuals rising from the earth completely hide the pots; all one sees are these great plumes of coleus bursting up 18″ to 20″ above the ground and one thinks, wow, can she ever grow coleus!”
there are  concerns about wooden containers that have been treated — fear that the  vapors can damage plants, andhere’s some information about treated wood  and plants.
and wintergreen boxwood.
then give it a good soaking before planting.
and asked about clematis, aker warns that they really “resent” hot weather and he’s seen them grown successfully rarely, and only when given some protection from the sun.
i also love grasses with trailing plants, the photo right  being a stunning example of combination.
i also love grasses with trailing plants, the photo right being a stunning example of combination.
i could use one of those myself.
he also recommends large containers — a cubic yard of potting soil to  support enough vine to at least partially cover a pergola, for example.
c. grandiflora ‘morning calm’ is commonly  available and is compact, with larger flowers than most trumpet vines.
it’s practically gardening tradition to cover drainage holes with broken terra cotta chards or an inch of gravel, but respected horticultural authoritylinda chalker-scott says studies have shown that the practice actually impedes drainage - because water does not travel well from the potting mix to the coarse gravel mixture.
for woody plants, he suggests: japanese maple, kousa dogwood,  ‘little henry’virginia sweetspire, ‘emerald’  arborvitae, ‘hetz midget’ arborvitae, dwarf falsecypress  ‘nana gracilis,’ golden variegated euonymus (e. japonicus  ‘aureomarginatus’)
you can  accomplish these arrangements in one large, stand-alone container or by using  several containers of different sorts with a variety of plants.
more recommendations coming here soon.
well, garden writers discussed this at  length via email and one of them summed it up nicelyhere on her blog.
paul james confirmed the short-lived nature of most trees in  pots recently, as did a nurseryman specializing in conifers, when questioned by  me at a trade show.
paul james confirmed the short-lived nature of most trees in pots recently, as did a nurseryman specializing in conifers, when questioned by me at a trade show.
sources recommend containers that are as wide as they are tall for stability and for good insulation of roots.
plastic pots are inexpensive and are slow to dry out, which is an  advantage with most plants, but a disadvantage for plants that need “good  drainage” — like lavender or these sedums.
(i’ll repeat here:  they’d better be hardy to at least one zone colder than where you live.)
root cellars may be best but again, who has that?)
root cellars may be  best but again, who has that?)
if potted plants are tropical they can usually  be brought indoors to winter over as houseplants, assuming you cut way back on  the watering and give them the right type and amount of sun.
but sometimes we grow plants despite the trouble they cause us because we love them, or maybe because balcony or rooftop gardening is our only option.
i find it easy to say no thanks to that idea.
these days a very popular alternative are the lightweight fiberglass and  resin planters that mimic real stone, terra cotta, or concrete.
for something you can leave outdoors all year he suggests  trees, either deciduous or evergreen, plus some perennials or annuals for color  — and all but the annuals will winter over.
choosing plants as a general rule always pick plants that are hardier to colder winters  than where you live because soil that’s aboveground gets colder.
otherwise use a mulch that cools, like bark chips or my favorite, shredded pine bark.
ginny stibolt suggests choosing plants for three levels: “the tall or  spiky plant, the bushy medium height plant, and the vining or trailing plant  that will hang gracefully from the sides.
ginny again suggests using “a large piece of the non-woven weed barrier cloth so it extends up the sides of the pot, it can also discourage ants from using your outdoor pots for nests.”
butginny thinks they’re  fine for annuals but for potted-up plants that will be staying in place longer  than a year she recommends “adding some compost in the soil mix and as an  occasional topdressing because all those good microbes create a better  environment for the roots.”
its flowers are a mix of peach, pastel orange and light yellow.
she uses half compost and half sandy soil for her pots, with a sterile potting medium only for the top two inches and mulch on top of that to prevent weeds.
some experts recommend including fertilizer with every other watering, which seems like a lot.
then add a half-inch of mulch to preserve moisture, prevent weeds and most obviously, to keep soil from splashing up onto your plants — ugh.
containers are the way to go, there being no open ground on your deck, and here’s what the national arboretum’s scott aker suggests: trumpet vine (campus radicans), because it attracts hummingbirds and is native to this region, though he considers the chinese version, campsis grandiflora, even nicer.
but sometimes we grow plants despite the trouble they cause us because we love them, or maybe because  balcony or rooftop gardening is our only option.
first, will your plants survive winter?
or you can do what’s frequently suggested — leave your  not-hardy-enough plants outdoors but wrap them up in burlap or bubble wrap or  something equally unattractive.
here’s what the national arboretum’s scott aker suggests: trumpet vine (campus radicans), because it attracts hummingbirds and is  native to this region, though he considers the chinese version, campsis  grandiflora, even nicer.
to prevent soil from washing out of the drainage holes, place a piece of  weed barrier cloth, or even a few dried leaves or several layers of newspaper  over the holes before adding the soil.
so, for example, in my zone 7a garden i choose plants hardy to zone 5 or colder for pot.
automatic watering systems can work like  a dream, i’m told.
this three-layer  idea is practically universal (certainly in japanese flower arranging) and fine  gardening magazine coined the terms “thrillers, spillers and  fillers” for them.
if they’re sitting in the midday or afternoon sun, most pots need watering daily, if not more often.
planting fill the container with the growing medium to within one inch from the rim  — to leave room for watering without water spilling over the side.
store hours & directions beltsville store - 11300 baltimore avenue beltsville, md 20705 -  301-937-1100 potomac store - 9545 river road potomac, md 20854 -  301-983-9200 behnkes florist - 9545 river road potomac, md 20854 -  301-983-4400 planting service - beltsville: 301-937-1100 - potomac : 301-983-9200 contact us | hours & directions | behnkes  garden blog | shop behnkes online | sitemap copyright 2012
and he likes  oddness: “the odd-numbered arrangement will always look better than two  or four or six pots together.
by july the perennials and annuals rising from the earth completely hide the  pots; all one sees are these great plumes of coleus bursting up 18″ to  20″ above the ground and one thinks, wow, can she ever grow coleus!”
the container types are detailed below but there’s one thing they all have in  common: the bigger, the better for the health of the plants.
cheap wood can and will rot; redwood and cedar will last longer.
hanging plants require aspecial commitment on the part of  their caretaker.
containers are the way to go, there being no open ground on your deck, and
work with odd numbers of plants, and maybe add a nice rock or art object to enhance the arrangement.
pebbles can bake the plants, which is fine for succulents.
landscape designer michelle derviss suggests choosing containers that match  the color or style of the house.
and  containers are portable, so we can move plants around the garden or even  indoors for the winter, especially with the help of plant dollies.
she uses half compost and half sandy soil for  her pots, with a sterile potting medium only for the top two inches and mulch  on top of that to prevent weeds.
plants for shade or partial sun i have lots of plant suggestions here, thanks to joel lerner in the washington post.
the behnke nurseries company
and check this site for some great-looking winter container ideas.
one of the best gardeners i know plants coleus in12″-tall pots in the spring, then places the pots strategically throughout one of her numerous flower beds.
what about covering the drainage hole?
well, garden writers discussed this at length via email and one of them summed it up nicelyhere on her blog.
don engebretson, the renegade gardener, writes: “plants grown in pots  and other containers open up a whole new dimension of design possibilities.
ginny again suggests using “a large  piece of the non-woven weed barrier cloth so it extends up the sides of the  pot, it can also discourage ants from using your outdoor pots for nests.”
i could use one of those  myself.
when their roots expand outward enough to contact the pot itself, those freeze-and-thaw cycles are murder on them.
c. grandiflora ‘morning calm’ is commonly available and is compact, with larger flowers than most trumpet vines.
and his favorite annuals for pots are: coleus, impatiens, joseph’s coat, caladium, peacock ginger, elephant ear, rex and tuberous begonias, and bacopa.
why wouldn’t they last long, you ask?
pebbles can bake the  plants, which is fine for succulents.
(most of my in-ground plants are a zone or two hardier than technically  required, too, but when plants are in pots it’smandatory.)
feeding some experts recommend including fertilizer with every other watering,  which seems like a lot.
butginny thinks they’re fine for annuals but for potted-up plants that will be staying in place longer than a year she recommends “adding some compost in the soil mix and as an occasional topdressing because all those good microbes create a better environment for the roots.”
to prevent soil from washing out of the drainage holes, place a piece of weed barrier cloth, or even a few dried leaves or several layers of newspaper over the holes before adding the soil.
those soil-less mixtures have the advantage of being lightweight, well-draining and disease-free, but do need all their nutrients provided by you, don’t forget.
and got some great responses.
and his favorite annuals for pots are: coleus, impatiens,  joseph’s coat, caladium, peacock ginger, elephant ear, rex and tuberous
types are detailed below but there’s one thing they all have in common: the bigger, the better for the health of the plants.
as a general rule always pick plants that are hardier to colder winters than where you live because soil that’s aboveground gets colder.
photo and design credit: michelle derviss.
lerner suggests these perennials for pots in the shade : rhodea,  hellebore, astilbe, japanese painted fern, evergreen wood fern, bleeding heart  ‘luxuriant’, hosta, columbine, cardinal flower, hardy begonia, and  woodland phlox.
on gardenrant elizabeth asked the design question: to mix plants within one  pot or not?
for woody plants, he suggests: japanese maple, kousa dogwood, ‘little henry’virginia sweetspire, ‘emerald’ arborvitae, ‘hetz midget’ arborvitae, dwarf falsecypress ‘nana gracilis,’ golden variegated euonymus (e. japonicus ‘aureomarginatus’) and wintergreen boxwood.
the best-looking shrub-in-a-pot i’ve grown is that most malleable of shrubs, theacuba.
then take note of a plant’s watering requirements and ask yourself if you’ll really be watchful about watering daily, for instance.
if potted plants are tropical they can usually be brought indoors to winter over as houseplants, assuming you cut way back on the watering and give them the right type and amount of sun.
if a container that size looks bad on the deck, maybe it can be put on the ground (as in this photo) and the vines trained up and over the structure you’re trying to cover.
i have lots of plant suggestions here, thanks to joel lerner in the washington post.
in any event, don’t use regular garden soil  — it’s heavy, not as freely draining (which is of supreme  importance in containers) and it may come with pests.
insert plants so they meet the soil again about an inch from the pot’s rim and add or remove soil so that the soil surface is smooth and also an inch below the rim.