in 1910, the almanac's publishers began pre-drilling holes in the corners to make it even easier for readers to keep all of that invaluable information (and paper) handy.
this is a sure sign that the pot may have been too small to begin with, which is why choosing the right container is so important.
once your plant is fully grown, it is ok to let it go a few days without watering.
starting with the first edition of the farmers' almanac in 1818, readers used to nail holes into the corners to hang it up in their homes, barns, and outhouses (to provide both reading material and toilet paper).
of course, when container gardening, you will also have to think about what types of containers you will grow your vegetables in.
that hole isn't a defect; it's a part of history.
the best part is, almost any vegetable that will grow in a typical backyard garden can also do well in a container.
smaller containers – about 4-6  inches deep – can be used to grow vegetables like lettuce, spinach, and  herbs.
after you’ve chosen containers appropriate to the vegetables you plan to grow, and placed your containers in the warmest sunniest spot you can find, you will need to choose a suitable growing medium.
what comes next is the usual care and attention you would pay to any of your plants – regular watering, feeding and some good old fashioned tlc.
although they are not pretty to look at, you could spray paint them, or set them in another more decorative container.
styrofoam peanuts added to the bottom of the container make good drainage material.
some vegetables that are well-suited for container gardening are tomatoes, peppers, eggplant, cucumbers, bush beans, lettuce, spinach, summer squash, radishes, and herbs.
i planted radishes in a container garden, spaced properly and kept moist
wood, unglazed  ceramic (like terracotta), or papier mache pots are all porous and lose  moisture more quickly.
food & recipes main page recipes promote your business | inside the 2012  almanac | about us | contact us | for the press | advertise with us | rss follow @farmersalmanac you are here:
for vegetables such as summer squash, tomatoes, peppers, and eggplant, you  will find that five-gallon buckets, or something similar in size, are the best  fit.
back to the drawing board!!
a good estimate is to fill your container with 2/3 potting soil to 1/3 organic compost.
the beans, tomatoes, cukes, peppers and onions are coming along.
and- come- again greens taken from the bottom of the rosette.
for vegetables such as summer squash, tomatoes, peppers, and eggplant, you will find that five-gallon buckets, or something similar in size, are the best fit.
once you’ve got your containers filled with healthy soil, you can  either direct seed or transplant healthy, strong, seedlings into your  containers.
my home soil is unworkable.
smaller containers – about 4-6 inches deep – can be used to grow vegetables like lettuce, spinach, and herbs.
container gardening is an easy, enjoyable way to grow your own vegetables, and can be done on a windowsill, patio, balcony, doorstep, or any space that will provide sufficient sunlight and ease of care.
wrapping a moist towel around the pot sometimes helps.
troubleshooting for container gardening be mindful of over watering.
you can add some organic compost to your soil mix for heavy feeders like tomatoes and peppers.
waning crescent 26% of full by sherie blumenthal | monday, may 30th, 2011 | from: home and garden spring is in the air – even if it is very, wet rainy air – and that means its time to get your hands in the dirt and get your vegetable garden started.
this is a sure sign that the pot may have  been too small to begin with, which is why choosing the right container is so  important.
e-mail (required) your website (optional)
once you’ve got your containers filled with healthy soil, you can either direct seed or transplant healthy, strong, seedlings into your containers.
whatever container you choose, you will want to make sure you
containers are either porous or nonporous.
plastic, glazed ceramic,  and dark glass containers are nonporous and hold water better.
age and health issues dictated simplifying our gardening, and it has been an “adventure”.
some vegetables that are well-suited  for container gardening are tomatoes, peppers, eggplant, cucumbers, bush beans,  lettuce, spinach, summer squash, radishes, and herbs.
be careful that  plants in porous containers, like ceramic pots, don’t dry out too much,  though.
of course, when container  gardening, you will also have to think about what types of containers you will  grow your vegetables in.
almost any type of container can be used for growing vegetables.
build your own raised bed garden mulching tips to fight weeds  naturally growing up: vertical gardening grow your own food in small spaces by sherie blumenthal | monday, may 30th, 2011 | from: home and
the best part is, almost any vegetable that will grow in a typical backyard  garden can also do well in a container.
never use containers that have housed chemicals, or that are painted with lead-based paint (as these leach into the container, and can leach into your veggies).
you’ll also want to be careful about the material your container is made of.
privacy policy & terms of usage
i grow all my herbs in containers, and this year, i grew rutabagas and kohlrabi in containers.
7 comments hello all.
i almost drowned several plants before we realized that they were “floating”.
once your plant is  fully grown, it is ok to let it go a few days without watering.
i can and do grow about anything in containers on my front deck, where they get plenty of sun.
other vegetables that can do well in containers if the conditions are right are cabbage, kale, broccoli and cauliflower.
but i’m getting just leaves about 10 inches tall but no bulbs.
we did manage to save them in time, and so far i’ve had peas (too hot now).
i have always been good at growing things in the earth, but never in containers, so i’ve shied away from that.
those comments that are vague or are simply submitted in order to promote a product, service or web site, although not necessarily considered "spam," are generally not approved.
a standard potting soil that you find in your garden store should work just fine.
sherrye, it definitely is a learning experience, and a great challenge at times to grow a container garden.
sometimes i include flowers, but mostly i focus on veggies.
you can still raise fresh, nutritious, homegrown  vegetables just about anywhere, as long as you can find yourself some sturdy,  simple containers.
you can add some organic compost to your  soil mix for heavy feeders like tomatoes and peppers.
after you’ve chosen containers appropriate to the vegetables you plan  to grow, and placed your containers in the warmest sunniest spot you can find,  you will need to choose a suitable growing medium.
you can try growing collards, one to a pot, for cut-
finally, keep an eye out to make sure your plants  aren’t outgrowing their pots.
i also added a lot of perennials and annuals for color………everything is on the deck.
garden spring is in the air – even if it is very, wet rainy air – and  that means its time to get your hands in the dirt and get your vegetable garden  started.
watch for poor drainage due to inadequate drain holes or compacted soil.
copyright ©2012 almanac publishing co.
because of cost, we opted for plastic containers (and homemade wooden ones).
a standard potting soil that you find in your  garden store should work just fine.
to aid in good drainage flow, make sure any container you use has several drain holes along the bottom edge.
our soil here is not suitable for gardens so this is something to consider.
until next time, keep growin’!sherie blumenthall is a food access coordinator withlots to gardens, an urban gardening and community nutrition initiative sponsored by st. mary’s health system in lewiston, maine.
a good estimate is to  fill your container with 2/3 potting soil to 1/3 organic compost.
troubleshooting for container gardening be mindful of  over watering.
i was hoping for some advice.
i have two in-ground garden beds, but can’t resist having my container garden every year.
finally, keep an eye out to make sure your plants aren’t outgrowing their pots.
the beauty is , they are light, hold water, and keep the plants’ roots cool.
you can still raise fresh, nutritious, homegrown vegetables just about anywhere, as long as you can find yourself some sturdy, simple containers.
i caution all “newbies” to container gardening to know the history of their containers.
just like any other kind of gardening, container gardening is an adventure, with lots of unexpected twists and turns not always predicted on your road map.
you’ll also want to be careful about the material your container is  made of.
however, you can be successful at container gardening if you are attentive and  observant.
for vegetables like swiss chard, broccoli, cabbage, and cauliflower, one  to two gallon containers work better.
container gardening is an easy, enjoyable way to grow your  own vegetables, and can be done on a windowsill, patio, balcony, doorstep, or  any space that will provide sufficient sunlight and ease of care.
a good growing medium will  hold water and provide adequate nutrients and physical support to grow healthy  plants.
sherie blumenthall is a food  access coordinator withlots to gardens, an urban gardening and community  nutrition initiative sponsored by st. mary’s health system in lewiston,  maine.
however, you can be successful at container gardening if you are attentive and observant.
the plant will live two or three years and develop a long stalk, and at least until it develops the telltale yellow flowers, will, when taken inside for winter, be mistaken for a dracaena.
to aid in good drainage flow,  make sure any container you use has several drain holes along the bottom edge.
you have no backyard or green space to grow  your own food?
for vegetables like swiss chard, broccoli, cabbage, and cauliflower, one to two gallon containers work better.
note: comments that further the discussion of the above content are likely to be approved.
i would like to put out a few things so we can have something of a garden this year.
you can choose simple containers like buckets, baskets, tubs, or wooden boxes, or you can get creative and plant in shoes, recycled sinks and bathtubs, or even a kiddie pool.
if you don’t know what kind of paint it’s painted with, or what it was used to contain before, don’t use it for growing your food.
match the type of plant you grow to the size of the container.
hi, i love to use old styrafoam ice chests ( just the cheap ones) to plant in.
a good growing medium must also drain well, otherwise your plants could  end up in a puddle and drown!
most of all, don’t forget to take time to enjoy the fruits of  your labor!
i had put pine bark mulch on top, so it wasn’t evident.
we are container gardening for the first time this year.
container gardening is the only way to go for me.
can anyone tell me what i’m doing wrong?
watch for poor  drainage due to inadequate drain holes or compacted soil.
other vegetables that can  do well in containers if the conditions are right are cabbage, kale, broccoli  and cauliflower.
you can  choose simple containers like buckets, baskets, tubs, or wooden boxes, or you  can get creative and plant in shoes, recycled sinks and bathtubs, or even a  kiddie pool.
whatever container you choose, you will want to make sure you match the type of plant you grow to the size of the container.
just like any other kind of gardening, container gardening is an adventure,  with lots of unexpected twists and turns not always predicted on your road map.
you can plant in either porous or nonporous containers, but you will need to adjust how much, and how frequently, you water your plants, and pay special attention to drainage.
when making the decision to container garden, you will want to think about  many of the same things you’d be thinking about if you were gardening on  a piece of land, such as healthy soil, adequate sunlight, enough water, good  fertilizer, and thoughtful pest management.
it’s never too  late to drill more holes.
just punch a few holes in the bottom, fill with potting soil and plant.
plastic, glazed ceramic, and dark glass containers are nonporous and hold water better.
it had been a challenge and we’ve learned several things that will help us do a better job next year.
if you notice a hole in the upper left-hand corner of your farmers' almanac, don't return it to the store!
leave a comment name (required)
thanks for the post on container gardening.
when making the decision to container garden, you will want to think about many of the same things you’d be thinking about if you were gardening on a piece of land, such as healthy soil, adequate sunlight, enough water, good fertilizer, and thoughtful pest management.
i have to say, i hadn’t tried collards in containers yet, but i will this fall!
it won’t be long before i can’t do in-ground gardening any more, but i won’t give up container gardening until they pry the trowel from my cold dead hand!
i will give this a try.
a good growing medium must also drain well, otherwise your plants could end up in a puddle and drown!
what comes next is the usual care and attention you would pay to  any of your plants – regular watering, feeding and some good old  fashioned tlc.
you can plant in either porous or nonporous containers,  but you will need to adjust how much, and how frequently, you water your  plants, and pay special attention to drainage.
you have no backyard or green space to grow your own food?
be careful that plants in porous containers, like ceramic pots, don’t dry out too much, though.
a good growing medium will hold water and provide adequate nutrients and physical support to grow healthy plants.
most of all, don’t forget to take time to enjoy the fruits of your labor!
have you tried a bowl of french breakfast radishes?
we drilled more holes and added rock on the bottom.
until next time, keep growin’!
it’s never too late to drill more holes.
wood, unglazed ceramic (like terracotta), or papier mache pots are all porous and lose moisture more quickly.
make sure your soil is like a damp sponge.
home and  garden » grow your own food in small spaces tweet related home and garden articles easy porch plants!