the central theme for the haggadah is the discussion of the exodus, a timeless event which has forged countless generations of jews into an unbroken chain through history, with each year’s seder another link of that chain.
in fact, there are more wheat free products available
chometz is sold friday morning before the end of the 5th hour.
in such cases, one should consult a competent halachic authority and make the necessary arrangements.
processed foods not carrying any rabbinical supervision should be cleared with a rabbi before passover use, as should any medicines and vegetables.
after six and one-half hours (mincha gedolah) one should eat meat, fish  or fruit to fulfill the mitzvah of shalosh seudos, since it is a matter of  dispute if shalosh seudos can be fulfilled in the morning.
traditions are hard to break and favorite foods are difficult to “pass up,” especially during a holiday.
there is a halachic difficulty attendant upon using egg matzohs as the  two loaves of bread required for the meals on shabbat: according to many  rabbis, egg matzoh cannot technically be classified as “bread”  requiring washing the hands, reciting the blessing hamotzi, and followed by  birkat hamazon, since unlike real matzoh, it is made with eggs and/or juice  instead of just plain water with the flour.
how then  can we fulfill the sabbath obligation to partake of three meals, each of which  is accompanied by two loaves of “bread3“?
kashering a non-self-cleaning oven: 1.
some hashgochos consider fenugreek to be kitnios while others do not, and the surprising ramifications of this question will be noted towards the end of the article.
42 moadim uzemanim, haggada p. 14, in the name of the gra.
though this flour is baked, there is concern that if subjected to water afterwards, the chametz (leavening) process will then commence.
this is the opinion of rav moshe feinstein30 and most other poskim.
birkat hachammah is recited when the sun becomes visible after a vernal equinox that occurs at the beginning of the eve of a wednesday as it did at the time of creation.
back to ou passover home page print article matzah is a crisp, flat, unleavened bread, made of flour and water, which must be baked before the dough has had time to rise.
furthermore, if  one has not completed the preparations, it is not considered preparing.
there are varying parameters applied to this stringency; some individuals are careful to avoid even the utensils that were used to prepare gebrokts dishes, while others are not.
this involves the removal of all food, rust, dirt, calcium deposits and anything else that protrudes; it does not include the removal of discolorations.
cut 1 pound chilled boneless, skinless chicken breasts into 1-inch chunks and process 15 to 20 seconds until minced.
fast of the firstborn in remembrance of their miraculous salvation when all the firstborn of egypt were smitten, it is the practice for the firstborn to fast on erev pesach .
the blessing may be said even if only the outline of the sun is visible through the clouds.
this year the company is introducing mediterranean matzah which is regular matzah sprayed with oil and spices after baking.
since the primary concern for absorption in the walls of the microwave is through steam, the way to kasher is by applying steam.
such matzah must be prepared with the express purpose of the mitzvah of matzah, le’shem matzot mitzvah.
according to ashkenazic custom, egg matzoh should not be eaten later than the end of the 4th hour shabbos morning.
copper and metal cleaners 13.
a. here it is in a nutshell: •
egg matzah, chocolate covered egg matzah, white grape matzot.
by: rabbi shmuel singer ou-p: what’s
a full analysis of this topic is beyond the scope of this article, but the lenient position has generally prevailed.
matzah is a crisp, flat, unleavened bread, made of flour and water, which  must be baked before the dough has had time to rise.
for our purposes, suffice it to say that mechirat chametz is valid because the sellers, who are unable to own chametz, clearly want to unburden themselves of these forbidden wares, and the purchaser is told that the sale is legally binding.
in addition we have clarified once again this year that all lipton decaffeinated tea bags are acceptable without special supervision.
all equipment used in the  preparation of matzah must be constantly cleaned of dough crumbs, and the oven  in which matzah is baked must be set at the proper baking temperature.
if that is not feasible then a jew would be permitted to feed the infantchametz.
yet for others having use of their appliances on passover is a basic essential.
thus, se’or  is concentrated yeast but the yeast which is commonly sold in stores is not  se’or.
there are those who advise being scrupulous to rinse out the mouth very  well, so that no chametz remains13.
any chametz not removed from a jew’s premises before passover should be sold.
the pots may be chametz pots.
during chol hamoed, it was discovered that the store was secretly engaged in selling the chametz to non-jewish customers.
however, in nezer hakodesh 110.52, rabbi rosen does count not eating  matzoh on the day before pesach as bal tosif.
and if one forgot to make the charoset, it may be done on saturday night, albeit with a shinui (modification of technique49).
the chayei adam permits one to sell it to a non-jew on shabbat, but pri megadim and graz do not.
in a modern vein, rav sternbuch has suggested that it would be desirable to use paper or plastic dishes which could be discarded after the meal, thus obviating the need to get the regular dishes clean on shabbat and put them away.
there are many mystical concepts tied to the unique relationship between  matzah and chametz on passover.
forpesach than during the rest of the year.
the ramo cautions that although the utensils may be brought in from the succah, the table should not be set in the house until after nightfall.
the traditional siyum will be thursday morning after davening.
if yeast doesn’t contain any ingredients from the 5 grains (as it often doesn’t) it isn’t chametz even though it has the same characteristics as se’or (see mechiltah 9:19 on sh’mos 12:19) and one may own it on pesach.
if you have a glass-topped stovetop, you should consult your rabbi for directions on if/how it can be used for pesach.
one should remove this food with a  new serving utensil and then transfer the food to a chametz pot for serving.
[it must be noted that although the halacha is  quite lenient in permitting children and the infirm to consume kitnios, the  halacha is quite strict regarding the consumption of chametz, and one must  therefore be sure that the product is truly chametz-free before consuming it.
the following brands of ou kosher pareve original rice milk do not contain any chametz, but are kitniyot:
however, even if a light box is not used, it is crucial to examine both sides of each leaf against a good source of light.
e. chametz which remains in a jew’s possession during passover may not be used by him or any other jew at any time, and it may not be purchased after passover.
the very rarity of its occurrence has served to magnify the rejoicing in its performance and to enhance the scholarly attention it has received.
•(if one does not kasher plastic for passover, then all of the surfaces should be covered with cardboard or contact paper.
don’t be afraid to try new recipes, but it’s a good idea to try them ahead of the seders to ensure that your family will like them.
if we accept this latter view, one cannot purchase chametz in a supermarket—even if we know that the chametz in that supermarket was sold prior to pesach—until such time that it is reasonable to assume that the majority of inventory was either purchased before or after the eight days of pesach.
basic obligations there are five basic obligations (mitzvot) performed  by each jew, in the course of the seder conducted according to the traditional  haggadah: 1)
chametz that has been sold must be put in a  completely sealed-off place, inaccessible during passover.
as an additional safeguard, the mixing (flour and water) and rolling (dough) should best take place in two completely separated areas.
deodorants/anti-perspirants 18.
whether it is permissible to give the  remainder to animals is discussed by moadim uzemanim, 7:160.
in addition swee-touch-nee and wissotsky will continue to have pesach herbal teas.
the watery liquid that remains after distillation is called “backset” and is often used in creating another batch of whisky.
that intellectual awareness should become acute in a manner akin to sensory perception, with the result that man will not simply accept the doctrine of creatio ex nihilo in an abstract, detached manner but experientially perceive god as the omnipotent creator.
some people with gluten allergy use either oat matzah or spelt matzah.
many companies in various branches of the food industry use grape juice as a sweetener or added ingredient; this includes companies that manufacture juices, preserves, cereals, flavors and other items.
rigid sifting protocol of flour prior to baking.
the rigorous laws of passover, in this interpretation, represent the great care that must be taken to follow the g-dly path.
don’t shop when you are hungry—you’ll buy too much junk food.
the sold chametz is the non-jew’s property until after passover ends and must be treated accordingly.
reheat, covered for 20 minutes at 350°.
transfer clusters to an airtight container, separating the layers with parchment or waxed paper.
every day the baker would take one handful of dough out of the batter and not bake it.
how much egg matzoh is required so that it can substitute for real  bread?
rav moshe feinstein zt”l writes that because there is an uncertainty as to whether plastic can be kashered, one may be lenient as per the dictum safek d’rabbananl’kula, provided the utensil was not used for 24 hours.
yemenite, sephardic and oriental jews  are not bound to this custom by their traditions.
but the first opinion is the major one, i.e., that one should make a meal with bread unless he is too full, or in a situation where it is impossible for him to eat bread, such as on erev pesach which comes out on shabbat, when it is forbidden for him to eat bread after mincha.
however, these and similar questions are of a communal nature,  and we will not discuss them here.
mashgichim must therefore continuously monitor ovens against any drop in baking temperatures.
as a result, one may not purchase chametz from a jewish-owned store or supermarket after pesach if the owner continued to own and purchase chametz during the holiday.
however, it is permitted to give pets food that contains kitniyot.
the torah teaches that food utensils acquired from a non-jew must undergo tevilah, that is, ritual immersion in a kosher mikveh.
sinks kashering a stainless steel sink: 1.
whether the  “bread” be chametz or matzoh, when can it be eaten?
utensils jointly owned by a jewish and non-jewish partner do not require tevilah.
it is the only type of  “bread” which jews may eat during passover, and it must be made  specifically for passover use, under rabbinical supervision.
back to ou passover home page print article since it is forbidden to own or benefit from chametz during passover, food that contains chametz may not be fed to pets.
i have not done that  because the times vary from city to city.
in recent decades, scientists have learnt to manipulate microorganisms to create and convert all types of enzymes and foods.
the chametz should  be locked away until after passover when the rabbi repurchases it for the  community.
consult an orthodox rabbi immediately for the appropriate procedures.
it is interesting to note that mishnalt berurah, orach chaim 470:11,  totally dismisses the obvious option of forgoing having “bread” at  these meals altogether, since having any type of bread raises so many problems.
one enzyme liquefies and sweetens corn into corn syrup so that another enzyme can make it even sweeter and become the high fructose corn syrup used to sweeten soft drinks.
in effect, whenever i may not eat  chametz, i may also not eat matzoh.
here, there is a difference of opinion among the poskim: ( a) some say that  “one who eats a volume of cake equal to four (or three) eggs …  must treat the cake as bread.”
the seder is a ritual banquet which reenacts the exodus, conducted on both  the first and second evenings of passover.
however, rav moshe ruled that the oven must either be kashered with a blowtorch, or that an insert should be placed into the oven for the duration of pesach.
when this does happen the appropriate response should be to seize the occasion for intellectual appreciation of the wondrous work of the almighty that, in turn, must lead to a profound understanding and recognition that he alone is the god of redemption and the god of creation.
even if one would argue that by skipping having substantial meals this shabbat, the person will be able to appreciate eating all the more at the seder, it cannot be countenanced.
the fast can be circumvented if the individual participates in a seudat mitzvah, such as a siyum, celebrating the completion of a portion of torah learning, usually held in the synagogue following the shacharit service.
but the ramo does not permit this  choice for ashkenazi jews, opting instead for a meal without bread of any type: in our [ashkenazi] countries, where it is our custom not to eat matzoh  ashira … one should fulfill [the obligation to have] a third meal with  various types of fruit or with meat and fish.
however, chok leyisrael does take a  stricter view of the matter.
the thinking is that since quinoa, which has only recently been introduced to the northern hemisphere from its native south america, was never considered kitnios, it remains permitted on pesach even though logically it should be included in the minhag.
even if the whisky is made from corn or another kitnios grain, there are a number of other reasons why it may be chametz: 1.
sephardim should  consult their rabbi.
preparations for the seder may not be done on shabbos.
here he categorically rejects the option of using egg matzoh, yet, when  the shulchan aruch, as quoted above, suggests that on erev pesach which falls  on shabbat, it might be a good idea to use egg matzoh – the ramo makes no  demurrer!
wheat starch, like any other starch, is made up of nearly endless repeating  units of glucose molecules, one next to another, connected by chemical bonds  and forming relatively complex configurations.
in order to qualify as “nishtaneh” the kitnios must go through a significant change in taste; therefore in the cases noted above, they would certify the ascorbic acid due to the dramatic change in taste from sweet to sour but wouldn’t permit the corn syrup since it isn’t changed/nishtaneh “enough” from the corn which it came from.
how are manufacturers different than supermarkets?
in light of this, the folowing is a refresher on the background of tevilat keilim, and a primer on its practical applications.
© most poskim, however, reject both these opinions, one as being too meager, the other as being far too large.
the home must be thoroughly cleaned of all chametz before passover.
this time limit coincides with the time when  eating chametz is forbidden on erev pesach.
all passover dietary laws remain in effect until nightfall of the eighth  day of passover, sunday, may 1, 2005.
(b) there are those who “conclude  that the amount of one meal equals somewhat more than the volume of twenty-one  eggs,” and only someone who eats this equivalent of cake should recite  hamotzi.
the prevalence of imports, as well as many advances in produce-storage and preservation technology, results in seasonal fruits and vegetables being available throughout the year.
let’s say you visit your local supermarket (which uses c&s as a supplier) the week after pesach and you see a box of cheerios on the shelf.
eating matzah on  passover commemorates the unleavened bread eaten by the jews when they left  egypt in such haste that there was no time for the dough to rise.
slotted spoons • sponges • toothbrushes additionally, the common custom is to cover tables, counters, refrigerator shelves and other areas where one might not have been able to clean away every trace of chametz.
see moadim uzemanim, haggada, p. 5, note 5, and chok leyisrael, hosafot, p. 126.
in  addition, the fermentation of vinegar always begins with a  “starter” taken from a previous batch of vinegar (similar to the  way se’or is used) and if that starter is chametz, the entire batch will  be forbidden.
those firstborn who exempt themselves from the  fast by participating in a “seudat mitzvah” are not exempt from the  prohibition against eating before the search for “chametz”.
ingesting gluten triggers their immune system to launch an attack  on the small intestine.
you can also substitute ground almonds for matzah meal, which makes the balls gluten free.
[and, as we shall see, there is a halachic problem in eating a meal after mincha before the seder].
ethanol, to be approved for passover,must be specifically certified.
back to ou passover home page print article splenda splenda is not certified kosher for pesach as it contains kitniyos.
the rigorous laws of passover, in this interpretation, represent the great care that must be taken to follow the godly path.
as a result this coffee is not kosher for passover.
it follows then that a rabbi can only sell the chametz owned by a supermarket before pesach to a non-jew, but cannot do so for the chametz that is acquired during pesach.
this view holds that for the entire 24-hour period  before pesach, eating matzoh is precluded.20
in many cases, medicinal items which contain kitniyot are permitted for people who are ill.
in addition to the torah’s restrictions on owning, eating and  benefiting from chametz, an ashkenazic minhag developed in the middle ages to  not eat certain foods known collectively as “kitnios”.
all of these preparations must be completed by  the morning before passover.
on p. 28, the author discusses what a firstborn should do if he inadvertently ate, and on p. 30 he discusses what to do on thursday if it is known that a bris is scheduled for friday (which would obviate a fast on that day).
to mark this occasion, we recite the blessing oseh ma’aseh v’reishit(. . .
for allergies, the threshold is 0 ppm.
additionally, while quinoa is not one of the five grains that can create chametz (wheat, oat, barley, spelt and rye), and quinoa is not grown in the same vicinity as the grains mentioned above, the processing of quinoa is sometimes done at the same location where they process wheat and wheat flour.
we encourage all kosher consumers to find alcoholic beverages with reliable certification or to abstain for the eight days of passover.
in the face of conflicting directives by this major posek, many authorities conclude that the ramo means to be strict about egg matzoh only for pesach itself, and not on erev pesach41!
the reasoning here is that since at the seder we must use matzoh shmura,  any other type of matzoh is disqualified and consequently could not have been  intended by the rabbis castigating those who eat matzoh on erev pesach.
by: rabbi david bistricer back to ou passover home page print article the passover holiday is a time when we celebrate our rich heritage and affirm our commitment to the continuity of our traditions.
chametz owned by a jew during the holiday may not be consumed even after the holiday is over.
the ou’s jewish-owned companies how does the ou handle the sale of chametz in jewish-owned kosher-certified manufacturers and production plants?
this has had dramatic effects on the world of kashrus, including kitnios.
if the two areas are not in sight of one another, kiddush and  birkas hamazon must be recited where the challah was eaten.
if rav moshe maintained that supermarkets cannot sell chametz that is acquired during pesach, why did he advocate the sale of supermarkets before pesach?
it is interesting to note that, in a departure from the established  practice of sephardic jews to follow the second option when two are listed, in  this case rav ovadia yosef rules that the firstborn should fast on thursday.
according to halachah, one cannot sell davar shelo ba le’olam (goods which are not currently in one’s possession), even if the transaction will not take effect until such time that one acquires the materials.
when such foods are used on pesach they should be prepared in special non-pesach and non-chametz utensils, which should not be washed with the pesach dishes.
see chidushei anshei shem, pesachim, chapter 1; pri megadim 4441.
a. i once learned a great lesson.
in addition, kosher grape juice production, made primarily for industrial purposes, is also on the rise.
there are additional questions which arise on ereu pesach which is  shabbat, such as which haftorah to read and when to gather for the derasha of  shabbat hagadol.
however, regular matzoh can be given to a  young child to eat even today, and therefore it is not muktza; it can be moved,  it can be placed on the table and subsequently removed.44 setting the table for the seder
the arguments cited above against selling supermarkets to non-jews for pesach lead us to fundamental questions about the propriety of the general sale of chametz as well.
if one forgot, it may be prepared on motzei shabbos, but the grinding and chopping must be done with a shinui (done in a different manner than usual, such as the grater being turned upside down, or the pieces allowed to fall on a table rather than a plate).
the following are considered kitniyot: beans buckwheat caraway cardamom corn fennel fenugreek lentils millet mustard peas poppy seeds rapeseed rice sesame seeds soybeans sunflower seeds the following are not considered kitniyot, but may require special checking: anise carob coriander cottonseed cumin guar gum linseed locust bean gum saffron the following may be kitniyot and are therefore not used: amaranth peanuts quinoa every year, jews around the world anticipate hearing the pivotal four questions at their seder tables: this year they’ll be asking themselves a fifth one: why is this passover different from most others?
ovens kashering a self-cleaning oven: 1.
variations: try using parsnips, broccoli or an herb such as basil or parsley instead of carrots, zucchini or dill.
respected and trusted the world over, ou kashrut makes it easy to shop for kosher products and to keep kosher at home and away.
the entire utensil must be submerged in such a way as to enable water to touch all parts of the utensil simultaneously.
(b) there are those who “conclude that the amount of one meal equals somewhat more than the volume of twenty-one eggs,” and only someone who eats this equivalent of cake should recite hamotzi.
before the yeast ferments the grain, the grain’s starch must be broken-down into individual glucose molecules, and this is traditionally done with barley malt (discussed above).
rabbi yoel sirkis (bach, 1560-1640) addressed this problem by permitting the sale of liquor without removing it from its premises, accomplished by renting the storage space to the non-jew along with the sale of the chametz.
1 cup milk (for baking) = 1 cup water plus 2 tablespoon margarine, or 1/2 cup fruit juice plus 1/2 cup water 1 1/4 cup sweetened condensed milk =1 cup instant nonfat dry milk, 2/3 cup sugar, 1/3 cup boiling water and 3 tablespoons margarine.
[it must be noted that although the halacha is quite lenient in permitting children and the infirm to consume kitnios, the halacha is quite strict regarding the consumption of chametz, and one must therefore be sure that the product is truly chametz-free before consuming it.
according to such opinions, one may take these tablets just like any other  non-chewable pill.
every  day the baker would take one handful of dough out of the batter and not bake  it.
but, objectively speaking, all of this is a mirage.
wheat starch is a standard source of glucose,  especially in europe.
•the turntable should be removed and replaced with new kosher for passover surface.
therefore it is best to purchase milk before passover at which timechometz can be nullified (batel).back to ou passover home page print article welcome to ou-p (passover) online.
the rabbis make an interesting distinction in this regard: matzoh shmura, which is what people will be eating at night at the seder, is certainly muktza on the shabbat of ereu pesach.
for those with an allergy to dairy products, chocolate should not be part  of their diet year round; not just on passover.
a person allergic to nuts  should avoid commercially baked products.
31 meiri, pesachim 99; rabbenu manoach, chametz 6; avnei nezer 380- marcheshet 11.
therefore, even the elderly or infirm should (if they are able) eat a kezayit of shmurah matzah on the night of the seder.
in order to keep the chametz confined to as small an area as possible, some people may decide to eat the bread in one room, and then adjourn to the dining room to eat the rest of the meal, using passover dishes.
thus, if one chooses to use a basket or milk crate for small, easily lost items like silverware, he should immerse the basket and then drop the individual utensils in one by one.
or else make it on friday  and store it in a sealed container.
4) kinyan chatzer: the non-jew acquires real estate from the jew.
by: rabbi eli gersten synthetic materials microwaves and dishwasher are usually made of synthetic materials, such as plastic.
therefore matzah cannot be  eaten at the shabbat meals.
c. young children are  encouraged to participate in the seder to the extent of their ability.
rav yosef wonders why the rabbis concerned themselves with the disposal of crumbs, inasmuch as the gemara rules that “crumbs are negligible and ‘nullify’ themselves.”
here  too, one must finish the third meal before the end of 9 hours into the day  (“sha’ot zamaniyot”) .
preheat the oven to 375°.
it is interesting to note that, in a departure from the established practice of sephardic jews to follow the second option when two are listed, in this case rav ovadia yosef rules that the firstborn should fast on thursday57.
for an electric stovetop, just clean the coils and turn on high for ten minutes.
the process of tevilah the utensil must be free of any non-essential parts or accrued substances, such as glue residue from the manufacturer’s label.
back to ou passover home page print article are ou matzos 18 minute matzos?
see also ereu pesach shechal beshabbat p.70.
[the nutrients are generally batel b’shishim but some poskim hold that since they are intentionally added to the vinegar they aren’t batel; this issue, discussed in magen avraham 442:1, nodah b’yehudah y.d. ii:56, mishnah berurah 447:14 and others, is beyond the scope of this article].
3) kinyan chalifin: an exchange (barter) of property, whereby the non-jew hands over an object of his, upon which the chametz is transferred into his ownership.
according to the ou poskim, if one purchases unflavored and unenriched lactaid milk before passover, they can then use it on passover.
if you have any questions, please consult a  competent halachic authority.
though rabbi schor offers a halachic response to this question, many rabbanim objected to mechirat chametz on these grounds, and the matter remained controversial.
celiac is a malabsorption problem that affects the intestines.
peanuts in europe different communities had different customs about peanuts.
consult your own rabbi for guidance.
after all, companies have no problem manufacturing beverages such as orange or apple juice according to kosher rules.
thus, as a rule, spices are not kitnios but require special care to  guarantee that no chametz-grains are mixed into them.
its registered  service mark, ‘p,’ on thousands of consumer and industrial food  products, is a guarantee of the highest standards of kosher for passover.
all raw poultry, meats and fish bearing the regular ou seal are kosher for passover, with the exception of empire turkey burgers.
bowl and tub cleaner 7.
however, wine due to its ceremonial use in ancient pagan worship, and the unique social familiarity that it engenders, coupled with its use today in numerous ritual observances, including themitzvah of the four cups consumed at theseder, must be made under very precise conditions.
liquid nutritional supplements typically contain sensitive ingredients at below bitel proportions.
if one forgot, they may be prepared motzei shabbos provided that they  are eaten on sunday during the daytime (they cannot be eaten at the seder since  we do not eat roasted food at the seder).
according to ashkenazic custom, egg matzoh should  not be eaten later than the end of the 4th hour shabbos morning.
it is common practice that before wheat is ground into flour, the wheat  kernels are tempered with water for many hours, and therefore flour should be  treated as chametz (mishnah berurah 453:24).
back to ou passover home page print article ou certified passover products do not contain kitniot, that is corn or soy oil, corn syrup, dextrose or any legumes.
the observance of torah and mitzvot replete with their many details as required by religious law define our way of life and preserve our identity.
in an annual calendar comprised of 365 days successive vernal equinoxes will occur each year on the same day of the month (allowing, of course, for a minor variation in a leap year) but one and one quarter days later in the week.
these microorganisms, to do the work they have to do,must have carbohydrate sources, and often the source of choice is…glucose.
in note 9, he adds that although generally in order to alter one’s custom, heter nedarim is required, that is not the case here.
laura lynn life brand little ones ameijer member’s mark mother’s choice my organic baby nature’s
the upper age still considered an ‘infant’ depends on the child.
the following instant coffees may be consumed on passover, but only when bearing an ou-p: elite instant coffees, turkish ground roasted coffees elite confections israel gefen instant regular coffee kenover marketing corp. brooklyn, ny shelton, ct schwartz instant coffee schwartz supreme brooklyn, ny coffee “singles” are a mix of regular and instant coffee, and therefore, (with the exception of folgers and taster’s choice) require passover certification.
3 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder plus 2 2/3 tablespoon oil and 4 1/2 tablespoon granulated sugar 1 cup confectioners’
the ou does not supervise supermarkets, and it is our belief that questions related to chametz sheavar alav hapesach fall into the domain of she’eilot one should ask of his local rabbi.
i have not done that because the times vary from city to city.
therefore, on pesach one may not use corn or soybean oil (a.k.a.
provided by the orthodox union's department of  synagogue services.
quinoa is a plant very similar in appearance to spinach.
in general, it is forbidden to go to work after midday on any erev pesach59 .
in fact, since so much corn is going to  the fuel industry, a shortage of food grade alcohol has forced prices to rise,  creating a scramble among food grade buyers of ethyl alcohol to look for  sources other than corn-based.
given the correct length of the solar year, or rav adda’s close approximation thereof, it is clear that in the 5,768 years that have elapsed since creation the vernal equinox has never recurred at its original hour.
in addition there will be ou-p cholov yisroel goat cheese and sheep cheese from barkanit and mozzarella, provolone and pecorino cheese from yotvata.
lactaid pills lactaid pills come in two forms – inedible/swallowable and chewable – which are taken at the same time the person begins consuming a dairy product.
jewish consumers are urged to look for the p or the kosher for passover  designations as an integral part of the product label, and to be familiar with  the rabbi or organization giving the passover endorsement.
there are several opinions as to what one may  do for the third shabbat meal.
un-iodized salt does  not require passover certification, nor does sea salt.
when finished, the  tablecloth must be shaken out and put away with the chometz utensils.
in addition to cleaning, most items require some form of hot purging in order to remove the flavor that has been absorbed.
before we begin, let us note the happy circumstance that the additional complication of observing the sabbath on this so-busy day prior to pesach brings with it some unexpected rewards: having spent the day before pesach resting, and refreshed by the sabbath tranquility, all will be able to participate in the seder at night with true appreciation.
others limit their congregations to selling only mixtures of chametz (e.g., dressings with flour, mayonnaise with vinegar that may be chametz, as well as liquors), and not pure chametz such as breads, pastas, cakes, and cereals.
back to ou passover home page print article what is passover?
liquids are measured by revi’it, an ancient measure equaling a few liquid ounces.
it is important to note that even those who keep this custom are careful to emphasize that it is only a stringency, and not a halachically-mandated requirement.
the items are supervised by local rabbanim and are satisfactorily made with ou pesach guidelines.
clean walls, floor, door, ceiling and racks thoroughly with an abrasive cleaner (for example, easy-off ) to remove tangible chametz.
it celebrates the liberation of the  children of israel from slavery in egypt over 3000 years ago, under the  leadership of moses.
since vegetables grow in the earth, they inevitably come in contact with insects; in many cases, vegetables become the insect’s home.
this contradiction between texts is questioned by chelkat yoav orach  chaim 16, in the note.
in addition, taz and  magen avraham (453:3) discuss whether fennel, cumin and caraway seeds (i.e.  three variations of “kimmel” ) can possibly be checked (and used)  for pesach.
note: the turkey will keep for 2 to 3 days in the refrigerator, and it reheats well.
rivers and streams are flowing bodies of water.
the following items appear on the seder plate: a. three whole matzot – unleavened ‘bread’ (either on the plate or next to it); b. maror – bitter herbs, usually horseradish or romaine lettuce; c. charoset – special mixture of apples, nuts, wine and cinnamon symbolizing mortar; d. karpas – a vegetable, preferably parsley or celery; e. zeroah – a piece of roasted or boiled meat or poultry, preferably a shankbone, recalling the paschal sacrifice of the original exodus.
this steaming should be done for a longer duration than it would be used during the year.
the individual participating in the sale appoints his rabbi as an agent to sell his chametz to a non-jew on erev pesach.
as always, one should consult his experienced local orthodox rabbi with any questions or concerns.
there are some variances amongst halachic authorities as far as how this measurement should be calculated, but theminimal size given is approximately three ounces .
therefore, rav braun  rules that he should just not do the search; undoubtedly, the house has been  thoroughly cleaned and checked already52.
almondsense essential everyday fredmeyer friendly farms hy-vee king soopers kroger laura lynn market basket meijer nature’s place ralphs roundy’s shop rite trader joe’s tree of life winn-dixie price chopper fresh & easy full circle tree of life regretfully, because one can only perform the mitzvah of eating matzot at the seder with a matzah that is made from one of the five varieties of grain (barley, wheat, rye, oats, and spelt), eating matzot using any of the other flours at are gluten free would still not enable one to fulfill the mitzvah.
this means that although the food may have a pronounced taste of kitnios, the food is permitted (unless there are recognizable pieces of kitnios which haven’t been removed).
aside from the new york metropolitan area, coke will be available in boston, baltimore-washington, miami, atlanta, houston, philadelphia, and los angeles.
moreover, it is a day during most of which one may not eat chametz, yet matzoh  is likewish forbidden, straining the ingenuity of the food preparer.
this article will discuss  some of the ways in whichpesach certified foods may impact on health  issues.
noda biyehuda 141:21 and aruch hashlrlchan 444:5 discuss the egg matzoh option for ashkenazim, who generally refrain from using egg matzoh altogether on pesach.
however, kimmel embodies neither characteristic.
b. ashkenazic jews, (jews of eastern european descent) also do not eat many legumes (kitniot) – beans, corn, peas, rice, etc. and products containing them as ingredients throughout passover, while sephardic, yemenite and oriental jewish custom varies from one community to another.
the consumption of these foods is restricted by european rabbinic tradition, though these foods are not chametz.
in ordaining birkat hachammah, the sages were well aware of the lack of precision in the solar calculations they attributed to shmuel, one of the amoraim.
insufficiently heated ovens cause leavening to occur.
it is the only type of ‘bread’ which jews may eat during passover, and it must be made specifically for passover use, under rabbinical supervision.
i’ve added  some great new substitutions this year, thanks to readers who’ve sent in  their own ingenious creations.
it is difficult to give a precise cut-off date.
but the jerusalem talmud denigrates a person who eats matzoh on the day before pesach “as if he had relations with his fiancee in his father-in-law’s house.”
but do contain kitniyot: children’s triaminic syrup multi-symptom fever, bubble gum children’s triaminic syrup multi-symptom fever, grape flavor children’s triaminic syrup cough & sore throat, grape flavor one of the many preparations one must make for pesach is kashering, a process to preparechametz vessels for pesach use.
(perhaps this serves as a deterrent against hoarding chametz in order to sell it after pesach.)
while not completely glutenfree, oat matzah is especially soluble and easy to digest.
microwave kashering instructions therefore, someone who wishes to use a year-round microwave on passover should do the following.
•run a heated dishwashing cycle.
2 tablespoons olive oil 1 medium onion, chopped 1 clove garlic (about 1 teaspoon minced) 1/2 red or green pepper, seeded and chopped 1 celery stalk, chopped 1 1/2 cups grated carrots 1 cup grated zucchini, well-drained (about 1 small zucchini) 3 large eggs, lightly beaten 3/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 3/4 cup matzah meal 1 tablespoon chopped fresh dill (or 1 teaspoon dried)
by: rabbi alfred cohen probably the busiest and most hectic day of the year in every jewish household is erev pesach, the day preceding passover, for it entails getting rid of the last smidgen of chametz as well as preparing for the seder.
there are many recipes for  different types of cakes and cookies that do not contain nuts.
some time prior to birkat hachammah on erev pesach in the year 5685 (1925), the ostrovtzer rebbe reported that birkat hachammah had coincided with erev pesach only twice before in the history of the world: in the year of the exodus from egypt and in the year prior to the event commemorated by purim.
washing the dishes  and other food utensils 1.
in ereu pesach shechal beshabbat, which is  probably the most exhaustive study of these laws, rabbi zev cohen suggests that  a child could remove the chametz (p.130), and offers suggestions for removal of  the candlesticks if it is necessary to change the tablecloth (p.99).
nefuchot—if the scoring is insufficient, the matzah will swell (like a pita) indicating that the center of the matzah has not been adequately baked.
some have argued that the process of selling chametz should only be done in a situation that involves a great loss, for example when a business would be forced to discard its chametz inventory.
we suggest that you consult  with your local rabbi as to which of these opinions you should follow.
the specially prepared shmurah matzah is made specifically for use at the seder, with specially supervised flour according to particularly stringent jewish traditions and laws.
it is primarily due to the hundreds-year-old stringency (chumra) of avoiding gebrokts (broken matzah, as in matzah meal) adopted in certain communities (particularly amongst hasidim) that forbids the mixture of matzah with water over the pesach holiday.
since the untoveled bowl is absolutely necessary, it may not be used.
relating the story of the exodus and hallel a. most of the unique seder practices are designed to stimulate interest  and arouse curiosity in the exodus story.
they recognized full well that the calculations of rav adda were far more accurate and relied upon them in their own astronomical determinations.
despite the fact that kitniyot for infants is permissible, the mishna brura states that it is preferable (but not mandatory) to avoid giving infants rice, buckwheat (kasha in yiddish), or millet on passover.
resource •2.0 •arginaid extra •benecalorie •benefiber •beneprotein •breeze •dairy thick •diabetishield •frosty thick •health shake •health shake no sugar added •milk shake mix
matzah unleavened bread prepared from the flour of grains that have not been washed or tempered, and have been milled under supervision, completely protected from any contact with water.
in point of fact, r. moshe feinstein forbids eating matzoh during the day of erev pesach and discourages its use even for the friday night meal preceding 22.
49 magen avraharn 473% 50 chok leyisrael p. 93:63.
if he is in doubt, he can call the orthodox union (ou) or another major kashrut organization that has access to this information.
cool slightly before stirring in oil, almonds and apricots.
according to ashkenazic practice, such matzah  may be consumed on passover only by the elderly, sick or young children who  cannot digest regular matzah.
it is important to be aware if the problem is gluten intolerance, celiac, or a true allergy.
this transfer is  traditionally carried out by engaging the rabbi to act as an agent, with power  of attorney to sell the chametz to a non-jew by means of kabalat kinyan and  contract – shtar harshaah.
for the appropriate minimum quantities of matzah, and the time period in  which it must be consumed, please refer to the following section on shiurim.
items which have narrow cracks, crevices, deep scratches or other areas that cannot easily be cleaned, cannot be kashered for pesach.
the morning meals must be completed by the end of the 4th hour.
f.  the seder traditionally concludes with the singing of several lively songs  celebrating the relationship between god and the jewish people.
if not, they  should either have a light bite of fruit or other food of which
one who sees the sun on the morning following the vernal equinox when the equinox, as reckoned by the jewish calendar, occurs at 6:00 pm (jerusalem solar time) on tuesday evening—an event which occurs at intervals of twenty-eight years—should pronounce the following blessing: “baruch atah hashem … oseh ma’aseh bereishit, blessed are you, hashem ….who makes the work of creation.”
however, other authorities, including the vilna  gaon, advise that the early morning meal should be interrupted and followed by  another
one could argue that once the dough was baken into matzoh, it became forbidden for consumption on erev pesnch and the subsequent cooking cannot remove the issur..
d. immediately thereafter, a second, smaller volume of maror is eaten with matzah in korech (hillel sandwich).
eliahu rabbah 444 states that singing z’mirot should be skipped this shabbat, in order to avoid possible delay in completing the meal on time.
thirdly, it may be possible  to dispense with bread altogether and fulfill the requirements of the third  meal by eating something else:
if one ate chametz on shabbat by using bread from the house by the end  of the fifth hour into the day (“sha’ot zemaniyot”) .
in many congregations, a special  celebration siyum is conducted, following which participating firstborn males  are permitted to break their fast.
utensils that need tevilat keilim: 1
obviously, in cases where a doctor insists that the infant must have chametz, the prohibition does not apply.
the next part of the chocolate process to share equipment is the mold.
on a sabbath or festival, it is not permitted to make any preparation for  after the sabbath, even if it will be a festival at night.
to place an order, contact: lakewood matzoh bakery, 501 prospect street, uit 104b, lakewood, nj 08701.
it is important to note that many of these varieties feature curly leaves with many folds in which the insects tend to hide.
what does “kosher for passover” mean?
matzah ashirah matzah made from flour kneaded with fruit juice or  eggs.
stir in the eggs, salt, pepper and matzah meal; mix well.
mishnah berurah rules that as relates to issurim d’rabannan one may be lenient.
in addition to the well-known minhag of not eating kitnios, the rema (467:8) cites customs to not eat honey, raisins, dried fruit, sugar, saffron and cloves, and other poskim cite numerous other customs from specific communities.
the daylight hours of each day are divided into twelve parts; each twelfth is then reckoned as a portion hour of that day.
in citing this law, the shulchan aruch records both opinions: if erev pesach occurs on shabbat, there are those who say that the firstborn should fast on thursday, and there are those say that they do not fast at all.
it is noteworthy that the aforementioned leniency does not necessarily apply to (a) vinegar or vinegar-containing products from other countries and (b) organic vinegar (even if it is produced in the united states, due to the difficulty in obtaining organic corn).
selling chametz in different time zones this process works smoothly when each person and their chametz remain in the same time zone.
because these restrictions are not limited to private individuals, jewish owned stores, food manufacturers and distributors are required to rid themselves of chametz before passover in an halachically valid manner, and consumers need to stay clear of chametz products that were in such jewish possession during passover.
many are of the opinion that these items should be toveled without abrachah.
cooking surfaces should be thoroughly cleaned and  covered.
if chametz food is cooked for shabbat, one  should be careful not to prepare food which will stick to the pot and which  would, therefore, have to be scrubbed on shabbat.
many rabbis request that their congregants list all the chametz they have, where it is stored, and its approximate total value.
i would strongly recommend that anyone with an allergy to wheat or celiac disease ascertain whether the manufacturer uses matzo meal or cake meal in other products.
if substitution is not possible and the person is in a state of sakanah or safek sakanah (any possible danger to human life), the medication may be owned and consumed.
if you are looking for a specific product, use the search box  above, or select a product category from the drop-down menu above.
© most poskim, however, reject both these opinions, one as being  too meager, the other as being far too large.
if substitution is not possible and a doctor determines that there is no possibility of sakanah if the person does not take the medicine, a rabbi should be consulted.
however, one should note that stainless steel dishwashers also contain synthetic components such as rubber gaskets and rubber tubing.
those who eat gebrukts may eat  knaidlach (which are cooked in liquid) the entire shabbos until the end of the  9th hour.
in purchasing ou-certified packaged poultry parts, the consumer must be certain that the sealed package and the inner cellophane wrapper have not been tampered with.
manischewitz also bakes ou-p matzah under the horowitz margareten and negev labels.
puree  the onions once they are golden.
al tevilat keilim”), if required, and plunges the utensil into the water.
due to seasonal influences and insect life cycles, the incidence of infestation in many vegetables varies throughout the year.
a fascinating case in point is the issue of purchasing chametz (fermented wheat, spelt, oat, rye and barley) after pesach in a jewish-owned supermarket.
ask your rabbi to determine which supermarkets are jewish owned or are supplied by jewish distributors, and how long after pesach you must wait to purchase chametz sold in these stores.
blend all the  ingredients until smooth.
if wheat gluten is consumed by a gluten intolerant  person the results may be stomach aches, diarrhea, and general malaise.
back to ou passover home page print article matzah of peace during the civil war, myer levy was a union soldier who found himself  patrolling a virginia town on pesach.
the knobs and handles of the oven and stovetop should be wiped clean.
in the face of conflicting directives by this major posek, many  authorities conclude that the ramo means to be strict about egg matzoh only for  pesach itself, and not on erev pesach!’
although the shulchan aruch holds that glass does not absorb and therefore does not need to be kashered for passover, ashkenazi jews follow the opinion of rema that glass is compared to cheres and may not be kashered.
ideally, the required measurement for the additional four kezeitim should be the same as the basic mitzvah of matzahmentioned above.
what is the status of the chametz in this instance?
when choosing a high gi dessert, top it with fruit to bring the glycemic index down to a more moderate level.
grain flour is commonly produced  from grains that have been washed and tempered.
one interpretation equates matzah with g-d’s commandments (mitzvot),  and chametz with sin (chayt).
passover is a time when we became a nation and is therefore an opportunity to appreciate the many laws that were given to us.
for the halachic definition of “hour”, see mishnah berurah, orach chaim 443:7,8.
it is the only type of  ‘bread’ which jews may eat during passover, and it must be made  specifically for passover use, under rabbinical supervision.
this covers most medicines used by adults.
birkat hachammah was ordained on the basis of the hypothesis that the universe was created in nisan.
f. according to ashkenazic practice, matzah made with fruit juice or eggs, including egg matzah, chocolate covered egg matzah, and white grape matzah are permissible on passover only for the elderly, sick, or young children who cannot digest regular matzah.
an enzyme is used to create the “right” kind of sugar molecule so that hard-candies won’t stick to the wrapper, and a different one makes sure that beer doesn’t get cloudy when its put in the refrigerator.
it is therefore recommended that these guidelines be discussed with one’s rabbi to see what method for kashering is appropriate given one’s particular circumstances.
second, the sale limits the status of chametz sheavar alav hapesach to the narrow window of chametz that is purchased by the store on pesach, and thus, the turnaround time for the depletion of prohibited merchandise is shortened.
the 2000 guide to kosher for passover foods is available online.
however, one must take care to keep kitniyoth baby utensils or cutlery away from the general kitchen area.
on the eve of passover (14th of nissan), all firstborn males are required to fast, commemorating the final plague when god killed the firstborn egyptians, while the firstborn jews were saved.
dishwasher kashering instructions
therefore, one should rise early on such a shabbat and pray with an early  minyan.
our custom is to follow  suggestions #c or #d.
all products are made from ingredients, and ingredients are often made from sub-units.
because tracking distribution is very complex and these determinations can be difficult, we suggest that ask your rabbi for guidance.
the mitzvot of bedikah and biur have therefore not been violated, and the injunction of chametz she’avar alav ha’pesach is avoided.
look for a narrow translucent burrow speckled with black dots breaking up the deep green color of the leaf.
indeed, the talmud states that halachic measurements are a part of the unique laws that were given to moshe rabeinu at sinai.
one should make the cereal using a special non-pesach, non-chametz pot, and this special pot (and any special utensils used for the cereal) should  not be washed together with the pesach dishes.
the stones must be placed on a protective surface to make sure the plastic will not melt.
soak leaves in a solution of cold water and soap.
whenever the kosher workers are not present, the wine is sealed in tanks or barrels.
you will rely on rav moshe.
if one year i decide to not repurchase the chametz, this kind-hearted purchaser would have to come up with an astronomical sum that would be way beyond his means.
the torah lists six metals that require tevilah: gold, silver, copper, iron, tin, and lead.
it is  preferred that one burn the chametz on friday before midday  (“chatzot” ) as one normally does on erev pesach in other years.
in  addition to the four questions at the start of the seder, they are encouraged  to drink the four cups, eat the maror and matzah, and ask as many questions as  they wish.
the merging of these ingredients to make passover matzah necessitates a meticulously monitored environment, one that prevents the product from becomingchametz, which is defined by our rabbis as fermented grain.
as such, vinegar-based products in europe are a problem.
if a man goes on shabbat, in honor of pesach which will be that evening, is it considered “preparing”?
chametz she’avar alav ha’pesach any chametz held over  passover under jewish ownership.
there would have to be an interval between the end of one meal and the beginning of the next.
for rambam, intellectual appreciation is insufficient; it must lead to an emotional experience perceivable to an onlooker.
bake for 35 to 40 minutes or until golden brown.
drizzle the turkey and vegetables with the marinade, coating the turkey on all sides.
sabbath-like restrictions on work and creative activity, with the exceptions of carrying and the use of fire (with respect to cooking and the preparation of food), apply to all jews on the first two and last two days of passover.
regular cleaning of flour bins and receptacles; 3.
most rabbis don’t engage in million-dollar sales, but the chametz they sell on behalf of their congregants may easily be worth tens of thousands of dollars.
utensils should be brought to a kosher mikveh (note that not all men’smikva’ot are kosher for tevilat keilim), or to the ocean, sea, or a non-flowing lake.
if one is unable to procure pet food that does not contain chametz, some rabbinical authorities allow for a sale, which would transfer to a gentile the ownership and responsibility of caring for the pet.
thus, all these, which are technically not “matzoh” according to the halacha, are exempt from the stricture against eating matzoh on erev pesnch.
see also ereu pesach shechal  beshabbat p.158.
however, egg matzoh is not chometz and may be kept in the home.
you should cook only kosher for passover foods for all the meals on this shabbat and to serve them on passover dishes.
•the cup should be refilled and moved to another spot and the process repeated for 10 more minutes.
chametz purchased by c&s after pesach is obviously acceptable for use.
consult your local orthodox rabbi for the times when these restrictions go into effect, or see halachic times for passover.
typically, nuts are used in charoses.
yet, we are stricter and include friday night  in the prohibition.
manischewitz has whole wheat matzah meal and whole wheat matzah farfel.
don’t forget to clean brooms, vacuum cleaners, clothing pockets,  car and garage.
the hebrew term arusa has no precise translation which conveys its halachic connotations.
in addition to  these strictly halachic criteria, there are also certain customs which are  observed by many: some people stop eating matzoh from the beginning of the  month of nissan, while others stop after purim.
chometz must be removed from one’s property by shabbos morning, the end of the 5th hour.
there’s no need to thaw first—just reheat them directly in the simmering soup!
an allergic person exposed to an allergen  could experience an anaphylactic shock and stop breathing.
this view holds that for the entire 24-hour period before pesach, eating matzoh is precluded20.
but the first opinion is the major one, i.e., that one should make a meal with bread unless he is too full, or in a situation where it is impossible for him to eat bread, such as on erev pesach which comes out on shabbat, when it is forbidden for him to eat bread after mincha36.
the  consumption of these foods is restricted by european rabbinic tradition, though  these foods are not chametz.
even if the  whisky is made from corn or another kitnios grain, there are a number of other  reasons why it may be chametz: 1.
there are, however, some ou products which do not require special passover supervision.
as with all  matters of halacha, one should consult with their local rav.
this means that no matzo or matzo based product (such as matzo meal) will be used in any food preparation in the kitchen.
people do not  usually make a meal, or they should appoint others to make the search for them  so they may eat a regular meal.
how can these sales be valid when the buyers lack the financial resources to pay for the goods?
this is the rule any time cake, crackers, or any baked goods are eaten in sufficient quantity to qualify as a meal.
two reasons are given for this stricture: (1) to prepare for the festival and  (2) this is the time when the paschal sacrifice was brought, which makes it a  holy time, when work is forbidden60.
see chok leyisrael p. 46, no.16,  about eating matzoh on friday afternoon before erev pesach which is on shabbat.
according to rabbinic tradition, the sun was created at the very beginning of the day and appeared in the sky in the position occupied at tekufat nisan, i.e., the sun was set into place upon the onset of the fourth day at the position of the vernal equinox.
according to ashkenazic practice, matzah made with fruit juice or eggs is permissible on passover only for the elderly, the sick or young children who cannot digest regular matzah.
as the name implies, malt vinegar is  made from malt or beer which we’ve seen is chametz, and therefore malt  vinegar is definitely chametz.
in a large pot, bring the salted water to a boil.
based upon this inference, the school of rabbi yishmael taught the following lesson: ‘‘says hashem, ‘had i brought the jewish people up from egypt for no other reason than that they should not defile themselves by eating sheratzim as the other nations do, that would have been sufficient.’”
plastic—rabbinical authorities disagree as to whether it is possible to kasher plastic and other synthetic materials (including teflon, rubber, formica).
these include mustard, lentils and peas.
the more difficult question is the pesach status of white distilled  vinegar, as follows.
chametz may be eaten until the end of the fourth portion hour (see the time  listing for your area); it may be used or sold until the end of the fifth  portion hour.
nutrition info: 100 calories per muffin, 11.6 grams carbohydrate, 0.8 gram fiber, 3 grams protein, 4.4 grams fat (0.8 gram saturated), 63 milligrams cholesterol, 269 milligrams sodium, 128 milligrams potassium, 1 milligram iron, 19 milligrams calcium vegetable kishka makes 48 slices prepare the vegetable mixture above as directed.
this is also not matzah ashirah.
a special seder plate is displayed during the seder, containing the key elements of passover.
in their opinion, cake or egg matzoh “is measured in terms of the quantity that is generally eaten during the course of a full meal29.”
passover is an eight day jewish holiday, of biblical origin, marking the  birth of the jews as a people and their emergence as a unique nation in  history, devoted to god’s will.
add the ground chicken, egg, oil, matzah meal (or almonds), salt, pepper and club soda; process just until mixed.
i have discussed this topic with rabbi yisroel belsky, halachic consultant to the ou, on many occasions, and he firmly subscribes to the latter view.
a little bit of chocolate also goes a long way.
be sure to consult your ou pesach directory – there are new products every year to enhance your holiday.
in  this manner, one fulfills the mitzvah of the three shabbat meals  “bedi’avad” since only some authorities allow the third meal  to be eaten in this manner.
tablecloths, kitchen gloves, aprons and other items made of fabric
therefore, it is acceptable for passover only when appearing on the gray pages (section of passover guide which contains items not requiring passover certification) or when bearing an ou-p.back to ou passover home page print article milk contains added vitamins that contain a slight chometz risk.
when he jovially asked him for a piece, the child fled indoors screaming,  “mama, come quick!
back to ou passover home page print article nutritional supplements for pesach —5772/2012 the products on this list are not certified for pesach by the ou.
one should be careful not to allow the sink to fill with hot water while the basin is in the sink.
this product requires an ou-p label.
chametz which was in the possession or  jurisdiction of a jew during passover, in violation of jewish law, is forbidden  for consumption by any jew even after passover.
after cleaning up all chometz, bitul chometz (kol chamira) is recited before the end of the 5th hour shabbos morning.
according to the principle ofeisek (continual handling), as long as the equipment is operating, any residual pieces will not becomechametz.
the key adjustments may sound daunting at first, but taken step by step, they are definitely doable.
24 see erev pesach shechal beshabbat, p.111.
additionally, all ou matzah that is certified as kosher for passover, are  madel’shem mitzvas matzah and the flour is watched from the time  of grinding.
once matzah has been baked properly, leavening can no longer occur, and the product can no longer become chametz.
but the  jerusalem talmud denigrates a person who eats matzoh on the day before pesach  “as if he had relations with his fiancee in his father-in-law’s  house.”
in many congregations, a special celebration siyum is conducted, following which participating firstborn males are permitted to break their fast.
selling the chametz before passover to a non-jew avoids jewish  ownership during passover.
see also ereu pesach shechal beshabbat p.158.
thus, as a rule, spices are not kitnios but require special care to guarantee that no chametz-grains are mixed into them.
back to ou  passover home page print article hints for pesach cleaning by: courtesy of women's branch of the orthodox union a few hints for pesach cleaning 1.
moadim uzemanim, haggada p.5, concurs.
6 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder plus  1/4 cup oil and 7 tablespoon granulated sugar 14 oz. sweet chocolate (german-type) =
since this year this date falls on shabbat when fasting is not permitted, it will be observed on thursday, april 17.
however, if you want to avoid them (and i do)  you can add one extra egg white and 1/2 teaspoon of vegetable oil for each yolk  eliminated when baking.
as noted in the forthcoming expanded edition of my book, bircas hachammah, the ostrovtzer seems to have been in error both with regard to the dates and to the number of times that this coincidence has taken place.
however, if you want to avoid them (and i do) you can add one extra egg white and 1/2 teaspoon of vegetable oil for each yolk eliminated when baking.
the infirm, elderly or children who cannot follow the stringencies ( chumrot) of a particular minhag may be lenient.
the ou guide to checking fruits, vegetables, and berries, 2nd edition, may be purchased by contacting shop ou at 212.613.8385, or.
one may also use a dry toothbrush without water.
the following ou matzot fall into this category:
somewhat different is the case of marror, for we do not want it to lose its bitter taste; therefore, we make it on saturday night, with a shinui?’ or else make it on friday and store it in a sealed container50.
nutrition info: 30 calories each, 1.4 grams carbohydrate, 0.1 gram fiber, 2 grams protein, 1.7 grams fat (0.4 gram saturated), 20 milligrams cholesterol, 97 milligrams sodium, 4 milligrams potassium, 6 milligrams calcium honey ‘n herb turkey breast 10 servings everyone at your table will gobble this up!
whatever chametz was in the possession of c&s before pesach is not problematic, since it is sold to a non-jew before pesach begins.
judaism views wine as a god-given means to enhance one’s happiness.
to comply with the  stringent requirements of jewish law, the sale is conducted by contract through  an orthodox rabbi, who is empowered to act as an agent by a power of attorney  form for the sale of chametz.
15 see beitza 36b; yam she1
needless to say, we make sure the entire factory is rigorously cleaned at the end of each work day.
rav ovadia yosef sees little reason to do anything special with the teeth: since the food that one eats is not hot enough to be a problem halachically (otherwise he wouldn’t be able to take it into his mouth) and since the teeth are not porous, little more than cleaning them well is required.
individuals should consult with  their local rabbis for specific direction.
guiltless gourmet will be introducing ou-p cashew crunch and almond crunch this year.
kosher for passover stickers are generally not acceptable.
interestingly, one posek even voiced opposition to the minhag, arguing that the limitations imposed by its adherence would place unnecessary limitations on pesach menus, thereby diminishing the enjoyment of the yom tov.
the flour and water that make matzah must be mixed and kneaded into dough in a rabbinically-supervised, controlled environment.
genesis 1:14-19 records that the sun was created on the fourth day of the week.
furthermore, we cannot recommend that people whose custom is to use peanut oil on passover use un-certified peanut oil, because of concerns about the peanut oil being processed on non-passover equipment.
by: rabbi alfred cohen from the journal of halacha and contemporary society probably the busiest and most hectic day of the year in every jewish household is erev pesach, the day preceding passover, for it entails getting rid of the last smidgen of chametz as well as preparing for the seder.
thus, no special restrictions attend friday afternoon.
the mishnah berurah, orach chaim 44415 does too.
while there are programs that advertise “non-gebroks ” available, it would not be safe for someone who is allergic to  wheat or a celiac person to participate in such a program.
this contradiction between texts is questioned by chelkat yoav orach chaim 16, in the note.
on pesach, matzah and maror are empirical triggers designed to encourage us to acknowledge god as our personal redeemer.
additionally, all ou matzah that is certified as kosher for passover, are madel’shem mitzvas matzah and the flour is watched from the time of grinding.
however, this process is not without controversy, as it appears on the surface to be nothing more than a subterfuge.
this very same argument was made almost three hundred years ago by rabbi alexander sender schor (1650-1733) (bichor shor, pesachim 21a).
in addition, it may often be necessary to turn the utensil so that its opening faces upward, permitting trapped air bubbles to escape.
articulated intent jewish thought attributes to passover, not just the freedom from physical servitude, but also our people’s emancipation of spirit.
all the stations used to produce the juice must be manned by a team of kosher workers; the regular plant employees may not work these locations during kosher production.
what is the passover seder?
not until the  glucose molecules are released from the bondage of the chemical bonds that bind  the glucose to one another is the sweetness of glucose manifest.
the first two portions are eaten together, one associated with the benediction of hamotzi with the other associated with the benediction ofal achilat matzah.
since romaine lettuce grows open, it is much more prone to insect infestation throughout the head than other varieties of lettuce that primarily grow as a closed ball.
(sephardic custom commonly permits different varieties of flour-juice mixtures even when not produced as matzah.)
if one of the five grains – wheat, barley, rye, oats and spelt – sits in water for more than 18 minutes it becomes chametz, and one may not eat, derive benefit from or own it on pesach.
although a grain which soaks in water for 18 minutes is chametz, in order to make good bread one needs yeast.
yemenite, sephardic and oriental jews are not bound to this custom by their traditions.
they will take about 10 minutes to defrost.
de la rosa will also have ou-p grapeseed oil as well as olive oil and organic olive oil.
this tradition is difficult to understand: the reason for the custom of baking  matzoh in the afternoon of erev pesach to be used that night at the seder is  that that was the time of offering the paschal lamb.
the exact times depend on your  geographic location.
celiac is not a life threatening disease.
this  issue is further complicated by the emergence of the “global  marketplace” where it may be cheaper to buy xanthan gum from france or  china than from the local producer.
suchchametz is strictly prohibited even for infants.
whether the “bread” be chametz or matzoh, when can it be eaten?
this matzah may not be used for the mitzvah regardless of which flour is used.
the lactase used in these products is made via a chometz based fermentation process.
they must also be kosher for year-round use, and prepared in accordance with all of the regular jewish dietary laws.
wishing you a chag kasher v’ same’ach.
if a man goes on  shabbat, in honor of pesach which will be that evening, is it considered  “preparing”?
however, separate  lines do not guarantee a dairy-free product.
even corn-based glucose, which is commonly made in the united states, poses problems for passover.
as with the permitted use of kitniyot, when serving an individual who needs to consume egg matzot, care should be taken to use separate or disposable utensils.
on the left you will find a list of frequently asked passover questions.
“kashering” should only be done under the guidance of an orthodox rabbi.
since chametz may not be held in one’s possession during passover, one may rid oneself of the chametz by declaring all types of chametz in one’s possession to be dust and ashes, abandoned property.
when horseradish is used for maror, it should be chopped, ground or grated to  reduce its strength, but it must be covered so as not to be weakened too much.
the bitul is pronounced immediately after the search, to nullify the chametz that may have been overlooked, and again after the burning in the morning, to include any additional chametz that may have come into one’s possession in the interim.
it is traditional that the flour from which this matzah is prepared should be specially supervised from the time the wheat is cut – shmurah mishaat ketzirah.
although strictly speaking, the torah level mitzvah of matzah requires one to eat the measurement of a single kezayit, there is a rabbinic requirement to consume a total of five kezeitimat different intervals of the seder.
when horseradish is used for maror, it should be chopped, ground or grated to reduce its strength, but it must be covered so as not to be weakened too much.
promise price chopper ricesense wild harvest rice dream – unsweetened rice milk (not standard rice milk)
if one is immersing only one utensil then the proper berachah is “. . .al
21 meiri, pesachim 13b; ran, end of chapter “elu ovrim.”
for a full discussion of the halacha, see ibid,  p. 104.
what happens if one takes  bland-tasting corn, and uses enzymes to liquefy and sweeten it – does the  resulting corn syrup remain forbidden as kitnios?
there is a difference of opinion among rabbinic decisors (machloket ha-poskim) as to whether quinoa is considered kitniyot.
relating the story of the exodus and hallel a. most of the unique seder practices are designed to stimulate interest and arouse curiosity in the exodus story.
the same stipulation is made for those companies west of new york; rabbi luban acquires the chametz prior to pesach in new york and the owner does not take possession until after pesach ends for him.
iggerot moshe o.h. 4, 69:4.
foods which may not be used on passover a. any food or food product containing fermented grain products (chametz)  may not be used or remain in a jew’s possession on passover.
in addition to the well-known minhag of not eating kitnios, the rema  (467:8) cites customs to not eat honey, raisins, dried fruit, sugar, saffron  and cloves, and other poskim cite numerous other customs from specific  communities.
why is everything left unresolved?
how can baking them on saturday night serve that purpose?
31 meiri, pesachim 99; rabbenu manoach, chametz 6; avnei nezer 380-  marcheshet 11.
other products not on the list may also be acceptable for pesach.
55 agru in the name of his father, as quoted in chazon ovadia, p. 1oo:lo. 56 orach chain?
•clean all surfaces using liquid cleanser.
we will see below that even those who take the strict  position in this matter generally agree that foods created with these  ingredients are b’dieved permitted on pesach.
also gelcaps may present a problem because they may contain non-kosher edible gelatin.
rabbi luban stipulates that for those in time zones where pesach ends earlier, the non-jew gives permission to use the chametz and recalculate the amounts after pesach.
biur chametz the destruction of chametz.
according to the chayei adam, this is only a concession because it would be  very difficult to clean up the succah at night, in the dark.
however, if one decides to adopt the option of using egg matzoh as the  “bread at the three meals on that shabbat, which is an option permitted  or even suggested by some,34 it is evident that this would solve the problem  for all three meals; furthermore, it would not be necessary to get up early to  daven so as to eat chametz before the time when it is no longer permitted.
enzymes, vitamins, flavors and other complex issues microbiology has played a great role in the advances in food technology in the past few decades.
however, in nezer hakodesh 110.52, rabbi rosen does count not eating matzoh on the day before pesach as bal tosif.
accordingly, egg matzoh could be used for lechem mishneh, the two breads at the  sabbath meals.
enjoy your new utensils.
regular matzoh (as opposed to egg matzoh) should not be eaten the entire shabbos.
surely the sacrifice was not brought then!
that translates to more than 275,000 products from over 2,400 manufacturers, produced in nearly 6,000 plants in 77 countries.
according to some authorities, another type of matzoh which might be considered permitted for use on erev pesach is matzoh which is not matzo shmura the reasoning here is that since at the seder we must use matzoh shmura, any other type of matzoh is disqualified and consequently could not have been intended by the rabbis castigating those who eat matzoh on erev pesach.
in addition, bartenura, carmel, gefen and mishpacha olive oil will be available with an ou-p label.
medium or small leaves of romaine lettuce will respectively amount to approximately three-fifths or one-fifth of the required amount.
the clusters keep for 2 to 3 weeks in the refrigerator—if you hide them well!
procedures for “kashering” depend on how the utensil was used during the year.
according to the chayei adam46, this is only a concession because it would be  very difficult to clean up the succah at night, in the dark.
some coffee companies add maltodextrin, which is either chametz or kitniyos, to instant coffee.
ceramic—all types—including brick, china, coffee mugs and enamel.
is the halacha possibly more  lenient if one takes the aforementioned corn syrup and uses enzymes to convert  it to sour-tasting ascorbic acid?
the halacha (jewish law) also suggests that separate pots, dishes and cutlery be dedicated to thekitniyot food.
what are the rituals for the period before passover begins? the day before passover is a fast day for jewish firstborn males, in  commemoration of the tenth plague, the slaying of the firstborn male egyptians,  which immediately resulted in the exodus.
although one could use matzoh on friday night, it would not be permissible any time during the daylight hours.”
they also taste terrific when reheated in the defatted pan juices from brisket or roast chicken.
one should be careful  not to ask the non-jew directly to remove the chametz from the house.
why is mechirat chametz for a supermarket that continues to sell chametz during pesach a valid sale?
rav moshe writes (iggerot moshe, oc 4:96) that it is permissible to purchase chametz from a supermarket at the point in time when there is a 50 percent possibility that the supermarket purchased the chametz after pesach.
you can grind the rice in aclean chametz  grinder before passover or purchase a dedicated grinder for use over passover.
such transfer of  chametz, by legal and binding sale with properly executed contract (shtar  mechirah), gives the non-jew full title to all chametz foods.
but he does suggest that it would be better to use matzoh fried or cooked in oil rather than plain.
therefore, if there were no other way for them to  carry out the requirement to have three meals with lechem mishneh on this  shabbat, these persons, too, could use matzoh24.
if an individual cannot  drink any grape product, then a rabbi should be consulted on another substitute  beverage in order to fulfill the mitzvah of drinking the four cups.
after delineating the various forbidden sheratzim, the torah commands, ‘‘…for i am hashem who brought you up from the land of egypt to be your god, and you shall be holy as i am holy’’ (leviticus 11:45).
utensils purchased, owned and used by a business entity and not an individual, were never included in the rabbinic enactment of tevilat keilim.
back to ou passover home page print article pesach recipe substitutes
those whose custom it is to eat  “matzah ashirah” on pesach (contrary to the opinion of the ramah  – rabbi moshe isserles) may use “matzah ashirah” for the  “lechem mishnah” of the third meal provided that they conclude the  meal before the end of 9 hours into the day (“sha’ot  zamanyiot”) .
this site includes a list of ou certified kosher products for use for passover, 2005.
even in cases where a given ingredient would not be batel – as in the case of flavors, which areavidah l’taimah – the majority of world production does not make use of chametz-based glucose or otherchametz-based ingredients.
this matzah is not ou-certified.
cook until the onions are soft.
foods which may not be used on passover a. any food or food product containing fermented grain products (chametz) may not be used or remain in a jew’s possession on passover.
however, some companies choose to substitute glacial acetic acid for the vinegar in their pesach products.
for the complete kosher for pesach directory click download (passover)
in the face of conflicting directives by this major posek, many authorities conclude that the ramo means to be strict about egg matzoh only for pesach itself, and not on erev pesach!’
i may know who owns the small local grocery store around the corner, but how would i know if the owner or manager of a large chain is jewish?
as the day went on, the yeast in that dough would multiply (and be joined  by other yeast found in the air) to such an extent that that the batter would  turn sour and inedible.
all cooking and eating utensils must be either set aside exclusively for  passover use, or, in some cases, “made kosher” in consultation with  a rabbi, according to the procedures of jewish law.
indeed, were empirical observation its sole means of discovery, the event would unquestionably pass without notice.
shmurah matzah matzah used for the seder on passover eve.
moreover, some authorities calculate the measurement diferently for mitzvot derabbanan.
however, shod umeishiv,l75,  does not allow eating egg matzoh on era pesaclz.
stovetops the grates of a gas stovetop should be kashered in the oven chamber in the same manner described above.
obviously, there are many companies under ou supervision that are not owned by jews and are not restricted from operating on pesach.
a shtar, power of attorney document, is signed authorizing rabbi yaakov luban (ou executive rabbinic coordinator) to act as each company’s agent to sell its chametz.
if chametz is discovered during passover, it should be disposed of, in accordance with jewish law, as soon as possible.
this type of matzah is commonly referred to as egg or grape matzah.
these texts can be found in most traditional haggadahs.
undoubtedly, this issue needs to be addressed in a serious, balanced approach.
a fantasy, to be sure.
back  to ou passover home page print article what is “matzah”?
some of the ingredients in the flavor are made from other ingredients, as well.
it is questionable, though, as to whether rav moshe feinstein intended this leniency for passover as well .
no bones about it: if a rolled turkey breast isn’t available, use an unrolled turkey breast, allowing 20 to 25 minutes cooking per pound.
to help you eat well even during pesach, here are some healthy and delicious recipes that are sure to please the guests at your table.
according to such opinions, one may take these tablets just like any other non-chewable pill.
this view holds that for the entire 24-hour period before pesach, eating matzoh is precluded.20
repeat with the remaining mixture.
tempering is the process by  which grains are softened by soaking in water, and this flour and all products  made with it are, therefore, chametz.
although one may not eat kitnios, one may own and derive benefit from  kitnios.
halacha and gebrokts the halacha, as formulated in the gemara and shulchan aruch, clearly states that once matzah is baked, it can no longer become chametz and is permitted in any dish.
the magen avraham considers  this to be the proper view.
therefore, if there were no other way for them to carry out the requirement to  have three meals with lechem mishneh on this shabbat, these persons, too, could  use matzoh.
the sold chametz is the non-jew’s property  until after passover ends and must be treated accordingly.
fast of the firstborn in remembrance of their miraculous salvation when all the firstborn of  egypt were smitten, it is the practice for the firstborn to fast on erev pesach  .
11 enjoy having the entire  house clean at one time and keep up a cheerful front.
cooked or preserved vegetables are not suitable for maror; therefore  commercially prepared grated horseradish, which is packed in vinegar, may not  be used for the mitzvah.
this ball of concentrated yeast would be thrown into the next day’s batter to help that batter rise (and a handful of that batter would be taken out to be saved for the next day… ) .
according to this opinion one may take the lactaid tablet when wrapped in tissue paper.
however, in recent years we have stopped certifying peanut oil as kosher for passover.
however, chok yaakov 471 discusses other opinions with  respect to re-cooked matzoh.
the essence of birkat hachammah is the blessing “oseh ma’aseh bereishit—he who makes the work of creation.”
reduce heat to medium and sauté for 5 to 7 minutes longer, until tender, stirring occasionally.
all ou prepackaged raw meat and poultry without other ingredients.
as a rule, any utensil that came in contact with hot food, was washed with hot water or was used to store liquids, requires hot purging.
however, he cautions that one should not reprimand someone who does employ the matzoh option on friday evening.
in point of fact, r. moshe feinstein forbids eating matzoh during the day  of erev pesach and discourages its use even for the friday night meal preceding 22.
malted barley,  malt) which is definitely chametz.
these foods  can be eaten after the beginning of the 10th hour of the day provided that one  partakes of then in moderation.
erev pesach shechal beshabbat, p.86,  discusses whether the marror is muktza.
over 60% of kosher supervised foods in the usa carry the ou on their labels.
however, passover cleaning in jewish homes must be started much earlier.
in order to qualify as  “nishtaneh” the kitnios must go through a significant change in  taste; therefore in the cases noted above, they would certify the ascorbic acid  due to the dramatic change in taste from sweet to sour but wouldn’t  permit the corn syrup since it isn’t changed/nishtaneh  “enough” from the corn which it came from.
in fact, there are more wheat free products available forpesach than during the rest of the year.
whether it is permissible to give the remainder to animals is discussed by moadim uzemanim, 7:160.
while the mixers are adequately cleaned out between the dairy and parve mixes in order to allow the mix to be called parve, however, from an allergen point of view, it is woefully inadequate.
similarly, all oats are heat-treated to prevent them from  becoming rancid; if this heating is done with “wet” steam, the  oats/oatmeal may be chametz.
eliahu rabbah 444 states that singing z’mirot should be skipped  this shabbat, in order to avoid possible delay in completing the meal on time.
that problem was essentially resolved by the modifications made with introduction of the present gregorian calendar.
57 chazon ovadia p.100.
all dishes, silverware, etc., should be washed in the basin, and wash-water can be disposed of through the sink’s drain.
they also freeze well for up to 2 months.
the  grain is allowed to ferment until it reaches about 12-13% and then the alcohol  is separated from (some of) the water using a process called  “distillation” to produce whisky which contains 30-95% alcohol.
when this special supervision has been instituted only from  the time of milling – techinah – matzot prepared from such flour  may be used for matzot mitzvah only when the traditional shmurah mishaat  ketzirah matzah is not available.
the mishnah berurah, orach chaim 44415  does too.
a toothpick should be used to clean out the holes of the vent.
wheat starch, like any other starch, is made up of nearly endless repeating units of glucose molecules, one next to another, connected by chemical bonds and forming relatively complex configurations.
some argue that mishnah berurah’s ruling is limited to cases of b’dieved and doesn’t justify the l’chatchilah creation/certification of such an item, and others argue that nishtaneh may be limited to cases where the forbidden item becomes inedible in the middle of its conversion to the “new” item.
back to ou passover home page print article a brief guide to the passover seder plate a special seder plate is displayed during the seder, containing the key  elements of passover.
mango juice adds a marvelous flavor to the turkey, but orange juice will also add its own special twist.
if there are health issues involved, please consult a health specialist and yourrav.
the mishnah  berurah (453:6 & 464:5) cites three reasons for the minhag (a) kitnios is  harvested and processed in the same manner as chametz, (b) it is ground into  flour and baked just like chametz
back to ou passover home page print article salt that is iodized by means of a corn derivative is (kitniyos) and therefore iodized salt requires passover certification.
however, some barley is steeped in water until the barley begins to sprout; this creates a product known as barley malt (a.k.a.
glucose syrup is the result of widespread breakdown of a starch molecule to yield many individual glucose units.
to appreciate the omnipotence of the deity who made possible the miraculous events surrounding the exodus.
starch can be converted to glucose.
transfer to a bowl, cover and chill for 20 to 30 minutes.
he believed that the matter would depend on whether the food being served was a liquid or a solid, which would in turn determine whether or not the utensil proffered was “absolutely vital” for the food’s consumption.
in note 9, he adds that  although generally in order to alter one’s custom, heter nedarim is  required, that is not the case here.
make sure to wash your hands before sitting down to the shabbat meal.
according to some opinion, one can  learn torah instead of eating the third meal.
during the civil war, myer levy was a union soldier who found himself patrolling a virginia town on pesach.
how then can we fulfill the sabbath obligation to partake of three meals, each of which is accompanied by two loaves of “bread3“?
back to ou passover home  page print article which foods are chametz?
communal rabbis generally tell their congregants when they feel comfortable purchasing chametz, and my impression is that lag b’omer (which is twenty-five days after the conclusion of pesach) is a safe time.
filters/screens over drains in sinks •
since cooked matzah is permitted until the 10th hour of the day, the obligation can be fulfilled by eating matzah balls.
minchas yitzchok (iii:138:2) suggests that cottonseed oil is kitnios, but in a subsequent teshuvah (iv:114:3) he reconsiders this position (see also mikra’ai kodesh, pesach ii:60:2); in the united states cottonseed oil is generally not considered to be kitnios but in eretz yisroel there are those who refrain from using it.
if a synthetic material is a minority component of a substance (like silestone), many rabbis believe that one may kasher it, even if one does not normally kasher artificial materials for a number of reasons.
however, one should  not eat a large meal that would diminish his appetite at the seder.
derivatives of kitnios the earlier poskim, including rema, clearly indicate that oil made from kitnios is forbidden on pesach, but some of the later poskim suggest that such oil may be permitted because some of the original reasons for the minhag don’t apply to the oil extracted from kitnios.
responsa hnelef lecha shlonm 322 also considers that matzoh cooked after baking may still not be consumed on erev pesach.
but others  object, claiming that the person will be so concerned lest a fire begin, he  will not have his mind on searching for chametz properly.
the flour mill, bins, and transport vessels must be koshered for passover; and any equipment used for chametz-milling which cannot be adequately cleaned, must be effectively sequestered.
to the popular mind, the julian calendar—and hence the solar year of shmuel—was correct.
that includes beverages,  condiments, spices, and all processed foods such as fruits and vegetables,  fish, meat and dairy products, and especially, baked goods.
use egg matzah instead of actual challah.
he prefers the use of re-cooked or fried matzoh to egg matzoh, since the halacha is not clear as to how much egg matzoh must be eaten for the blessing hamotzi and for grace after meals.
however, there is no problem owning  rice and making your own cereal from non-enriched rice or domestic rice over  passover.
how  does one fulfill the mitzvah of eating the third shabbat meal without bread,  for it is forbidden to eat chametz after four hours (“sha’ot  zemaniyot”) into the day of erev pesach?
the specified time for this search is the night before passover, traditionally using a feather and the light of a single candle.
despite the ou’s best efforts, ou certified manufacturers of nutritional supplements have not agreed to special pesach productions.
one must therefore be careful that ensures that no air pockets remain.
(this year passover begins saturday evening, april 23, 2005.
the service should be conducted with dignity, and conclude early enough  to eat the second shabbat meal before the time when the chametz is prohibited.
back to ou passover home page print article
manischewitz continues to produce egg matzah as well as passover tam tams.
see moadim uzemanim, haggada, p. 5, note 5,  and chok leyisrael, hosafot, p. 126.
start early – if you begin right after purim and do a little bit  every day, the job is not overwhelming.
why is matzah meal vanishing from much of our passover-baking fare?
yeast is the living microorganism which  converts some of the flour into the carbon dioxide which fluffs-up the batter  and causes it to “rise”.
it may only be used with written authorization of the orthodox union kosher division.
start with areas where chametz does not usually go and declare them off limits until pesach.
little wonder then that birkat hachammah, despite its relative simplicity and infrequency of occurrence, has received extensive treatment in rabbinic literature.
therefore if one wishes to use a non-porcelain year-round dishwasher on passover, the following should be done: •if it is made of plastic or has synthetic gaskets, speak to your rabbi as to whether it can be kashered for passover.
tuna fish is available with an ou-p from season, gefen and mishpacha.
for a summary of all the opinions, see ereu pesach shechal  beshabbat pp.26-7, footnote 1.
if you are looking for a specific product, use the search box above, or select a product category from the drop-down menu above.
this rationale is the  basis for some hashgachos’ certification and/or acceptance of certain  productions ofmsg, aspartame and xanthan gum for pesach.
as we discussed earlier, gluten free products must meet a threshold of less than 20 ppm (parts per million) gluten.
mishnah berurah raises the option of dividing the early morning meal  (before the tenth hour) into two, by making a blessing on two challahs of  bread, eating, reciting grace, then washing again, eating from another two  challahs, and reciting grace again.35 this solution, although ingenious, may  not be halachically feasible.
yechave daat 3:26 would allow a hospital or hotel which have already removed all chametz before shabbat to serve this type of matzoh on shabbat erev pesach.
there is an opinion that if the non-jewish partner owns a majority of the business, there is no concern of chametz sheavar alav hapesach (shu”t zecher yitzchak, responsa 8).
first, the sale of a supermarket is halachically beneficial for the storeowners.
the zeroah (shank bone) and roasted egg should be prepared before  shabbos.
these tubes need to be kashered as well.
(see pitchei teshuvah, y.d.120:2.)
some rabbinic authorities recommend grating horseradish before shabbos, and storing it in a sealed container.
however, this special time-sensitive cleaning process can be challenging, particularly when dealing with older matzah-making equipment that is pitted or has cracks and crannies.
however, the shulchan aruch45 makes an exception on  shernini atzeret, which is the last day people eat in the succah.
add the rice powder while stirring constantly.
it is permissible to sleep on shabbos to be more alert for the seder, but one should not say that this is the purpose of his sleeping.
the largest and most widely respected kosher supervisory agency is the  kashruth division of the union of orthodox jewish congregations of america.
sponge cakes, marble  cakes, chocolate loaves, brownies, jelly rolls, seven layer cake, and cookies  are only some of the items that can be made without any nuts.
these include spicy marinades, salsa and spicy ketchup.
sugar = 1 cup granulated sugar minus 1 tablespoon sugar plus 1 tablespoon potato starch pulsed in a food processor or blender 1 cup sour milk or buttermilk for dairy baking = 1 tablespoon lemon juice in a 1 cup measure, then fill to 1 cup with passover nondairy creamer.
that issue is beyond the scope of this article and will iy”h be dealt with separately].
on passover we avoid all wheat based products save one – the matzah which is eaten at the seder in fulfillment of a biblical obligation, and that which we eat throughout the holiday.
since natural flavors are more likely to contain a chametz-derived compound than an artificial flavor, an “artificial flavors” designation on an ingredients label is preferable to “natural flavors” or a “natural and artificial flavors” designation.
so it is essential that the flour be restricted to a mixing-process station.
for use on passover a. jewish law requires special dishes, cooking utensils, glassware, and  silverware for passover use, with separate meat and dairy sets.
there are three times during the course of the seder when matzah must be eaten ‘ at the beginning of the seder meal, when the special blessing over matzah is made, for korech (hillel sandwich) together with the maror, and at the end of the meal for the afikoman.
other foods can be identified by simply reading the ingredient panel, which  shows that breakfast cereal, soy sauce, fish sticks, licorice, candy and many  other foods often have wheat or flour (chametz) listed prominently.
it is noteworthy  that the aforementioned leniency does not necessarily apply to (a) vinegar or  vinegar-containing products from other countries and (b) organic vinegar (even  if it is produced in the united states, due to the difficulty in obtaining  organic corn).
it is kneaded into dough either by hand or machine, but only in a cool room, since heat may cause instant leavening.
•nutritious drink mix •nutritious pudding •shake plus •thickened •thickened coffee •thickened
in the writings of the chatam sofer on pesach, he rules in 444 that it is better to forego lechem inishneh altogether rather than eat matzoh on erev pesach.
remember, there is no place in the torah that requires one to become  sick duringpesach.
hair removers & treatments 26.
however, the fault with this line of reasoning is that “canola  oil” is actually “rapeseed oil” (a.k.a. colza oil) which has  been used for centuries in europe.
in fact, some rabbis arrange to sell not only individual stores but also entire supermarket chains.
roast the turkey, covered, for about 2 hours (about 25 to 30 minutes per pound).
this article will discuss some of the ways in whichpesach certified foods may impact on health issues.
he prefers the use of re-cooked or fried matzoh to egg matzoh, since the halacha is not clear as to how much egg matzoh must be eaten for the blessing hamotzi and for grace after meals33.
the seller is clearly not sincere about the sale.
they can be made of any material, including plastic or paper.
in ereu pesach shechal beshabbat, which is probably the most exhaustive study of these laws, rabbi zev cohen suggests that a child could remove the chametz (p.130), and offers suggestions for removal of the candlesticks if it is necessary to change the tablecloth (p.99).
chametz may be eaten until the end of the fourth portion hour (see the time listing for your area); it may be used or sold until the end of the fifth portion hour.
the basic ingredients
mishnah berurah raises the option of dividing the early morning meal  (before the tenth hour) into two, by making a blessing on two challahs of  bread, eating, reciting grace, then washing again, eating from another two  challahs, and reciting grace again35.
with the multitude of jewish-owned companies under ou supervision, preparing for pesach poses a monumental task.
in light of this, the following is a refresher on the background of tevillat keilim and a primer on its practical applications.
rav ovadia yosef sees little reason to do anything  special with the teeth: since the food that one eats is not hot enough to be a  problem halachically (otherwise he wouldn’t be able to take it into his  mouth) and since the teeth are not porous, little more than cleaning them well  is required14.
they includethe ou guide to checking fruits, vegetables and berries, 2nd edition.
beer contains approximately 5% alcohol and people who want a drink with a higher alcohol content do the following.
certainly, any food containing  vinegar shouldn’t be consumed on pesach unless the food is specifically  certified for pesach use.
there are  many mystical concepts tied to the unique relationship between matzah and  chametz on passover.
at last, a fellow jew!
water chestnuts- substitute raw jicama orange liqueur =substitute an equal amount of frozen orange juice  concentrate you can mince the tops of green onions and use them in recipes  that call for chives or use celery tops instead of parsley (who are we kidding,  we always have parsley during pesach)
•a clean drinking glass, unused for 24 hours, should be filled with water and boiled in the microwave for 10 minutes (note: it might take several minutes for the water to begin to boil).
its registered service mark, ‘p,’ on thousands of consumer and industrial food products, is a guarantee of the highest standards of kosher for passover.
it is designed to arouse man from his lethargy, to force him to reflect upon this cosmic phenomenon, to summon him to contemplation.
that includes beverages, condiments, spices, and all processed foods such as fruits and vegetables, fish, meat and dairy products, and especially, baked goods.
one  may not prepare motzei shabbos for the second seder.
an egg is used because it  is a traditional food for mourners, reminding us of the destruction of the  temple in jerusalem; g. there are other items that can be placed on seder plates depending on  the customs followed by the family.
however, others with knowledge of the food industry argue that due to the abundance of corn in the united states, the overwhelming majority of the vinegar sold and used in the united states does not contain chametz (although it does contain kitnios).
after waiting a short while, he commences the whole procedure  again, this time eating a whole meal.
using matzoh one way to avoid all the problems attendant upon using  chametz at the meal is simply to use matzoh for lechem mishneh.
it is best to eat over a wooden or tile floor, which  can be swept.
there is no question that the mitzvah of charoses can be fulfilled by using this recipe.
man must not only acknowledge but personally perceive god as both the redeemer who led us out of egypt and as the creator of the universe.
it is the decision of the shulchan aruch that for the third meal, one should use egg matzohs for the two loaves.
there are actually a number of contributing factors, including changes in diet, growing climates and the usage of pesticides; all these have impacted the likelihood of finding insects in some of the foods that we eat.
the proper amount of soap has been added when some bubbles are observed in the water.
the phenomenon marked by birkat hachammah did coincide with erev pesach in 5685 (1925).
rather it is the occurrence of the vernal equinox on a particular day of the week and at a particular hour of that day that occasions the berachah.
some people have the custom to bake matzoh for the  seder on the afternoon of erev pesach.
d. immediately thereafter, a second, smaller volume of maror is eaten with  matzah in korech (hillel sandwich).
italian seasoning= 1/4 teaspoon each dried oregano leaves, dried marjoram  leaves and dried basil leaves plus 1/8 teaspoon rubbed dried sage.
the halachah is less strict with regard to such chametz, since it is not “visible.”)
a method was required to facilitate fulfillment of that obligation that would enable any individual to determine the proper date for commencing recitation of tal umatar.
he has thus eaten the second  shabbat meal.
leftover wine: refrigerate leftover wine or freeze it in ice cube trays, storing the cubes in resealable freezer bags.
the  “bitul” should be performed before the end of the fifth hour into  the day (“sha’ot zamaniyot”).
if the jar is made of metal, some authorities requiretevilah without a brachah.
terumat hadeshen53 and maharil54 rule that the fast should be observed on the previous thursday, but others55 maintain that since the fast is only a custom, and the custom cannot be observed on the proper day – it should not be done at all.
however, if the  second reason is really the central one, there would be no reason to desist  from work on friday – the paschal lamb was sacrificed on erev pesach even  when it was a sabbath.
by: rabbi shmuel singer at first blush, one might think that wine, which starts out as natural fruit juice, would be easily deemed kosher.
20 ramban at the end of chapter 3, pesachim.
yet celebrating passover properly requires close familiarity with all the laws governing passover foods, ownership of chametz, preparing the home, and so on.
often, insects may be found between the innermost layers of leaves of an infested head.
kitniyot is a category with certain ambiguities.
first the entire winery and its equipment must be kosherized.
rashi cites torat kohanim where the term ‘‘…who brought you up from the land of egypt’’ is analyzed.
back to ou passover home page print article lactaid milk
this rabbinic injunction underscores the importance of doing things correctly up front so that we are not haunted by complications in the future.
it is quite possible that the ppm  of nuts in the air is quite high.
pesach food or pans may be placed directly on the door or racks once the oven has been kashered.
apparently, it is permitted to do anything which will be very difficult to  undertake later on (for example, the wine is in the cellar, which is very  dark).
yaakov 453:9 who makes a similar point].
this mitzvah is performed with a blessing only if done on this night; if someone is traveling, he or she should conduct the search on the night of departure without reciting the blessing.
seder participants are encouraged to discuss the various aspects of the exodus in detail, beyond the text of the haggadah.
although chometz can be eaten until shabbos morning, all chometz  remaining after the bedika should be placed in a secure and designated area.
13 ben ish chai, perashat tzav:8.
one begins by wetting his own hand(s) with the mikveh water.
the search for leaven, known as bedikat chametz, will take place on thursday night, the 13th of nisan, april 17th.
as we shall see, each of these solutions has its own problem, yet there are various reasons to recommend each one.
newer metals such as aluminum, as well as hybrid metals such as steel, are generally assumed to requiretevilah as well.
nevertheless, kosher supervision of wine and grape juice continues to expand and grow.
for more detailed instructions and guidance, a competent halachic authority should be consulted.
back to ou passover home page print article 1.
one interpretation equates matzah with god’s  commandments (mitzvot), and chametz with sin (chayt).
jewish law forbids the use of any chametz which remains in a jew’s possession during passover, even after the holiday is over.
and i’ll attach them to the  next pesach article.
after the search is completed, the remaining chametz is carefully collected and put aside to be burned the following morning.
by: rabbi dov schreier how mechirat chametz, selling your chametz, works it may come as a surprise to many that the sale of chametz, one of pesach’s traditional rituals, is actually a relatively recent innovation.
beware of processed foods, as they are often loaded with fat, carbs and sodium.
it celebrates the liberation of the children of israel from slavery in egypt over 3000 years ago, under the leadership of moses.
bitul chametz (kol chamira) is not recited at this time.
by that time, chametz, and, according to ashkenazic practice, also egg matzah, may no longer be eaten.
q. do products that contain vinegar (such as salad dressing, pickles and ketchup) fall under the prohibition of chametz sheavar alav hapesach?
if a specific product must be reviewed please feel free to call the number below.
the matzah is eaten while reclining on the left side as a symbol of freedom.
bitter herbs (maror) a. all persons are obligated to eat bitter herbs twice at each seder.
according to some opinions, it may be recited until midday.
juice •thickened water •thickenup pbm pediatric electrolyte solution enlive ensure (not ensure fiber with fos) ensure high protein ensure glucerna os ensure high calcium jevity (except jevity 1.2 and 1.5)
all passover dietary laws remain in effect until nightfall of the eighth day of passover, sunday, may 1, 2005.
a common example is rennet which causes milk to coagulate into cheese, but the range of uses goes well beyond cheese.
if it is not possible to maintain a complete set of separate utensils  for passover it may be possible to use some year-round utensils for passover  after a special “kashering” procedure.
according to the mishnah berurah, this is the  way they used to do it in europe11.
in such cases, one should consult a  competent halachic authority and make the necessary arrangements.
the tradition of the kitniot  restriction has been steadfastly maintained by all jews of european origin for  centuries.
all jews must fulfill the mitzvah of achilat matzah – eating of matzah.
the majority of klal yisrael conducts themselves accordingly – preparing matzah balls, matzah brei and a variety of baked goods containing matzah meal.
most of the cakes and cookies certified kosher for passover contain nuts in some form or another.
matzo will be placed in a box on the table.
while this logic is sound, it is noteworthy that quinoa  is often packaged in plants that also package wheat and barley, and it is  possible that those grains (i.e. chametz) could get mixed into the quinoa.
please enter the word you see in the image below:
there are private lists available that circulate around pesach time with basic information, but it is best to check with your local rabbi.
chag kasher v’sameachback to ou passover home page print article
one of the  prime ingredients used in making just about all of the items discussed above is  “glucose” (a.k.a. sugar), and glucose can be created from any  starch, which means that these items may be wheat (chametz), corn or rice  (kitnios), sweet potatoes (kosher for pesach) or something else, depending on  what is available in the country where the glucose is being produced.
therefore, the terminology: ‘‘hashem, who brought you up” is used.
rather, a second set is prepared sunday night and eaten monday.
35 orach chaim 444:8 36 orach chaim 291:6: before any holiday or shabbat, it is a mitzvah not to eat a meal with bread late in the afternoon since it will detract from enjoyment of the food one eats that evening in honor of the holiday.
these items are made from manischewitz ou-p whole wheat matzah.
one may not prepare motzei shabbos for the second seder.
if someone cannot drink even diluted wine, kosher grape juice may be substituted.
rabbi teitz, who was a great talmid chacham, explained to me why he felt it was halachically possible to sell the chametz acquired on pesach as well.
back to ou passover home page print article all regular ground coffees are acceptable for passover use when bearing an ou.
it is not matzah ashirah.
darchei teshuvah, however, offers a different argument to be lenient when one is a guest in a restaurant or hotel.
lactaid pills lactaid pills come in two forms –  inedible/swallowable and chewable – which are taken at the same time the  person begins consuming a dairy product.
the rabbis make an interesting distinction in this regard: matzoh  shmura, which is what people will be eating at night at the seder, is certainly  muktza on the shabbat of ereu pesach.
therefore, one  should not set the table for the seder nor make any other preparations until  the conclusion of shabbat.
these ingredients—starch, glucose (dextrose), ethanol, and acetic  acid—touch on some of the primary derivatives of wheat, but do not  comprehend the gamut of possibilities.
processed foods not carrying any rabbinical supervision should be cleared with  a rabbi before passover use, as should any medicines and vegetables.
additionally, many of the ingredients listed above are used in tiny proportions which would theoretically be batel b’shishim, and poskim have taken different positions as to which of these serve as a davar hama’amid and/or a milsah d’avidah lit’amah, which can’t be batel.
le-shanah haba’ah bi-yerushalayim.
this is not done in preparation for the next day but in honor of the sabbath itself47.
if two utensils are being immersed together, they should not touch so as not to impede the flow of water in and around.
for example, a candy generally contains a flavor, and the flavor may be made from as many as 30 ingredients.
everyone will “cluster” around you when you bring these to the table!
there would have to be an interval between the end of  one meal and the beginning of the next.
in summation, rav ovadia yosef, whose decisions are generally accepted by sephardic jews, rules that… it is proper to destroy the chametz before shabbat … and to use for shabbat only utensils that are fit for pesach … and on shabbat to use only food and utensils reserved for pesach, and one should fulfill the precept of meals for shabbat with matzoh which is cooked in chicken or meat soup, in the following manner: after the food is wholly cooked, let him remove it from the fire,and while the food in the pot is still extremely hot, let him put into the pot several pieces of matzoh, as much as he needs, in such a way that the matzoh thoroughly soaks up the flavor of the food, and then he can use this to fulfill the mitzvah of three meals.
wheat starch  can also be used to produce alcohol.
if desired, one may burn all the bread on friday in order to avoid possible  errors on shabbat.
therefore, it is acceptable for  passover only when appearing on the gray pages (section of passover guide which  contains items not requiring passover certification) or when bearing an ou-p. back to ou passover home page print article milk milk contains added vitamins that contain a slight chometz risk.
pay special attention to the temperature gauge, the window in the door and the edges of the oven chamber.
microwave ovens also contain glass windows.
mix together and let set for 10 minutes.
industrially-packaged quinoa is processed on dedicated equipment, with no chance of contamination.
yeast the torah says that one may not own se’or on pesach.
while this assumption may seem reasonable, it has proven to be untrue.
in citing this law, the shulchan aruch records both opinions: if erev pesach occurs on shabbat, there are those who say that the firstborn should fast on thursday, and there are those say that they do not fast at all56.
there are a number of ways to meet this requirement.
what other restrictions are applicable on passover?
if intended for multiple uses, they do require tevilah even before their first use.
all adhesions such as stickers and labels that are not intended to remain on the utensil must be removed.
at best, we can suggest the potential existance of kitniyot or chametz in a product that we do not certify for passover.
just before these restrictions  begin, the remaining chametz must be destroyed (usually burned) and a public  disclaimer of chametz ownership (bitul) recited.
to be sure, the blessing “oseh ma’aseh bereishit” pronounced on that occasion is also triggered by the appearance of the sun.
one could argue that once the dough was baken into  matzoh, it became forbidden for consumption on erev pesnch and the subsequent  cooking cannot remove the issur..
these  microorganisms, to do the work they have to do,must have carbohydrate sources,  and often the source of choice is…glucose.
in citing this law, the shulchan aruch records both opinions: if erev  pesach occurs on shabbat, there are those who say that the firstborn should  fast on thursday, and there are those say that they do not fast at all.
which foods are kitnios the earlier poskim mention that rice, buckwheat/kasha, millet, beans, lentils, peas, sesame seeds and mustard are included in the minhag (see beis yosef o.c. 453, rema 453:1 & 464:1 and mishnah berurah 453:4, 7 & 11) and it is generally accepted that corn (see below), green beans, snow peas, sugar-snap peas, chickpeas, soybeans, sunflower and poppy seeds are also forbidden.
the vast majority of ou certified wines are ou-p. please be sure to check your wine products before purchasing.
how can one tell if a product is kosher for passover?
additional concerns stem from questions about the equipment, enzymes, yeasts, and nutrients used in creating the alcohol and vinegar.
simmer covered for 10 minutes, mix in formula or breast milk and fruits if desired 5.
back to ou passover home page print article salt salt that is iodized by means of a corn derivative is (kitniyos) and  therefore iodized salt requires passover certification.
such transfer of chametz, by legal and binding sale with properly executed contract (shtar mechirah), gives the non-jew full title to all chametz foods.
since the liquid chocolate poured into the mold is not very hot  (generally less than 100 degrees), a cleanup, rather than a full koshering  suffices.
although this scenario takes care of the problem of having a meal on  shabbat with two breads, it does introduce the problem of getting rid of  chametz on shabbat.
most of the cakes and cookies certified kosher  for passover contain nuts in some form or another.
nonetheless, a careful reading of the iggeret moshe (oc 4:96) makes it clear that rav moshe had a conflicting opinion and did not consider it possible to sell the chametz acquired by supermarkets during pesach.
on the other hand, barley (a.k.a. pearled barley)  is processed without water, and therefore a standard bag of barley isn’t  chametz.
therefore, the mashgichim supervising the matzah bakery must take care that: 1.
jewish consumers are  urged to look for the ‘p’ or the ‘kosher for passover’
thus, all  these, which are technically not “matzoh” according to the halacha,  are exempt from the stricture against eating matzoh on erev pesnch.
these burrows will often trap the worm within the leaf.
which utensils must be toveled?
we can suggest a few,  all of which have variations and permutations, briefly summarized as follows:  we can eat challah at all three meals; we can use egg matzoh for all the meals;  we can use challah friday night and early shabbat morning, and egg matzoh for  the third meal in the afternoon; or (if we don’t want to use egg matzoh),  we can use challah friday night and early shabbat morning, and skip the third  meal.
e. totally inedible non-food products which contain grain alcohol such as polish, ink, paint and floor wax, are permissible for passover use.
for a summary of all the opinions, see ereu pesach shechal beshabbat pp.26-7, footnote 1.
it is feasible for allergic and celiac people to be at a hotel for passover.
nothing is impossible.
obviously, that is not feasible this  year, and will be done instead on friday afternoon.
it has been suggested that one  should do it on friday night, having a non-jew carry the candle.
jewish consumers are urged to look for the p or the kosher for passover designations as an integral part of the product label, and to be familiar with the rabbi or organization giving the passover endorsement.
even if one will not be on the premises during passover,  as long as one is there within 30 days of passover, the obligation to remove  all chametz before passover applies.
other pots and dishes should be cleaned gently and put  away.
there may also be a need to make new berachot when continuing the meal in  this fashion in another room.
further nuances at this unusual meal include serving cold food which won’t stick, so that it will not be necessary to scrape out the plates or pot.
also, in his haggada, p. 95:6, he points out that since technically  matzoh may be eaten on friday night, at the beginning of the sabbath, it  doesn’t become muktza thereafter (ein muktza lechatzi shabbat).
these taverns manufactured and sold grain-based liquor.
certain utensils require ritual immersion (tevilah, or toveling) in a mikveh before use.
go through one complete self cleaning cycle with the racks in place.
from an allergen standpoint , there are probably more than 0 ppm in parve chocolate.
back to ou passover home page print article lactose intolerant can i buy lactaid for passover?
the following ou matzot fall into this category:  egg matzah, chocolate covered egg matzah, white grape matzot.
for a gas or electric stove, it is preferable to replace the drip pans that are under the burners; if this isn’t possible, the area should be covered with aluminum foil.
unlike chametz, benefit from and possession of kitniot during passover are permitted.
therefore, before using quinoa on pesach, someone who knows how to distinguish  between these grains should check the quinoa to ascertain that it doesn’t  contain any wheat or barley.
back to ou passover home page print article brown sugar often shares tanks with items that contain chometz and therefore requires special passover certification.
lactaid production is likely to involve chometz.
he put forward various arguments of justification, one of which is that halachah does not take into consideration private thoughts (devarim shebelev) that are not verifiable.
chocolate almond apricot clusters makes 48 clusters these chocolates are so good, you’ll pray they last until the end of pesach!
removing the utensil from the water and rinsing it in cold water.
starch to glucose, glucose to ethanol and ethanol to…acetic acid, aka vinegar.
1 chok leyisrael p. 71, cites a custom to eat dairy foods on this shabbat so as to induce drowsiness; sleep will enhance one’s ability to enjoy the seder at night.
6 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder plus 1/4 cup oil and 7 tablespoon granulated sugar 14 oz. sweet chocolate (german-type) =
wheat starch is a standard source of glucose, especially in europe.
consult a competent authority regarding a mikveh not designed for keilim.)
what if the store is jointly owned by a jew and non-jew?
the insects most commonly found in open leaf lettuce are small black or green aphids and thrips.
this would seem to  present a good solution – except that we possibly run into the problem of  muktza.
by: rabbi alfred cohen probably the busiest and most hectic day of the year in every jewish  household is erev pesach, the day preceding passover, for it entails getting  rid of the last smidgen of chametz as well as preparing for the seder.
since the fourteenth of nisan occurs on shabbat this year, special laws are in effect for biur chametz.
water may not be used in the baking of this matzah since adding water to the dough would create instant leavening.
while this logic is sound, it is noteworthy that quinoa is often packaged in plants that also package wheat and barley, and it is possible that those grains (i.e. chametz) could get mixed into the quinoa.
as such, all types of whisky should be treated as chametz unless they are  specifically certified as kosher for pesach.
back to ou passover home page print article since many people purchase new utensils before passover, we present here the laws oftevilat keilim, immersing utensils in a mikveh prior to their use.
back to ou passover home page print article chametz: fermented or leavened wheat, rye, oats, spelt and barley.
not using the utensil for anything, including non-chametz, for twenty-four hours.
the sale of chametz in jewish-owned stores that operate fully on pesach (i.e., chametz is sold in the store) is a matter of dispute.
it has been suggested that one should do it on friday night, having a non-jew carry the candle51.
however, if the  second reason is really the central one, there would be no reason to desist  from work on friday – the paschal lamb was sacrificed on erev pesach  even when it was a sabbath.
however,  allergies can be life threatening.
in the following summary, i have presented a set of practical recommendations based on mainstream positions.
the question of whether grain-based/distilled vinegar is chametz has far-reaching implications because many foods are preserved with vinegar (e.g. pickles, olives) and vinegar is a prime ingredient in many condiments (e.g. ketchup, mustard, mayonnaise, salad dressing), and in general it is distilled vinegar which is used in these applications.
four cups of wine are consumed during the course of the seder to  commemorate the redemption of the jewish people, the sanctity of the holiday  and events related in the haggadah.
actually, there are three opinions as to when the prohibition of eating matzoh
even after all is said  and done, there are numerous safe items available forpesach, which  include but are not limited to, candies, chocolate, catsup, jam, jelly,  spaghetti and even pizza.
some rabbonim say that for the same reason one  shouldn’t own any of these items on pesach, but as noted above regarding  vinegar, others argue that one may rely on the fact that the overwhelming  majority of these items sold and used in the united states do not contain  chametz (although they contain kitnios).
although the celebration of pesach commemorates the exodus from egypt and birkat hachammah recalls creation, the two share a singular common motif.
there will be wheat based matzo served with the meals but it  will not be used in the kitchen in food preparation.
18-minute matzah/cleanup of the matzah bakery the phrase “special 18-minute matzah” is actually a misnomer since all matzah bakeries, producing either hand or machine matzot, are equipped with the proper supervision to ensure that less than 18 minutes elapses from the time the flour touches the water until the matzah enters the oven.
please consult our passover product search for more information.
for someone allergic to nuts, i would recommend the recipe forcharoses be apples, figs, dates, pomegranates, and wine.
can i buy lactaid for passover?
see chok leyisrael p. 46:44, who concedes that one  may be strict and refrain from work; however, on the next page he permits  taking a haircut on friday afternoon.
remembering the exodus on the night of the seder is unique among mitzvot in demanding an emotional metamorphosis.
scoop the batter into the compartments of the muffin pan.
these basic measurements and their careful observance are integral to our heritage.
if they gather a group with sufficient numbers, then a small hotel  can host them.
some of the products contain ingredients that could be produced from chametz-based raw materials.
water filters what if i see an ou certified product that is missing from both the gray pages (list of items that do not require special passover certification)?
the torah refers to matzah as “lechem oni” poor man’s bread, because it is made solely from flour and water, the simplest of ingredients.
it is important to be aware if the problem is gluten intolerance, celiac,  or a true allergy.
gluten  intolerance is a nuisance.
under no circumstances should they be eaten by others at any time during passover, nor can they be eaten to fulfill the mitzvot of the seder.
[the process of “fermentation” and the  possible chametz concerns it raises will be discussed below].
boost glucose control boost high protein boost kid essentials boost kid essentials 1.0 boost kid essentials 1.5 boost kid essentials with fiber boost nutritional pudding boost plus nutren (product line)
aluminum foil is a great help on pesach – it can cover counters, shelves etc. as well as wrap cooked foods.
all chametz in one’s possession must be destroyed before passover, by noon on the fourteenth of nisan, saturday, april 23, 2005.
minchas yitzchok (iii:138:2) suggests that cottonseed oil is kitnios, but in a  subsequent teshuvah (iv:114:3) he reconsiders this position (see also  mikra’ai kodesh, pesach ii:60:2); in the united states cottonseed oil is  generally not considered to be kitnios but in eretz yisroel there are those who  refrain from using it.
any item made of fabric can be kashered by washing it in a washing machine set on ‘hot’ and then checking to make sure that no pieces of food remain attached to it.
nimukei yosef and rosh to pesachim, chapter 3:7, concur.
the premises should be clean by the time the search begins  (approximately 45 minutes after sunset).
since we are dealing with chametz sheavar alav hapesach, which is a rabbinic injunction, the rule of “safek derabbanan lekula” applies and one can be lenient and purchase the cheerios.
celiac is a malabsorption problem that affects the  intestines.
paper cups, plates and towels 34.
the mere mention of  kosher for passover on the label is not a sufficient guarantee of the  product’s acceptability for passover use.
taz 462:3 notes that all spices should be checked before pesach to establish that no chametz-grains are mixed in, and elsewhere taz (453:1) specifically notes that anise and coriander seeds should be thoroughly checked.
see shearim metzzryanim behalacha 115:5, who tries to explain how two rabbis from the same city could have disagreed as to the custom in their city.
as such, chametz sheavar alav hapesach does not apply to kitniyot, and these items may be purchased in any supermarket after pesach.
thus, all these,  which are technically not “matzoh” according to the halacha, are  exempt from the stricture against eating matzoh on erev pesnch.
disposing of them on shabbat), he might want to employ the option of  substituting a well-wrapped matzoh instead of the second loaf of challah.
it even grows in different climates from those ideal for wheat.
10 ounces good-quality dark chocolate (bittersweet or semi-sweet) 1 tablespoon vegetable oil 2 cups toasted almonds, sliced or slivered 1 1/2 cups dried apricots, cut up break the chocolate into chunks and place in a large, dry microwaveable bowl.
e. when lettuce is used, it must be cleaned and inspected very carefully to  remove the small insects which often are present in its leaves.
this year, in new york, coca cola items will be made with an ou-p in 2 liter bottles.
spread each leaf, taking care to expose all its curls and crevices.
d. grain alcohol is a fermentation product, and is therefore chametz.
however, chok leyisrael, p.  48:16, reports that the chatam sofer used to bake matzoh for the seder on  saturday night, because that was the tradition he received from his teachers.
nimukei yosef and rosh to pesachim, chapter  3:7, concur.
q. why can’t rabbis sell the chametz of jewish-owned supermarkets before pesach?
iggerot moshe orach chaim i, 155.
38 shearim metzuyanim behalacha, kuntres acharon 115:7; nimukei yosef, end  of chapter on shabbat; and radvaz 489 say that one should skip the third meal  altogether.
these are made with no matzah meal as is yehuda gluten free cake meal.
these cubes can later be added to various recipes; wine adds flavor to meat, poultry and sauces.
kedem has also introduced pomegranate and sparkling pomogrape juices with the ou-p certification.
this paper will explore the problems which may arise from these dual requirements and advance various solutions.
therefore, one should either eat two meals before the end  of the 4th hour (“sha’ot zemaniyot”) or eat a third meal  consisting of fruit, fish or meat.
because of our lack of information, we can’t establish precisely when that is.
it took me more than an hour to turn around and get back on the original highway.
utensils used to prepare food while it is still in an inedible state should undergotevilah without a brachah.
none of these products should be provided if a certified alternative is made available.
it is preferable to eat three shabbos meals with bread.
a single endive is between one half to one quarter of the required amount, depending upon whether the leaf is large, medium, or small.
the floor  should be swept and the broom should be shaken over a toilet.
the kashrus issues raised by all of this technology is beyond the scope of  this article, but one issue is quite relevant to our discussion.
utensils can be kashered for pesach all day friday.
therefore, rav braun  rules that he should just not do the search; undoubtedly, the house has been  thoroughly cleaned and checked already.
it is a mitzvah to eat warm foods on shabbat, but the shulchan aruch warns  that one should be careful not to cook chametz foods which will stick to the  pot, since it will not be possible to clean it properly before pesach.
some of the supermarket superchains on the east coast were founded by jews during the last few decades of the twentieth century.
nutrition info: 39 calories each, 1.4 grams carbohydrate, 0.1 gram fiber, 3 grams protein, 2.3 grams fat (0.6 gram saturated), 21 milligrams cholesterol, 65 milligrams sodium, 17 milligrams potassium, 3 milligrams calcium with ground almonds, each ball contains 40 calories, 0.7 gram carbohydrate, and 2.6 grams fat.
cover and refrigerate for 1 hour or up to 2 days, basting occasionally.
1 food, drug, and cosmetics act 402 (a)(3)how to check romaine romaine lettuce is commonly used for maror.
the reasoning here is that since at the seder we must use matzoh shmura, any other type of matzoh is disqualified and consequently could not have been intended by the rabbis castigating those who eat matzoh on erev pesach.
some rabbanim have found creative ways to deal with the problem of chametz purchased by supermarkets during pesach, but these solutions have not been universally accepted.
according to some authorities, another type of matzoh which might be  considered permitted for use on erev pesach is matzoh which is not matzo shmura
however, chok leyisrael does take a stricter view of the matter16.
poultry livers must be removed from the cavity and  broiled separately.
decaffeinated coffee: coffee is often decaffeinated by means of ethyl acetate, which is derived from either kitniyot or chometz.
most chocolate manufacturers who produce both dairy and parve products  have separate lines for the dairy and the parve products.
the jewish calendar is lunisolar rather than solar, i.e., it is a lunar calendar based upon a cycle of twelve revolutions of the moon around the earth with corrections in the form of periodic intercalated months in order to reconcile the 354-day lunar year with the 365-day solar year.
rabbi chaim chizkiyahu medini (1832-1904) writes in his encyclopedic work, the sdei chemed, that a storeowner in his city closed his shop for pesach and arranged for the sale of his chametz to a non-jew.
be sure to consult your ou pesach directory – there are new  products every year to enhance your holiday.
(practice has demonstrated that immersion generally does not harm most equipment if allowed three days to dry out.)
remember, there is no place in the torah that requires one to become sick duringpesach.
but do the concerns with vinegar mean that we must  destroy or sell all of the products in my pantry which contain vinegar?
even with israel being six or seven hours ahead, this is still prior to the prohibition of owning chametz.
nestea instant unflavored tea powder and instant unflavored decaffeinated tea powder are acceptable for pesach without special supervision.
it is interesting to note that mishnalt berurah, orach chaim 470:11, totally dismisses the obvious option of forgoing having “bread” at these meals altogether, since having any type of bread raises so many problems.
furthermore, if there is cause for concern  that by using chametz on friday night and shabbat morning it will raise serious  difficulty in removing all the chametz properly before pesach (in a hospital,  for example), one may certainly use egg matzoh throughout the day of erev  pesach and recite all the usual blessings thereon.
inflated costs of natural cane sugar  and cottonseed oil may result in a higher price for some ou-certified passover  foods.
in  summation, rav ovadia yosef, whose decisions are generally accepted by  sephardic jews, rules that… it is proper to destroy the chametz before  shabbat … and to use for shabbat only utensils that are fit for pesach  … and on shabbat to use only food and utensils reserved for pesach, and  one should fulfill the precept of meals for shabbat with matzoh which is cooked  in chicken or meat soup, in the following manner: after the food is wholly  cooked, let him remove it from the fire,and while the food in the pot is still  extremely hot, let him put into the pot several pieces of matzoh, as much as he  needs, in such a way that the matzoh thoroughly soaks up the flavor of the  food, and then he can use this to fulfill the mitzvah of three meals.
with the exception of sabbath, during the inter-mediate four days of passover, chol hamoed (nightfall of monday, april 25, 2005 through shortly before sundown, friday, april 29, 2005), and only nonessential work activities and crafts, as defined by jewish law, are prohibited.
see  furthermore the kaf hachaim 471:24.
the third kezayit is eaten as part of the traditional korech sandwich from the sage, hillel, which serves as a reminder of the beit hamikdash.
a. ou companies that are jewish owned are not permitted to manufacture or distribute chametz during pesach.
take heart, it will not recur until 2021.)
one cannot prepare a zeroah or  roasted egg on motzei shabbos for the second seder.
metzuyanim behalacha 115:4 for further  opinions on this.
furthermore, it is difficult and sometimes impossible to determine if such ingredients are chametz-based.
every year i meet with an accommodating non-jew who graciously purchases this chametz for a down payment of ten dollars.
its kosher supervision label, the ou, is the world’s most recognized kosher symbol.
however, others  with knowledge of the food industry argue that due to the abundance of corn in  the united states, the overwhelming majority of the vinegar sold and used in  the united states does not contain chametz (although it does contain kitnios).
others have argued that the torah specifically singles out cheres (earthenware) as the one material that cannot be kashered, because it can never be completely purged.
by: rabbi avraham juravel pesach kashrus professionals are familiar with the intricacies of ingredients and food production.
but having a non-jew set the table for the seder is permitted.
nonetheless, one should preferably wrap them in tissue paper before  swallowing them.
back to ou passover home page print  article a summary of halachos for erev pesach shechol b’shabbos - 5768
their permissibility is complex and would require a ruling by a rabbi who is knowledgeable in the laws ofmikva’ot
one of the prime ingredients used in making just about all of the items discussed above is “glucose” (a.k.a. sugar), and glucose can be created from any starch, which means that these items may be wheat (chametz), corn or rice (kitnios), sweet potatoes (kosher for pesach) or something else, depending on what is available in the country where the glucose is being produced.
however, some barley is steeped in water until the barley begins to  sprout; this creates a product known as barley malt (a.k.a.
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar plus 1/4 cup water 1 cup corn syrup = 1 1/4 cups granulated sugar plus 1/3 cup water, boiled  until syrupy 1 cup vanilla sugar = 1 cup granulated sugar with 1 split vanilla bean left  for at least 24 hours in a tightly covered jar 1 cup of flour, substitute 5/8 cup matzo cake meal or potato starch, or a  combination sifted together 1 tablespoon flour = 1/2 tablespoon potato starch 1 cup corn starch = 7/8 cup potato starch 1 teaspoon cream of tarter= 1 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice or 1 1/2 teaspoon  vinegar 1 cup graham cracker crumbs =
in fact, avnei nezer (373 & 533) and maharsham (i:183) specifically mention rapeseed and its oil in their discussions of kitnios.
boil water up in one or more large pots (clean pots that have not been used for twenty-four hours).
before pesach, the consumer information lines at the major kashrus agencies are constantly ringing.
relating the story of the exodus  (haggadah or magid) 5)
certainly, any food containing vinegar shouldn’t be consumed on pesach unless the food is specifically certified for pesach use.
sample recipe: rice cereal 1. 1/4 c. rice powder [brown  or white (not enriched) rice ground in blender, food processor, or coffee  grinder].
are se’or  and yeast the same thing?
alternatively, a vegetable brush may be used on both sides of the leaf.
if juice or  eggs are added to or substituted for the water in the mix, it is called  “matzoh ashira” (egg matzoh), and is not suitable for the seder.
by dint of the real estate acquisition, the chametz transfers as well. 5)
an important “exception” to the aforementioned rule that “new” vegetables aren’t included in the minhag, is corn/maize which mishnah berurah 453:4 and others rule is kitnios even though it was introduced to europe after the minhag had already begun.
however, it is important to note thatkashrus agencies and rabbonim are not health specialists.
accordingly, some hashgochos hold that since kitnios is merely a minhag  (i.e. even less than an issur d’rabannan) one can be lenient and certify
we always make sure that the entire matzah baking process—from adding the water to the flour until the matzos are done baking—takes place in less than 18 minutes.
dietary restrictions begin approximately three hours before mid-day saturday.)
pesach is designed to cause a jew to reflect upon the miracles surrounding that historical event and come to a personal awareness of god “who brought us out of egypt, out of the house of bondage.”
the grain is allowed to ferment until it reaches about 12-13% and then the alcohol is separated from (some of) the water using a process called “distillation” to produce whisky which contains 30-95% alcohol.
unlike other years, the secondkol chamira is not said following the burning of the chametz, sincechametz may be consumed until shabbat morning, during the fourth hour.
although there are chocolate  products that are certified parve, however, for allergies no chances should be  taken.
•boil large pots of water on stove and pour into the dishwasher •add heated stones.
it also freezes well for up to 4 months.
this argument is not new.
grain flour is commonly produced from grains that have been washed and tempered.
alcoholic beverages must bear certification to be used for passover.
muktza may not be moved on shabbat.
sometimes alternative sources, such as  byproducts of beer manufacture (a source of wheat alcohol), become tempting  options.
the maror is dipped in charoset, a specially prepared mixture of wine,  nuts, cinnamon, and apples, symbolizing the bricks and mortar of ancient egypt.
glucose syrup  is the result of widespread breakdown of a starch molecule to yield many  individual glucose units.
one may use bread  for “lechem mishnah” and general consumption on friday night and  shabbat morning provided that the morning meal is eaten and finished before the  end of the first four hours of the day (“sha’ot zemaniyot”) .
scouring pads & powders 40.
individuals should consult with their local rabbis for specific direction.
in fact, when this happened, many rabbis gave a sigh of relief, as we thought that matters had been simplified—and one could buy chametz after pesach in all those supermarkets.
additionally, children, people who are ill, and people whose diet is otherwise restricted and must eat kitnios, are excluded from the minhag and may do so after consulting with a rav.
although one could use matzoh on friday night, it would not be permissible any time during the daylight hours21.
specific items all methods of kashering noted in this section presuppose that the equipment was thoroughly cleaned, as described above.
back to ou passover home page print article baby rice cereals
this means that although the food may have a pronounced taste  of kitnios, the food is permitted (unless there are recognizable pieces of  kitnios which haven’t been removed).
iggeros moshe explains that the minhag to not eat kitnios developed  differently than other minhagim and therefore rules that only foods which we  know were specifically included in the minhag are forbidden.
manischewitz bakes machine shmura matzah and will also have ou-p hand shmurah matzah baked for them in israel.
on p. 96 he deals with the custom some men have of going to the mikvah before a holiday.
what about false teeth?
however, one can also collect yeast from plant sources and produce it via fermentation.
to thicken, let set in the refrigerator for 24 hours.
one of these locations may have experienced drought conditions during the growing season.
on the night of the thirteenth of nisan, thursday, april 21, 2005, a search for chametz is to be conducted in the home, wherever chametz may have been brought during the year.
remember, as one  ages, the print seems to become smaller.
on the other hand, barley (a.k.a. pearled barley) is processed without water, and therefore a standard bag of barley isn’t chametz.
shoprite also has specially marked ou-p plain tea bags on the market.
q. can you summarize the discussion?
nevertheless, even if egg matzoh is  not “bread” within the definition of the term, it can still take  the place of bread at a meal, provided that it is used instead of bread and  that a sufficient amount is ‘consumed’ this is the rule any time  cake, crackers, or any baked goods are eaten in sufficient quantity to qualify  as a meal.
however, a doctor must be consulted to make sure that the child is getting the correct dosage and that the potency of the pill is not compromised by altering its consistency.
it is recommended that consumers check the ingredient panel of products with no dairy designation to insure that the pareve status is accurate.
in fact, some of the ethanol  that’s being used to fuel cars in the u.s. comes from another form of starch, cornstarch, which is produced in bundles in the midwest.
erev pesach shechal beshabbat, p. 142, cites various opinions which he explains in detail.
however, the fault with this line of reasoning is that “canola oil” is actually “rapeseed oil” (a.k.a. colza oil) which has been used for centuries in europe.
many of these consumers ask question aboutpesach and their health needs.
back to ou passover home page print article all unflavored bottled water, seltzer and sparkling water is kosher for passover, even without any kosher supervision.
dealing with chametz sheavar alav hapesach in our modern world is not a simple matter.
how can baking them on  saturday night serve that purpose?
the  “two loaves” (“lechem mishna”) 1.
gerber baby food in sweet potatoes contain ascorbic acid (which isbatul).
back to ou passover home page print article why at times can the ou not tell me if something is made from kitnityot?
but that’s not the end of the  line.
one may only prepare enough for that seder.
consumers who are concerned about nuts should know that kernel paste is  another name for ground nuts.
using chametz one solution is to get up very early, daven, and then before the tenth hour, eat a meal at which two loaves of bread or challah are served5.
it has been suggested that one  should do it on friday night, having a non-jew carry the candle51.
i know of several hotels that operate passover programs for  small crowds of 100-150 people.
if a utensil is made of a substance that is exempt from tevilah, but is held together with metal screws or rings, then this utensil requires tevilah.
glucose can be fermented to ethanol.
the only matzoh which can be used at the seder to fulfill the mitzvah of matzoh is “a poor man’s bread” – flat bread which is made from a mixture of flour and water only.
the seder is a ritual banquet which reenacts the exodus, conducted on both  the first and second evenings of passover, (saturday and sunday, april 23 and  april 24, 2005).
dried fruits are usually treated with oils derived from kitniyos and therefore require special passover certification.
seder participants are encouraged to discuss the various aspects of the  exodus in detail, beyond the text of the haggadah.
one may not pile up dishes and immerse them all at once, since the weight of the dishes will block the water.
the ou has also agreed to place the ou-p on aviv, osem, yehuda and rishon matzah products coming from israel.
they also freeze well for up to 4 months.
even foods with minute amounts of chametz ingredients, or foods processed on utensils which are used for other chametz-containing foods, are not permissible for passover use.
once again, one should consult with  the local rabbi.
this can be substituted for 1 1/2 teaspoons italian seasoning.
needless to say, we constantly clean  all utensils and machinery involved in kneeding and mixing the dough.
to accommodate individuals who plan to be away the entire yom tov, some rabbis either hold a key to their home during the holiday, or the individual designates someone else to hold the key, to insure the non-jewish purchaser access to his chametz.
a quick lesson in bread baking will surprisingly show  that se’or is yeast but yeast isn’t necessarily se’or!
rav ovadia yosef records that what to do on this shabbat has long  been a problem; an earlier rabbi of alexandria, egypt, had already bemoaned the  mistakes arising out of ignorance, when …
see chok leyisrael p. 46:44, who concedes that one may be strict and refrain from work; however, on the next page he permits taking a haircut on friday afternoon.
these guidelines do not address the more general prohibition of consuming medicines on shabbat and yom tov.
the  english date varies from year to year, falling in march or in april.
i  always like to combine the jelly and water in a microwave safe bowl and heat it  gently before i serve it.
according to this opinion one may take the lactaid  tablet when wrapped in tissue paper.
there are numerous issues involving what the alcohol is made from, the equipment it is produced in, and the fermentation process itself.
note: these “notsa” balls keep for up to 2 days in the refrigerator, and they reheat well.
matzo will be placed in a  box on the table.
jewish consumers are urged to look for the ‘p’ or the ‘kosher for passover’ designations as an integral part of the product label, and to be familiar with the rabbi or organization giving the passover endorsement.
the times listed in this summary are sho’os zemanios, and they must be converted into standard times of the day.
add the pepper, celery, carrots and zucchini.
at the time of the equinox, day and night are equal in duration, each being twelve hours in length.
3 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder plus 1 tablespoon oil or melted margarine 16 oz.
the bitul is pronounced immediately after the  search, to nullify the chametz that may have been overlooked, and again after  the burning in the morning, to include any additional chametz that may have  come into one’s possession in the interim.
accordingly,  egg matzoh could be used for lechem mishneh, the two breads at the sabbath  meals.
this also applies to the (non-pesach) pot in which the hagalah water will be boiled.
also, soups, salads and vegetable dishes are healthier options than traditional starchy pesach dishes.
seasoned rice wine vinegar= 3 tablespoons white vinegar, 1 tablespoon white wine, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1/2 teaspoon salt.
this article was written to touch briefly on some of the fundamental aspects of tevilat keilim and should be viewed merely as a primer since the topic is a complex one.
for a full discussion of the halacha, see ibid, p. 104.
all these items are made with mashgiach temidi and bishul yisrael.
when we talk about kitniyot being permitted for infants, it means that it would have to be a homemadekitniyot, unless the sephardic community has a reliable hechsher on an infant product.
drop balls into the boiling water, cover tightly and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes or until cooked through.
rabbi bleich is rosh yeshivah and rosh kollel lehora’ah at the rabbi isaac elchanan theological seminary and professor of law at the benjamin n. cardozo school of law.
start early – if you begin right after purim and do a little bit every day, the job is not overwhelming.
for the appropriate minimum quantities of matzah, and the time period in which it must be consumed, please refer to the following section on shiurim.
in another, unusually heavy rains may have adversely affected the crop.
a liquid such as soup, on the other hand, cannot be consumed without, at the very least, a bowl.
se’udah shlishit (the third meal) is eaten after midday.
the following may be used on pesach without certification: 1.
we could then safely purchase chametz from the store as soon as yom tov concludes.
a note is then sent to the rabbinic coordinator who is responsible for that plant reminding him to alert the company to sell all its chametz and refrain from operation on pesach.
i like to throw in some garlic, red pepper and fresh dill to add color and boost the flavor.
rabbi elazar mayer teitz of elizabeth, new jersey, sells the chametz of c&s, but the concern discussed above with respect to supermarkets (the inability of the rabbi to sell chametz that is acquired on pesach) has now shifted to the distributor, and the problems remain the same.
f. any person with a medical condition must consult his or her physician and rabbi to ascertain the medicines that should be taken during the holiday, and any special procedures that should be followed.
an important “exception” to the  aforementioned rule that “new” vegetables aren’t included in  the minhag, is corn/maize which mishnah berurah 453:4 and others rule is  kitnios even though it was introduced to europe after the minhag had already  begun.
add  the rice powder while stirring constantly.
clean the oven as early as possible and use only stove top or toaster  oven until pesach.
therefore, oven racks, stove top grates, crock pot shells and can openers do not require tevilah.
thus, even if the grain used in creating the whisky is kitnios, the water may  be from a chametz whisky.
with the passover holiday approaching, many individuals and families purchase new pots, pans, dishes, flatware and other kitchen utensils.
the seder is a traditional occasion for jewish families to gather together to reinforce their ties to judaism.
note: the best way to cut the apricots is to use scissors.
each individual must consume the minimum specified quantity of matzah during  the course of the seder.
that assumption is prompted, at least in part, by the fact that the calendar year begins on the first day of tishrei.
for the last week before pesach, indulge in convenience foods and paper  plates.
any edible items which normally contain grain alcohol, including whiskey, liquor, and liquid medications (however, see paragraph f for further information on medications), and even those which are not usually taken internally (such as perfumes, cologne, toilet water, hair spray, hair tonic, shaving lotion, mouthwash, liquid and roll-on deodorants) should be treated as chametz unless specifically approved for passover use.
chametz found during the search is set aside for burning the next day.
in addition to kitniyot, poskim have cautioned against using foodstuffs that may be grown as an alternate crop to chametz grains or those that may be processed in close proximity to chametz.
the vilna gaon on the other hand required its preparation on motzei shabbos.
the maror is dipped in charoset, a specially prepared mixture of wine, nuts, cinnamon, and apples, symbolizing the bricks and mortar of ancient egypt.
so as to induce drowsiness; sleep will enhance one’s ability to enjoy the  seder at night.
although the allowance to eat egg matzah over passover applies in the above-mentioned cases, one cannot fulfill the mitzvah of eating matzah on seder night with egg matzah.
if chametz is discovered during passover, it should be disposed  of, in accordance with jewish law, as soon as possible.
however, if you are unsure about any aspect at all of how to observe passover, or how to make sure your home fully conforms to the passover requirements, you should not hesitate to ask an orthodox rabbi for his guidance.
one recommended way to clean lettuce of insects is to soak it for not more than half an hour in salt water, and rinse it in fresh water before inspection.
as a result of the concerns outlined above, many rabbonim recommend that  people whose minhag is to not sell chametz gamur, shouldn’t sell (or  retain possession) of vinegar-containing products on pesach.
mishnah berurah raises the option of dividing the early morning meal (before the tenth hour) into two, by making a blessing on two challahs of bread, eating, reciting grace, then washing again, eating from another two challahs, and reciting grace again.35 this solution, although ingenious, may not be halachically feasible.
rabbi luban also conducts the sale on sunday night for those companies that are east of new york or whose principal owner will be east of new york for pesach.
a food processor helps to speed up the preparation and is well worth the investment.
known and tested medications in the form of creams, non-chewable pills and injections may be owned, used and consumed on passover, even if they contain chametz or kitniyot, since they are inedible.
however, if  one forgot, they should be roasted on saturday night and eaten during the day  on sunday.
terumat  hadeshen53 and maharil54 rule that the fast should be observed on the previous  thursday, but others55 maintain that since the fast is only a custom, and the  custom cannot be observed on the proper day – it should not be done at  all.
noda biyehuda  141:21 and aruch hashlrlchan 444:5 discuss the egg matzoh option for  ashkenazim, who generally refrain from using egg matzoh altogether on pesach.
this panic moment is  why i started compiling mycomplete list of pesach substitutes.
one should be careful, however, not to prepare chametz  food which will stick to the pot and which will be hard to remove without  scrubbing on shabbat.
how is the wheat kernel transformed into matzah while avoiding becoming forbiddenchametz?
he also explains how to check for insects in the romaine lettuce on yom tov.
pesach products are generally made with white distilled vinegar which is specially-made without any chametz or kitnios concerns.
can we use matzoh for the second bread at the meal on shabbat, when on this shabbat we are certainly not allowed ta eat matzoh?
since we are not permitted to make preparations on shabbat for yom tov, all preparations for the seder (including setting the seder table) should be made after nightfall.
all of these preparations  must be completed by the morning before passover.
[and, as we shall see, there is a halachic problem in eating a meal after mincha before the seder6].
extreme care should be taken during this type of kashering to ensure that none of the boiling water splashes onto the person doing the kashering or others who are nearby.
what is “chametz sheavar alav hapesach”?
reciting psalms of praise (hallel) matzah a.
the exodus from egypt was the point in our great history when we were freed from bondage to man, and culminated with our becoming a nation of god with the subsequent acceptance of the torah at sinai.
the determination of tevilah depends on three things: firstly, the materials of which the utensil is made.
there should be enough whole loaves or rolls to  have “lechem mishnah” for two or three meals.
the muffins keep for 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator and reheat well.
therefore, rav braun rules that he should just not do the search; undoubtedly, the house has been thoroughly cleaned and checked already52.
as with all areas ofhalachah, those who are unsure of how to apply the rules of kashering to their situation should consult their local orthodox rabbi.
it is quite possible that the ppm of nuts in the air is quite high.
“notsa” balls from a mix makes 3 dozen miniature balls this tasty, low-carb recipe uses a packet of matzah ball mix.
see furthermore the kaf hachaim 471:24.
during passover, jewish law forbids the consumption or possession by jews of all edible fermented grain products (chametz) or related foods.
shelled nuts that listbha or bht (preservatives) in the ingredients require special passover certification.
it is generally accepted to follow the stricter opinion in this matter, but the lenient opinion is sometimes considered as one factor in a larger decision.
the only matzoh which can be used at the seder to  fulfill the mitzvah of matzoh is “a poor man’s bread” –  flat bread which is made from a mixture of flour and water only.
what about the final day of pesach, when the yom tov concludes at 8:25 p.m. in the new york area and the person visiting california is still in the final day of pesach?
c. it is permissible to sell chametz to a non-jew before the restrictions on chametz go into effect on the day before passover.
before the yeast ferments the grain, the grain’s starch must be  broken-down into individual glucose molecules, and this is traditionally done  with barley malt (discussed above).
interestingly, even flour is problematic because wheat is tempered in water before milling, and flour has the status of chametz.
if one was not careful about  this, then it is permissible to clean the pots but with minimal effort as  possible.
all types of glass are toveled with abrachah including crystal, pyrex, and corelle.
in summation, rav ovadia yosef, whose decisions are generally accepted by  sephardic jews, rules that: … it is proper to destroy the chametz  before shabbat … and to use for shabbat only utensils that are fit for  pesach … and on shabbat to use only food and utensils reserved for  pesach, and one should fulfill the precept of meals for shabbat with matzoh  which is cooked in chicken or meat soup, in the following manner: after the  food is wholly cooked, let him remove it from the fire,and while the food in  the pot is still extremely hot, let him put into the pot several pieces of  matzoh, as much as he needs, in such a way that the matzoh thoroughly soaks up  the flavor of the food, and then he can use this to fulfill the mitzvah of  three meals32.
•liquid cleanser should be sprayed on all surfaces and washed off.
therefore, all instant coffees require special passover certification unless explicitly mentioned in the grey pages (section in our passover guide that lists items that do not require passover certification).back to ou passover home page print article rabbinical authorities disagree as to whether these items must have special passover certification (and also year round kosher certification).
the following regular instant coffees (note: not decaffeinated) are certified as kosher for passover all year and are acceptable even when only bearing an ou: folgers regular coffee procter & gamble cincinatti, oh taster’schoice regular coffee nestle usa glendale, ca
the search is  conducted in the evening, by candlelight.
back to ou passover home page print article most infant formulas are made from soy products.
one should make the cereal using a special non-pesach, non-chametz pot, and this special pot (and any special utensils used for the cereal) should not be washed together with the pesach dishes.
for use on passover a. jewish law requires special dishes, cooking utensils, glassware, and silverware for passover use, with separate meat and dairy sets.
if one wishes to dilute the wine with water, an orthodox rabbi should be consulted to determine the minimum acceptable proportions.
for this reason, rabbi joseph b. soloveitchik (1903-1993) and others considered sales involving supermarkets that sell chametz to customers on pesach to have no validity.
therefore, one should not set the table for the seder nor make any other preparations until the conclusion of shabbat.
back to ou passover home page print article the custom of disallowing the use of ‘kitniyot’ (soy or corn, for example) was never applied to both infants or the ill who require kitniyot food.
a. it is permissible to grind pills and mix the powder into food items so that a child can take medicine on passover.
true, i can search the internet and perhaps discover the owner’s name, but how would i know if he is really jewish?
safeguarding against insect infestation the potential of insect infestation must be addressed when dealing with any grain product.
it is popularly assumed that the universe was created in tishrei.
after the search is completed, one recites thekol chamira, the nullification declaration for any chametz that may have been missed.
however, there is no problem owning rice and making your own cereal from non-enriched rice or domestic rice over passover.
if they gather a group with sufficient numbers, then a small hotel can host them.
shearim metzuyanim  behalacha, kuntres acharon 1152 discusses what to do with the candlesticks  which may be on the tablecloth.
many of these consumers ask  question aboutpesach and their health needs.
the mishnah berurah (453:6 & 464:5) cites three reasons for the minhag (a) kitnios is harvested and processed in the same manner as chametz, (b) it is ground into flour and baked just like chametz [so people may mistakenly believe that if they can eat kitnios, they can also eat chametz], ( c ) it may have chametz grains mixed into it
ethanol, to be approved for passover,must be  specifically certified.
the ou accepts the position of the mishkenot yaakov that asserts this is at least a likelihood of 10%.
although there are some lenient opinions, most rabbis do not permit one to  change into clothing for the seder on shabbat.
if anyone has any other substitutions that they  would like to share please let me () know
the blessing, when pronounced on those occasions, is triggered solely by a sensory perception.
the immersion must take place in a mikveh, an ocean or a river that flows year-round.
by extension, these laws are taken to apply to all utensils purchased from non-jews.
unlike our current practice, the mishna refers to a final and irrevocable sale through which the original owner transfers his chametz into the hands of the non-jew and then abandons any connection to it.
this would seem to present a good solution – except that we possibly run into the problem of muktza.
as the name implies, malt vinegar is made from malt or beer which we’ve seen is chametz, and therefore malt vinegar is definitely chametz.
it is similar to se’or and one may not own it (derive benefit  from it or eat it) on pesach.
the following are ou certified almond milk in the “original” variety that can be used for infirm and children who need an alternative to standard milk on passover: h-e-b natural directions sunnyside farms harris teeter 365 everyday value
the leaves of the vegetable often camouflage these insects.
a ritual search for chametz is conducted  thursday evening, april 21, 2005 and the chametz that is found is burned the  next morning.
consult with your local orthodox rabbi for details.
cleaning the matzah line every 18 minutes produces a mehudar (halachically superior) product, as long as each clean-up process is thorough, i.e., that every matzah crumb and all residue are removed.
and when [does this happen]?
the formula is identical to that of the berachah pronounced upon visual perception of a giant, an elephant, a monkey, lightning, a meteor, mount everest or the grand canyon.
for this reason, hasidim and others following this minhag often partake of gebrokts on the eighth day of pesach*, so as to symbolically join their brethren who have not adopted the chumra.
other sweeteners may be available for pesach, please check our product listings.
this time limit coincides with the time when eating chametz is forbidden on erev pesach.
consult with your rabbi about what you should do.
back to ou  passover home page print article coffee all regular ground coffees are acceptable for passover use when bearing an  ou.
and there are those who say that one can make [the meal] out of fruit.
according to ashkenazic practice, matzah made with fruit juice or eggs is  permissible on passover only for the elderly, the sick or young children who  cannot digest regular matzah.
if it is not possible to maintain a complete set of separate utensils for passover it may be possible to use some year-round utensils for passover after a special “kashering” procedure.
ovens should be thoroughly cleaned, and either “kashered”  by being burnt out (consult your rabbi for details) or used with a special  insert liner.
although one could use matzoh on friday night,  it would not be permissible any time during the daylight hours21.
assigning a mashgiach to observe the production, as is done in other cases, would not be sufficient.
ovens should be thoroughly cleaned, and either “kashered” by being burnt out (consult your rabbi for details) or used with a special insert liner.
2 orach chaim 471:1.
1 cup wine= 13 tablespoons water, 3 tablespoons lemon juice and 1  tablespoon sugar.
start with areas where chametz does not usually go and declare them off  limits until pesach.
similar  symptoms are experienced by people who suffer from a celiac condition, however,  the similarity stops here.
a. when i was a child, it was customary to wait until shavuot, which is six weeks after the conclusion of pesach.
isopropyl alcohol 28.
refrigerate for 30 to 45 minutes or until firm.
what are the rituals for the period before passover begins? this year thursday, april 21 is a fast day for jewish firstborn males, in  commemoration of the tenth plague, the slaying of the firstborn male egyptians,  which immediately resulted in the exodus.
the mishnah berurah, orach chaim37, maintains that it is preferable to eat one meal that really satisfies the hunger, and is a true meal, rather than breaking up the meal into two.
14 yechave daat 1:91, 8.
for a variety of reasons, it is preferable to cook and eat the shabbos  meal in pesach utensils.
in fact, avnei nezer (373 & 533) and maharsham (i:183)  specifically mention rapeseed and its oil in their discussions of kitnios.
but egg matzah is only considered bread when eaten in sufficient quantities.
wheat can be listed as matzo,  matzo meal, cake meal, farfel, egg matzo or matzo balls.
wood, ceramic, stone, rubber, and all types of plastics do not require tevilah.
the determination would depend on the type and extent of the repair.
b. please consult the following section on shiurim for minimum volumes  necessary to be consumed and time limits for each of the four cups.
this year there will be an added complication, as this year erev pesach  occurs on the sabbath, which has requirements and restrictions of its own.
in order to keep the chametz confined to as small an area as possible, some  people may decide to eat the bread in one room, and then adjourn to the dining  room to eat the rest of the meal, using passover dishes.
either challah or egg matzoh may be used for the shabbos meal  at night and in the morning.
daily recitation of tal umatar, a prayer for rain, begins with the advent of the rainy season in the land of israel.
charoses should be prepared before shabbos.
inflated costs of natural cane sugar and cottonseed oil may result in a higher price for some ou-certified passover foods.
30 iggerot moshe orach chaim 3:32.
hopefully, you now have a greater appreciation for the complexity of issues that are relevant in rendering a halachic decision on these matters.
during a cycle, water is pumped down the drain pipe and back up through the spinners into the dishwashing chamber.
if for some reason, none of these options is feasible, the person should declare he is disowning any remaining chametz, cover it so that it is not visible, and burn it on chol hamoed.
therefore, rav braun rules that he should just not do the search; undoubtedly, the house has been thoroughly cleaned and checked already.
this may be  a case of beracha she-aina tzericha, reciting blessings for no reason, which is  quite a serious matter.
the watery liquid that remains after distillation is called  “backset” and is often used in creating another batch of whisky.
rav adda reckoned the solar year as being 365 days, 5 hours, 55 minutes and 25 25/57 seconds in length.
once the oven is clean, it is preferable that it remain unused for twenty- four hours.
in order for matzah to be properly and thoroughly baked, sustained levels of heat are required for a prescribed period of time; if the matzah is not thoroughly baked, it is considered chametz.
once these are used for  chametz, they may not be used again on passover.
there is possible chametz in most baby rice cereals, so the ou  cannot recommend them for passover use.
once these are used for chametz, they may not be used again on passover.
the rabbis throughout the generations have recognized that caring for the infirm, elderly and small children over passover entails extra difficulties and have allowed flexibility concerning minhagim in cases of great need.
what if one forgot to do it on thursday?
[“canola oil” is rapeseed oil  specially bred to have less erucic acid (a suspected cause of heart disease)  and therefore only this better variation of rapeseed oil is approved for food  use in theusa].
the sale of large quantities of chametz became prevalent a few hundred years ago as jews began to invest heavily in the liquor industry, and the disposal of chametz before pesach would have resulted in very substantial losses.
the following items appear on the seder  plate: a. three whole matzot – unleavened ‘bread’ (either on the  plate or next to it); b. maror – bitter herbs, usually horseradish or romaine lettuce; c. charoset – special mixture of apples, nuts, wine and cinnamon  symbolizing mortar; d. karpas – a vegetable, preferably parsley or celery; e. zeroah – a piece of roasted or boiled meat or poultry, preferably  a shankbone, recalling the paschal sacrifice of the original exodus.
under no circumstances should they be eaten by  others at any time during passover, nor can they be eaten to fulfill the  mitzvot of the seder.
for the last week before pesach, indulge in convenience foods and paper plates.
matzah ashirah matzah made from flour kneaded with fruit juice or eggs.
it has often occurred to me that the total value of this chametz amounts to hundreds of millions of dollars.
you cankasher a pot before passover and dedicate it for making the rice cereal over passover.
the ramo cautions that  although the utensils may be brought in from the succah, the table should not  be set in the house until after nightfall.
for  someone allergic to nuts, i would recommend the recipe forcharoses be  apples, figs, dates, pomegranates, and wine.
rabbi schor asks, “how can the sale be valid when the purchaser is a man of very limited means who never purchased anything of significant value in his lifetime?”
back to ou passover home page print article passover is an eight day jewish holiday, of biblical origin, marking the birth of the jews as a people and their emergence as a unique nation in history, devoted to g-d’s will.
manischewitz continues to bake matzah in newark, nj as in years past.
, there  is a halachic problem in eating a meal after mincha before the seder6].
there is no substitute for reading labels.
kashering a porcelain sink: since a porcelain sink cannot be kashered, one should kasher the faucet and knobs as outlined above and, for the duration of pesach, place a basin (or insert) into the sink.
© most poskim, however, reject both these  opinions, one as being too meager, the other as being far too large.
in addition, the rabbis of the talmud established an after-the-fact penalty for owning chametz products during pesach, in violation of halachah.
but the first opinion is the major one, i.e., that one should make a meal with  bread unless he is too full, or in a situation where it is impossible for him  to eat bread, such as on erev pesach which comes out on shabbat, when it is  forbidden for him to eat bread after mincha36.
additionally, many of the ingredients  listed above are used in tiny proportions which would theoretically be batel  b’shishim, and poskim have taken different positions as to which of these
in the face of conflicting directives by this major posek, many  authorities conclude that the ramo means to be strict about egg matzoh only for  pesach itself, and not on erev pesach41!
cooked or preserved vegetables are not suitable for maror; therefore commercially prepared grated horseradish, which is packed in vinegar, may not be used for the mitzvah.
nonetheless, one should preferably wrap them in tissue paper before swallowing them.
considering that we are very pressed for time so early on the morning of erev pesach, leaving a sufficient interval between these two early meals may be problematic.
preheat the oven to 350°.
there are many mystical concepts tied to the unique relationship between matzah and chametz on passover.
e. totally inedible non-food products which contain grain alcohol such as  polish, ink, paint and floor wax, are permissible for passover use.
[in fact, matzah which isn’t  baked especially for pesach is made from tempered wheat and should also be  treated as chametz!].
the logic goes as follows:
furthermore, if there is cause for concern that by using chametz on friday night and shabbat morning it will raise serious difficulty in removing all the chametz properly before pesach (in a hospital, for example), one may certainly use egg matzoh throughout the day of erev pesach and recite all the usual blessings thereon.
unlike chametz, benefit from and possession of  kitniot during passover are permitted.
c. shelves, countertops and eating surfaces used year round should be  cleaned and covered for passover use, and special dish racks, sink racks and  wash basins should be used.
mi’ut hamatzu’i—a significant minority of samples in a particular food are expected to contain infestation.
it is preferable to prepare salt water before shabbos, but if not, it can be made motzei shabbos.
this rationale is the basis for some hashgachos’ certification and/or acceptance of certain productions ofmsg, aspartame and xanthan gum for pesach.
an appliance that cannot be immersed, therefore, should not be purchased.
rabbinically (mi-de-rabbanan), glass and corelle must be immersed with a brachah, as tevilah is no different from any rabbinically-mandated mitzvah for which a blessing must be pronounced.
if you can’t find one large turkey breast, use 2 smaller ones.
a  common example is rennet which causes milk to coagulate into cheese, but the  range of uses goes well beyond cheese.
in the third, due to local regulations, little or no pesticide may have been applied.
since birkat hachammah is designed to trigger human cognitive processes, objective reality is almost inconsequential.
in a very rare occurrence, the completion this year of the 207th 28 year cycle coincides with erev pesach.
the blessing can be said until the end of the third halachic hour of the day (which is the same as the last time for eating chametz.
there is nothing about glucose that would betray its  source as being from wheat; and yet it is commonly made from that source, and  therefore glucose, and dextrose, which is a synonym for glucose, requires  vigilance with regards to passover certification.
utensils of wood, paper, stone, plastic, heavy stoneware or unglazed ceramic do not require immersion.
, there  is a halachic problem in eating a meal after mincha before the seder].
anyone can do the actual immersion, even a child or a non-jew.
chametz she’avar alav ha’pesach any chametz held over passover under jewish ownership.
nutrition info: 66 calories per piece, 6.7 grams carbohydrate, 1.2 grams fiber, 1 gram protein, 4.9 grams fat (1.5 grams saturated), 1 milligram sodium, 84 milligrams potassium, 12 milligrams calcium norene gilletz is a cookbook author and culinary consultant in toronto, canada.
when finished, the tablecloth must be shaken out and put away with the chometz utensils.
by rabbi shmuel singer kedem continues to bottle grape juice under its own name as well as under the savion, gefen and lipschutz labels.
the same uncertainty prevails if you shop two or three weeks later.
dietary restrictions begin  approximately three hours before mid-day saturday.)
furthermore, all the precautions associated with ordinary passover matzot apply to egg matzot.
10 cups salted water
all regular granulated sugar.
the importance of reading the ingredient statement on the label of any  manufactured food cannot be understated.
this is his third shabbat meal.
erev pesach shechal beshabbat, p.51, discusses whether it is necessary to “kaslter” false teeth; if one pours boiling water over them on shabbat, ostensibly to clean them but really with the intention of rendering them usable for pesach, is this a permissible haarama or not?
photocopy those that are “keepers,” and note any necessary adjustments.
all water fine (including distilled).
this lettuce type is known as an open leaf variety.
in the context of the rabbinic dictum, it is clear that only that product which is worthy to be eaten at the seder is included in the category of matzoh which may not be eaten on the day preceding pesach.
if you have a question about a product not on this list, please email the webbe rebbe at and we will try to be of assistance.
in fact, all the classic authorities agree that even a single use of a vessel requiring tevilah is prohibited prior to immersion.)
as with all matters  of halacha, one who is unsure as to whether a family or community custom  remains in effect, should consult with their rav.
thus, se’or is concentrated yeast but the yeast which is commonly sold in stores is not se’or.
most passover certified bakeries use kernel paste  as a base for their products.
all these items have always been and will continue to be mevushal.
what to do when served on non-toveled utensils?
in recent decades, scientists have learnt to manipulate microorganisms to  create and convert all types of enzymes and foods.
consumers who are concerned about nuts should know that kernel paste is another name for ground nuts.
during the middle ages, eastern european land laws forbade jewish participation in the agricultural economies of many of the countries in which they resided.
the same applies if the condition is not yet a safek sakanah but may deteriorate to that point.
on a sabbath or festival, it is not permitted to make any preparation for after the sabbath, even if it will be a festival at night.
by: rabbi dovid bistricer i’m sure you’ve heard or even asked the following question: “why is there such a preoccupation with the potential of finding bugs in produce these days?
no additional water is added to the mayim shelanu tank during the day’s production.
therefore, the products on this list are permitted on pesach and can be given to someone who is infirm (acholah sh’ain bo sakanah).
if one does not handle chametz properly before pesach, the prohibition against eating chametz will linger long after pesach is over.
other brands should be checked in the directory.
similarly, the grinding of the rice should not be done in a passover  grinder on passover.
curry powder= 2 tablespoons ground coriander, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 2 tablespoons red pepper, 2 tablespoons turmeric, 2 tablespoons ground ginger.
other rabbinical authorities believe that vitamins and supplements are akin  to food even when swallowed.
although initially there were those who objected to the minhag, it has become an accepted part of pesach in all ashkenazic communities.
on the other hand, potatoes (see below), coffee, tea, garlic, nuts,  radishes and olives and not treated as kitnios (see sha’arei teshuvah  453:1, chayei adam 127:7 and others).
but if that’s too difficult then one can take them “as is”.
makes 1/4 cup flavored vinegar= lemon juice in cooking or salad, grapefruit juice in salads, wine in marinades.
two reasons are given for this stricture: (1) to prepare for the festival and (2) this is the time when the paschal sacrifice was brought, which makes it a holy time, when work is forbidden.
back to ou passover home page print article splenda is not certified kosher for pesach as it contains kitniyos.
plan ahead: each year, go through your favorite recipes.
not all the problems have been resolved.
if someone forgets to sell hischametz before shabbat, a rabbi should be consulted.
the concern of wheat flour or particles finding their way into the quinoa flour would be a serious one.
but only  the most astute readers realize that the vinegar in their ketchup, the vitamins  in the rice or milk, and the flavor in their favorite snack may in fact contain  chametz.
that beer  doesn’t get cloudy when its put in the refrigerator.
chametz that  has been transferred to a non-jew need not be destroyed.
this can be  substituted for 1 1/2 teaspoons italian seasoning.
so often in the torah, hashem speaks of simply having brought us out of egypt.
the challah used for hamotzi on shabbos should be eaten at a non-pesach table, or over the floor.
the ou runs a computer report around chanukah each year of all these companies.
i’ve also included some helpful tips to make your pesach preparations easier.
doesn’t this demonstrate that the sale of chametz is performed without sincerity?
back to ou passover home page print article due to the frequent application of glazes to raw fish, it should be purchased only with reliable kosher certification.
by: rabbi nachum rabinowitz people are noticing that matzah meal, a longtime pesach-baking staple, is appearing less and less in pre-packaged kosher-for-passover products, usually substituted with potato starch.
consult your rabbi for details.)
on the other hand, potatoes (see below), coffee, tea, garlic, nuts, radishes and olives and not treated as kitnios (see sha’arei teshuvah 453:1, chayei adam 127:7 and others).
nevertheless, chazal employed the solar calendar of shmuel for two purposes: for recitation of tal umatar and in introducing birkat hachammah.
after the end of the 5th hour, chometz is muktzah and may not be moved.
if the vinegar is corn-based, the vinegar is corn-based and, like glucose, means it can’t be used under theoup.
nevertheless, even if egg matzoh is not “bread” within the definition of the term, it can still take the place of bread at a meal, provided that it is used instead of bread and that a sufficient amount is ‘consumed28‘.
in adopting shmuel’s calculations for birkat hachammah, chazal in no way intended to denigrate or diminish the verities discovered by science.
in fact, some of the ethanol that’s being used to fuel cars in the u.s. comes from another form of starch, cornstarch, which is produced in bundles in the midwest.
no one is certain how long it takes for products to move from the c&s warehouse to the supermarket shelf.
halachos of kitnios the minhag to not eat kitnios begins on erev pesach at the same time that  one may not eat chametz (shevet haleviiii:31 citing chok yaakov 471:2 and  others).
chag kasher vesame’ach!
is it true that in the past few years, many of these chains have been sold to non-jewish investors?
similarly, all oats are heat-treated to prevent them from becoming rancid; if this heating is done with “wet” steam, the oats/oatmeal may be chametz.
this ball of concentrated yeast would be thrown into  the next day’s batter to help that batter rise (and a handful of that  batter would be taken out to be saved for the next day… ) .
this put me on a new road, which did not have an exit for over forty miles.
enzymes are chemicals which act as a catalyst for change in other items.
and if one forgot to make the charoset, it may be done on saturday  night, albeit with a shinui (modification of technique49).
to stuff, poke a hole with your finger in the center of each ball.
2 caramelized onions, saute 2 sliced onions in 2 tablespoon oil and 2 tablespoons sugar.
using chametz one solution is to get up very early, daven, and then before the tenth hour, eat a meal at which two loaves of bread or challah are served.
this ruling by the ramo is the source of considerable discussion among the rabbis.
the piece of matzah called afikoman should be eaten before midnight,  and no solid food should be eaten thereafter.
chok leyisrael, p.70, advises what a person should do if he forgot to leave over bread for this last meal.
eat the challah before the meal over a disposable napkin.
may the redeemer come speedily and bring us all back to our glorious temple, where we will be able to fulfill this as well as all the other mitzvot of pesach, the festival of our redemption.
there are those who advise being scrupulous to rinse out the mouth very  well, so that no chametz remains.
b. larger pieces of bread can be given to a non-jew.
fn18 pesachim 10:l and orach chain?
is the halacha possibly more lenient if one takes the aforementioned corn syrup and uses enzymes to convert it to sour-tasting ascorbic acid?
when the turkey is cooked, remove the pan from the oven, cover and let stand for 20 minutes before thinly slicing.
boost the fiber: choose whole wheat matzah whenever possible.
even if the disposable item is reused, it does not require tevilah (iggerot moshe, y.d. 3:23).
even rarer is the occurrence of birkat hachammah on the fourteenth day of nisan, erev pesach, as will be the case this coming spring.
“you shall love the lord, your god” is defined by rambam (sefer hamitzvot, mitzvot aseh 3; hilchot yesodei hatorah 2:2) as demanding intellectual awareness.
it takes some time to organize such a group, but it can be done.
fabric protectors 22.
in summation, rav ovadia yosef, whose decisions are generally accepted by sephardic jews, rules that: … it is proper to destroy the chametz before shabbat … and to use for shabbat only utensils that are fit for pesach … and on shabbat to use only food and utensils reserved for pesach, and one should fulfill the precept of meals for shabbat with matzoh which is cooked in chicken or meat soup, in the following manner: after the food is wholly cooked, let him remove it from the fire,and while the food in the pot is still extremely hot, let him put into the pot several pieces of matzoh, as much as he needs, in such a way that the matzoh thoroughly soaks up the flavor of the food, and then he can use this to fulfill the mitzvah of three meals32.
[many children and adults must consume baby formula, soy/rice beverages or nutritional supplements (which cannot be certified for pesach since they contain kitnios) and require information as to whether those items contain chametz.
if barley is soaked in water under proper conditions, it ferments into beer, and since the barley sat in water for more than 18 minutes, beer is chametz (shulchan aruch 442:5).
mishnah berurah raises the option of dividing the early morning meal (before the tenth hour) into two, by making a blessing on two challahs of bread, eating, reciting grace, then washing again, eating from another two challahs, and reciting grace again35.
the reasoning here is that since at the seder we must use matzoh shmura, any  other type of matzoh is disqualified and consequently could not have been  intended by the rabbis castigating those who eat matzoh on erev pesach.
some do not eat any food products made of matzah or matzah meal mixed with water (gebrokts) during the first seven days of passover.
therefore, each item should be kashered individually, and the water should be allowed to return to a boil before the next item is placed into the pot.
this article is not  meant to be the final arbiter.
rav adda’s far more accurate, but far more complicated, calculations required mathematical acumen well beyond the capability of the common man.
if a person  has difficulty drinking wine, it may be diluted with kosher grape juice.
ask your rabbi for his guidance.
most nutritional supplements contain flavors; unflavored products will be marked accordingly.
the following instant coffees may be consumed on passover, but only when  bearing an ou-p: elite instant coffees, turkish ground roasted coffees elite confections  israel gefen instant regular coffee kenover marketing corp. brooklyn, ny  shelton, ct schwartz instant coffee schwartz supreme brooklyn, ny coffee “singles” are a mix of regular and instant coffee, and  therefore, (with the exception of folgers and taster’s choice) require  passover certification.
since ashkenazim do  not actually eat the egg and the shankbone on pesach (since they are roasted),  they should also be prepared before shabbat, not on the holiday.
also, insects often develop immunity to certain pesticides over time.
nothing spectacular is perceived on the occasion of the return of the sun to its original position in the heavens.
thirdly, it may be possible to dispense with bread altogether and fulfill the requirements of the third meal by eating something else:
thus, no special restrictions attend friday  afternoon.
in the case of hot or salted water, leavening takes place instantly.
wheat can be listed as matzo, matzo meal, cake meal, farfel, egg matzo or matzo balls.
some authorities are strict in their application of the law  (“machmir” ) and say that one should be careful not to pour hot  liquids from a pesach pot in which they were cooked (“kli rishon” )
use of kitniyot does not apply to infants.
even for those who assume the sale is valid, it is questionable whether the sale is effective for chametz that is acquired during pesach.
you may be surprised by how many different types of pastries can be produced from potato starch, eggs, oil, sugar, honey, cocoa, salt and spices.
some rabbonim say that for the same reason one shouldn’t own any of these items on pesach, but as noted above regarding vinegar, others argue that one may rely on the fact that the overwhelming majority of these items sold and used in the united states do not contain chametz (although they contain kitnios).
it is difficult enough to enter into a fantasy, yet rambam requires not only that we enter into the fantasy but that we act it out as well.
some held them to bekitniyot; while others ate peanuts on passover.
therefore, one must be aware whether wheat must be avoided because of gluten intolerance, celiac disease or allergies.
there are varied minhagim concerning what one is permitted and not permitted to consume including kitniyot (corn, rice, peas, lentils, and beans), egg matzah (matzah ashirah), machine matzah, exclusively shmurah matzah, food prepared out of one’s own family kitchen, dried fruits, and the list goes on.
designations as an integral part of the product label, and to be familiar with  the rabbi or organization giving the passover endorsement.
cooking for shabbat 1.
if you have any questions, please consult a competent halachic authority.
utensils may also require a second tevilah if they were given to a non-jew to repair.
cleaning the dishes and putting them away is also a problem.
5 together with the meal eaten friday night, this will take care of two sabbath meals.
this is not done in  preparation for the next day but in honor of the sabbath itself.
in addition, egg matzoh should not be eaten on pesach plates or tablecloths.
microwaves another important consideration is, how does one perform hagalahon a microwave?
the 365-day solar year reflects the annual revolution of the earth around the sun.
you can grind the rice in aclean chametz grinder before passover or purchase a dedicated grinder for use over passover.
what are the rituals for the period before passover begins? the day before passover is a fast day for jewish firstborn males, in commemoration of the tenth plague, the slaying of the firstborn male egyptians, which immediately resulted in the exodus.
the search is conducted in the evening, by candlelight.
of course, the first things to be removed are those that are obviously chametz – bread, pasta, cookies, crackers, pretzels etc.
this  technology has allowed food scientists to create an array of foods which were  inconceivable 50 years ago, and to improve on the way that they produce  “older” foods.
if non of the above were done, then the chametz must be covered and  placed in a safe, isolated spot in the house and burned after yom tov  (“motza’ay yom tov”) on monday night.
and if one forgot to make the charoset, it may be done on saturday  night, albeit with a shinui (modification of technique).
he may be able to determine that the medicine does not contain chametz and/or kitniyot, or he may decide that the medicine may be consumed due to the seriousness of the patient’s condition.
starch to glucose, glucose to ethanol and ethanol to…acetic acid,  aka vinegar.
kitnios is batel b’rov, which means that if someone accidentally put  kitnios into their pesach food, the food is b’dieved permitted assuming  the food contains more non-kitnios than kitnios (rema 453:1 as per mishnah  berurah 453:9).
each individual must consume the minimum specified quantity of matzah during the course of the seder.
consequently, such an individual  must not consume any gluten.
the term organic implies the products were grown without pesticides, herbicides, and synthetic fertilizers.
consequently, each occurrence of birkat hachammah will not be on the same day of the jewish month.
if the utensil requires kashering then this must be done before tevilah.
by: rabbi avi juravel the shulchan aruch (rema) identifies several non-grain species as off limits for ashkenazic jews during passover.
experience has shown that at best, only an insignificant minority has proven to be infested.
secondly, it is questionable whether it is permitted to break up what is essentially one meal by reciting birkat hamazon and then immediately washing and making another blessing on bread.
here he categorically rejects the option of using egg matzoh, yet, when  the shulchan aruch, as quoted above, suggests that on erev pesach which falls  on shabbat, it might be a good idea to use egg matzoh – the ramo makes no  demurrer40!
however, this selling process was very different from the one we practice today.
a quick lesson in bread baking will surprisingly show that se’or is yeast but yeast isn’t necessarily se’or!
bedikat chametz when erev pesach falls on shabbat, we search the house for chametz on  thursday evening, since we are not able to go around with a candle on friday  night.
the tradition of the kitniot restriction has been steadfastly maintained by all jews of european origin for centuries.
although there are chocolate products that are certified parve, however, for allergies no chances should be taken.
some rishonim hold that since blood is non-kosher, musk is also forbidden, but others holds that once the blood is nishtaneh – changed – it loses its original identity and becomes an innocuous kosher liquid.
but having a non-jew set the  table for the seder is permitted.
and may this be the year we all “go up from the land of egypt,” and enter yerushalayim together.
but he does suggest that it would be better to use matzoh  fried or cooked in oil rather than plain.
the mere mention of kosher for passover on the label is not a sufficient guarantee of the product’s acceptability for passover use.
clean the sink, faucet and knobs, and don’t use the sink for anything other than cold water for twenty-four hours.
in the united states, most vinegar and alcohol is corn-derived (corn is kitniyot), and chametz sheavar alav hapesach does not apply.
drizzle the mango juice over and around the turkey.
everyone is encouraged to ask their own rabbi for guidance.
for kugels, matzo balls, fried matzo and some cakes the recipes will probably be ok.
however, if one decides to adopt the option of using egg matzoh as the “bread at the three meals on that shabbat, which is an option permitted or even suggested by some,34 it is evident that this would solve the problem for all three meals; furthermore, it would not be necessary to get up early to daven so as to eat chametz before the time when it is no longer permitted.
back to ou passover home page print article all extra virgin olive oils are kosher for passover, as long as it bears the ou symbol all other oils (including olive oil) require a reliable kosher for passover certification to be consumed on passover.
c. because of the large number of food products which contain chametz or  kitniot ingredients, only food products manufactured under reliable rabbinical  supervision should be purchased for passover use.
additionally, children, people who are ill, and  people whose diet is otherwise restricted and must eat kitnios, are excluded  from the minhag and may do so after consulting with a rav.
due to these intricacies, the sale often takes place in the presence of a bet din of three or more rabbanim.
the equinox is established as occurring precisely 182 1/2 days after the vernal equinox, again based upon the premise that the solar year is exactly 365 days in length.
consequently, many jews chose such independent trades as the operation of taverns.
chometz must be removed from one’s property by shabbos morning,  the end of the 5th hour.
this halacha is  quite relevant to baby formulas and nutritional supplements (e.g. ensure) which  invariably contain kitnios, and are usually used by people who have few  non-kitnios choices, if any.
posted with permission from the spring 2009 issue of jewish action, the magazine of the orthodox union.
back to ou passover home page print  article erev pesach on shabbat
large romaine stalks are approximately half a kezayit, while small romaine stalks are roughly one-quarter’s worth.
who performs the work of creation) upon seeing the sun on wednesday morning, april 8.
a comprehensive analysis regarding when hot purging is required and how one determines which form of purging is effective is beyond the scope of this article.
metal cans opened by a jew may be reused withouttevilah.
the third shabbat meal cannot  be eaten before the time for “mincha gedolah” which is 6.5 hours  (“sha’ot zemaniyot”) into the day.
in general liquid supplements are preferable to the same product in powder form, which may contain sensitive ingredients that may not be batel.
persons who need guidance with respect  to health matters should obtain advice from qualified health specialists, not  fromkashrus agencies.
in light of the seriousness of eating chametz on pesach, its obvious that  no one would consider eating any food on pesach which contains (or may contain)  any of these ingredients, unless the food is certified as kosher for pesach.
back to ou passover home page print  article welcome to oup welcome to ou-p (passover) online.
most of us, via our rabbis, sell our chametz to a non-jew (in a process known as “mechirat chametz”) to avoid the prohibition of owning chametz during the holiday.
the rigorous laws of passover, in this  interpretation, represent the great care that must be taken to follow the g-dly  path.
not only that: but if bringing in the utensils from the succah or the wine from the cellar will make the house look sloppy, it would even be permissible to put them away in their proper place.
61 yechave daat 1:91.
during the sixth portion hour, all chametz must be destroyed.
after eating challah or egg matzoh, one should wash his hands and rinse  his mouth in a bathroom sink before eating the remainder of the meal with  pesach utensils.
use a bit less salt 1 cup honey =
and therefore any glucose must have specific authorization for use on passover.
cut off the lettuce base and separate the leaves from one another.
however, the gemara, rosh hashanah 10b-11a, records a controversy between rabbi eliezer and and rabbi joshua with regard to whether the world was created in tishrei or in nisan.
sabbath-like restrictions on work and creative activity, with the  exceptions of carrying and the use of fire (with respect to cooking and the  preparation of food), apply to all jews on the first two and last two days of  passover.
since the chametz barley malt plays such a  crucial role in the creation of the whisky (and also dramatically changes the  taste of the grain before it is fermented), the barley malt is considered a  davar hama’amid and one may not own such whisky on pesach (see shulchan  aruch 442:5 and mishnah berurah 442:25).
26 ibid, 472, and magen avraham 441:2.
i don’t recall observing my grandmother checking fruits and vegetables for signs of infestation.”
the shabbat meals chametz may not be consumed after “the fourth hour,” on the eve of passover, which is approximately 10:40 a.m. in new york city; check the ou guide to passover or consult your local orthodox rabbi for the time in your area.
the lesson here is that one wrong turn in life can have long-term consequences.
according to the ou poskim, if one purchases unflavored and unenriched lactaid milk before passover, they can then use it on  passover.
with the exception of sabbath, during the  inter-mediate four days of passover, chol hamoed (nightfall of monday, april  25, 2005 through shortly before sundown, friday, april 29, 2005), and only  nonessential work activities and crafts, as defined by jewish law, are  prohibited.
these are made from egg matzah dough and marked as matzah ashira on the box.
but if that’s too difficult then one can take them  “as is”.
if the allergic reaction, while severe, would not be life-threatening, ask your rabbi.
that obligation is not triggered by a contemporaneous, external event, but is discharged by an awareness born of introspection.
the ou follows the more stringent position of rabbi soloveitchik.
promise organic soymilk-original smart menu organic soymilk-original brighton falls original enriched soymilk full circle original enriched soymilk hy-vee health market original enriched soymilk market basket original enriched soymilk our family original enriched soymilk price chopper original enriched soymilk roundy’s original enriched soymilk soysense original enriched soymilk wild harvest original enriched soymilk 365 organic everyday value original soymilk fit & active original soymilk giant original soymilk green way original soymilk harvest farms original soymilk hy-vee original soymilk krasdale organic original soymilk meijer original soymilk nature’s place original soymilk o organics original soymilk shop rite original soymilk stop & shop original soymilk market basket original unsweetened soymilk fresh & easy soysense original soymilk anyone for whom it is necessary to consume kitniyos may drink these products.
but that’s not the end of the line.
we should therefore assume that any other material can be kashered, unless it is proven that it too cannot be completely purged.
the more difficult question is the pesach status of white distilled vinegar, as follows.
when this special supervision has been instituted only from the time of milling – techinah – matzot prepared from such flour may be used for matzot mitzvah only when the traditional shmurah mishaat ketzirah matzah is not available.
“vegetable oil” ), and some do not use peanut oil either (see above regarding peanuts).
a significant number of people that suffer from gluten related conditions, jewish and non jewish, take advantage of the many gluten free products available forpesach .
anyone may perform the actual immersion, including a small child and a non-jew, so long as a jewish adult is present to supervise.
the specified time for this search is the night  before passover, traditionally using a feather and the light of a single  candle.
in addition barracini has now received the ou-p. a full line of barricini candy items will be available with the ou-p symbol.
if one forgot, they may be prepared motzei shabbos provided that they are eaten on sunday during the daytime (they cannot be eaten at the seder since we do not eat roasted food at the seder).
rabbi yosef enters into an explanation of why matzoh is  different from teuel, which is rabbinically forbidden, which cannot be given to  a child.
many accept this as the proper rule to follow.
rav yosef  wonders why the rabbis concerned themselves with the disposal of crumbs,  inasmuch as the gemara rules that “crumbs are negligible and  ‘nullify’ themselves.”
for those suffering from wheat allergies, or celiac disease, who are  contemplating a vacation at a passover certified hotel, it would be prudent to  limit themselves to a non-gebroks program.
gluten intolerance, celiac, allergies and pesach by: rabbi avraham juravel pesach kashrus professionals are familiar with the  intricacies of ingredients and food production.
the lactase used in these products is  made via a chometz based fermentation process.
provided by the orthodox union's department of synagogue services.
these three conditions vary significantly.
sephardim should consult their rabbi.
thus, every time a person with celiac consumes gluten, the small intestines are damaged.
this means that as they sprout forth from the ground, the leaves begin to open up like a flower.
by transferring ownership of large quantities of chametz that are on the supermarket shelves before pesach, the owners are spared from violating multiple torah restrictions.
the  prohibition encompasses only, baked matzah which can be used at the seder.
28 rabbi binyamin forst, the laws of b’rachos, mesorah publications, new york, 1990, p. 244.
once pesach is over and you are grocery shopping, it is likely that much of the chametz you see on the shelves had been purchased by the supermarket on pesach.
consequently, such an individual must not consume any gluten.
see chok leyisrael p. 46, no.16, about eating matzoh on friday afternoon before erev pesach which is on shabbat.
actually, there are three opinions as to when the  prohibition of eating matzoh begins: (a) from six hours and on.
(this is commonly, and erroneously, taken to mean that one may use a utensil once or twice before toveling.
rambam’s formulation is “chayyev adam leharot et atzmo—a person is obligated to show himself” as one who departed from egypt.
kitnios which was truly nishtaneh.
once again, one should consult with the local rabbi.
that way, you’ll be organized for pesach and will know what to buy for the current year.
as for the third meal,  that has its own unique questions.
some rabbis are of the opinion that one can purchase chametz after pesach in non-jewish supermarkets that are supplied by c&s.
f. the seder traditionally concludes with the singing of several lively songs celebrating the relationship between god and the jewish people.
we failed to merit that deliverance in 5685 but it is our fervent prayer that, should the messiah fail to have arrived earlier, birkat hachammah on erev pesach 5769 will signal the ultimate redemption.
12 yechaue daat 91, n.11, based on responsa taalumot leu i , 4.
in their  opinion, cake or egg matzoh “is measured in terms of the quantity that is  generally eaten during the course of a full this is the opinion of rav moshe  feinstein and most other poskim.
submerging the utensil in boiling water that is over the fire.
f. any person with a medical condition must consult his or her physician  and rabbi to ascertain the medicines that should be taken during the holiday,  and any special procedures that should be followed.
as a rule, spices are not considered to be kitnios and rema 453:1 makes a  point of noting that anise/dill and coriander are not kitnios.
al tevilat kelim,” should be recited before thetevilah, and one should not talk or do other things until all of the toveling has been completed.
coordinating kosher wine production requires careful preparation.
it is an unfortunate reality today that his mother may have been non-jewish, which renders him halachically not jewish.
the air we breathe contains yeast, and therefore if one makes a batter of flour and water it’ll eventually rise even if no yeast is added, because yeast from the atmosphere will find their way into the batter.
in fact, since so much corn is going to the fuel industry, a shortage of food grade alcohol has forced prices to rise, creating a scramble among food grade buyers of ethyl alcohol to look for sources other than corn-based.
the subject of determining whether an item is merely kitnios or if it possibly contains chametz is beyond the scope of this article and will iy”h be dealt with separately].
1 cup milk (for baking) = 1 cup water plus 2 tablespoon margarine, or 1/2  cup fruit juice plus 1/2 cup water 1 1/4 cup sweetened condensed milk =1 cup instant nonfat dry milk, 2/3 cup  sugar, 1/3 cup boiling water and 3 tablespoons margarine.
although one may not eat kitnios, one may own and derive benefit from kitnios.
purging—using heat to remove all absorbed chametz flavor.
in this case, we could not use matzoh at any of the sabbath meals before pesach.
the question is also discussed in sedei chemed 7, pp.
bedikas chometz is performed thursday evening.
how do i know which stores are jewish owned and do not sell their chametz?
these colorful veggie muffins make an excellent side dish or are perfect as a healthy snack.
toilet bowl cleaner 51.
hence, a batter containing matzah meal and any liquid is avoided by the non-gebrokts adherents during passover.
vinegar makers buy ethanol to make distilled, white distilled, or white vinegar, which are various ways of saying the same thing.
then, later  in the day, one can fulfill the mitzvah of eating warm food by eating food  cooked in passover utensils, on dishes which will be utilized for the rest of  the passover holiday.
note: the method of kashering described above is based on the ruling of rav aharon kotler zt’l.
jewish law forbids the use of any chametz which remains in a jew’s  possession during passover, even after the holiday is over.
the english date varies from year to year, falling in march or in april.
if juice or eggs are added to or substituted for the water in the mix, it is called “matzoh ashira” (egg matzoh), and is not suitable for the seder.
even corn-based glucose,  which is commonly made in the united states, poses problems for passover.
pay careful attention to the folds and crevices in the leaf where insects have been known to hold tightly through several washings.
the formal part of the seder closes with special psalms known as hallel, which praise the almighty and his special relationship with the people of israel.
they must also be kosher for year-round use, and prepared in  accordance with all of the regular jewish dietary laws.
when the sale is carried out, a limited amount of chametz is not sold  and set aside to be destroyed on the following day, in order to fulfill the  mitzvot of bedikah, biur and bitul.
nevertheless, the sages seized upon the widespread popular presumption regarding the length of the solar year and used it as a tool to underscore and to reinforce a profound theological truth.
it is rolled into thin sheets and then baked.
the largest and most widely respected kosher supervisory agency is the kashruth division of the union of orthodox jewish congregations of america.
obviously, with the exception of the challah, the food  would be kosher for pesach.
glass-coated utensils, such as glazed chinaware, are a subject of debate among contemporary poskim, but it has become common practice to tovel them without a brachah.
if for some reason, none of these options is feasible, the person should declare he is disowning any remaining chametz, cover it so that it is not visible, and burn it on chol hamoed9.
rabbis who sell supermarket chains follow this position.
does that mean that it is forbidden to eat matzoh during the  entire day?
see also moadim uzemnnim, haggada, p. 7.
according to most authorities, the bitter herbs may consist either of romaine  lettuce, horseradish or endives.
she is the author of seven cookbooks, including her latest, norene’s healthy kitchen (toronto, 2008).
the daylight hours of each day are divided  into twelve parts; each twelfth is then reckoned as a portion hour of that day.
this ruling by the ramo is the source of considerable discussion among the  rabbis.
in footnote 11 he explains why refraining from  eating chametz on erev pesach is not considered “adding a mitzvah (bal  tosin.
© during the day only.
at least a k’beitzah (volume of an egg) of bread or egg matzoh must be eaten at each meal.
to highlight this point, consider the following: for the past twenty years, i have had the unique honor of arranging the sale of chametz for all jewish-owned companies that are certified by the ou.
it is common practice that before wheat is ground into flour, the wheat kernels are tempered with water for many hours, and therefore flour should be treated as chametz (mishnah berurah 453:24).
destruction and voiding the chametz 1.
whether the “bread” be chametz or matzoh, when can it be eaten4?
54 106, and chavot yair.
if a person has an allergy to any food product, whether it is wheat, eggs, nuts, dairy, or whatever, he may be taking his life into his hands by not reading labels.
the dough may not be left idle for a period longer than 18 minutes.
at some facilities, the separate  lines start at the later stage of processing, such as the refiners and conches,  where the product is heated, and not at the earlier stages where the powder  mixers can be used for both dairy and parve powders.
now i am really confused.
although initially there were those who objected to the minhag, it  has become an accepted part of pesach in all ashkenazic communities.
despite this ruling, ashkenazic practice mandates that egg matzot may only be used by the elderly and the infirm.
the refrigerator and freezer will operate more efficiently if one pokes a few holes in the lining.
at  last, a fellow jew!
a. indeed, this is exactly what takes place.
such foodstuffs were prohibited in certain sephardic communities as well over the concern of an admixture.
all jews  must fulfill the mitzvah of achilat matzah – eating of matzah.
similarly,  we have seen that there is a disagreement as to whether fenugreek is kitnios.
dessert dilemma: focus on fruit for dessert.
back to ou  passover home page print article lactose intolerant lactaid milk
with the exception of flavors, however, the ingredients that could be made from achametz-based raw material are batel b’shishim in any given supplement.
apparently, it is permitted to do anything which will be very difficult to  undertake later on (for exam~le, the wine is in the cellar, which is very  dark).
this  paper will explore the problems which may arise from these dual requirements  and advance various solutions.
the first rule – a jewish-owned company may not operate on pesach with any chametz.
once one  is prohibited to derive any pleasure whatsoever from chametz (the “isur  hana’ah” begins in the sixth hour), then the chametz is  “muktzah” and a jew can no longer move it from place to place.
he tells a story of an extremely pious individual to whom it was revealed in a dream that he was eating chametz on pesach – and that it was due to inadvertently leaving some chametz between his teeth!
but the ramo does not permit this choice for ashkenazi jews, opting instead for a meal without bread of any type: in our [ashkenazi] countries, where it is our custom not to eat matzoh ashira … one should fulfill [the obligation to have] a third meal with various types of fruit or with meat and fish.
however, associating the appearance of the sun at a unique position relative to earth with a particular day of the week and a specific hour of the day requires a great deal of reflection.
b. ashkenazic jews, (jews of eastern european descent) also do not eat many  legumes (kitniot) – beans, corn, peas, rice, etc. and products containing  them as ingredients throughout passover, while sephardic, yemenite and oriental  jewish custom varies from one community to another.
rav moshe feinstein orach chaim  155:1, seems to be following the ramo in allowing egg matzoh to be used for the  first two meals on shabbat which is erev pesach but not for the third one.
rabbi luban has served as rabbi of congregation ohr torah in edison, new jersey, since 1983 and has been a rabbinic coordinator for ou kosher since 1984.
if we accept the first reason as the true  rationale, then going to work should be forbidden on friday afternoon in our  case, since that is the time one should prepare for pesach.
in addition, ashkenazim don’t eat kitnios – a group of foods which includes (among other things) rice, corn, soy and their derivatives – but are allowed to own kitnios foods on pesach.
manischewitz makes a product known as matzah crackers.
therefore, either pre-wet your hand so that a layer of water separates your hand from the utensil, or submerge the utensils in a basket.
since quinoa was not used in jewish communities in generations past, we do not have a precedent to refer to.
the mishnah berurah, orach chaim37, maintains that it is preferable to eat  one meal that really satisfies the hunger, and is a true meal, rather than  breaking up the meal into two.
products appearing in this website are certified as kosher only when bearing the emblem on the label.
canola oil was first approved for food use in the united states in 1985 and there are those who therefore suggested that it is a “new” item which shouldn’t be included in the minhag, as per iggeros moshe cited above.
leaves should be checked over a light box or against strong overhead lighting to verify that the washing procedure has been effective.
they are baked in a special passover bakery and do not contain matzah meal.
erev pesach fell on the sabbath, and how much anguish i have in my heart at the prohibitions and errors that occurred on this sabbath due to the eating of chametz, because they were unable to be careful properly concerning crumbs of chametz and cleaning the house and the like, aside from the lack of sabbath joy, inasmuch as they had to eat between the oven and the stove; furthermore, many were late in reciting the prayers on shabbat, and it is possible that they ate after the time when it is prohibited12.
following this second line of thought, rav yosef permits work on friday afternoon61.
the long term cumulative effects of consuming  gluten can be devastating for a celiac person.
nonetheless, rabbi moshe feinstein (1895-1986; iggerot moshe, eh 1:7) adds one important caveat: if the jewish partner is the manager of the company, the enterprise is treated as a jewish business, even though the partner owns less than 50 percent of the company.
furthermore, if one has not completed the preparations, it is not considered preparing.
in addition to the four questions at the start of the seder, they are encouraged to drink the four cups, eat the maror and matzah, and ask as many questions as they wish.
further  nuances at this unusual meal include serving cold food which won’t stick,  so that it will not be necessary to scrape out the plates or pot.
besides silverware, bowls, plates and cups, it includes griddle and grill tops on which foods are placed directly, pizza cutters, peelers,rolling pins, salt-shakers, pot covers (see rama, y.d. 120:5), and electrical appliances, such as urns.
1 cup wine= 13 tablespoons water, 3 tablespoons lemon juice and 1 tablespoon sugar.
if the distributor owns chametz during pesach, the very same problems of chametz sheavar alav hapesach apply equally to all non-jewish-owned stores supplied by that company.
once the grape juice or wine has been cooked (mevushal), the wine-handling restrictions are relaxed.
what to do about the third meal will be discussed later in the  text.
in citing this law, the shulchan aruch records both opinions: if erev  pesach occurs on shabbat, there are those who say that the firstborn should  fast on thursday, and there are those say that they do not fast at all56.
following this second line of thought, rav yosef permits work on friday  afternoon61.
seems like the dream of fresh danish and coffee has just gone up in smoke.
usually, the poskim indicate that two years of age would be the upper limit, but if a 2-year old is not ready to eat other food, then certainly the limit goes up as high as his or her bar or bat mitzvah.
however, sefer chassidim 266, cited in be’er hetev 290, warns that one should not specifically state that he is sleeping on shabbat so that he can be rested for the seder after shabbat.
if the ailment is such that the person is unlikely to be able to follow a minhag, even in future years, then a rabbi should be consulted; at timeshatarat nedarim (ritual annulment of a vow) is required.
the plate is carefully prepared and placed before the head of the household, or the one conducting the seder, who dispenses the seder foods to each of the participants.
nonetheless, even those who follow the strict approach may consume maple syrup  which is flavored with fenugreek (as it often is) because it is batel  b’rov.
the requirement of biur chametz is limited to foods under jewish ownership and possession.
utensils that come into direct contact with food, of course, must be toveled.
a filled one ounce shot glass of ground horseradish constitutes a kezayit.
if an equally effective chametz-free alternative is available or procurable, this should be used instead.
may we witness the ‘fruit of their labors’ soon in our days!back to ou passover home page print article
it is  preferable, however, to gather these crumbs and place them in the garbage can,  toilet or outside the door of the house (provided there is no problem on  “hotza’ah” – removal from one domain to another) .
norman’s has machmirim brand of cholov yisroel yogurt.
drop into the boiling water, cover tightly and simmer for 40 to 45 minutes or until cooked through.
the usual ways of disposing of chametz, by burning or by sale, cannot be employed on shabbat.
those who wish to follow the opinion, which states  that if necessary one can eat the third shabbat meal before midday should leave  enough bread for three meals.
this poses the following  problems when erev pesach occurs on shabbat: (a) what does one use  for “lechem mishnah” for the first two meals?
by: rabbi eli gersten
(one should be aware that some men’s mikva’ot are not suitable for tevilat keilim.
eating matzah on passover commemorates the unleavened bread eaten by the  jews when they left egypt in such haste that there was no time for the dough to  rise.
some argue that  mishnah berurah’s ruling is limited to cases of b’dieved and  doesn’t justify the l’chatchilah creation/certification of such an  item, and others argue that nishtaneh may be limited to cases where the  forbidden item becomes inedible in the middle of its conversion to the  “new” item.
other rabbanim are not comfortable with this approach.
this is the opinion of rav moshe  feinstein30 and most other poskim.
in addition, the fermentation of vinegar always begins with a “starter” taken from a previous batch of vinegar (similar to the way se’or is used) and if that starter is chametz, the entire batch will be forbidden.
back to ou passover  home page print article canola oil canola oil, which is a form of rapeseed oil, should be considered kitniyos.
however on erev pesach, they feel it may be used.
in addition to these strictly halachic criteria, there are also certain  customs which are observed by many: some people stop eating matzoh from the  beginning of the month of nissan, while others stop after purim23.
the list is meticulously maintained, to ensure that all the companies have properly sold their chametz.
kitniot leguminous vegetables such as beans, peas, corn and rice.
although the ou certifies these products year-round, the ou does not always have information about the ingredients for these products as they relate to pesach.
thus, every time a person with celiac consumes gluten,  the small intestines are damaged.
eating bitter herbs (maror) 4)
(for example, licorice and many corn-based cereals contain wheat flour as a minor ingredient.
chametz which was in the possession or jurisdiction of a jew during passover, in violation of jewish law, is forbidden for consumption by any jew even after passover.
a bracha is recited before the bedika, and bitul chametz (kol chamira) is recited after the bedika.
where they washed and ate bread, or where they ate the  majority of the meal?
i explain to him that the balance of payment is not due until after pesach.
these are so noted in the pesach online database.
for allergies, this 20 ppm threshold is not sufficient.
but wheat starch, at least initially, does not taste sweet.
however, other authorities, including the vilna gaon, advise that the early morning meal should be interrupted and followed by another meal38.
jelinek will have ou-p pear brandy in addition to traditional slivovitz and distillerie will have ou-p gin.
therefore, if a beverage is  sweetened with aspartame made of kitnios shenishtaneh, even those people who  hold that aspartame is forbidden (as explained above) may drink the beverage  because the aspartame is batel b’rov in the other ingredients.
the haddar line of passover products has received the ou-p symbol.
it is best to eat over a wooden or tile floor, which can be swept.
with this he explains the generally accepted custom to not consider potatoes to be kitnios even though logically they should be, as follows: the minhag of kitnios can be dated back at least until maharil, who died in 1427, and potatoes didn’t come to europe until the 16th century, so potatoes were a “new” vegetable which wasn’t included in the minhag.
thus, although we’ve seen a number of disagreements as to whether certain foods are or aren’t kitnios, those disagreements are limited to one who wants to consume the actual item (or a hashgachah certifying someone else who is intentionally putting the ingredient into a food), but these disagreements rarely affect consumers.
a ritual search for chametz is conducted thursday evening, april 21, 2005 and the chametz that is found is burned the next morning.
however, other authorities, including the vilna  gaon, advise that the early morning meal should be interrupted and followed by  another meal38.
furthermore, if there is cause for  concern that by using chametz on friday night and shabbat morning it will raise  serious difficulty in removing all the chametz properly before pesach (in a  hospital, for example), one may certainly use egg matzoh throughout the day of  erev pesach and recite all the usual blessings thereon.
this means that no matzo or  matzo based product (such as matzo meal) will be used in any food preparation  in the kitchen.
therefore, one must  be aware whether wheat must be avoided because of gluten intolerance, celiac  disease or allergies.
puree the onions once they are golden.
but visual perception of the sun’s rays on the day of birkat hachammah is no different from that experience on any other day.
nonetheless, even those who follow the strict approach may consume maple syrup which is flavored with fenugreek (as it often is) because it is batel b’rov.
47 shearim metzuyanim behalacha, kuntres acharon 115:7.
therefore, decaffeinated coffees are not acceptable for passover unless specifically listed in the gray pages of our passover guide (section which contains items that to not require passover certification).
in english this concentrated yeast-ball is called “sourdough” due to its awfully-sour taste, and this is what the torah calls se’or and forbids one from owning on pesach.
it is also questionable whether one can make kiddush or eat part of the meal in a room where the sabbath candles are not lit.
fn22 iggerot moshe, orach chaim vol.
you will check with your rabbi and identify a supermarket that has sold its chametz.
broccoli sold in the new york area supermarkets may originate from mexico one week and from california or florida the next.
as he turned up a street in this hostile  territory, he spied a little boy sitting outside, eating a piece of matzah.
if the oven has a separate broiler chamber, it should be kashered in the same manner as the oven chamber.
enfamil nutramigen lipil enfamil pregestimil alimentum please note that not all ou wines are certified for passover use.
the consumption of an insect actually diminishes us spiritually.
the chametz should then be placed in a safe  place until the appropriate time for burning it the next day.
in an aside, he wryly mentions an individual who was unwilling to accept this lenient ruling and proceeded to deposit his false teeth in boiling water to “kasher” them – cracking them, and making it impossible for him to eat all pesach!
while there are programs that advertise “non-gebroks ” available, it would not be safe for someone who is allergic to wheat or a celiac person to participate in such a program.
vitamins and citric acid salts such as potassium or sodium citrate can also be derived from wheat-based glucose fermentation.
selling the chametz before passover to a non-jew avoids jewish ownership during passover.
i would recommend that he carry  a magnifying glass with him in order to read the small print.
the glucose source is  essentially being converted by these critters to fermented ingredients.
it is preferable to recite the blessing in the presence of a minyan.
western family aseptic original soymilk best choice clearly organic original soymilk natural directions organic enriched soymilk-original natural directions organic enriched soymilk original 365 everyday value light soymilk – original 365 everyday value light soymilk – unsweetened original harris teeter naturals organic original soymilk o organics organic original soymilk shop rite organic original soymilk winn-dixie organic original soymilk fit & active organic soymilk-original nature’s
however, if the second reason is really the central one, there would be no reason to desist from work on friday – the paschal lamb was sacrificed on erev pesach even when it was a sabbath.
setting the table for the seder
to facilitate this, a large pot of water can be boiled on the stove and poured in.
refrigerate for 1 to 2 days.
although he disagrees with the reasoning, rav ellenberg, does agree with the conclusion of rav rosen (shlomei simchai 18 and part 5, 36-7), that one should not use matzoh for the meal on erev pesach.
(in fact, if one accidentally purchased chametz sheavar alav hapesach, the item may not be returned for a refund, as this would constitute derivation of benefit.)
one interpretation equates matzah with god’s commandments (mitzvot), and chametz with sin (chayt).
the result is a product that has not just been baked in less than 18 minutes, but one that has also not come in contact with any dough older than 18 minutes.
wheat starch can also be used to produce alcohol.
place the onions and red pepper in the bottom of the pan.
this may be a case of beracha she-aina tzericha, reciting blessings for no reason, which is quite a serious matter.
the minimal size given is approximately 26 cubic centimeters, which can be limited to just a single, large leaf of romaine lettuce.
rather, a second set is  prepared sunday night and eaten monday.
in their opinion, cake or egg  matzoh “is measured in terms of the quantity that is generally eaten  during the course of a full meal29.”
(you may remember that this last occurred back in 2005.
apparently, it is permitted to do anything which will be very difficult to undertake later on (for exam~le, the wine is in the cellar, which is very dark).
b. to facilitate the removal of chametz, each jew is obligated to conduct a diligent search in all places where chametz may have been kept or consumed any time during the preceding year.
however, shod umeishiv,l75, does not allow eating egg matzoh on era pesaclz.
there are three times during the course of the seder when matzah must be  eaten ‘ at the beginning of the seder meal, when the special blessing  over matzah is made, for korech (hillel sandwich) together with the maror, and  at the end of the meal for the afikoman.
this does not imply that an allergic person cannot eat any cake or cookies onpesach.
all matzah is always an eighteen minute product.
apparently, it is permitted to do anything which will be very difficult to undertake later on (for example, the wine is in the cellar, which is very dark).
place both rolls on a baking sheet and bake at 375° for about 45 minutes.
the next day  is simchat torah, and the shulchan aruch permits removal of utensils from the  succah on shemini atzeret, to be brought into the house.
see mikraei kodesh 2:23, and note 6 thereon, where rabbi frank advises leaving over a piece of the food from the siyyum on thursday, to be eaten by the firstborn on friday.
rinse the turkey breast and pat dry.
since they are constantly in motion there is no risk of anything becoming chometz.
iggeros moshe (o.c.iii:63) assumes that peanuts are not kitnios but notes that some have a custom to be machmir.
the use of a light box for checking lettuce can be extremely convenient and helpful.
we will see below that even those who take the strict position in this matter generally agree that foods created with these ingredients are b’dieved permitted on pesach.
back to ou passover home page print article rice milk can be made with beta amalyze an enzyme derived from barley which ischametz and would make the rice milk chametz.
how long does it take to establish a reasonable doubt?
the rainy season is deemed to commence on the sixtieth day following the autumnal equinox.
ta’anis bechorim (fast of the firstborn) occurs on thursday, april 17.
needless  to say, we make sure the entire factory is rigorously cleaned at the end of  each work day.
peanuts were widely used in russia despite the fact that they embody both characteristics of kitniyot.
chametz found during the search is  set aside for burning the next day.
to comply with the stringent requirements of jewish law, the sale is conducted by contract through an orthodox rabbi, who is empowered to act as an agent by a power of attorney form for the sale of chametz.
does that mean that it is forbidden to eat matzoh during the entire day?
at some point during pesach preparations we’ve all tried to convert a main stream recipe into a pesach one only to discover that we don’t have a clue as to what to substitute for a chometz ingredient.
four cups of wine are consumed during the course of the seder to commemorate the redemption of the jewish people, the sanctity of the holiday and events related in the haggadah.
use only egg whites as the dipping to coat and fry meats.
if you have any questions about the guide or its contact, you can email the webbe rebbe or call the kashruth hotline at 212-613-8241.back to ou passover home page print article
however, our rabbinical authorities have decided that lactaid milk is permissible if purchased before passover since any chometz contained within lactaid milk would be nullified (batel).
the plate is carefully prepared and placed before the  head of the household, or the one conducting the seder, who dispenses the seder  foods to each of the participants.
refrigerators, freezers, food shelves and pantries these areas should be thoroughly cleaned—paying special attention to the edges where crumbs may get trapped—and the shelves lined with paper or plastic.
bedikat chametz the search for chametz.
although a grain which soaks in water for 18 minutes is chametz, in order  to make good bread one needs yeast.
i would strongly recommend that anyone with an allergy to wheat or celiac  disease ascertain whether the manufacturer uses matzo meal or cake meal in  other products.
we have indicated that kitniyot is permitted for infants – but that doesnot cover chametz, or any food that was processed on equipment that was not properly cleaned for passover.
glacial acetic acid is chemically identical to vinegar, but is made  from petroleum feedstock as opposed to being fermented, and poses little pesach  concern.
seasoned rice wine vinegar= 3 tablespoons white vinegar, 1 tablespoon white  wine, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1/2 teaspoon salt.
taz 462:3 notes  that all spices should be checked before pesach to establish that no  chametz-grains are mixed in, and elsewhere taz (453:1) specifically notes that  anise and coriander seeds should be thoroughly checked.
however, these issues are not a concern at facilities that process frozen fruit, which does not require passover certification.
many contemporary authorities, however, disagree with this leniency (ou-certified establishments do not prescribe to this leniency).
because egg matzah is notchametz, there are differing opinions as to until what time it may be eaten on the eve of passover, so a rabbi should be consulted.
season has introduced a number of new moroccan sardine items in various sauces for pesach.
in english  this concentrated yeast-ball is called “sourdough” due to its  awfully-sour taste, and this is what the torah calls se’or and forbids  one from owning on pesach.
this is bottled in 1.5 liter glass bottles and clearly labeled non-mevushal.
chametz that has been transferred to a non-jew need not be destroyed.
personal products such as these also fall under the passover laws and you should ask an orthodox rabbi which products may be permissible to be used, and which must be disposed of or sold.
abaye said: every twenty-eight years when the cycle begins again and the nisan [spring] equinox falls in saturn on the evening of tuesday, going into wednesday.
the bitter herbs (maror) consisting of either romaine lettuce or horseradish, commemorate the harsh conditions of slavery in ancient egypt.
salt freshly ground black pepper paprika 1 cup mango or orange juice marinade: 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 2 tablespoons lemon juice (preferably fresh) 2 cloves garlic (about 2 teaspoons minced) 2-3 tablespoons honey 1/2 teaspoon dried basil 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme spray a roasting pan with cooking spray.
in order to avoid the prohibition of jewish ownership during the holiday, the mishna proposes the solution of selling chametz to a non-jew.
in order to guarantee that some products are available to the public the ou has researched the products on this list.
“chayyav adam lirot et atzmo ke’ilu hu
somewhat different is  the case of marror, for we do not want it to lose its bitter taste; therefore,  we make it on saturday night, with a shinui?’
the zohar states that  particularly on this shabbat, rabbi shimon bar yochai would study torah instead  of eating the third shabbat meal.
can we use matzoh for the second bread  at the meal on shabbat, when on this shabbat we are certainly not allowed ta  eat matzoh?
wet your hands for easier handling and form the mixture into a long roll, about 2 inches in diameter.
the rising popularity of organic produce has further complicated matters.
also, in his haggada, p. 95:6, he points out that since technically matzoh may be eaten on friday night, at the beginning of the sabbath, it doesn’t become muktza thereafter (ein muktza lechatzi shabbat).
such items, known as “chametz sheavar alav hapesach,” may not be consumed, nor may one derive benefit from them.
a significant number of  people that suffer from gluten related conditions, jewish and non jewish, take  advantage of the many gluten free products available forpesach .
some of these practices are minor, but others involve severe biblical  infractions.
in addition, ashkenazim  don’t eat kitnios – a group of foods which includes (among other  things) rice, corn, soy and their derivatives – but are allowed to own  kitnios foods on pesach.
here he categorically rejects the option of using egg matzoh, yet, when the shulchan aruch, as quoted above, suggests that on erev pesach which falls on shabbat, it might be a good idea to use egg matzoh – the ramo makes no demurrer!
these are not made with matzah meal.
about twenty-five years ago, i asked rabbi teitz why the sale was effective when the stores continued to acquire chametz on pesach.
actually, there are three opinions as to when the prohibition of eating matzoh begins: (a) from six hours and on.
most synagogues will start shabbat prayer services very early, leaving sufficient time to finish eating chametz before the end of “the fourth hour.”
the following products can be assumed to be free of chometz, although they may containkitniyot.
close the opening and re-roll the balls so that the filling is hidden.
according to ashkenazic practice, such matzah may be consumed on passover only by the elderly, sick or young children who cannot digest regular matzah.
you may be  surprised by how many different types of pastries can be produced from potato  starch, eggs, oil, sugar, honey, cocoa, salt and spices.
nuts tree nuts are also considered an allergen.
passover is an eight day jewish holiday, of biblical origin, marking the birth of the jews as a people and their emergence as a unique nation in history, devoted to god’s will.
shop smart: fill your grocery cart with fresh fruits and vegetables, lean meats, poultry, fish and low-fat dairy products.
how long must one wait before buying chametz from a jewish-owned supermarket after pesach?
gerber baby food in peas and green beans arekitniyot.
however, egg  matzoh is not chometz and may be kept in the home.
1 oz. baking chocolate (unsweetened chocolate) =
when the rabbi is selling the chametz in the us time zone, yom tov will have already begun in israel, past the time that one is permitted to have chametz in one’s possession.
arrangements for the sale of chametz to a non-jew must be made before shabbat.
q. isn’t there a problem concerning chametz purchased by the supermarkets during pesach itself?
it is a custom to recite the  torah portion dealing with the paschal sacrifice at the conclusion of this  third meal.42 handling the matzoh
vinegar makers buy ethanol to make distilled, white distilled, or  white vinegar, which are various ways of saying the same thing.
obviously, that is not feasible this year, and will be done instead on friday afternoon.
vinyl and plastic-lined tablecloths cannot be kashered.
any  chametz not removed from a jew’s premises before passover should be sold.
ask your butcher to grind skinless, trimmed chicken breasts.
remember, as one ages, the print seems to become smaller.
[the process of “fermentation” and the possible chametz concerns it raises will be discussed below].
additionally, it is not considered correct to have a non-jew do thetevilah if it means that a brachah will not be recited.
however, if the equipment is stopped without it being completely cleaned, the residual material will be rendered chametz and could adversely impact the “18 minute matzah”.
even if a bakery produces cakes and cookies without nuts, as long as nuts are used in the facility it may be dangerous for an allergic person to eat them.
all cooking and  eating utensils must be either set aside exclusively for passover use, or, in  some cases, ‘made kosher’ in consultation with a rabbi, according  to the procedures of jewish law.
all raw poultry, meats and fish bearing the regular ou seal are  kosher for passover, with the exception of empire turkey burgers.
he prefers the use of re-cooked or fried matzoh to egg matzoh, since the  halacha is not clear as to how much egg matzoh must be eaten for the blessing  hamotzi and for grace after meals.
one starts the search immediately with nightfall (“tzayt  hakochavim”- appearance of the stars) on thursday night.
as with all matters of halacha, one who is unsure as to whether a family or community custom remains in effect, should consult with their rav.
the goal of this article is to educate the reader of the many foods  which potentially contain chametz, beginning with the more obvious and  progressing to the more obscure.
a. rabbi pinchas m. teitz (1908-1995), the rabbi of elizabeth, new jersey, for many years, took the initiative to arrange the sale of chametz for a number of large supermarket chains.
if the vinegar is wheat-derived, the vinegar is wheat derived.
the sale to overcome any possible doubts associated with the validity of the transaction, different methods of halachic acquisition are also employed: 1) kinyan kesef: an actual transfer of money in the form of a down payment is tendered by the purchasing non-jew.
yechave daat 3:26 would allow a hospital or hotel which have  already removed all chametz before shabbat to serve this type of matzoh on  shabbat erev pesach.
nepro osmolite (unflavored) osmolite hn (unflavored)
gluten intolerance is a nuisance.
the seder is a symbolic reenactment of the exodus, with a compelling message for young and old alike.
the us government has determined that an item is ‘gluten free’ at 20 ppm (parts per million) of gluten.
the ou position remains that regular tea bags, which are not flavored or decaffeinated, are acceptable for pesach without special supervision.
in an aside, he wryly mentions an individual who was unwilling to  accept this lenient ruling and proceeded to deposit his false teeth in boiling  water to “kasher” them – cracking them, and making it  impossible for him to eat all pesach!
wheat can only be used to make matzah flour if it has been inspected against any signs of moisture.
website:http://www.lakewoodmatzoh.com as always, if the performance of a mitzvah such as eating matzah at the seder would cause a life-threatening allergic reaction, clearly the mitzvah should not be performed.
in effect, whenever i may not eat chametz, i may also not eat matzoh.
the third meal may consist of fruit or  fish or meat to the exclusion of bread, for there are some authorities who  state that these foods fulfill the requirement for the third meal.
furthermore, it is conceivable that the storeowner prefers to transfer ownership of his chametz to a non-jew so his religious customers can shop freely in his establishment after pesach, even though he intends to continue selling chametz merchandise during pesach.
similarly, the grinding of the rice should not be done in a passover grinder on passover.
brewer’s yeast is yeast recovered from beer production (discussed below).
season and gefen will have ou-p salmon in both regular and no salt versions.
as we celebrate our freedom during the passover holiday, we have the opportunity to reflect on what makes our heritage so unique.
all decaffeinated ground coffees require an ou-p to be used on passover.
if you  cannot find your question, ask the webbe rebbe by clickinghere.
please note the following points: • many of the products contain kitniyot and some contain kitniyotas the primary ingredient.
the chametz should be locked away until after passover when the rabbi repurchases it for the community.
an egg is used because it is a traditional food for mourners, reminding us of the destruction of the temple in jerusalem; g. there are other items that can be placed on seder plates depending on the customs followed by the family.
kosher updates appear regularly on our website, in our weekly shabbat shalom e-mail, and in jewish action, our quarterly family magazine.
471:l. 19 baal hamaor pesachim 83.
most chocolate manufacturers who produce both dairy and parve products have separate lines for the dairy and the parve products.
the solar calendar is not precisely 365 days in length.
according to the chayei adam, this is only a concession because it would be very difficult to clean up the succah at night, in the dark.
some rabbanim have permitted kashering such utensils if they are flushed through with a hot caustic solution that will render inedible any particles that might have adhered inside the pipes.
if the utensil cannot be brought to the mikveh (perhaps it is too heavy or too large to carry), a competent rabbinic authority should be consulted.
one enzyme liquefies and sweetens corn  into corn syrup so that another enzyme can make it even sweeter and become the  high fructose corn syrup used to sweeten soft drinks.
matzah may be prepared only with water that has been stored overnight.
if you want more non-food passover information, visit the ou.org website.
6 orach chaim 444:1 7 preferably by a non-jew or with a shinui (an “unusual” way of doing an action), mishnah berurah, orach chaim 444:15.
eating chametz as noted, for most of erev pesach it is forbidden to eat bread (chametz),  and yet matzoh is also not allowed.
if one of the five grains – wheat, barley, rye, oats and spelt  – sits in water for more than 18 minutes it becomes chametz, and one may  not eat, derive benefit from or own it on pesach.
as such, one may definitely not take the chewable pills on pesach (and we think that you should even sell them to a non-jew or get rid of them).
you could omit bread altogether and eat just meat, fish, or fruit.
the specially prepared shmurah matzah is made specifically for use at the  seder, with specially supervised flour according to particularly stringent  jewish traditions and laws.
blend all the ingredients until smooth.
two reasons are given for this stricture: (1) to prepare for the festival and (2) this is the time when the paschal sacrifice was brought, which makes it a holy time, when work is forbidden60.
for those with an allergy to dairy products, chocolate should not be part of their diet year round; not just on passover.
vinegar vinegar is created when alcohol is (re)fermented, and the primary concern with vinegar is the source of the alcohol.
however, regular matzoh can be given to a young child to eat even today, and therefore it is not muktza; it can be moved, it can be placed on the table and subsequently removed44.
of course, the first things to be removed are those that  are obviously chametz – bread, pasta, cookies, crackers, pretzels etc.
dishwashing detergent 20.
one may eat challah outside in the yard and the remainder of the meal indoors, or the challah may be eaten indoors in one area and the meal completed in another area.
matzah is a crisp, flat, unleavened bread, made of flour and water, which must be baked before the dough has had time to rise.
8 see mishnah berurah, orach chaim 444:18.
talcum powder (100% talc) 50.
remove from the refrigerator about 30 minutes before cooking.
considering the opposition of chazal to eating matzoh before the proper time, it becomes essential to define precisely what qualifies as “matzoh” under the rubric of halacha.
chametz may not be consumed either by eating or drinking, and may not be held in one’s possession, nor may any benefit be derived from chametz.
a. surprisingly, the answer is the classical rabbinic response: “it depends.”
the dedicated efforts of the kosher supervisors andmashgichim, who help to provide kosher consumers with kosher wine and grape juice for their passover seders, are also certainly playing an integral part in bringing the final redemption to the jewish people and the entire world.
see also yechave daat, ibid, note 12.
the category, though, is far broader than one might suppose.
in  a modern vein, rav sternbuch has suggested that it would be desirable to use  paper or plastic dishes which could be discarded after the meal, thus obviating  the need to get the regular dishes clean on shabbat and put them away8.
just before these restrictions begin, the remaining chametz must be destroyed (usually burned) and a public disclaimer of chametz ownership (bitul) recited.
how about a nice simple closing thought?
the subject of determining whether an item is merely kitnios or if it possibly  contains chametz is beyond the scope of this article and will iy”h be  dealt with separately].
it is similar to se’or and one may not own it (derive benefit from it or eat it) on pesach.
some consumers assume farmers and companies are wary of insects in vegetables and take proper precautionary measures.
if the metal does not come in contact with the food, then abrachah should not be recited.
that issue is beyond the scope of this article and will iy”h be  dealt with separately].
two reasons are given for this stricture: (1) to prepare for the festival and  (2) this is the time when the paschal sacrifice was brought, which makes it a  holy time, when work is forbidden.
such matzah must be prepared  with the express purpose of the mitzvah of matzah, le’shem matzot  mitzvah.
while the mixers are  adequately cleaned out between the dairy and parve mixes in order to allow the  mix to be called parve, however, from an allergen point of view, it is woefully  inadequate.
eating chametz as noted, for most of erev pesach it is forbidden to eat bread (chametz), and yet matzoh is also not allowed.
other rabbinical authorities believe that vitamins and supplements are akin to food even when swallowed.
some do not eat any food products made of  matzah or matzah meal mixed with water (gebrokts) during the first seven days  of passover.
when such foods are used on pesach they should be  prepared in special non-pesach and non-chametz utensils, which should not be  washed with the pesach dishes.
in this website, we have provided much of the basic information you will need.
where should birkat  hamazon be recited?
a ritual  search for chametz is conducted the previous night, and the chametz that is  found is burned the next morning.
the beraita: birkat hachammah the primary source for birkat hachammah is the following beraita accompanied by the amora abaye’s elucidation, found in the gemara, berachot 59b: our rabbis taught: he who sees the sun at its turning point, the moon in its power, the planets in their orbits or the signs of the zodiac in their order should say: blessed are you who makes the work of creation.
note: these “notsa” balls keep for up to 2 days in the refrigerator, and freeze well for up to 3 months.
dishwashers dishwashers are often made from plastic and are subject to great discussion.
the chayei adam permits one to sell it to a non-jew on shabbat, but pri  megadim and graz do not.
back to ou passover home page print article what special preparations must be made in the jewish home for passover?
•a piece of cardboard or contact paper should be taped over the glass window pane.
there are those who advise being scrupulous to rinse out the mouth very well, so that no chametz remains.
if a person has an allergy to any food  product, whether it is wheat, eggs, nuts, dairy, or whatever, he may be taking  his life into his hands by not reading labels.
the blessing is evocative rather than responsive.
since in the jewish calendar each day begins with nightfall, the beginning of the fourth day is 6:00 pm tuesday evening.
in their opinion, cake or egg matzoh “is measured in terms of the quantity that is generally eaten during the course of a full this is the opinion of rav moshe feinstein and most other poskim.
however, some companies  choose to substitute glacial acetic acid for the vinegar in their pesach  products.
start buying pesach staples early.
a broiler pan that comes in direct contact with food cannot be kashered.
not only that: but if bringing in the utensils from the succah or the  wine from the cellar will make the house look sloppy, it would even be  permissible to put them away in their proper place.
glass—all forms—including corning ware, corelle, fiberglass, porcelain enamel (for example, porcelain sinks and enamelized pots), pyrex or thermoses.
while kosher supervision of passover flour used in for “regular” matzah begins prior to its milling, the flour used in “shmurah ” (watched) matzah is supervised from the time that the wheat is harvested in the field.
four cups of wine a. each jew is obligated to drink four cups of wine  at these specific times during each seder: the first at the start of the seder,  following kiddush; the second before the meal, after reciting the haggadah  story; the third following the grace after the meal; and the last after  completing psalms of praise (hallel).
tell me the names of the stores where i cannot shop after pesach and give me a firm cut-off date, and that will be that.
erev pesach shechal beshabbat, p.86, discusses whether the marror is muktza.
therefore, on pesach one may keep cans of sweet corn in their property  or feed millet to their parrot.
semi-sweet chocolate =
water  may not be used in the baking of this matzah since adding water to the dough  would create instant leavening.
on p. 28, the author discusses what a firstborn  should do if he inadvertently ate, and on p. 30 he discusses what to do on  thursday if it is known that a bris is scheduled for friday (which would  obviate a fast on that day).
however, birkat hachammah is the celebration of the anniversary of an astronomical event.
pro pak will be producing a line of ou-p parchment paper and plasti made food storage bags.
he prefers the use of re-cooked or fried matzoh to egg matzoh, since the  halacha is not clear as to how much egg matzoh must be eaten for the blessing  hamotzi and for grace after meals33.
where they washed and ate bread, or where they ate the majority of the meal?
the following soy milks do not contain any chometz ingredients: soy dream original enriched soy milk.
not only humans eat glucose; microorganisms like it too.
at some point during pesach preparations we’ve all tried to convert a  main stream recipe into a pesach one only to discover that we don’t have  a clue as to what to substitute for a chometz ingredient.
in a  modern vein, rav sternbuch has suggested that it would be desirable to use  paper or plastic dishes which could be discarded after the meal, thus obviating  the need to get the regular dishes clean on shabbat and put them away.
however, the shulchan aruch45 makes an exception on  shemini atzeret, which is the last day people eat in the succah.
the egg matzah must be baked thin, in specially heated ovens for less than eighteen minutes and must be carefully guarded from becoming chametz during production.
the central theme for the haggadah is  the discussion of the exodus, a timeless event which has forged countless  generations of jews into an unbroken chain through history, with each  year’s seder another link of that chain.
b. one may use cooked matzahs for they are not  included in the prohibition against eating matzah on erev pesach.
there are many recipes for different types of cakes and cookies that do not contain nuts.
dayenu pizza, rolls and pierogies are made with matzah meal.
it is then a relatively easy matter to perform the calculations that demonstrate that successive equinoxes will occur upon the advent of the eve of a wednesday only once in twenty-eight years.
the dates of birkat hachammah fluctuate from late adar to late nisan but because of the vagaries of the calendar the coincidence of birkat hachammah and erev pesach is extremely rare.
two other types of inadequately baked matzot are: 1. kefulot —matzot with folds; 2.
crumbs and small pieces of challah should be flushed down the toilet.
but the ramo does not permit this choice for ashkenazi jews, opting instead for a meal without bread of any type: in our [ashkenazi] countries, where it is our custom not to eat matzoh ashira … one should fulfill [the obligation to have] a third meal with various types of fruit or with meat and fish39.
therefore, the following, for example, cannot be kashered: • colanders • decanters or baby bottles (due to their narrow necks) •
it is generally accepted  to follow the stricter opinion in this matter, but the lenient opinion is  sometimes considered as one factor in a larger decision.
one could easily compose an entire volume on this topic alone.
although one could use matzoh on friday night,  it would not be permissible any time during the daylight hours.”
they are well worth the price for ease and speed in food  preparation.
these will be reisman, schicks, seder and lily’s bakeshop.
10 shulchan aruch, orach chaim 444:3.
secondly, the determination of tevilah depends on the owner’s designated use for the object: a utensil purchased for non-food purposes and occasionally used to hold food (such as a screwdriver which might be used in a pinch in the absence of a fork) does not require tevilah (aruch hashulchan, y.d. 120:40); likewise, utensils which cradle food contained in other utensils, such as oven racks on which pots are placed.
may the redeemer come speedily and bring us all back  to our glorious temple, where we will be able to fulfill this as well as all  the other mitzvot of pesach, the festival of our redemption.
drop the mixture by teaspoonfuls onto baking sheets lined with parchment paper.
eat slowly—it takes twenty minutes for your brain to know when the stomach is full.
when does passover begin?
even one’s hand cannot come between the water and the utensil.
but the jerusalem talmud denigrates a person who eats matzoh on the day before pesach “as if he had relations with his fiancee17 in his father-in-law’s house18”.
we at the ou wish you and your family a chag kosher ve-sameach.
as expressed by the psalmist, “happy is the man who fears god, who desires his mitzvot greatly” (psalms 112:1).
after eating challah or egg matzoh, one should wash his hands and rinse his mouth in a bathroom sink before eating the remainder of the meal with pesach utensils.
glucose is a form of sweetener.
don’t forget to clean brooms, vacuum cleaners, clothing pockets, car and garage.
flour, oats and barley
even if one would argue that by skipping having substantial meals this shabbat,  the person will be able to appreciate eating all the more at the seder, it  cannot be countenanced.
ascertaining whether a vegetable is subject to infestation — and thereby necessitating checking before use — is mostly determined based on experience.
it is a mitzvah to eat warm foods on shabbat, but the shulchan aruch warns that one should be careful not to cook chametz foods which will stick to the pot, since it will not be possible to clean it properly before pesach10.
pesach products are generally made with white distilled vinegar which is  specially-made without any chametz or kitnios concerns.
even dishwashers that have a heating element do not raise the temperature anywhere near boiling (75°c is usually the hottest).
bring liquid to boil in saucepan.
at the time of the equinox the sun occupies a position relative to earth identical to the position it occupied at the time of creation.
similarly, we have seen that there is a disagreement as to whether fenugreek is kitnios.
all these items, of course, require the ou-p symbol.
barricini also has chocolate covered regular matzah.
local custom and tradition therefore play an important role in determining what is, and what is not, treated as kitniyot.
back to ou passover home page print article meat, poultry and fish poultry products with sauce, pre-cooked poultry and meat, poultry and meat  provisions, and delicatessen products must bear kosher for passover  certification.
procedure for tevilat keilim: 1.
this successful proliferation of kosher wine comes with some challenges; the grape harvest season in the northern hemisphere occurs in september and october, intersecting with the rosh hashanah, yom kippur and succot holidays.
in fact, the consumption of a single insect can involve a violation of as many as five or six torah prohibitions.
by: rabbi dovid cohen one of the last jobs of cleaning the house for pesach is to get all chametz  out of the kitchen.
back to ou passover home page print article what is kosher for passover?
in addition to relating the story of the exodus, each jew at  the seder is obligated to discuss three central elements of the seder ritual  – the paschal sacrifice, the matzah and the maror, as explained in  the haggadah.
hybrid metals, such as stainless steel, which contains large quantities of iron, also require tevilah with a brachah.
the torah in leviticus clearly specifies the prohibition of consuming insects that are of a size that is visible to the naked eye.
on the rare occasions that this phenomenon occurs on tuesday evening the blessing “oseh ma’aseh bereishit—he who makes the work of creation” is recited upon the appearance of the sun on wednesday morning.
this panic moment is why i started compiling mycomplete list of pesach substitutes.
there is one mitzvah of erev pesach which we have not discussed in this  paper – how the passover lamb was sacrificed if it occurred on a shabbat.
however, if one decides to adopt the option of using egg matzoh as the  “bread at the three meals on that shabbat, which is an option permitted  or even suggested by some34, it is evident that this would solve the problem  for all three meals; furthermore, it would not be necessary to get up early to  daven so as to eat chametz before the time when it is no longer permitted.
unlike other visual experiences that occasion a blessing, birkat hachammah is predicated upon intellectual cognition.
the general measurement of food items used in the performance of mitzvot is minimally a kezayit, the size of an olive by volume.
but having a non-jew set the table for the seder is permitted48.
so, it is worth our while to “check” into this further.
there were no shoprites in fourth-century babylonia when the talmud was redacted, but, nonetheless, treatment of this matter touches on numerous areas of halachic thought.
this is not done in  preparation for the next day but in honor of the sabbath itself47.
however, his reaction was very much to the point.
the us government has determined that an item is ‘gluten free’  at 20 ppm (parts per million) of gluten.
the number needed iszero.
large pieces of chametz which are  difficult to destroy may be given to a non-jew or else deposited in the garbage  by a non-jew.
if one wishes to follow the opinion  stated above regarding total removal of all chametz on friday then one should  cook all the meals in pesach pots and use only pesach dishes since there is no  longer any chametz left in the house.
however, even though rav moshe feinstein writes  that peanuts are notkitniyos, most jews of ashkenzic extraction
this is not true of other decaffeinated tea bags.
even though the sale would be reversed after pesach, the bach held that it was nonetheless an effective and legal sale.
if barley is soaked in water under proper conditions, it ferments into  beer, and since the barley sat in water for more than 18 minutes, beer is  chametz (shulchan aruch 442:5).
please appoint your rabbi as your agent beforehand.
sighting an elephant is far more exciting than coming upon a barnyard animal; lightning is awe-inspiring in a way in which dark clouds are not; the majesty of god is revealed in the presence of a massive, peaked mountain in a way that it is not revealed in a common range of hills.
60 rashi to pesachim 50; tosafot rosh; ran; rambam, hilchot yonz tov 8:17.
brewer’s yeast is yeast recovered from beer production (discussed  below).
for the complete kosher for pesach directory click download (passover) guide above.
place the turkey on top of the vegetables; season with salt, pepper and paprika.
if by any chance chometz remains in the house, it must be covered and burned on chol hamoed (monday evening).
matzah bakeries should safeguard against infestation in these ways: 1.
checking for insects below are step by step recommendations for how to properly check romaine lettuce for insects: 1.
therefore it is best to purchase milk before passover at which timechometz can be nullified (batel).
[thursday night] and destroy all [chametz] before shabbat, but we leave over food for two meals which are required on shabbat, but the time for the third meal is after mincha
in light of the seriousness of eating chametz on pesach, its obvious that no one would consider eating any food on pesach which contains (or may contain) any of these ingredients, unless the food is certified as kosher for pesach.
the following medications are under the supervison of the ou and have been found to be free ofchometz
28 rabbi binyamin forst, the laws of b’rachos, mesorah publications,  new york, 1990, p. 244.
other foods can be identified by simply reading the ingredient panel, which shows that breakfast cereal, soy sauce, fish sticks, licorice, candy and many other foods often have wheat or flour (chametz) listed prominently.
the final voiding of chametz (“bitul” ) should take place on  shabbat, erev pesach.
in a modern vein, rav sternbuch has suggested that it would be desirable to use paper or plastic dishes which could be discarded after the meal, thus obviating the need to get the regular dishes clean on shabbat and put them away8.
manischewitz and barricini will both have chocolate covered egg matzah and egg matzah crackers.
the formal  part of the seder closes with special psalms known as hallel, which praise the  almighty and his special relationship with the people of israel.
add ethanol, otherwise known as ethyl alcohol, to the list of passover sensitive ingredients.
when he jovially asked him for a piece, the child fled indoors screaming, “mama, come quick!
rabbi abraham abele gombiner, a leading torah scholar of the 17th century, author ofmagen avraham, a commentary on the code of jewish law, recommends eating two shabbat meals with bread in the morning, relying on those opinions that allow the se’udah shlishit to be eaten before midday.
many posekim fundamentally oppose the sale of jewish-owned businesses that sell chametz on pesach.
a. jews of ashkenazic descent refrain from eating kitniyot (legumes, such as corn, rice, beans, et cetera) during pesach.
however, regular matzoh can be given to a young child to eat even today, and therefore it is not muktza; it can be moved, it can be placed on the table and subsequently removed.44 setting the table for the seder
one may prepare food for shabbat in  pots used for chametz.
this company manufactures various types of matzah.
make your favorite recipe for chicken soup or vegetarian broth and serve it with these delicious, guilt-free kneidlach.
kedem has one not mevushal grape juice.
all cooking and eating utensils must be either set aside exclusively for passover use, or, in some cases, “made kosher” in consultation with a rabbi, according to the procedures of jewish law.
the matzah is eaten while reclining on the left side as a symbol of  freedom.
serve the “notsa” balls in chicken soup or as a side dish.
zachlawi will have ou-p arak and vodka.
manischewitz has mevushal concord grape juice as in past years.
if one wishes to use a non-porcelain year-round dishwasher on passover, the following should be done: •if it is made of plastic or has synthetic gaskets, speak to your rabbi as to whether it can be kashered for passover.
the occurrence of birkat hachammah on erev pesach conveys a significant message.
i always like to combine the jelly and water in a microwave safe bowl and heat it gently before i serve it.
unwrap and cut into 1/2-inch slices.
one should make kiddush,  hamotzi, eat one course and recite birchas hamazon.
ddt and other highly effective previously-used insecticides have been legally banned due to associated health risks.
there are many families which maintain the tradition of additional  restrictions to their passover diet.
here, there is a difference of opinion among the poskim: ( a) some say  that “one who eats a volume of cake equal to four (or three) eggs  … must treat the cake as bread.”
gerber baby food in carrots and squash are acceptable for passover l’chatchila when bearing the ou.
11 enjoy having the entire house clean at one time and keep up a cheerful front.
biur chometz (burning the chometz) is done friday morning before the end of the 5th hour (if one forgets, it can be burned until shabbos.)
let me end this article by wishing everyone a kosher and healthy pesach .
responsa hnelef lecha shlonm 322 also  considers that matzoh cooked after baking may still not be consumed on erev  pesach.
before we begin, let us note the happy circumstance that the additional  complication of observing the sabbath on this so-busy day prior to pesach  brings with it some unexpected rewards: having spent the day before pesach  resting, and refreshed by the sabbath tranquility, all will be able to  participate in the seder at night with true appreciation1.
the napkin with any leftover crumbs should be folded up and completely eliminated from the home (e.g., flushed down the toilet).
this technology has allowed food scientists to create an array of foods which were inconceivable 50 years ago, and to improve on the way that they produce “older” foods.
if you have a question, try looking through passover faq’s.
therefore, special precautions should be instituted to maintain temperatures around the oven door (pi hatanur).
by: rabbi yaakov luban •
similarly, plain matzoh which has subsequently been cooked or fried does not  qualify for the mitzvah of “matzoh” at the seder27.
the grating must be done with a shinui (see 23 above).
a ritual search for chametz is conducted the previous night, and the chametz that is found is burned the next morning.
quick turnaround of flour which allows the least amount of time between grinding and baking; 2.
the chametz may also be fed to a dog or flushed down the toilet.
cool slightly, then carefully remove from pan.
this transaction won’t go into effect until after shabbat, making it permissible to eatchallah on shabbat.
see also yechave daat vi:27.
rambam, hilchot chametz umatzoh, 6.
generally, something is considered  muktza if it cannot or will not be used on shabbat (for example, a  carpenter’s hammer, a telephone).
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar plus 1/4 cup water 1 cup corn syrup = 1 1/4 cups granulated sugar plus 1/3 cup water, boiled until syrupy 1 cup vanilla sugar = 1 cup granulated sugar with 1 split vanilla bean left for at least 24 hours in a tightly covered jar 1 cup of flour, substitute 5/8 cup matzo cake meal or potato starch, or a combination sifted together 1 tablespoon flour = 1/2 tablespoon potato starch 1 cup corn starch = 7/8 cup potato starch 1 teaspoon cream of tarter= 1 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice or 1 1/2 teaspoon vinegar 1 cup graham cracker crumbs = 1 cup ground cookies or soup nuts plus 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup bread crumbs = 1 cup matzo meal 1 cup matzo meal = 3 matzoth ground in a food processor 1 cup matzoth cake meal = 1 cup plus 2 tablespoon matzo meal finely ground in a blender or food processor and sifted 3 crumbled matzo = 2 cups matzo farfel 1 cup (8 oz.) cream cheese = 1 cup cottage cheese pureed with 1/2 stick butter or margarine chicken fat or gribenes =
if juice or  eggs are added to or substituted for the water in the mix, it is called  “matzoh ashira26“(egg matzoh), and is not suitable for the seder.
halachos of kitnios the minhag to not eat kitnios begins on erev pesach at the same time that one may not eat chametz (shevet haleviiii:31 citing chok yaakov 471:2 and others).
in addition, taz and magen avraham (453:3) discuss whether fennel, cumin and caraway seeds (i.e. three variations of “kimmel” ) can possibly be checked (and used) for pesach.
indeed, this is the counsel of the shulchan aruch: when erev pesach occurs on shabbat, we search the house [for chametz] on the 13th
why is mechirat chametz an accepted practice when it appears to be no more than a legal charade?
the  consensus of the poskim is that whisky produced from one of the 5 grains is  considered chametz even though it went through the process of distillation (see  shulchan aruch y.d. 92:8 & 123:24, and mishnah berurah 442:4).
levels of shmurah flour all wheat flour used in matzah production must be continually supervised.
therefore, these fermented ingredients also merit scrutiny.
in stark contrast to the mechirat chametz of a halachically observant jew, the sale of a supermarket that is fully open for business on pesach lacks the aura of respectability.
they can be processed on equipment that contains chometz and can also be adulterated with kitniyos or chometz.
why does the halacha permit removing objects from the succah, when it  appears that it is in preparation for using them in the house on the next day?
therefore, since there isn’t any reasonable way for the average consumer to figure out whether the vinegar in their ketchup (for example) is chametz, they may rely on the rov (majority) and assume that the vinegar is not chametz at least to the extent that it may/should be sold to a non-jew.
if we focus upon the commonality that exists between remembering the exodus and birkat hachammah, the pieces fall into place.
nutra enfant o organic baby parent’s choice pathmark pbm solutions premier value president’s choice price chopper prosobee publix rite aid safeway select shopko similac supervalu supreme target top care topco up & up vermont organics walgreens wegman’s western family the following three baby formulas are not certified kosher by the ou, due to kashrut concerns.
according to the mishnah berurah, this is the way they used to do it in europe.
if the vinegar is corn-based,  the vinegar is corn-based and, like glucose, means it can’t be used under  theoup.
however, one who is unable to do so may swallow the tablet without wrapping it, and rely on the lenient authorities, since milk is such an important health need.
back to ou passover home page print article frozen vegetables are washed in water that often contains anti-foaming agents, which are not appropriate for passover use.
this matzah is widely distributed in latin america.
to get additional fiber, eat lots of fresh fruits and vegetables.
its major feature is the reading of the haggadah, which relates, in detail,  the events of the exodus of the jewish people from ancient egypt, complete with  symbolic reenactments using kosher wine, specially prepared matzah, and bitter  herbs.
by: rabbi moshe zywica
however, one who is unable to do so may  swallow the tablet without wrapping it, and rely on the lenient authorities,  since milk is such an important health need.
however, even though rav moshe feinstein writes that peanuts are notkitniyos, most jews of ashkenzic extraction do not use peanuts onpesach.
consequently, when shopping for chametz products after passover, one must take measures to avoid chametz products that may have been subject to jewish ownership during the festival.
have a place ready to store them.
dishwashers dishwashers are often made from plastic and are subject to theabove discussion.
by: courtesy of women's branch of the orthodox union a few hints for pesach cleaning 1.
when do passover dietary laws end?
i would recommend that he carry a magnifying glass with him in order to read the small print.
till now, we have discussed the ways in which it is possible to meet the  requirement to eat the first two meals on shabbat – the one on friday  night and the one on shabbat morning.
this  matzah is eaten at the seder just before the meal, at which time the blessings  of hamotzi and al achilat matzah are pronounced.
how can one tell if a product is “kosher for passover?”
therefore, matzah products such as ground matzah meal, flour  and farfel may be cooked in hot water, baked or blended with any variety of  passover ingredients.
i’ve added some great new substitutions this year, thanks to readers who’ve sent in their own ingenious creations.
chok leyisrael, p.70, advises what a person should do if he forgot to  leave over bread for this last meal.
rabbi medini viewed this as a clear indication that the storeowner was not serious about the original sale.
maintaining and teaching family minhagim is a vital part of that legacy—linking us to the generation of the exodus.
ask your rabbi for guidance.
whether it ispesach or all year around, someone allergic to dairy should refrain from chocolate.
in addition to the torah’s restrictions on owning, eating and benefiting from chametz, an ashkenazic minhag developed in the middle ages to not eat certain foods known collectively as “kitnios”.
but although the sun can be seen with the naked eye, the equinox cannot.
for frying: instead of chicken fat, use combination of olive oil or  vegetable oil and 1 to 2 tablespoons pareve passover margarine.
persons who need guidance with respect to health matters should obtain advice from qualified health specialists, not fromkashrus agencies.
but do the concerns with vinegar mean that we must destroy or sell all of the products in my pantry which contain vinegar?
regular matzoh (as opposed to egg matzoh) should not be eaten the  entire shabbos.
mayim shelanu water to be used in matzah baking must be left to stand overnight (to ensure that it is allowed to cool).
(b) there are those who  “conclude that the amount of one meal equals somewhat more than the  volume of twenty-one eggs,” and only someone who eats this equivalent of  cake should recite hamotzi.
first of all, the third meal of shabbat should  really be eaten after mincha.
according to the chayei adam46, this is only a concession because it would be very difficult to clean up the succah at night, in the dark.
ta’anis bechorim (fast of the firstborn) occurs on thursday, april  17.
this has had dramatic  effects on the world of kashrus, including kitnios.
iggeros moshe (o.c.iii:63) assumes that  peanuts are not kitnios but notes that some have a custom to be machmir.
he publically forbade the community to purchase chametz from this store (as he considered it chametz sheavar alav hapesach), even though it resulted in enormous losses for the storeowner.
alternatively, cook them in a single layer on a cookie sheet or in muffin pans until firm, then transfer to plastic freezer bags and freeze until needed.
the kashrus issues raised by all of this technology is beyond the scope of this article, but one issue is quite relevant to our discussion.
however, other authorities, including the vilna gaon, advise that the early morning meal should be interrupted and followed by another it is the decision of the shulchan aruch that for the third meal, one should use egg matzohs for the two loaves.
c. because of the large number of food products which contain chametz or kitniot ingredients, only food products manufactured under reliable rabbinical supervision should be purchased for passover use.
the following are acceptable.
there is a halachic difficulty attendant upon using egg matzohs as the two loaves of bread required for the meals on shabbat: according to many rabbis, egg matzoh cannot technically be classified as “bread” requiring washing the hands, reciting the blessing hamotzi, and followed by birkat hamazon, since unlike real matzoh, it is made with eggs and/or juice instead of just plain water with the flour.
it is preferable to prepare salt water before shabbos, but if not, it  can be made motzei shabbos.
according to biblical law, passover is determined by the jewish lunar calendar, and begins on the eve of the fifteenth day of the month of nisan.
rambam, hilchot chametz  umatzoh, 6.
by virtue of this mitzvah, the jewish people are raised to a unique status.
i accidentally drove into an exit lane and was forced to leave the highway prematurely.
white distilled vinegar is made from distilled alcohol  (described above) and the most serious concern is whether the grain used was  chametz (e.g. wheat), kitnios (e.g. corn), or something innocuous (e.g.  potatoes).
most processed foods and beverages require special rabbinical supervision  for passover use.
if one buys a glass bottle of food or drink, this bottle may be reused without tevilah (iggerot moshe).
often, consumers who have  health concerns contactkashrus agencies in order to obtain information  about foods and ingredients.
the transaction takes place on erev pesach, which falls this year on monday morning, march 29, 2010, prior to the conclusion of the fifth halachic hour of the day.
mechirat chametz sale of chametz to a non-jew.
since we do not legally own the chametz during pesach, it can be consumed afterwards, when the rabbi purchases the chametz back.
its  registered service mark,oup, on thousands of consumer and industrial food  products, is a guarantee of the highest standards of kashruth for passover.
basic obligations there are five basic obligations (mitzvot) performed by each jew, in the course of the seder conducted according to the traditional haggadah: 1)
the bitter herbs (maror) consisting of either  romaine lettuce or horseradish, commemorate the harsh conditions of slavery in  ancient egypt.
however, what happens if the chametz is in america, but its initial owner will be in israel for pesach?
in such a situation, it would be preferable (if possible) that a gentile should bring his ownchametz and feed the baby.
if one wants to begin to consider how a wheat (chometz) derivative could  show up on a schedule a without you even knowing it, one must understand the  wondrous potential of an everyday substance: the wheat starch molecule.
cleaning all chametz utensils that will be used for pesach must first be thoroughly cleaned.
the seder is a traditional occasion for  jewish families to gather together to reinforce their ties to judaism.
an allergic person exposed to an allergen could experience an anaphylactic shock and stop breathing.
it is  forbidden to eat regular matzah on erev pesach.
erev pesach shechal beshabbat p. 107, n. 3,  discusses whether an object rendered unusable on shabbat due to custom should  actually be considered muktza.
use an instant-read thermometer to prevent overcooking.
he also explains how to check for insects in  the romaine lettuce on yom tov.
however, chok yaakov 471 discusses other opinions with respect to re-cooked matzoh.
since they are constantly in motion there is no risk of  anything becoming chometz.
all the haddar passover items will now be available with the ou-p symbol.
vinegar is manufactured from fermented alcohol, and there are various sources of alcohol.
two primary characteristics are used to describe kitniyot: 1) they grow in a pod and 2) they are ground into flour.
you should exercise extreme caution and consult with your doctor and rabbi before making a decision not to take a medicine.
[so people may mistakenly believe that if  they can eat kitnios, they can also eat chametz], ( c ) it may have chametz  grains mixed into it [so people who eat kitnios may inadvertently be eating  chametz].
the ideal time to recite the blessing is upon witnessing sunrise.
this halacha is quite relevant to baby formulas and nutritional supplements (e.g. ensure) which invariably contain kitnios, and are usually used by people who have few non-kitnios choices, if any.
they also freeze well for up to 3 months.
thefda tolerance levels of insect infestation in produce are far more permissive than halachic requirements.
this chametz may not be used or sold after passover, as a penalty for failure to perform the mitzvot of bedikah and biur properly.
begins: (a) from six hours and on19.
there is sufficientmayim shelanu for the next day’s matzah production; 3.
if you are sephardi, consume kitniyot on pesach, and therefore need a list of such products, we recommend that you discuss such questions with a sephardi rabbi.
you will appreciate pesach more and so will your whole family.
therefore, before using quinoa on pesach, someone who knows how to distinguish between these grains should check the quinoa to ascertain that it doesn’t contain any wheat or barley.
if one wants to begin to consider how a wheat (chometz) derivative could show up on a schedule a without you even knowing it, one must understand the wondrous potential of an everyday substance: the wheat starch molecule.
in addition to these strictly halachic criteria, there are also certain customs which are observed by many: some people stop eating matzoh from the beginning of the month of nissan, while others stop after purim23.
the barton brand will be back again with the ou-p.
you cankasher a pot  before passover and dedicate it for making the rice cereal over passover.
it is a custom to recite the torah portion dealing with the paschal  sacrifice at the conclusion of this third meal42.
rav moshe feinstein orach chaim 155:1, seems to be following the ramo in allowing egg matzoh to be used for the first two meals on shabbat which is erev pesach but not for the third one.
typically, nuts are used in  charoses.
spray 10 compartments of a muffin pan with cooking spray and fill 2 compartments with water.
why not do the same on a grand scale for supermarkets as well?
in addition, the willmark line of industrial bakery products has been purchased byvip and many of these items are appearing with the ou-p label this year.
it depends on what you mean.
it is kneaded into dough either by hand or  machine, but only in a cool room, since heat may cause instant leavening.
in addition to the multitude of material requirements in making matzah, there is one additional obligation — every batch of matzah is preceded by the baker’s declaration, “le-shem matzat mitzvah,” that it is being baked to provide matzah for all who would taste freedom in the fulfillment of the divine command.
back to ou passover home page print article what is the passover “seder”?
because glass shares certain properties with metal, we are obligated by the rabbis totovel glass as well.
first of all, the third meal of shabbat should really be eaten after mincha.
in current matzah parlance, “18-minute matzah” means that the entire matzah line is cleaned every 18 minutes; this includes mixing utensils, table or conveyor lines, matzah cutters and scorers (dockers) and every other surface that comes in contact with the dough.
still, supermarket chains maintain large inventories of products in warehouses for distribution in individual stores, and it is necessary to calculate the turn-around time from the warehouse delivery until the purchase by the customer in the actual store.
many  accept this as the proper rule to follow.
b. when using romaine lettuce, one may use the stalks or leaves for maror.
41 erev pesach shechal beshabbat, p.111.
disposable metal, such as aluminum pans, however, do not fall under this rubric and do not require tevilah according to rav moshe feinstein, as durability is one of the defining features of a utensil.
other sweeteners may be available for pesach, please check our product  listings.
food scientists have identified numerous microorganisms  which can either serve as or help to create, enzymes (see below), vitamins  (e.g. riboflavin, vitamin b12), flavorful chemicals (e.g.msg) and other items  (e.g. xanthan gum, citric acid, yeast).
peanuts  are also a common allergen.
mishnah berurah rules that as relates  to issurim d’rabannan one may be lenient.
pesach vegetable muffins makes 10 muffins vegetarian heaven!
the rabbi, acting as an agent for the owners  of the chametz, then enters into an agreement with a non-jew for the sale of  chametz.
on pesach a jew is obligated not simply to recall a historical event but to imagine himself an actual participant in that event.
a bracha is recited  before the bedika, and bitul chametz (kol chamira) is recited after the bedika.
see orach chaim,, 177:2.
eggs: passover egg substitutes don’t work quite as well as the  chometz egg substitutes.
bitul chametz  (kol chamira) is not recited at this time.
some rabbinic authorities rule that so long as it is eaten in the context of a filling meal it is considered bread.
in the case of hot  or salted water, leavening takes place instantly.
it is interesting to note that, in a departure from the established  practice of sephardic jews to follow the second option when two are listed, in  this case rav ovadia yosef rules that the firstborn should fast on thursday57.
un-iodized salt does not require passover certification, nor does sea salt.
one should not void the chametz after the destruction of the chametz since he  will still be eating chametz for the rest of friday and during part of shabbat.
back to ou passover home page print  article kitniot ou certified passover products do not contain kitniot, that is corn or soy  oil, corn syrup, dextrose or any legumes.
the torah prohibitions against chametz are unique, in that a jew is not only prohibited from consuming and deriving benefit from chametz during pesach, but he is even restricted in owning it because of the injunction of “ba’al yairo’eh uba’al yimotze” (literally, chametz “may not be seen or found,” but the sages interpreted this to mean that ownership of chametz is prohibited).
one may  not give the non-jew more than one meal’s worth of chametz at a time.
the halacha recognizes three levels of infestation: 1.
e. to fulfill the mitzvot of the seder, one must use shmurah matzot, which are produced under a special standard of supervision, beginning with the harvest of the grain (rather than with its milling into flour, as with regular matzot for passover).
food scientists have identified numerous microorganisms which can either serve as or help to create, enzymes (see below), vitamins (e.g. riboflavin, vitamin b12), flavorful chemicals (e.g.msg) and other items (e.g. xanthan gum, citric acid, yeast).
they can be  made of any material, including plastic or paper.
it is highly doubtful that the mills are effectively cleaned between grains.
32 yechave daat p.279.
“vegetable oil” ), and some do not use peanut oil either (see above  regarding peanuts).
chometz in garbage bags must be removed from garbage pails and  placed off one’s property on the side of the curb before the end of the  5th hour.
our rabbis teach that when the redemption arrives, a joyous banquet will be held, at which specially preserved kosher wine will be served.
at least a k’beitzah (volume of an egg) of bread or egg matzoh  must be eaten at each meal.
the largest and most widely  respected kosher supervisory agency is the orthodox union.
however, he cautions that one should not reprimand someone who does employ  the matzoh option on friday evening.
even if one will not be on the premises during passover, as long as one is there within 30 days of passover, the obligation to remove all chametz before passover applies.
by: rabbi gavriel price
remove any visible pieces of food (or other items) from the oven; 2.
as we shall see, each of these solutions has its own problem, yet there  are various reasons to recommend each one.
before the  destruction of the jerusalem temple the paschal sacrifice was the central  feature of the seder; f. baytzah – a roasted or boiled egg, commemorating the festival  sacrifice that was brought at the jerusalem temple.
the day of the week can be ascertained by consulting a calendar, the time of day by glancing at a sundial or a clock and the equinox by performing simple calculations.
oil from olives, palm, coconut and walnuts are acceptable  for pesach use because the fruits they are extracted from is not kitnios.
passover is an eight day jewish holiday, of biblical origin, marking the  birth of the jews as a people and their emergence as a unique nation in  history, devoted to g-d’s will.
uncover the turkey for the last 30 minutes of cooking; baste occasionally.
in addition, we have this year certified yanovsky matzah baked in argentina.
this does not imply that an allergic person  cannot eat any cake or cookies onpesach.
the vilna gaon on the other hand required  its preparation on motzei shabbos.
the hebrew term arusa has no precise translation which conveys its  halachic connotations.
vinegar vinegar is created when alcohol is (re)fermented, and the primary concern  with vinegar is the source of the alcohol.
chometz in garbage bags must be removed from garbage pails and placed off one’s property on the side of the curb before the end of the 5th hour.
all chametz in one’s  possession must be destroyed before passover, by noon on the fourteenth of  nisan, saturday, april 23, 2005.
but others object, claiming that the person will be so concerned lest a fire begin, he will not have his mind on searching for chametz properly.
back to ou passover home page print article a special concern for wheat derivatives by: rabbi gavriel price
in many cases, when left to dry properly, it has been demonstrated that contact with water is not detrimental.
the largest and most widely respected kosher supervisory agency is the orthodox union.
you should consult your local rabbi.
the search for chametz: the search for chametz takes place on thursday night  (the eve of the 13th of nisan) at the exact time and under the exact same  circumstances it normally takes place on the eve of the 14th of nisan in other  years.
if someone cannot drink even  diluted wine, kosher grape juice may be substituted.
therefore, the  morning meal should be divided into two parts.
the ou has not taken a position about the use of quinoa on passover and believes that this decision should be made locally.
this includes the jews of france, england, germany, russia, poland, hungary, austria and the low countries.
in fact, this is the opinion of many contemporary posekim.
(if he forgot to make the brachah, the tevilah is still acceptable.)
the work area between the burners should be cleaned and covered with aluminum foil.
it is difficult to gather precise information and it is no simple matter to chart a course between conflicting halachic positions.
clean the oven as early as possible and use only stove top or toaster oven until pesach.
5 together with the meal eaten friday night, this will take care of two  sabbath meals.
35 orach chaim 444:8 36 orach chaim 291:6: before any holiday or shabbat, it is a mitzvah not to  eat a meal with bread late in the afternoon since it will detract from  enjoyment of the food one eats that evening in honor of the holiday.
how then  can we fulfill the sabbath obligation to partake of three meals, each of which  is accompanied by two loaves of “bread”?
simmer covered for 10  minutes, mix in formula or breast milk and fruits if desired 5.
eggs: passover egg substitutes don’t work quite as well as the chometz egg substitutes.
in addition,  egg matzoh should not be eaten on pesach plates or tablecloths.
the halachot governing wine production are in reality quite complex.
these traits are not absolute, and certain exceptions are made, prohibiting items that do not share these characteristics, and permitting others even though they fall under these categories.
“you shall love your fellow” mandates performing, or abstaining from, physical acts.
wishing you a shabbat shalom and kosher, joyous passover!back to ou passover home page print article 1.
accordingly, some hashgochos hold that since kitnios is merely a minhag (i.e. even less than an issur d’rabannan) one can be lenient and certify kitnios which was truly nishtaneh.
one may kasher part of the sink and then boil more water for the rest of the sink.
if one absolutely needs a utensil and for some reason it cannot be toveled, a rabbi should be consulted.
where should birkat hamazon be recited?
these ingredients—starch, glucose (dextrose), ethanol, and acetic acid—touch on some of the primary derivatives of wheat, but do not comprehend the gamut of possibilities.
cover and chill for 20 to 30 minutes.
in an aside, he wryly mentions an individual who was unwilling to accept this lenient ruling and proceeded to deposit his false teeth in boiling water to “kasher” them – cracking them, and making it impossible for him to eat all pesach15!
there is one mitzvah of erev pesach which we have not discussed in this paper – how the passover lamb was sacrificed if it occurred on a shabbat.
bernies foods will have frankels blintzes, waffles and pizza as well as letova kichel and bread sticks.
oxepa polycose promote (except promote with fiber)
an enzyme is used to  create the “right” kind of sugar molecule so that hard-candies  won’t stick to the wrapper, and a different one makes sure
graters • knives (or other utensils) where food or dirt can get trapped between the blade and handle •
most passover certified bakeries use kernel paste as a base for their products.
it is therefore advisable to prepare  non-chametz food in pots used for pesach.
but most bakers don’t have the patience to wait all  day for their bread to rise, so they add their own yeast into the batter to  speed things up a bit.
what does kosher for passover mean?
the blessing pronounced upon the visual appearance of the sun on the day of birkat hachammah is designed to prompt jews to reflect upon the cosmic event that occurred on a particular hour of that day of the week and thereby to acknowledge god as creator of the universe.
we always make  sure that the entire matzah baking process—from adding the water to the  flour until the matzos are done baking—takes place in less than 18  minutes.
after cleaning up all chometz, bitul chometz (kol chamira) is recited  before the end of the 5th hour shabbos morning.
the seder is a symbolic  reenactment of the exodus, with a compelling message for young and old alike.
•leave the dishwasher idle for 24 hours.
microorganisms are some of the most prolific manufacturers of ingredients in the food industry these days, participating actively in the production of all sorts of fermented ingredients, from xanthan gum to citric acid to riboflavin.
do not use peanuts onpesach.
this year, passover arrives immediately following shabbat – a rare occurrence that creates unique circumstances, directly affecting the typical passover preparations.
back to ou passover home page print article lemon juice is frequently packed on the same equipment as products that containchometz and kitniyos.
e. chametz which remains in a jew’s possession during passover may  not be used by him or any other jew at any time, and it may not be purchased  after passover.
moreover, some companies also pack pasta products on shared packing machinery.
with their livelihoods invested in liquor inventories, pesach threatened to wipe out the source of income of jewish tavern keepers.
before the destruction of the jerusalem temple the paschal sacrifice was the central feature of the seder; f. baytzah – a roasted or boiled egg, commemorating the festival sacrifice that was brought at the jerusalem temple.
the magen avraham considers this to be the proper view.
the blessing is recited before the search begins, and a public disclaimer of ownership of chametz (bitul) is recited afterward.
there is nothing about glucose that would betray its source as being from wheat; and yet it is commonly made from that source, and therefore glucose, and dextrose, which is a synonym for glucose, requires vigilance with regards to passover certification.
rinse the sink and faucet with cold water.
utensils must be cleaned from any dirt, glue, or residue.
another issue in kashering dishwashers is the temperature for kashering.
this year there will be an added complication, as this year erev pesach occurs on the sabbath, which has requirements and restrictions of its own.
the traditional method of collecting/creating yeast is as follows.
consult an orthodox  rabbi immediately for the appropriate procedures.
the grating must be done with a shinui (see  23 above).
chag kasher v’sameach back to ou passover home page print  article
if wheat gluten is consumed by a gluten intolerant person the results may be stomach aches, diarrhea, and general malaise.
occasionally, worms may be found in burrows within the body of the leaf.
what has sustained us as a nation and preserved us throughout the millennia?
in addition, it is often impossible to trace the origin of a particular vegetable.
nutrition info: 263 calories per serving, 11.3 grams carbohydrate, 0.7 gram fiber, 44 grams protein, 3.9 grams fat (0.7 gram saturated), 119 milligrams cholesterol, 83 milligrams sodium, 498 milligrams potassium, 3 milligrams iron, 33 milligrams calcium chef’s secrets: be prepared: prepare and cook the turkey breast as directed.
plastic bags, cups and plates 38.
for most of the year, flour mixed with water is considered a kosher-friendly combination.
however, according to the ou poskim, one can consume the inedible pills.
many poskim hold that we follow the rule k’bolo kach polto (the way a utensil can be kashered is directly related to the way it absorbs) to allow a utensil which only absorbed through contact with ze’iya (steam) to be kashered with ze’iya.
spoon half of the mixture onto a sheet of foil that has been well-sprayed with cooking spray.
by: rabbi dovid cohen one of the last jobs of cleaning the house for pesach is to get all chametz out of the kitchen.
the  thinking is that since quinoa, which has only recently been introduced to the  northern hemisphere from its native south america, was never considered  kitnios, it remains permitted on pesach even though logically it should be  included in the minhag.
however, separate lines do not guarantee a dairy-free product.
serve with the pan juices.
rav moshe feinstein writes that although running the dishwasher through a cycle would constitute a bidi’eved kashering (i.e., it might be acceptable if it had already been done) of k’bolo kach polto (kashering at the same temperature at which the is absorbed), lechatchila (i.e., from the outset), one may only kasher with boiling water (212°f).
what is to be done this year, since they cannot fast on shabbat?
italian seasoning= 1/4 teaspoon each dried oregano leaves, dried marjoram leaves and dried basil leaves plus 1/8 teaspoon rubbed dried sage.
some wines, are flavored and colored and may contain kitniyoth, and therefore are not marked for passover use.
in fact, many people do not sell chametz be’ain (visible chametz), and will only rely on mechirat chametz for mixtures of chametz.
kitniyot foods are permitted to someone who is ill or a child who requires them, and is not yet cognizant of passover concepts.
shaving cream and gel 42.
see also chok leyisroel p. 24:33.
c. young children are encouraged to participate in the seder to the extent of their ability.
shortly thereafter we learned that the largest distributor of food items on the east coast, which distributes products to a number of major supermarket chains, is the jewish-owned c&s (cohen & siegel).
however, if one forgot, they should be roasted on saturday night and eaten during the day on sunday.
the blessing is recited before the  search begins, and a public disclaimer of ownership of chametz (bitul) is  recited afterward.
makes 1/4 cup flavored vinegar= lemon juice in cooking or salad, grapefruit juice in salads,  wine in marinades.
if juice or eggs are added to or substituted for the water in the mix, it is called “matzoh ashira26“(egg matzoh), and is not suitable for the seder.
when one is genuinely in doubt,tevilah should be done without abrachah.
by: rabbi dr. j. david bleich why is this erev pesach different from every other erev pesach?
however, if one decides to adopt the option of using egg matzoh as the “bread at the three meals on that shabbat, which is an option permitted or even suggested by some34, it is evident that this would solve the problem for all three meals; furthermore, it would not be necessary to get up early to daven so as to eat chametz before the time when it is no longer permitted.
(although most people only kasher their utensils in preparation for pesach, the following directions apply tokashering utensils all year-round as well.)
he  then recited the “birkat hamazon”.
enzymes, vitamins, flavors and other complex issues microbiology has played a great role in the advances in food technology in  the past few decades.
we certify a number of lactose reduced products for passover.
if by any chance chometz remains in the house, it must be covered and burned on  chol hamoed (monday evening).
so  that he can be rested for the seder after shabbat.
it is feasible for allergic and celiac people to be at a hotel for  passover.
we can suggest a few, all of which have variations and permutations, briefly summarized as follows: we can eat challah at all three meals; we can use egg matzoh for all the meals; we can use challah friday night and early shabbat morning, and egg matzoh for the third meal in the afternoon; or (if we don’t want to use egg matzoh), we can use challah friday night and early shabbat morning, and skip the third meal.
indeed,  this is the counsel of the shulchan aruch: when erev pesach occurs on shabbat, we search the house [for chametz]  on the 13th
[many children and adults must consume baby formula, soy/rice beverages or  nutritional supplements (which cannot be certified for pesach since they  contain kitnios) and require information as to whether those items contain  chametz.
four cups of wine a. each jew is obligated to drink four cups of wine at these specific times during each seder: the first at the start of the seder, following kiddush; the second before the meal, after reciting the haggadah story; the third following the grace after the meal; and the last after completing psalms of praise (hallel).
for those suffering from wheat allergies, or celiac disease, who are contemplating a vacation at a passover certified hotel, it would be prudent to limit themselves to a non-gebroks program.
bedikat chametz when erev pesach falls on shabbat, we search the house for chametz on thursday evening, since we are not able to go around with a candle on friday night.
back to ou  passover home page print article are ou-p matzos 18 minute matzos?
when the ou enters into a new contract with a jewish company, we make this policy clear at the outset.
therefore, frozen vegetables require passover certification.
makes 2 dozen miniature balls these low-carb chicken kneidlach are a luscious alternative to regular matzah balls.
this water is then referred to asmayim shelanu(water which has “slept”).
in purchasing ou-certified packaged poultry parts, the  consumer must be certain that the sealed package and the inner cellophane  wrapper have not been tampered with.
the shulchan aruch rules that “it is forbidden to eat bread [on erev pesach] from the tenth hour and on2.
back to ou passover home page print article with an array of religious, youth, social action, educational, public policy and community development services, programs and activities, the orthodox union is among the largest jewish organizations in the world.
after six and one-half hours (mincha gedolah) one should eat meat, fish or fruit to fulfill the mitzvah of shalosh seudos, since it is a matter of dispute if shalosh seudos can be fulfilled in the morning.
the piece of matzah called afikoman should be eaten before midnight, and no solid food should be eaten thereafter.
the greatness and grandeur of god require acknowledgement when his handiwork is actually observed.
once matzah has been  baked properly, leavening can no longer occur, and the product can no longer  become chametz.
however, because we are unable to verify the kosher for passover status of the equipment on which they are produced, we recommend purchasing these items before passover, at which point any traces of chometz would be batul(nullified).
there’s a damn yankee jew here!”
the escalation of worldwide kosher wine production can be attributed to increased consumer demand for quality kosher wines.
51 avnei tzedek, 50, quoted in shearaim metzuyanim behalacha, 115:l. 52 ibid.
however, he cautions that one should not reprimand someone who does  employ the matzoh option on friday evening.
the challah used for hamotzi on shabbos should be eaten at a non-pesach  table, or over the floor.
if an individual cannot drink any grape product, then a rabbi should be consulted on another substitute beverage in order to fulfill the mitzvah of drinking the four cups.
pulmocare suplena tow-cal hn questions about ou certified nutritional supplements not on this list should be directed to the ou kashruth hotline at (212) 613-8241.back to ou passover home page print article all regular ground coffees are acceptable for passover use when bearing an ou.
similarly, keep your menus and grocery lists from previous years as a helpful guide and store them in clear plastic page protectors.
if we accept the first reason as the true rationale, then going to work should be forbidden on friday afternoon in our case, since that is the time one should prepare for pesach.
the blessing recited on the occasion of birkat hachammah, “he who makes the work of creation,” is singular among berachot in that it is occasioned by an external event that acquires meaning as a testimonial to god as creator of the universe only when that event is reflected upon, internalized and understood in a profound manner.
(see taz, y.d. 120:7.)
even setting the  table for the seder is not permissible.
methods of removal are as follows: a. any tiny crumbs that remain  may be deposited on the floor in a place where people regularly walk.
therefore, matzah products such as ground matzah meal, flour and farfel may be cooked in hot water, baked or blended with any variety of passover ingredients.
the next day is simchat torah, and the shulchan aruch permits removal of utensils from the succah on shemini atzeret, to be brought into the house.
[thursday night] and destroy all [chametz] before shabbat, but  we leave over food for two meals which are required on shabbat, but  the time for the third meal is after mincha [
why did chazal decree celebration of a nonfactual cosmic phenomenon?
if the answer is positive, it is likely that even the items not  containing matzo meal may contain some gluten that can even exceed the  government threshold.
those with this allergy should discuss the matter with their allergist and rabbi.
similar to other kinds of kitniyot, quinoa is commonly milled into flour.
when these grains  come in contact with water, they leaven within 18 minutes.
it is customary to use both almonds and walnuts in charoses.
the rabbi, acting as an agent for the owners of the chametz, then enters into an agreement with a non-jew for the sale of chametz.
back to ou passover home page  print article glossary of common passover terms chametz: fermented or leavened wheat, rye, oats, spelt and barley.
serve as a davar hama’amid and/or a milsah d’avidah lit’amah,  which can’t be batel.
consult with your local orthodox rabbi  for details.
the fourth and fifth kezeitim are eaten together at the end of the festive meal as part of the afikoman.
d. one should drink the wine reclining on the left side, in order to symbolize freedom.
the fast is not held on friday to avoid entering shabbat feeling  uncomfortable because of the fast.
no post-pesach danish.)
for frying: instead of chicken fat, use combination of olive oil or vegetable oil and 1 to 2 tablespoons pareve passover margarine.
fast of the firstborn males: since one is  prohibited to fast on shabbat, the firstborn should fast on thursday.
preparing for passover
but what is it that is singular about the sun on the day of birkat hachammah that requires a human response in the form of a berachah?
the shulchan aruch rules that “it is forbidden to eat bread [on erev pesach] from the tenth hour and on.
indeed, this is the advice given by the chazon ish.
if the two areas are not in sight of one another, kiddush and birkas hamazon must be recited where the challah was eaten.
it has been suggested that one should do it on friday night, having a non-jew carry the candle.
thus, although we’ve seen a number of disagreements as to  whether certain foods are or aren’t kitnios, those disagreements are  limited to one who wants to consume the actual item (or a hashgachah certifying  someone else who is intentionally putting the ingredient into a food), but  these disagreements rarely affect consumers.
clearly, one cannot submerge a microwave into a pot of boiling water.
according to the shulchan aruch, dough made from flour mixed with fruit juices or eggs will not become chametz no matter how long it stands, provided no water is added.
the open structure of these vegetables allows insects to penetrate the entire head.
we encourage you to ask your local grocer or supermarket manager to stock those ou endorsed products that are not readily available in your area.
it is the only type of “bread” which jews may eat during passover, and it must be made specifically for passover use, under rabbinical supervision.
this allows for leniency under certain circumstances.
this subject is complex and is beyond the scope of this article.
needless to say, we constantly clean all utensils and machinery involved in kneeding and mixing the dough.
what are the rituals for the period before passover begins? this year thursday, april 21 is a fast day for jewish firstborn males, in commemoration of the tenth plague, the slaying of the firstborn male egyptians, which immediately resulted in the exodus.
metzuyanim behalacha 115:4 for further opinions on this.
curry powder= 2 tablespoons ground coriander, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 2  tablespoons red pepper, 2 tablespoons turmeric, 2 tablespoons ground ginger.
only chametz acquired during pesach is therefore a matter of concern.
3 tablespoon unsweetened  cocoa powder plus 1 tablespoon oil or melted margarine 16 oz.
since the chametz barley malt plays such a crucial role in the creation of the whisky (and also dramatically changes the taste of the grain before it is fermented), the barley malt is considered a davar hama’amid and one may not own such whisky on pesach (see shulchan aruch 442:5 and mishnah berurah 442:25).
the requirement of biur  chametz is limited to foods under jewish ownership and possession.
the mitzvot of bedikah and biur have therefore not  been violated, and the injunction of chametz she’avar alav  ha’pesach is avoided.
to a jew every mitzvah is treasured; each is a source of delight.
phenomena such as the appearance of lightning or meteors and sighting colossal mountains or deep canyons demand acknowledgment of god as “he who makes the work of creation.”
glacial acetic acid is chemically identical to vinegar, but is made from petroleum feedstock as opposed to being fermented, and poses little pesach concern.
please  consult our passover product search for more information.
each of the  three meals that one is required to eat on shabbat should begin with two whole  loaves of bread (“lechem mishnah”) .
in point of fact, r. moshe feinstein forbids eating matzoh during the day  of erev pesach and discourages its use even for the friday night meal  preceding.
in point of fact, r. moshe feinstein forbids eating matzoh during the day of erev pesach and discourages its use even for the friday night meal preceding.
they are  well worth the price for ease and speed in food preparation.
what happens if one takes bland-tasting corn, and uses enzymes to liquefy and sweeten it – does the resulting corn syrup remain forbidden as kitnios?
cosmetics (except possibly lipsticks) 15.
according to the mishnah berurah, this is the way they  used to do it in europe.
birkat hachammah coincides with erev pesach only on the rarest of occasions.
the seder is a miniature recreation of the exodus, and participants should imagine themselves as leaving egypt.
derivatives of kitnios the earlier poskim, including rema, clearly indicate that oil made from  kitnios is forbidden on pesach, but some of the later poskim suggest that such  oil may be permitted because some of the original reasons for the minhag  don’t apply to the oil extracted from kitnios.
laundry detergents 30.
as the day went on, the yeast in that dough would multiply (and be joined by other yeast found in the air) to such an extent that that the batter would turn sour and inedible.
chametz that has been sold must be put in a completely sealed-off place, inaccessible during passover.
many accept  this as the proper rule to follow.
there are differing opinions as to whether one may kasher such materials.
tempering is the process by which grains are softened by soaking in water, and this flour and all products made with it are, therefore, chametz.
since the fourteenth of nisan occurs on shabbat this year, special laws are in  effect for biur chametz.
large pieces of chametz which are difficult to destroy may be given to a non-jew or else deposited in the garbage by a non-jew.
however, allergies can be life threatening.
and it is generally accepted that corn (see below), green beans, snow peas,  sugar-snap peas, chickpeas, soybeans, sunflower and poppy seeds are also  forbidden.
if for some reason, none of these options is feasible, the person should  declare he is disowning any remaining chametz, cover it so that it is not  visible, and burn it on chol hamoed.
this is a situation which  arises not only on this particular sabbath but also when a family goes to a  hotel for shabbat, where usually all the women light candles in a separate  place, not in the dining room.
1 pound lean ground chicken 2 large eggs (or 1 large egg plus 2 egg whites) 1 tablespoon oil 3 tablespoons club soda or cold water 1 tablespoon minced fresh dill 1 packet matzah ball mix (or gluten-free matzah ball mix)
wine the requirement of drinking four cups of wine is rabbinic in nature and the minimal measurement required for the four cups is a rivi’it for each cup.
immediately after pesach, you will rush out and buy fresh danishes to enjoy with your coffee after an entire week of cake-deprivation and eating cookies made from potato starch.
pancake syrup=use fruit jelly, not jam and add a little water to thin.
the basic principle stipulates that in order for wine to assume kosher status, it must be produced by religiously observant jews.
these questions depend on a machlokes rishonim cited in mishnah berurah 216:7 regarding the kashrus of musk – a fragrant byproduct of blood which is found in the abdominal gland of the male musk deer.
it is also questionable whether one can make kiddush or eat part of the  meal in a room where the sabbath candles are not lit.
its major feature is the reading of the haggadah, which relates, in detail, the events of the exodus of the jewish people from ancient egypt, complete with symbolic reenactments using kosher wine, specially prepared matzah, and bitter herbs.
sponge cakes, marble cakes, chocolate loaves, brownies, jelly rolls, seven layer cake, and cookies are only some of the items that can be made without any nuts.
if, however, if any residual material remains after an imperfect clean-up, the matzah produced on that line is considered of an inferior kashrut standard.
does that mean  that it is forbidden to eat matzoh during the entire day?
for example, the us government allows averages of up to 60 insects per 100 grams in frozen broccoli, and up to 50 insects per 100 grams of frozen spinach.
for centuries, it was, by and large, unquestioned both among jews and non-jews because it proved to be quite suitable for human needs.
since many of these manufacturers are kosher, they require only kosher grape juice.
the barton item is not matzah ashirah.
muchzak betola’im—experience has shown that a certain food during a particular season is likely to contain infestation a majority of the time.
to rid the leaf of these worms, carefully slit the bumpy part within the burrow with a sharp knife and remove the worm.
those who eat gebrukts may eat knaidlach (which are cooked in liquid) the entire shabbos until the end of the 9th hour.
if there are health issues involved, please consult a  health specialist and yourrav.
its registered service mark,oup, on thousands of consumer and industrial food products, is a guarantee of the highest standards of kashruth for passover.
obviously, if the child can eat healthy food that is not kitniyoth, that would be preferable.
there may also be a need to make new berachot when continuing the meal in this fashion in another room.
this matzah may not be used for the mitzvah regardless of which flour is  used.
if you are asking if we stop the factory after each 18 minute run to clean everything, the answer is that we do not.
sometimes alternative sources, such as byproducts of beer manufacture (a source of wheat alcohol), become tempting options.
check with your rabbi for instructions to kasher the microwave.
metal utensils that are coated with other materials that do not require tevilah, such as a teflon coated frying pan, should be toveled without a berachah.
both folger’s and taster’s choice instant coffee remain acceptable without special passover certification.
place the racks back into the oven, and turn the oven to broil for one and-a-half hours.
this is because our sages mandated that one must still eat the traditional bitter herb independently.
in contrast, wine vinegar and apple cider vinegar are made from wine and apple cider which aren’t chametz.
the  child’s mother raced outside – and promptly invited the soldier to  join their seder.
unfortunately, this is one mitzvah of pesach which we do not yet have the zichirat of experiencing.
43 iggerot chazon ish i, 188.
considering the opposition of chazal to eating matzoh before the proper  time, it becomes essential to define precisely what qualifies as  “matzoh” under the rubric of halacha.
the information in this article is intended to enable an informed and enlightened conversation.
it is a custom to recite the torah portion dealing with the paschal sacrifice at the conclusion of this third meal42.
however, no  custom can ever be instituted which would have the effect of barring  performance of a mitzvah.
however, other pieces of machinery in the factory does not require cleaning every eighteen minutes.
however, narrow pipes that one cannot reach inside and scrub may not be kashered .
however, our rabbinical authorities have  decided that lactaid milk is permissible if purchased before passover since any  chometz contained within lactaid milk would be nullified (batel).
gedilla cookies and gefen cookies will be available with ou-p. these items are not made with matzah meal.
similarly, plain matzoh which has subsequently been cooked or fried does not  qualify for the mitzvah of “matzoh” at the seder.
since ashkenazim do not actually eat the egg and the shankbone on pesach (since they are roasted), they should also be prepared before shabbat, not on the holiday.
the seder plate in the special situation when erev pesach occurs on shabbat, all  preparations for the seder should be completed on friday.
see mikraei kodesh 2:23, and note 6 thereon, where  rabbi frank advises leaving over a piece of the food from the siyyum on  thursday, to be eaten by the firstborn on friday.
canola oil was first approved for food use in the united states in 1985 and  there are those who therefore suggested that it is a “new” item  which shouldn’t be included in the minhag, as per iggeros moshe cited  above.
white distilled vinegar is made from distilled alcohol (described above) and the most serious concern is whether the grain used was chametz (e.g. wheat), kitnios (e.g. corn), or something innocuous (e.g. potatoes).
it is a custom to recite the torah portion dealing with the paschal sacrifice at the conclusion of this third meal.42 handling the matzoh
[so people who eat kitnios may inadvertently be eating chametz].
plates [paper (in the usa only), plastic or styrofoam] 39.
wet your hands and shape the mixture into walnut-sized balls.
by identifying fundamental principles and concepts, halachists have addressed she’eilot (questions) that run the full gamut of modern human experience.
this renders chewable  lactaid tablets problematic.
however, passover cleaning in jewish homes must be started much  earlier.
but the ramo does not permit this  choice for ashkenazi jews, opting instead for a meal without bread of any type: in our [ashkenazi] countries, where it is our custom not to eat matzoh  ashira … one should fulfill [the obligation to have] a third meal with  various types of fruit or with meat and fish39.
they are sprayed on the nuts using corn derivatives (kitniyot ).
chametz for personal use, they say, should be completely discarded in observance of the mitzvah of “tashbitu se’or mibateichem.”
erev pesach shechal  beshabbat, p.51, discusses whether it is necessary to “kaslter”  false teeth; if one pours boiling water over them on shabbat, ostensibly to  clean them but really with the intention of rendering them usable for pesach,  is this a permissible haarama or not?
however, no custom can ever be  instituted which would have the effect of barring performance of a mitzvah.
rav ovadia yosef sees little reason to do anything special with the teeth: since the food that one eats is not hot enough to be a problem halachically (otherwise he wouldn’t be able to take it into his mouth) and since the teeth are not porous, little more than cleaning them well is required14.
in this instance, the rabbi stipulates at the time of the sale that he will only reacquire the chametz after pesach ends for that individual.
additionally, utensils that are always lined with paper or foil are not obligated.
secondly, it is questionable whether it is  permitted to break up what is essentially one meal by reciting birkat hamazon  and then immediately washing and making another blessing on bread.
any flour- dust generated by the mixing process must be contained to ensure that it does not drift into other areas of production, thereby contaminating the dough being rolled into matzah.
what special preparations must be made in the jewish home for passover?
since kitniyot bears many similarities to the five grains, one may come to mistakenly eatchametz.
in the writings of the  chatam sofer on pesach, he rules in 444 that it is better to forego lechem  inishneh altogether rather than eat matzoh on erev pesach.
there is no way to determine if that box is chametz sheavar alav hapesach.
he tells a story of an extremely pious  individual to whom it was revealed in a dream that he was eating chametz on  pesach – and that it was due to inadvertently leaving some chametz  between his teeth!
see solutions offered by erev, pesach shechal beshabbat, p. 62.
consumers should look for the p or kosher for passover symbols on all products.
see also ereu pesach shechal beshabbat, p. 65.
although “matzah ashirah” is not chametz, it is our custom not to  eat it during that time period when we may not eat chametz.
if yeast doesn’t contain any ingredients from the 5 grains  (as it often doesn’t) it isn’t chametz even though it has the same  characteristics as se’or (see mechiltah 9:19 on sh’mos 12:19) and  one may own it on pesach.
on the night of the thirteenth  of nisan, thursday, april 21, 2005, a search for chametz is to be conducted in  the home, wherever chametz may have been brought during the year.
on p. 96 he deals with the custom  some men have of going to the mikvah before a holiday.
malted barley, malt) which is definitely chametz.
this renders chewable lactaid tablets problematic.
in the following summary, i have presented a set of practical  recommendations based on mainstream positions.
this solution, although ingenious, may  not be halachically feasible.
however, retail-packaged quinoa may share equipment with chametz grains.
today, it is generally assumed that the inventory in a major supermarket is sold much more quickly; shelves are generally restocked on a daily basis.
in the context of the  rabbinic dictum, it is clear that only that product which is worthy to be eaten  at the seder is included in the category of matzoh which may not be eaten on  the day preceding pesach.
birkat hachammah is indeed a rare event—an event that recurs only every twenty-eight years.
aruch hashalchan 444:6 concurs.
nevertheless, even if egg matzoh is not  “bread” within the definition of the term, it can still take the  place of bread at a meal, provided that it is used instead of bread and that a  sufficient amount is ‘consumed28‘.
while it is important that everyone follow family minhagim, it is also necessary to understand specific dispensations when dealing with the infirm, elderly or small children.
25 orach chaim 471:2.
the air we breathe contains yeast, and  therefore if one makes a batter of flour and water it’ll eventually rise  even if no yeast is added, because yeast from the atmosphere will find their  way into the batter.
some people have the custom to bake matzoh for the seder on the afternoon of erev pesach.
•the microwave should be cleaned out very well.
a. halachah is not monolithic and rabbinic disputes abound.
however, full sabbath rules remain in effect on friday evenings and saturdays during passover.
ground coffee remains acceptable from any source as long as it is unflavored and not decaffeinated.
by: rabbi eli gersten proper passover observance requires not only detailed knowledge of halachot, but also an appreciation and awareness of the many traditions (minhagim) adhered to during the holiday dictating what one may and may not eat.
for ashkenazim, rav moshe feinstein has issued the same ruling based on the ramo working on friday
till now, we have discussed the ways in which it is  possible to meet the requirement to eat the first two meals on shabbat –  the one on friday night and the one on shabbat morning.
the long term cumulative effects of consuming gluten can be devastating for a celiac person.
some  other examples of foods which are or aren’t kitnios will be noted below  and in the “derivatives of kitnios” section.
in these cases, one should be careful to ensure that thekitniyot foods do not contain chametz, chametz-processing aids or additives, were not processed on chametz equipment and are stored apart from other passover foods, as well as served on separate kitchen utensils.
before we begin, let us note the happy circumstance that the additional complication of observing the sabbath on this so-busy day prior to pesach brings with it some unexpected rewards: having spent the day before pesach resting, and refreshed by the sabbath tranquility, all will be able to participate in the seder at night with true appreciation1.
on the other hand, it is customary to use potatoes and cottonseed oils (except in jerusalem) despite the fact that they are ground into flour.
for a variety of reasons, it is preferable to cook and eat the shabbos meal in pesach utensils.
this product  requires an ou-p label.
but having a non-jew set the  table for the seder is permitted48.
rabbi yosef enters into an explanation of why matzoh is different from teuel, which is rabbinically forbidden, which cannot be given to a child.
back to ou  passover home page print article passover faqs what is passover?
therefore, each leaf must be washed and checked individually.
it takes some time to organize such a group,  but it can be done.
ingesting gluten triggers their immune system to launch an attack on the small intestine.
59 shulchan aruch 468.
some rishonim hold that  since blood is non-kosher, musk is also forbidden, but others holds that once  the blood is nishtaneh – changed – it loses its original identity  and becomes an innocuous kosher liquid.
it is a mitzvah to eat warm foods on shabbat, but the shulchan aruch warns that one should be careful not to cook chametz foods which will stick to the pot, since it will not be possible to clean it properly before pesach.
cleaning the dishes and putting them away7 is also a problem.
f. consult the following section on shiurim for the minimum volume of maror  to be consumed each time and the time limits.
beer contains approximately 5% alcohol and  people who want a drink with a higher alcohol content do the following.
in an effort to help rabbanim make decisions about nutritional supplements for pesach the ou has identified those products that are halachically acceptable for cholim.
the reason for adopting shmuel’s calculations for this purpose, even though they were known to be inexact, is quite evident: the tal umatar prayer must be recited by everyone.
large utensils may be submerged in the water one part at a time.
erev pesach shechal beshabbat p. 107, n. 3, discusses whether an object rendered unusable on shabbat due to custom should actually be considered muktza.
if a person decides to use regular challah for the meal, but is afraid that  he will be unable to consume the entire two loaves (and have difficulty
however, one can also collect yeast from plant sources and produce it via  fermentation.
if you are asking if we stop the factory after each 18 minute run to clean  everything, the answer is that we do not.
a  non-jew, however, may remove it for him.
this is especially true when it comes topesach .
for the reasons outlined above, there is no one definitive position for where and when chametz can and cannot be purchased after pesach.
in many congregations, a special celebration siyum is conducted, following  which participating firstborn males are permitted to break their fast.
if one does not wish to use bread on shabbat and has removed all  chametz from the house before shabbat, then he can use egg matzah  (“matzah ashira”) for the first two shabbat meals provided that the  second meal is finished before the time when the chametz becomes prohibited.
additional concerns stem from questions about the equipment,  enzymes, yeasts, and nutrients used in creating the alcohol and vinegar.
3 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa  powder plus 2 2/3 tablespoon oil and 4 1/2 tablespoon granulated sugar 1  cup confectioners’ sugar = 1 cup granulated sugar minus 1 tablespoon  sugar plus 1 tablespoon potato starch pulsed in a food processor or blender 1 cup sour milk or buttermilk for dairy baking = 1 tablespoon lemon juice in a  1 cup measure, then fill to 1 cup with passover nondairy creamer.
a kitchen that is preparing both gebroks and non-gebroks food would have difficulty meeting this standard.
the zeroah (shank bone) and roasted egg should be prepared before shabbos.
destruction of the chametz (“bi’ur chametz” ):
however, sefer chassidim 266, cited in be’er hetev 290,  warns that one should not specifically state that he is sleeping on shabbat
although there are some lenient opinions, most rabbis do not permit one to change into clothing for the seder on shabbat.
metal and wooden utensils, if they can be thoroughly cleaned, may be “kashered,” but earthenware utensils may not be “kashered”.
heat and fermentation the heat generated by the oven and the machinery running in an industrial setting often cause bakery temperatures to rise.
erev pesach fell on the  sabbath, and how much anguish i have in my heart at the prohibitions and errors that occurred on this sabbath due to the eating of chametz,  because they were unable to be careful properly concerning crumbs of  chametz and cleaning the house and the like, aside from the lack of sabbath joy, inasmuch as they had to eat between the oven and the stove;  furthermore, many were late in reciting the prayers on shabbat, and it is  possible that they ate after the time when it is prohibited12.
the occurrence of birkat hachammah on erev pesach is more than a curious coincidence.
there are those who advise being scrupulous to rinse out the mouth very well, so that no chametz remains13.
of all these items, enzymes have arguably had the most far-reaching affect.
rather we will describe the standard method of purging flavor from the most common items.
even if a bakery produces cakes and  cookies without nuts, as long as nuts are used in the facility it may be  dangerous for an allergic person to eat them.
since the liquid chocolate poured into the mold is not very hot (generally less than 100 degrees), a cleanup, rather than a full koshering suffices.
the various israeli ou matzah companies will all be selling machine shmurah matzah as well.
poultry livers must be removed from the cavity and broiled separately.
he also debates conducting the search using the electric lights which are already kindled in the house 53 126.
its major feature is the reading of the haggadah, which  relates, in detail, the events of the exodus of the jewish people from ancient  egypt, complete with symbolic reenactments using kosher wine, specially  prepared matzah, and bitter herbs.
many years ago the ou certified kosher for passover peanut oils for those jews whose custom was to eat peanuts and peanut oil on passover.
a solid (e.g., a piece of chicken) can be eaten with one’s hands; in this case, the plate is merely a “civilized” appurtenance but unnecessary.
according to some authorities, another type of matzoh which might be considered permitted for use on erev pesach is matzoh which is not matzoh shmura 31.
plastic surface cleansers should be used to make sure that all six sides of the microwave are clean.
and some avoid mixing matzah with any liquid, while others are only careful to segregate matzo from water.
microwave oven someone who wishes to use a year-round microwave on passover should do the following.
back to ou passover home page print article erev pesach on shabbat
when the sale is carried out, a limited amount of chametz is not sold and set aside to be destroyed on the following day, in order to fulfill the mitzvot of bedikah, biur and bitul.
rav ovadia yosef sees little reason to do anything  special with the teeth: since the food that one eats is not hot enough to be a  problem halachically (otherwise he wouldn’t be able to take it into his  mouth) and since the teeth are not porous, little more than cleaning them well  is required.
in that case, one should prepare egg matzah (“matzah  ashirah” ) for the “lechem mishnah” to be eaten at the  shabbat meals which take place before the time when chametz becomes prohibited.
vegetables that are not commonly infested do not require checking.
as he turned up a street in this hostile territory, he spied a little boy sitting outside, eating a piece of matzah.
however, since these four kezeitimare rabbinic requirements, in an extenuating circumstance there is room for leniency to eat less.
relating the story of the exodus (haggadah or magid) 5)
stir and  steep 5 minutes butter in baking or cooking use pareve passover margarine in equal amounts.
erev pesach shechal beshabbat, p. 142, cites  various opinions which he explains in detail.
although, farmers might use pesticides to curb insect infestation levels, the effects are often limited.
one recommended  way to clean lettuce of insects is to soak it for not more than half an hour in  salt water, and rinse it in fresh water before inspection.
from an allergen standpoint , there are probably more than 0 ppm in  parve chocolate.
bitul chametz the nullification of chametz.
orach chaim 444:l: see ereu pesach shechal beshabbas, pp. 64 and 161, about eating matzoh balls (kneidlach) or gefilte fish made with matzoh meal, on this day, and whether this is included in the ban on eating matzoh on erev pesach.
aluminum foil is a great help on pesach – it can cover counters,  shelves etc.
the mishnah berurah, orach chaim, maintains that it is preferable to eat one meal that really satisfies the hunger, and is a true meal, rather than breaking up the meal into two.
birkat hachammah is more than a bit different.
please note that these products are only acceptable when bearing the ou or ou-d symbol.
back to ou passover home page print article poultry products with sauce, pre-cooked poultry and meat, poultry and meat provisions, and delicatessen products must bear kosher for passover certification.
but since some bread must be eaten, here are two ways this can be done: 1.
there are many families which maintain the tradition of additional restrictions to their passover diet.
hair gels, sprays & mousse 25.
only coffee bearing an ou-p symbol or brands listed in the gray area of the passover directory should be used.
as a result of the concerns outlined above, many rabbonim recommend that people whose minhag is to not sell chametz gamur, shouldn’t sell (or retain possession) of vinegar-containing products on pesach.
however, chok leyisrael, p. 48:16, reports that the chatam sofer used to bake matzoh for the seder on saturday night, because that was the tradition he received from his teachers.
microwave on medium, uncovered, for 2 minutes, then stir.
till now, we have discussed the ways in which it is possible to meet the requirement to eat the first two meals on shabbat – the one on friday night and the one on shabbat morning.
the child’s mother raced outside – and promptly invited the soldier to join their seder.
whatever your minhag, may you enjoy all your kosher-for-pesach cakes and eat them too!
some hashgochos consider  fenugreek to be kitnios while others do not, and the surprising ramifications  of this question will be noted towards the end of the article.
all of these items are made with mashgiach temidi and bishul yisrael.
it is a mitzvah to eat warm foods on shabbat, but the shulchan aruch warns  that one should be careful not to cook chametz foods which will stick to the  pot, since it will not be possible to clean it properly before pesach10.
all equipment used in the preparation of matzah must be constantly cleaned of dough crumbs, and the oven in which matzah is baked must be set at the proper baking temperature.
often, consumers who have health concerns contactkashrus agencies in order to obtain information about foods and ingredients.
rav ovadia yosef records that what to do on this shabbat has long been a problem; an earlier rabbi of alexandria, egypt, had already bemoaned the mistakes arising out of ignorance, when …
if a person has difficulty drinking wine, it may be diluted with kosher grape juice.
agitate lettuce leaves in the soapy solution.
e. when lettuce is used, it must be cleaned and inspected very carefully to remove the small insects which often are present in its leaves.
the question is, when can one legitimately say there is a 50 percent chance that the chametz on the supermarket shelf was purchased by the store after the conclusion of pesach?
all of these preparations must be completed by the morning before passover.
c. three unbroken matzot are required for the seder plate for each seder.
nevertheless, even if egg matzoh is not “bread” within the definition of the term, it can still take the place of bread at a meal, provided that it is used instead of bread and that a sufficient amount is ‘consumed’ this is the rule any time cake, crackers, or any baked goods are eaten in sufficient quantity to qualify as a meal.
a. bread, cookies, cake, pretzels, blintzes, cereals and other foods that contain any of the five primary grains (oat, wheat, spelt, rye and barley) are included.
in addition barton will have ou-p chocolate covered regular matzah crackers.
i know of several hotels that operate passover programs for small crowds of 100-150 people.
e. to fulfill the mitzvot of the seder, one must use shmurah matzot, which  are produced under a special standard of supervision, beginning with the  harvest of the grain (rather than with its milling into flour, as with regular  matzot for passover).
matzah unleavened bread prepared from the flour of grains that have  not been washed or tempered, and have been milled under supervision, completely  protected from any contact with water.
1 cup ground cookies or soup nuts plus 1  teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup bread crumbs = 1 cup matzo meal 1 cup matzo meal = 3 matzoth ground in a food processor 1 cup matzoth cake meal = 1 cup plus 2 tablespoon matzo meal finely ground  in a blender or food processor and sifted 3 crumbled matzo = 2 cups matzo farfel 1 cup (8 oz.) cream cheese = 1 cup cottage cheese pureed with 1/2 stick  butter or margarine chicken fat or gribenes =
if we accept this understanding of the rule, it would be permitted to use matzoh at the friday night meal and also for the meal (or meals) very early on the morning of the sabbath, but not for a meal later in the day.
all of this is done in order to stress the serious nature of the process.
stir and steep 5 minutes butter in baking or cooking use pareve passover margarine in equal amounts.
thus, as an example, there is obviously no talmudic discussion about the propriety of walking past a motion detector on shabbat, yet contemporary posekim (halachic decisors) have analyzed this issue and found relevant source material in the vast sea of halachic literature.
all plastic utensils.
however, this is a tradition that evolved in the last millennium, and these foods are not actual chametz.
although this scenario takes care of the problem of having a meal on shabbat with two breads, it does introduce the problem of getting rid of chametz on shabbat.
it’s okay to indulge, but keep your portions small!
yatza mimitzrayim—a person is obligated to look upon himself as if he exited from egypt.”
1 medium onion, cut into chunks 1 celery stalk, cut into chunks 2 tablespoons fresh dill 1 pound lean ground chicken or turkey 1 large egg 1 tablespoon vegetable or olive oil 3 tablespoons matzah meal (or ground almonds) 1/2 teaspoon salt freshly ground black pepper 2 tablespoons club soda or cold water 10 cups salted water using the steel blade of a food processor, process the onion, celery and dill until minced, about 10 seconds.
according to the mishnah berurah, this is the way they used to do it in europe11.
bartenura will be introducing an ou-p grapeseed oil this year.
a prominent minhag upheld by ashkenazic jewry entails refraining from eating kitniyot on passover.
it is the decision of the shulchan aruch that for the third meal, one  should use egg matzohs for the two loaves.
chef’s secrets: hidden treasure: stuff the notsa balls with any of the following: shredded carrots, finely minced parsley, cooked chopped spinach, sautéed chopped mushrooms or onions.
the origins of tevilat keilim the talmud in tractate avodah zara (75b) cites the verse in bemidbar (numbers): “v’chol asher lo yavoh ba-aish ta’aviru ba-mayim” – “anything that cannot be placed in fire should be passed through water.”
back to ou passover home page print  article what is kitniyot?
why does the halacha permit removing objects from the succah, when it appears that it is in preparation for using them in the house on the next day?
one may also leave  bread for eating on friday after the time of “bi’ur chametz”.
the morning meals must be completed by the end of  the 4th hour.
moreover, it is a day during most of which one may not eat chametz, yet matzoh is likewish forbidden, straining the ingenuity of the food preparer.
one may eat challah outside in the yard and the remainder of the meal  indoors, or the challah may be eaten indoors in one area and the meal completed  in another area.
considering that we are very pressed  for time so early on the morning of erev pesach, leaving a sufficient interval  between these two early meals may be problematic.
although he disagrees with  the reasoning, rav ellenberg, does agree with the conclusion of rav rosen  (shlomei simchai 18 and part 5, 36-7), that one should not use matzoh for the  meal on erev pesach.
thus, even if the grain used in creating the whisky is kitnios, the water may be from a chametz whisky.
all cooking and eating utensils must be either set aside exclusively for passover use, or, in some cases, ‘made kosher’ in consultation with a rabbi, according to the procedures of jewish law.
the solar year is actually 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes and 46 seconds in length, and so the vernal equinox occurs earlier and earlier each year.
may this passover lead us to our nation’s long-awaited, final redemption.
this article will but scratch the surface and present some of the broad issues of concern.
plastic containers 36.
indeed, this is the advice given by the chazon ish43.
the rabbi as agent contrary to a widespread misconception, rabbis do not buy the chametz.
[in fact, matzah which isn’t baked especially for pesach is made from tempered wheat and should also be treated as chametz!].
utensils used to prepare food still in an inedible state, such as grinders, mixers, or butchering knives, should be toveled without a brachah, preferably together with metal utensils, so that the brachah recited over the latter will cover the former as well.
as for the third meal, that has its own unique questions.
but we are fully confident that with the proper team work, foresight and careful arrangements, all of our companies and consumers can enjoy a “chag kasher v’sameach.”back to ou passover home page print article
3 onions, thinly sliced 1 red pepper, seeded and sliced 1 boneless rolled turkey breast (about 4 pounds)
since birkat hachammah is an acknowledgment of a renewed perception of god as creator of the universe, the cause of that awareness is not crucial.
following this second line of thought, rav yosef permits work on  friday afternoon.
as with all matters of halacha, one should consult with their local rav.
we suggest that you consult with your local rabbi as to which of these opinions you should follow.
if the matzot from the seder plate are insufficient,  they should be supplemented by additional matzot.
most of the bottling plants servicing these markets will designate the passover coke items with a distinctive yellow cap in addition to the ou-p symbol on the cap or shoulder of the bottle.
if any particles splattered through the vent, they are likely too far away from the zeiya to pose an issue.
matzah may be prepared only with water  that has been stored overnight.
in theory, the buyer could acquire the necessary capital to pay the balance due after pesach by selling the chametz that he has acquired.
according to most authorities, the bitter herbs may consist either of romaine lettuce, horseradish or endives.
bugs and spirituality the torah clearly states that adherence to the stringency of not consuming sheratzim (insects) preserves the sanctity of the jewish people.
however, there are circumstances when kitniyot consumption is permissible.
back to ou passover home page print article birkat hachammah (the blessing over the sun) is said every 28 years, which is the amount of time it takes for the sun to return to the same location in the heavens where it was first set during the creation, 5768 years ago.
what items are included in this prohibition?
but excessive heat, which is a primary factor connected with fermentation, must be avoided in a matzah bakery.
this view holds that for the entire 24-hour period  before pesach, eating matzoh is precluded20.
c. red wine is the preferred beverage for use during the seder.
somewhat different  is the case of marror, for we do not want it to lose its bitter taste;  therefore, we make it on saturday night, with a shinui?’ or else make it  on friday and store it in a sealed container50.
therefore: a. if possible, they should be replaced —under the direction of a doctor — with a nonchewable, uncoated pill.
procedures for “kashering” depend on how  the utensil was used during the year.
not until the glucose molecules are released from the bondage of the chemical bonds that bind the glucose to one another is the sweetness of glucose manifest.
kitnios is batel b’rov, which means that if someone accidentally put kitnios into their pesach food, the food is b’dieved permitted assuming the food contains more non-kitnios than kitnios (rema 453:1 as per mishnah berurah 453:9).
however, before 5685, there was a gap of more than six centuries since birkat hachammah’s last previous occurrence on an erev pesach in 5069 (1309).
may you have a kosher and an enjoyable pesach!back to ou passover home page print article no other ceremony or ritual of the jewish year is as beloved or is observed by so many as the passover seder.
therefore while the minimal amount of maror that one is required to consume at the seder is also a kezayit, there are some variances amongst halachic authorities as far as how this measurement should be calculated.
[see also chok yaakov 453:9 who makes a similar point].
but the jerusalem talmud denigrates  a person who eats matzoh on the day before pesach “as if he had relations  with his fiancee17 in his father-in-law’s house18”.
mother’s olive oil pan coating spray, mishpacha olive oil spray and manischewitz buttery safflower cooking spray, olive oil spray and olive oil garlic cooking sprays will also be available.
they are well worth the price for ease and speed in food preparation.
many of these minhagim are limited to cases where the person  doesn’t know for sure that the product doesn’t contain chametz, and  therefore many of these minhagim are not practiced nowadays because the  hashgachah on the food guarantees that it is chametz-free.
egg matzah is called “matzah ashirah,” rich man’s bread, for it contains more complex ingredients and is unacceptable for the mitzvah of matzah.
the autumnal equinox is, of course, a solar phenomenon.
may he use matzoh instead?
how does the ou certify jewish-owned businesses that manufacture chametz?
under  normal circumstances, this matzah should not be used; both because it is feared  that some water may have accidentally been blended into the dough, and in  deference to the opinion which maintains that the mixture of flour with any  liquid other than water causes immediate chametz.
2) kinyan shtar: the transaction is recorded in a legal contract signed by the parties.
frozen assets: “notsa” balls can be cooked in advance, then frozen in chicken soup.
put a new filter over the drain.
wishing you all a bug-free passover.
on friday night, it is conceivable that one may use  matzah since the prohibition against eating matzah is not probably dependent on  daytime and not a 24-hour period.
as is always the case in halacha, there are divergent opinions  among poskim.
there will be wheat based matzo served with the meals but it will not be used in the kitchen in food preparation.
as for the third meal, that has its own  unique questions.
in contrast, in europe, the majority of alcohol is derived from barley.
•the microwave should be left idle for 24 hours.
some individuals (or communities) wish to avoid leniencies, particularly in their passover observance.
however, the shulchan aruch45 makes an exception on shemini atzeret, which is the last day people eat in the succah.
the sprouting of buds on fruit trees evokes thanksgiving for that beneficence.
consult your local orthodox rabbi for guidance.
if the answer is positive, it is likely that even the items not containing matzo meal may contain some gluten that can even exceed the government threshold.
it should be noted that if one’s cup holds more than a rivi’it, one should try to drink the entire cup or at least most of it.
these questions depend on a machlokes rishonim cited in mishnah berurah  216:7 regarding the kashrus of musk – a fragrant byproduct of blood which  is found in the abdominal gland of the male musk deer.
as a rule, spices are not considered to be kitnios and rema 453:1 makes a point of noting that anise/dill and coriander are not kitnios.
similarly, plain matzoh which has subsequently been cooked or fried does not qualify for the mitzvah of “matzoh” at the seder.
in the context of the rabbinic dictum, it is clear that only that product which is worthy to be eaten at the seder is included in the category of matzoh which may not be eaten on the day preceding pesach25.
then, later in the day, one can fulfill the mitzvah of eating warm food by  eating food cooked in passover utensils, on dishes which will be utilized for  the rest of the passover holiday.
back to ou passover home page print article all ou pre-packaged raw unprocessed meat and poultry that contain no other ingredients do not require special passover certification and therefore may be used for passover.
this date was a “guesstimate” of how long it would take for the stock of chametz that had been in the store during pesach to be depleted.
as a rule, materials such as fabric, metal, wood, rubber and stone (for example, granite and marble) can be kashered.
in the context of the  rabbinic dictum, it is clear that only that product which is worthy to be eaten  at the seder is included in the category of matzoh which may not be eaten on  the day preceding pesach25.
the ou position remains that ou supervised extra virgin olive oil can be used without special supervision for pesach.
using chametz one solution is to get up very early, daven, and then before the tenth  hour, eat a meal at which two loaves of bread or challah are served5.
11 orach chaim, no. 14.
this is the rule any time cake,  crackers, or any baked goods are eaten in sufficient quantity to qualify as a  meal.
all sides of the utensil, in and out, must come into contact with the water.
invest in a food processor and electric hand-mixer for pesach.
this transfer is traditionally carried out by engaging the rabbi to act as an agent, with power of attorney to sell the chametz to a non-jew by means of kabalat kinyan and contract – shtar harshaah.
coca cola will again be available with an ou-p for pesach in regular and diet flavors.
however, one should not eat a large meal that would diminish his appetite at the seder.
some poskim have held that since we have no mesorah (clear tradition) on these new materials, we must be strict and not allow kashering.
the importance of reading the ingredient statement on the label of any manufactured food cannot be understated.
23 mishnah berurah, orach chaim 470:ll.
any  edible items which normally contain grain alcohol, including whiskey, liquor,  and liquid medications (however, see paragraph f for further information on  medications), and even those which are not usually taken internally (such as  perfumes, cologne, toilet water, hair spray, hair tonic, shaving lotion,  mouthwash, liquid and roll-on deodorants) should be treated as chametz unless  specifically approved for passover use.
any mixing or washing should be done elsewhere, such as in the bathroom sink.
there are additional questions which arise on ereu pesach which is shabbat, such as which haftorah to read and when to gather for the derasha of shabbat hagadol.
it is also noteworthy that canola often grows near oats, and therefore even those who might argue that canola isn’t kitnios would agree that all of the oats must be removed before the oil is extracted from the canola.
in context, the verse refers to the various methods by which utensils eized as spoils in the midianite war could be rendered usable for the jewish victors.
d. restrictions on the eating, then use, and finally, possession of chametz normally begin on the morning before passover.
sauté the onion and garlic in hot oil for 5 minutes or until golden.
back to ou passover home page print article honey requires special passover certification, as our research shows that some companies adulterate it with corn syrup.
however, the shulchan aruch45 makes an exception on shernini atzeret, which is the last day people eat in the succah.
here he categorically rejects the option of using egg matzoh, yet, when the shulchan aruch, as quoted above, suggests that on erev pesach which falls on shabbat, it might be a good idea to use egg matzoh – the ramo makes no demurrer40!
even after all is said and done, there are numerous safe items available forpesach, which include but are not limited to, candies, chocolate, catsup, jam, jelly, spaghetti and even pizza.
in general, it is forbidden to go to work after midday on any erev pesach.
d. one should drink the wine reclining on the left side, in order to  symbolize freedom.
terumat hadeshen and maharil rule that the fast should be observed on the previous thursday, but others maintain that since the fast is only a custom, and the custom cannot be observed on the proper day – it should not be done at all.
under normal circumstances, this matzah should not be used; both because it is feared that some water may have accidentally been blended into the dough, and in deference to the opinion which maintains that the mixture of flour with any liquid other than water causes immediate chametz.
toasters do not require tevilah according to rav moshe feinstein.
the glucose source is essentially being converted by these critters to fermented ingredients.
in this case, we could not use  matzoh at any of the sabbath meals before pesach.
therefore, if there were no other way for them to carry out the requirement to have three meals with lechem mishneh on this shabbat, these persons, too, could use matzoh.
add ethanol, otherwise known as ethyl alcohol, to the list of passover  sensitive ingredients.
for the halachic definition of “hour”, see  mishnah berurah, orach chaim 443:7,8.
the goal of this article is to educate the reader of the many foods which potentially contain chametz, beginning with the more obvious and progressing to the more obscure.
back to ou passover home page print article bottled water all unflavored bottled water, seltzer and sparkling water is kosher  for passover, even without any kosher supervision.
how then can we fulfill the sabbath obligation to partake of three meals, each of which is accompanied by two loaves of “bread”?
microorganisms are  some of the most prolific manufacturers of ingredients in the food industry  these days, participating actively in the production of all sorts of fermented  ingredients, from xanthan gum to citric acid to riboflavin.
if standard vinegar requires specific approval, that means that all the  vinegar-based condiments, such as ketchup,mustard, mayonnaise, and dressing,  require specific approval as well.
orach chaim 444:l: see ereu pesach shechal beshabbas, pp. 64 and 161,  about eating matzoh balls (kneidlach) or gefilte fish made with matzoh meal, on  this day, and whether this is included in the ban on eating matzoh on erev  pesach.
a person allergic to nuts should avoid commercially baked products.
this matzah is eaten at the seder just before the meal, at which time the blessings of hamotzi and al achilat matzah are pronounced.
when done, the juices will run clear when pierced with a fork, and a meat thermometer, when inserted into the thickest part of the bird, should register an internal temperature of 165 to 170°.
not all vegetables need checking the requirement to check vegetables depends on the likelihood that an insect may be present.
this item is not cholov yisroel.
cabot creamery will have ou-p cheddar cheese.
how much egg matzoh is required so that it can substitute for real bread?
consequently, if there were no shutdown every 18 minutes, any residual material in continuous motion would not compromise the system.
kezayit matzah there are some variances amongst halachic authorities as far as how the precise measurement should be calculated, but the minimally recommended size is approximately 26 cubic centimeters.
vegetables with cracks and crevices are more vulnerable to infestation, since these are areas for insects to become trapped or hide.
the hebrew text of the blessing is “ברוך אתה ה’ אלוקינו מלך העולם עשה מעשה בראשית”.
cooking surfaces should be thoroughly cleaned and covered.
this issue is further complicated by the emergence of the “global marketplace” where it may be cheaper to buy xanthan gum from france or china than from the local producer.
in addition,vip and kojel will have ou-p ready to eat soup in a bowl items.
but only the most astute readers realize that the vinegar in their ketchup, the vitamins in the rice or milk, and the flavor in their favorite snack may in fact contain chametz.
and if one forgot to make the charoset, it may be done on saturday night, albeit with a shinui (modification of technique).
during shabbos, matzoh and baked foods containing matzoh, such as  pesach cake and cookies may not be eaten.
by: rabbi alfred cohen from the journal of halacha and contemporary society probably the busiest and most hectic day of the year in every jewish  household is erev pesach, the day preceding passover, for it entails getting  rid of the last smidgen of chametz as well as preparing for the seder.
*even though it is a yom tov day, it is rabbinically mandated and not biblically.
a rabbi should be consulted as to whether it is preferable to purchase the medicine before or on passover, and as to how to dispose of the medicine once the danger passes.
water chestnuts- substitute raw jicama orange liqueur =substitute an equal amount of frozen orange juice concentrate you can mince the tops of green onions and use them in recipes that call for chives or use celery tops instead of parsley (who are we kidding, we always have parsley during pesach)
unfortunately, this is one mitzvah of pesach which we do not yet have the  zichirat of experiencing.
the consensus of the poskim is that whisky produced from one of the 5 grains is considered chametz even though it went through the process of distillation (see shulchan aruch y.d. 92:8 & 123:24, and mishnah berurah 442:4).
q. does chametz sheavar alav hapesach apply to kitniyot?
•a toothpick should be used to clean out the holes of the vent.
some of these practices are minor, but others involve severe biblical infractions.
terumat  hadeshen and maharil rule that the fast should be observed on the previous  thursday, but others maintain that since the fast is only a custom, and the  custom cannot be observed on the proper day – it should not be done at  all.
[“canola oil” is rapeseed oil specially bred to have less erucic acid (a suspected cause of heart disease) and therefore only this better variation of rapeseed oil is approved for food use in theusa].
the fourth kezayit is associated with the korban pesach, while the fifth kezayit is a reminder of the chagigah offering that was brought during the three festivals.
directly into a chametz pot.
make sure to leave holes for the vents.)
continue microwaving on medium for 1 to 2 minutes longer until the chocolate is just melted; stir well.
back to ou passover home page print article canola oil, which is a form of rapeseed oil, should be considered kitniyos.
removing chametz a. prior to passover, every jew is required to remove all chametz from his home, property, and all premises under his or her jurisdiction (i.e. desk, office, locker, car).
in his responsa, rav moshe feinstein draws no distinction between a private home and a public hotel.
it is unreasonable to allow the purchase of chametz at all times when we know that, at some instance, the chametz is prohibited.
however, no custom can ever be instituted which would have the effect of barring performance of a mitzvah.
if one forgot, it may be  prepared on motzei shabbos, but the grinding and chopping must be done with a  shinui (done in a different manner than usual, such as the grater being turned  upside down, or the pieces allowed to fall on a table rather than a plate).
however,  other pieces of machinery in the factory does not require cleaning every  eighteen minutes.
metal and wooden utensils, if they can be thoroughly cleaned,  may be “kashered,” but earthenware utensils may not be  “kashered”.
if the vinegar  is wheat-derived, the vinegar is wheat derived.
even a healthy adult may eatkitniyot on passover if he would otherwise have nothing else to eat.
why is there no bottom line?
(for those who plan to be away the entire pesach and want to avoid having to search for the chametz, selling the chametz at this time may obviate the necessity for searching for the chametz.
c. shelves, countertops and eating surfaces used year round should be cleaned and covered for passover use, and special dish racks, sink racks and wash basins should be used.
by: rabbi herschel billet (young israel of woodmere)this article is not meant to be the final arbiter.
in contrast, wine vinegar and apple cider  vinegar are made from wine and apple cider which aren’t chametz.
therefore, the morning meal should be divided into two parts.
in an aside, he wryly mentions an individual who was unwilling  to accept this lenient ruling and proceeded to deposit his false teeth in  boiling water to “kasher” them – cracking them, and making it  impossible for him to eat all pesach15!
during passover, jewish law forbids the consumption or possession by jews  of all edible fermented grain products (chametz) or related foods.
the need to tovel glazed china and porcelain is debated amongst the poskim.
we know with certainty that at some point in time, most of the chametz in the store will be chametz sheavar alav hapesach.
in a large bowl, combine the ground chicken with the eggs, oil, club soda, dill and matzah ball mix; combine well.
the exact times depend on your geographic location.
as we discussed  earlier, gluten free products must meet a threshold of less than 20 ppm (parts  per million) gluten.
back to ou passover home page print article egg & grape matzot
she-eino matzu’i—it is unlikely to find infestation in a particular food.
c. it is permissible to sell chametz to a non-jew before the restrictions  on chametz go into effect on the day before passover.
with this he explains the generally  accepted custom to not consider potatoes to be kitnios even though logically  they should be, as follows: the minhag of kitnios can be dated back at least  until maharil, who died in 1427, and potatoes didn’t come to europe until  the 16th century, so potatoes were a “new” vegetable which  wasn’t included in the minhag.
lakewood matzoh bakery has both hand and machine matzah shmurah, baked undergfco (gluten free certification organization) supervision.
catching sight of strange and exotic animals occasions a blessing acknowledging the divine power that produced a variegated animal kingdom.
actually, there are three opinions as to when the prohibition of eating matzoh begins: (a) from six hours and on19.
as such, all types of whisky should be treated as chametz unless they are specifically certified as kosher for pesach.
even if the owner has a jewish-sounding name, there is no guarantee that he is jewish.
since chametz may not be  held in one’s possession during passover, one may rid oneself of the  chametz by declaring all types of chametz in one’s possession to be dust  and ashes, abandoned property.
even if there is no chametz in them, they should be cleaned and put away.
several manuals and books are now available on inspecting produce and serve as excellent guides to educate the typical consumer.
why with regard to forbidden insects does the torah deviate from its usual phraseology?
here, there is a difference of opinion among the poskim: ( a) some say that “one who eats a volume of cake equal to four (or three) eggs … must treat the cake as bread.”
see shearim metzzryanim  behalacha 115:5, who tries to explain how two rabbis from the same city could  have disagreed as to the custom in their city.
further nuances at this unusual meal include serving cold food which  won’t stick, so that it will not be necessary to scrape out the plates or  pot.
however, regular matzoh can be given to a  young child to eat even today, and therefore it is not muktza; it can be moved,  it can be placed on the table and subsequently removed44.
c. bread can be used for the  third meal in the following manner: immediately after the morning prayers, one  washes, recites the “beracha” over “lechem mishnah” and  eats the proper “shi’ur” for “birkat hamazon”.
“kashering” should only be done under the guidance of an  orthodox rabbi.
this tradition is difficult to understand: the reason for the custom of baking matzoh in the afternoon of erev pesach to be used that night at the seder is that that was the time of offering the paschal lamb.
however, these and similar questions are of a communal nature, and we will not discuss them here.
biblical law requires that only objects of metal must be immersed, and a brachah recited; the torah lists six types of metal requiring immersion: gold, silver, copper, iron, tin, and lead.
d. restrictions on the eating, then use, and finally, possession of chametz  normally begin on the morning before passover.
if one  wishes to dilute the wine with water, an orthodox rabbi should be consulted to  determine the minimum acceptable proportions.
the question of whether grain-based/distilled vinegar is chametz has  far-reaching implications because many foods are preserved with vinegar (e.g.  pickles, olives) and vinegar is a prime ingredient in many condiments (e.g.  ketchup, mustard, mayonnaise, salad dressing), and in general it is distilled  vinegar which is used in these applications.
even foods  with minute amounts of chametz ingredients, or foods processed on utensils  which are used for other chametz-containing foods, are not permissible for  passover use.
similarly, plain matzoh which has subsequently been cooked or fried does not qualify for the mitzvah of “matzoh” at the seder27.
however, if they are made from porcelain they cannot be kashered, while if they are made from stainless steel then they can be kashered.
liquid medicines, chewable pills and pills coated with a flavored glaze are considered palatable and may contain chametz.
and  therefore any glucose must have specific authorization for use on passover.
this prevents the utensils from jumbling together and obscuring some of the surface areas.
by: rabbi yaakov luban an exciting aspect of torah study is the application of the age-old principles of halachah to the modern world in which we live.
the times listed in this summary are sho’os zemanios, and  they must be converted into standard times of the day.
true, wheat (gluten)-free products have certainly increased in popularity, but this alone does not appear to be the motivation for the change.
kirkland will have ou-p smoked salmon as a new item.
the rigorous laws of passover, in this interpretation, represent the great  care that must be taken to follow the godly path.
the  question is also discussed in sedei chemed 7, pp.
there is possible chametz in most baby rice cereals, so the ou cannot recommend them for passover use.
but most bakers don’t have the patience to wait all day for their bread to rise, so they add their own yeast into the batter to speed things up a bit.
however,  due to the possibility that the equipment used and/or the processing aids are  chametz, it is prudent to only consume wine or apple cider vinegar which is  certified as kosher for pesach.
many rabbinical permit non-chewable vitamins and supplements without regard to their kashruth status.
the signature on the contract and the exchange of an object (e.g., a handkerchief) in a procedure known as a kinyan chalifin, formalizes the power of attorney.
1 chok leyisrael p. 71, cites a custom to eat dairy foods on this shabbat
however, the tevilah must be done in the presence of a jewish adult who can verify that it was done properly.
one must void  (“bitul”) the chametz at the proper time on shabbat, erev pesach,  regardless of whether or not there actually is any chametz in the house.
back to ou passover home page print article raw nuts in their shell do not require passover certification.
if you cannot find your question, ask the webbe rebbe by clickinghere.
those corrections are designed to prevent the migration of the yamim tovim throughout the solar year so that they may be observed in their appointed (solar) seasons.
the meticulousness, care, and detail with which we approach ritual observance will certainly make our heritage special.
perhaps chametz sheavar alav hapesach teaches the same idea.
instant coffees often contain maltodextrin, which is derived from either corn (kitniyot) or wheat (chometz).
disposable, single-use aluminum pans, according to many opinions do not requiretevilah.
erev pesach fell on the sabbath, and how much anguish i have in my heart at the prohibitions and errors that occurred on this sabbath due to the eating of chametz, because they were unable to be careful properly concerning crumbs of chametz and cleaning the house and the like, aside from the lack of sabbath joy, inasmuch as they had to eat between the oven and the stove; furthermore, many were late in reciting the prayers on shabbat, and it is possible that they ate after the time when it is prohibited.
the seder plate in the special situation when erev pesach occurs on shabbat, all preparations for the seder should be completed on friday.
why is the ou not sharing this information?
one week’s findings may tell little about the next week’s produce.
jews have always turned to their rabbis for guidance and assistance when there are conflicting halachic opinions.
it  is also noteworthy that canola often grows near oats, and therefore even those  who might argue that canola isn’t kitnios would agree that all of the  oats must be removed before the oil is extracted from the canola.
an example mentioned by early halachic codifiers (poskim), is that certain types of kimmel (caraway) are considered kitniyot.
[the third meal] has to be eaten with  “bread”, but there are those who say that one can make the meal  with those things which accompany bread, such as meat or fish, but not with  fruit.
removing chametz a. prior to passover, every jew is required to remove all chametz from his  home, property, and all premises under his or her jurisdiction (i.e. desk,  office, locker, car).
please  appoint your rabbi as your agent beforehand.
quite to the contrary, they relied only upon the more accurate view of rav adda for carrying out the more esoteric task of performing the calculations necessary to assure the integrity of the calendar.
following this second line of thought, rav yosef permits work on friday afternoon.
food for shabbat: one should leave enough bread  for two meals on shabbat.
the entire microwave must be thoroughly cleaned.
are ou matzos 18 minute matzos?
kezayit moror nowadays, with the absence of the beit hamikdash (holy temple), the korban pesach (paschal lamb) is not brought and therefore its interdependent sister mitzvah, maror (bitter herb), is not a torah-level precept, but is currently a rabbinic ordinance.
whether it ispesach or all year around, someone  allergic to dairy should refrain from chocolate.
it is interesting to note that, in a departure from the established practice of sephardic jews to follow the second option when two are listed, in this case rav ovadia yosef rules that the firstborn should fast on thursday.
lactaid non-chewable tablets are more complicated.
alsoy america’s choice baby basics bear essentials belacta berkley & jensen bright beginnins cvs daily souurce discount drug enfacare enfalac enfalyte enfamil enfapro follow-up food lion full circle giant h-e-b hannaford heinz nurture home 360 baby hy-vee isomil kirkland signature kozy kids kuddles lactofree
many rabbinical permit  non-chewable vitamins and supplements without regard to their kashruth status.
the shulchan aruch rules that “it is  forbidden to eat bread [on erev pesach] from the tenth hour and on2.
using a slotted spoon, carefully remove the balls from the water and transfer to bowls of hot chicken soup or vegetable broth.
as is always the case in halacha, there are divergent opinions among poskim.
porcelain enameled pots and utensils made from two or more materials, such as teflon-coated frying pans require tevilah, but without a brachah (sefer tevilat keilim 11:4 n.4).
then, later in the day, one can fulfill the mitzvah of eating warm food by eating food cooked in passover utensils, on dishes which will be utilized for the rest of the passover holiday.
passover is about the transmission of our rich heritage to the ‘next generation’.
using matzoh one way to avoid all the problems attendant upon using chametz at the meal is simply to use matzoh for lechem mishneh.
if we accept this understanding of the  rule, it would be permitted to use matzoh at the friday night meal and also for  the meal (or meals) very early on the morning of the sabbath, but not for a  meal later in the day.
as with all matters of halacha, one  should consult with their local rav.
he then takes the utensil, recites the brachah (“. . .
by: norene gilletz most traditional pesach recipes are high in calories, carbohydrates and fat, but are low in fiber.
questions on this issue should be directed to your rabbi.
tekiat kaf and kinyan odita: a handshake and verbal affirmation signaling the completion of the transaction.
flavors, for example, can contain components that were fermented from wheat-based glucose.
crumbs and small pieces of challah should be flushed  down the toilet.
it cannot be that simple visual perception of the sun is the factor that occasions the blessing since there is nothing extraordinary in sunrise on the morrow of a vernal equinox that occurs at the beginning of a wednesday.
the seder is a ritual banquet which reenacts the exodus, conducted on both the first and second evenings of passover, (saturday and sunday, april 23 and april 24, 2005).
you will appreciate  pesach more and so will your whole family.
general rules there are two steps in kashering: 1.
during shabbos, matzoh and baked foods containing matzoh, such as pesach cake and cookies may not be eaten.
6 orach chaim 444:1 7 preferably by a non-jew or with a shinui (an “unusual” way of  doing an action), mishnah berurah, orach chaim 444:15.
thus, birkat hachammah is recited whenever the vernal equinox occurs at the very beginning of the fourth day of the week.
it is therefore recommended that they be washed and checked with particular caution.
unacceptable matzot
however, if upon consultation a learned orthodox rabbi has allowed its usage, they have been found to be free ofchometz.
chazal seized upon acceptance of shmuel’s determination of the length of the solar year as a means of prompting people to focus upon the wondrous nature of god as the author of creation.
whiskey, beer and other alcoholic beverages distilled from grain also pose the same concern.
2 caramelized onions, saute 2 sliced onions in 2  tablespoon oil and 2 tablespoons sugar.
when these grains come in contact with water, they leaven within 18 minutes.
after all, some supermarkets are open on pesach, conducting business as usual, buying and selling chametz.
even utensils bought from a jewish store must undergotevilah if at some point they were owned by a non-jew.
all paper and plastic goods are fine all polishes.
[the  nutrients are generally batel b’shishim but some poskim hold that since  they are intentionally added to the vinegar they aren’t batel; this  issue, discussed in magen avraham 442:1, nodah b’yehudah y.d. ii:56,  mishnah berurah 447:14 and others, is beyond the scope of this article].
erev pesach fell on the  sabbath, and how much anguish i have in my heart at the prohibitions and errors that occurred on this sabbath due to the eating of chametz,  because they were unable to be careful properly concerning crumbs of  chametz and cleaning the house and the like, aside from the lack of sabbath joy, inasmuch as they had to eat between the oven and the stove;  furthermore, many were late in reciting the prayers on shabbat, and it is  possible that they ate after the time when it is prohibited.
see chidushei anshei shem, pesachim, chapter 1;  pri megadim 4441.
the essence of the obligation is internalization of long-ago events to the point that they are both intellectually and emotionally no different from personally experienced phenomena.
however, chok leyisrael does take a stricter view of the matter.
dry the sink, then pour the boiling water over every spot on the walls and floor of the sink and on the faucet.
or, you can grind the chicken breasts yourself in a food processor.
this website does not deal with medicines or cosmetics.
thinly slice and place in a casserole dish; top with pan juices.
additionally, all particles are blown off.
if anyone has any other substitutions that they would like to share please let me () know and i’ll attach them to the next pesach article.
oil from olives, palm, coconut and walnuts are acceptable for pesach use because the fruits they are extracted from is not kitnios.
b. to facilitate the removal of chametz, each jew is obligated to conduct a  diligent search in all places where chametz may have been kept or consumed any  time during the preceding year.
one cannot prepare a zeroah or roasted egg on motzei shabbos for the second seder.
toward the end of their growth, they begin to close around the stalk.
for ashkenazim, rav moshe feinstein has issued the same ruling based on the ramo 58.
the water must be at a rolling boil before the utensil to be kashered is put into it, and the water must touch every surface of the utensil.
somewhat different is the case of marror, for we do not want it to lose its bitter taste; therefore, we make it on saturday night, with a shinui?’ or else make it on friday and store it in a sealed container.
many of these minhagim are limited to cases where the person doesn’t know for sure that the product doesn’t contain chametz, and therefore many of these minhagim are not practiced nowadays because the hashgachah on the food guarantees that it is chametz-free.
recitation of additional psalms and prayers is discretionary and not a matter of fixed custom.
this is not done in preparation for the next day but in honor of the sabbath itself.
since chametz sheavar alav hapesach is a rabbinic (and not a biblical) injunction, one can rely on a principle known as “safek derabbanan lekula” (one can be lenient when it is uncertain if a rabbinic restriction applies), and therefore shop freely in the store.
we are obligated to check vegetables that fall into the first two categories, but not the third.
chometz should be eaten with care, and all crumbs must be swept and discarded.
accordingly, egg matzoh could be used for lechem mishneh, the two breads at the sabbath meals.
therefore,  even foods and household products which meet the strict, year-round dietary  regulations, and are considered kosher, are nevertheless, often unacceptable,  or require special preparation for passover use in the jewish home in order to  be kosher for passover.
however, full sabbath rules remain in effect on friday evenings and  saturdays during passover.
fn48 chok leyisrael, p. 81.
commercially, it is not used as an alternate crop, and is never harvested with wheat.
b. please consult the following section on shiurim for minimum volumes necessary to be consumed and time limits for each of the four cups.
f. consult the following section on shiurim for the minimum volume of maror to be consumed each time and the time limits.
which foods are kitnios the earlier poskim mention that rice, buckwheat/kasha, millet, beans,  lentils, peas, sesame seeds and mustard are included in the minhag (see beis  yosef o.c. 453, rema 453:1 & 464:1 and mishnah berurah 453:4, 7 & 11)
> kitniyot are often grown or stored with kernels of the five grains; if chametz kernels are mixed with the kitniyot, it will be difficult to separate them out.
the  dough may not be left idle for a period longer than 18 minutes.
in addition, scientists have learnt new  ways to react chemicals with one another (and use other methods) to create  emulsifiers, acidulants, sweeteners, flavors and other chemicals (e.g.  polysorbates, ascorbic acid, aspartame, esters, magnesium citrate).
first a review of the two basic reasons for the restriction: >
the water tanks are filled immediately prior to nightfall; 2.
which matzoh is forbidden
according to some authorities, another type of matzoh which might be  considered permitted for use on erev pesach is matzoh which is not matzoh shmura 31.
please enter the word you see in the image below: learn about passover all in good measure: the shiurim of passover caring for infants and the infirm cigarettes from grapes to kosher wine gebrokts – not just a half-baked idea getting to know your matzah immersing ourselves in tevilat keilim kashering microwaves and dishwashers for passover mechirat chometz
chametz may not be consumed  either by eating or drinking, and may not be held in one’s possession,  nor may any benefit be derived from chametz.
both of these are ordinary matzah products and not matzah ashirah.
therefore, on pesach one may keep cans of sweet corn in their property or feed millet to their parrot.
shearim metzuyanim behalacha, kuntres acharon 1152 discusses what to do with the candlesticks which may be on the tablecloth.
back  to ou passover home page print article preparing for passover what special preparations must be made in the jewish home for  passover?
immediately following the fast on thursday  evening, those firstborn responsible for searching for “chametz”  who are able to make the search without eating should do so.
in addition to these strictly halachic criteria, there are also certain customs which are observed by many: some people stop eating matzoh from the beginning of the month of nissan, while others stop after purim.
before we begin, let us note the happy circumstance that the additional  complication of observing the sabbath on this so-busy day prior to pesach  brings with it some unexpected rewards: having spent the day before pesach  resting, and refreshed by the sabbath tranquility, all will be able to  participate in the seder at night with true appreciation.
the usual ways of disposing of chametz, by burning or by  sale, cannot be employed on shabbat.
see the following section, ‘preparing the home for passover,’ for more specific details.
what, then, is the meaning of birkat hachammah recited every twenty-eight years?
by: rabbi yaakov horowitz matzah, at the same time the simplest and most complex of kosher products, consists of just two basic ingredients – flour and water.
after a distinct  interruption (such as taking a walk or learning) one washes again for hamotzi  and completes the third meal.
while some posit that only the owner is penalized for chametz sheavar alav hapesach, in practice we follow the viewpoint that its restrictions are universal and apply to everyone.
• products that contain flavors should only be provided when no unflavored alternative exists.
are se’or and yeast the same thing?
currently, kosher wine is being produced in most of the world’s chief wine-producing regions on six continents.
in a situation where the toveled status of a utensil is in question, rav moshe feinstein offered the following opinion: in his iggerot moshe (y.d. 3:22) he establishes that eating from a utensil that has not been toveled constitutes a rabbinic infraction and not a biblical one.
in footnote 11 he explains why refraining from eating chametz on erev pesach is not considered “adding a mitzvah (bal tosin.
birkat hachammah is designed to cause man to reflect upon observed phenomena, to internalize those phenomena and achieve a profound awareness of god as creator of the universe.
utensils made from the following materials cannot be kashered: •
whether the  “bread” be chametz or matzoh, when can it be eaten4?
however, chok leyisrael does take a  stricter view of the matter16.
miniature “notsa” balls (chicken kneidlach)
portion distortion: you don’t need to eat everything on the table!
some other examples of foods which are or aren’t kitnios will be noted below and in the “derivatives of kitnios” section.
this year absolutely gluten free will have a line of ou-p crackers and flatbreads and pereg will have crackers.
and the properties of the river.
this logic has also been suggested as a basis for permitting the consumption on pesach of a grain called quinoa.
(carpets may not be swept on shabbos.)
electronic appliances, such as urns and grills, require tevilah.
styrofoam cups or plates 48.
however, you must take care to keep bottles, nipples and formula away from the general kitchen area.
the mishnah berurah, orach chaim, maintains that it is preferable to eat  one meal that really satisfies the hunger, and is a true meal, rather than  breaking up the meal into two.
if a person decides to use regular challah for the meal, but is afraid that he will be unable to consume the entire two loaves (and have difficulty disposing of them on shabbat), he might want to employ the option of substituting a well-wrapped matzoh instead of the second loaf of challah.
according to biblical law, passover is determined by the jewish lunar  calendar, and begins on the eve of the fifteenth day of the month of nisan.
consequently, organic produce could be subject to higher levels of insect infestation.
most fruits are low in calories, and they also have a low glycemic index (gi).
this chametz may not be used or sold after  passover, as a penalty for failure to perform the mitzvot of bedikah and biur  properly.
here are some options:1.
whole wheat matzah contains three to four grams of fiber per sheet, whereas plain matzah contains only one gram.
if the matzot from the seder plate are insufficient, they should be supplemented by additional matzot.
it is for this reason that many poskim prohibit the selling of chametz utensils before passover, as they are of the opinion that the utensils would require tevilah upon “re-purchase” after passover.
based on what is available on the pesach supermarket shelves, the non-gebrokts-adherents are commanding an increasing market share.
38 shearim metzuyanim behalacha, kuntres acharon 115:7; nimukei yosef, end of chapter on shabbat; and radvaz 489 say that one should skip the third meal altogether.
this includes the jews of france, england, germany, russia, poland,  hungary, austria and the low countries.
noting the presumed coincidence of birkat hachammah with deliverance from slavery in egypt and deliverance from the diabolical plot of haman, the ostrovtzer prayerfully anticipated that (what he presumed to be) the third such occurrence would be the harbinger of the deliverance of israel from its present, and final, exile.
what to do about the third meal will be discussed later in the text.
one interpretation equates matzah with g-d’s commandments (mitzvot), and chametz with sin (chayt).
although chometz can be eaten until shabbos morning, all chometz remaining after the bedika should be placed in a secure and designated area.
cleaning—removing all tangible traces of chametz, and 2.
another alternative would be to use a kosher certified almond milk which does not containchametz .
clearly organic harris teeter ricesense full circle hy-vee krasdale organic meijer nature’s place shop rite market basket nature’s
the following regular instant coffees (note: not decaffeinated) are  certified as kosher for passover all year and are acceptable even when only  bearing an ou: folgers regular coffee procter & gamble cincinatti, oh taster’schoice regular coffee nestle usa glendale, ca
one should also purchase new sponges and a fresh bottle of dishwashing liquid.
prepared olives with an ou-p will be available from gefen, osem, kvuzat yavne, gilboa and mishpacha.
44 yechaue daat 1:91, 13.
even setting the table for the seder is not permissible.
use only egg whites as the dipping to coat and fry  meats.
iggeros moshe explains that the minhag to not eat kitnios developed differently than other minhagim and therefore rules that only foods which we know were specifically included in the minhag are forbidden.
this solution, although ingenious, may not be halachically feasible.
using matzoh one way to avoid all the problems attendant upon using chametz at the meal  is simply to use matzoh for lechem mishneh.
after a distinct interruption (such as taking a walk or learning) one washes again for hamotzi and completes the third meal.
the blessing for  the search is recited as well as the text for voiding the chametz (“bitul  chametz” ) which follows.
cups [paper (in theusa only), plastic or styrofoam] 17.
see solutions offered by erev, pesach shechal beshabbat,  p. 62.
ou-p liquers will be available under the queen esther, spirit of solomon & gold shot lables.
peanuts are also a common allergen.
obviously, with the exception of the challah, the food would be kosher for pesach.
it is traditional that the flour from which this matzah is prepared  should be specially supervised from the time the wheat is cut – shmurah  mishaat ketzirah.
for more information, visit her web site athttp://www.gourmania.com.
one should make kiddush, hamotzi, eat one course and recite birchas hamazon.
finally, tevilah depends on the utensil’s provenance, as noted above: if it was manufactured by, purchased from, given as a gift by, or bought back from, a non-jew, it requires tevilah.
this is a situation which arises not only on this particular sabbath but also when a family goes to a hotel for shabbat, where usually all the women light candles in a separate place, not in the dining room.
therefore, even foods and household products which meet the strict, year-round dietary regulations, and are considered kosher, are nevertheless, often unacceptable, or require special preparation for passover use in the jewish home in order to be kosher for passover.
mechirat chametz has become a fixture of jewish life, and most people sell all kinds of chametz.
chocolate lifts your spirits when you’re feeling tired and overwhelmed with pesach preparations, and these no-bake treats are the perfect “pick-me-up.”
during passover, this notion expresses itself through required measurements of the special foods we eat during the holiday.
back to ou passover home page print article ground spices require passover certification.
black discolorations that are flush with the metal do not have to be removed.
but the first opinion is the major one, i.e., that one should make a meal with  bread unless he is too full, or in a situation where it is impossible for him  to eat bread, such as on erev pesach which comes out on shabbat, when it is  forbidden for him to eat bread after mincha.
everything seems to be a matter of dispute and is left hanging.
using chametz one solution is to get up very early, daven, and then before the tenth  hour, eat a meal at which two loaves of bread or challah are served.
therefore, since there isn’t any reasonable way for the average consumer  to figure out whether the vinegar in their ketchup (for example) is chametz,  they may rely on the rov (majority) and assume that the vinegar is not chametz  at least to the extent that it may/should be sold to a non-jew.
the floor should be swept and the broom should be shaken over a toilet.
back to ou passover home page  print article selected halachot of erev pesach when it falls on shabbat by: rabbi herschel billet (young israel of woodmere)
if the filter covering the drain has very fine holes, remove the filter and put it away for pesach with the chametz dishes.
note: this recipe easily doubles and triples.
back to ou passover home  page print article extra virgin olive oil all extra virgin olive oils are kosher for passover, as long as it bears  the ou symbol all other oils (including olive oil) require a reliable kosher for passover  certification to be consumed on passover.
in a small bowl, combine the marinade ingredients; mix well.
(there are those who set the 18-minute standard to include complete baking time as well.)
in addition, scientists have learnt new ways to react chemicals with one another (and use other methods) to create emulsifiers, acidulants, sweeteners, flavors and other chemicals (e.g. polysorbates, ascorbic acid, aspartame, esters, magnesium citrate).
know what to eat: choose lower-fat dishes when possible—chicken, turkey and fish are leaner protein choices than meat.
for more detailed instructions and guidance, a competent halachic authority  should be consulted.
either challah or egg matzoh may be used for the shabbos meal at night and in the morning.
they are also a wonderful and easy gift to bring to a seder.
rav moshe feinstein also recommends that heated stones be placed in the dishwasher to ensure that the water in the dishwasher reaches 212°f.
if for some reason, none of these options is feasible, the person should  declare he is disowning any remaining chametz, cover it so that it is not  visible, and burn it on chol hamoed9.
for kugels, matzo balls, fried matzo and some cakes  the recipes will probably be ok.
tea bags only if its regular (not decaffeinated).
in addition shoprite ou-p tuna fish in water will be available.
heat the oil in a large nonstick skillet on medium high heat.
[the third meal] has to be eaten with “bread”, but there are those who say that one can make the meal with those things which accompany bread, such as meat or fish, but not with fruit.
the seder is a ritual banquet which reenacts the exodus, conducted on both the first and second evenings of passover.
the shulchan aruch rules that “it is  forbidden to eat bread [on erev pesach] from the tenth hour and on.
see the following section, ‘preparing the  home for passover,’ for more specific details.
•run a heated cycle of the dishwasher with soap.
therefore, if a beverage is sweetened with aspartame made of kitnios shenishtaneh, even those people who hold that aspartame is forbidden (as explained above) may drink the beverage because the aspartame is batel b’rov in the other ingredients.
the ou symbol is a registered trademark in the u.s., israel, canada, and the european union.
using a heavy stream of water or sink hose, remove all foreign matter and soap from both sides of each leaf.
eating matzah on passover commemorates the unleavened bread eaten by the jews when they left egypt in such haste that there was no time for the dough to rise.
one may eat chometz on shabbos morning until the end of the 4th hour.
back to ou passover home page print article what does “kosher for passover”
yeast is the living microorganism which converts some of the flour into the carbon dioxide which fluffs-up the batter and causes it to “rise”.
this means that if you neglected to sell your box of raisin bran before pesach, you may not consume it or derive benefit from it even after pesach.
if a person travels before pesach, the rabbis arrange an early sale, to take effect sunday evening, march 28, 2010.
suplena tow-cal hn questions about ou certified nutritional supplements not on this list  should be directed to the ou kashruth hotline at (212) 613-8241.
at some facilities, the separate lines start at the later stage of processing, such as the refiners and conches, where the product is heated, and not at the earlier stages where the powder mixers can be used for both dairy and parve powders.
there is a halachic difficulty attendant upon using egg matzohs as the two  loaves of bread required for the meals on shabbat: according to many rabbis,  egg matzoh cannot technically be classified as “bread” requiring  washing the hands, reciting the blessing hamotzi, and followed by birkat  hamazon, since unlike real matzoh, it is made with eggs and/or juice instead of  just plain water with the flour.
consult your local orthodox rabbi for the times when these  restrictions go into effect, or see halachic times for passover.
some rabbinic authorities recommend grating horseradish before shabbos,  and storing it in a sealed container.
however, due to the possibility that the equipment used and/or the processing aids are chametz, it is prudent to only consume wine or apple cider vinegar which is certified as kosher for pesach.
this logic has also been suggested as a  basis for permitting the consumption on pesach of a grain called quinoa.
drinking four cups of wine (arbah kosot) 3)
back to ou passover home page print article lemon juice lemon juice is frequently packed on the same equipment as products that  containchometz and kitniyos.
nonetheless, some poskim raised the concern that in the haste to knead the dough within the eighteen-minute limit, some of the flour may not be fully mixed with the water and does not become matzah.
maximum cooling of all flour silos and production areas; 4.
the ou’s passover guide 2009 can be downloaded electronically as a single pdf by clicking hereor it can be ordered by calling 212-613-8137.
generally, something is considered muktza if it cannot or will not be used on shabbat (for example, a carpenter’s hammer, a telephone).
as such, one may definitely not take the chewable pills on pesach (and we  think that you should even sell them to a non-jew or get rid of them).
biur chometz (burning the chometz) is done friday morning before the end  of the 5th hour (if one forgets, it can be burned until shabbos.)
nonetheless, rav moshe (iggerot moshe, oc 1:149, 2:91 and 4:95) was the champion of this transaction.
it right: ground chicken usually contains dark meat, which increases the fat content.
without this knowledge, one may be tempted to assume that there is no need to check broccoli after having found several heads of the vegetables free of infestation the previous week.
in addition to relating the story of the exodus, each jew at the seder is obligated to discuss three central elements of the seder ritual – the paschal sacrifice, the matzah and the maror, as explained in the haggadah.
silverware, pots and other small items small items are kashered withhagalah, which involves: 1.
but special production requirements come into play when blending the two for passover.
both thetalmud and the shulchan aruch devote extensive analyses to the subject.
therefore, if there were no other way for them to carry out the requirement to have three meals with lechem mishneh on this shabbat, these persons, too, could use matzoh24.
most processed foods and beverages require special rabbinical supervision for passover use.
there will be four ou-p brands of packaged cakes available this year.
the premises should be clean by the time the search begins (approximately 45 minutes after sunset).
f. according to ashkenazic practice, matzah made with fruit juice or eggs,  including egg matzah, chocolate covered egg matzah, and white grape matzah are  permissible on passover only for the elderly, sick, or young children who  cannot digest regular matzah.
utensils that do not come in direct contact with food do not require tevilah.
the seder is a miniature recreation of the exodus, and  participants should imagine themselves as leaving egypt.
it is permissible to sleep on shabbos to be more alert for the seder,  but one should not say that this is the purpose of his sleeping.
similar symptoms are experienced by people who suffer from a celiac condition, however, the similarity stops here.
he also debates conducting the search using the electric lights  which are already kindled in the house 53 126.
the next part of the chocolate process to share equipment is the  mold.
sample recipe: rice cereal 1. 1/4 c. rice powder [brown or white (not enriched) rice ground in blender, food processor, or coffee grinder].
(this year  passover begins saturday evening, april 23, 2005.
aluminum foil baking pans 4.
place nestle good start next step
this  third meal must be finished before the end of the fourth hours into the day.
if standard vinegar requires specific approval, that means that all the vinegar-based condiments, such as ketchup,mustard, mayonnaise, and dressing, require specific approval as well.
if the holes are larger, the filter may be kashered with the sink.