manufactured in a strong... build your own nest box all the joy of building your own nest box, without the need to get our a  measuring tape!
em consists of many  different kinds of effective, disease-suppre...
safely by  fermentation and fast disposal.
£4.75 each or 2 for £9.00 - see options feeder tray - standard size feeder trays feeder trays keep lawns free from dropped food and husks.
the most popular of the polytunnels range,  including design features which make growing easy and efficient.
the attractively shaped '... butterfly/bee nectar feeding station butterfly/bee feeding station attract butterflies and bees to  your garden with this attractive wooden butterfly/bee feed station.
we recommend you visit the  websites listed below, as here you will find more information on effective  microorganisms.
every spring, nest boxes put up for small birds are regularly used by nesting bumble bees.
the crop will be easy to harvest to... deep raised bed, module. 3 hoops & compost deep classic raised bed with standard module, 3 cloche hoops and 10 bags  of vegetable compost the ideal raised bed starter kit!
flower cane caps flower cane caps these plastic cane caps are designed to fit on the top  of garden canes and will prevent you from getting poked in the eye or face  while either picking flowers or weeding in the ga...
in does not include the species fr... acorn scouting wildlife camera
the nestbox c... - cane growbag frame - cane growbag frame so simple yet so sturdy this effective cane growbag support frame is made from durable galvanised tube with plastic moulded fittings to support 3 x 10mm growing canes.
this means that water is absorbed in th... - fertometer® soil nutrition tester - fertometer® soil nutrition tester fertometer® measures your plant’s hunger very often, fertilisation is being neglected or applied in the wrong way, because up to now the real f... - field guide to hedgehogs - the field guide to hedgehogs this four page, illustrated laminated guide to hedgehogs will provide you with the basic information on how to encourage hedgehogs to take up residence in your garden.... - field guide to ladybirds - looking for an identification guide to ladybirds?
ideal for greenhouses and  an ideal gift.
the sheer joy of feeling the  precision ground blades slide smoothly all the way from one e... barnel palm fit saber by-pass curved shear palm fit saber by-pass curved shear tools for your lifetime.
looking for an identification guide to ladybirds?
the varieties included are: c... - back garden seed saving - in this hdra publication by sue strickland you can find out about some of the vegetables varieties no longer found in seed catalogues, and others that are now but may not be for much longer.
the 6ft wide garden tunnels are built to a  high specification and are designed for customers with limited space.
these biodegradable  bags come in  either 20l or 40l capacity, with 25 bags to the roll.
desiree is suitable for: ... dib dab dibber the dib dab dibber this new 3-in-1 tool, works as a dibber, dibblet &  harrow a versatile 3-in-1 potting shed tool comprising dibber, dibblet and  three-pronged harrow for making furrows in a... digital water timer this digital electronic water timer is absolutely the simplest and best.
with simple focusing, the camera provides superb, high quality,  colour images.
please feed them from a dedicated feeder or chop them up and feed them from a table.
i... ceramic hanging bird bath hanging bird bath providing clean fresh water is an essential element of  feeding garden birds responsibly.
each unit comes with two pointed posts an... cloche handy hoops 3m cloche handy hoops - 3m these cloche handy hoops are a simple solution  for protecting your plants and vegetables from both the weather and predators.
biodegradable bags 20 & 40l biodegradable bags - 20l & 40l
these bio pot saucers  have both a long life quality and appearance.
ceramic water dish - ground
easy t... direct sowing seeds -spring
as bats like ledge spacing to be  just so, these bat boxes are spaced exactly the... double chest wheelie bin screen double chest wheelie bin screen
can  be hung against a wall, tree or fence post.
it is one of the  all time favourite, quality early potatoes.&n...
big square garden tidy compost module garden tidy module to the big square compost bins.
recommended uses for improving the soil, planting  and mulching key benefits adds rich ...
made in great britain from beech wood, sourced from uk man... - big square garden tidy compost module - garden tidy module to the big square compost bins.
catriona catriona 12 sets for £10.25 a general purpose potato, which  produces good yields of long oval tubers with attractive blue eyes and  delicious yellow flesh.
manufactured from superior tongue and groove range this chest will protect your recycling boxes from t... - double tool hooks - pack of 5 - electro plated steel hooks for storage of tools in the garden shed, garage or workshop.
these great plant labels are  meant to be seen and read.
this 12 bird ark provides the ideal housing solution  for small numbers of birds as well as being suitable for broody hens and  isolation/hospital accommodation.
this lip balm contains plant extracts and oils as well as em - em related websites - em related websites for more information.
we recommend you visit the websites listed below, as here you will find more information on effective microorganisms.
generic styling, ma... fairtrade hand stitched flower brooch daisy hand stitched flower brooch fun to pin to the messenger bag and the  whopper shopper.
plastic jammers ... - aerogarden unit + chilli kit - white aerogarden unit with gourmet chilli kit aerogarden is a new home gardening appliance that boasts miracle-like growth of fresh herbs and other produce at just a push of a button.
it also h... - galvanised garden wire 30m x 2.5mm - strong galvanised garden line wire comes in a reel and is ideal training and fencing use.
set of four stiff  brushes no permanent mounting needed, but mounting hardware included magnetic  folding plate both sides allows user to stea...
the standing raised bed allows the ... children's suede and canvas gardening gloves children's sueded and canvas gardening gloves these sturdy suede and  canvas gardening gloves are just like mum's and will protect little hands when  helping in the garden.
- compact compost bin additional module - the 'compact' wooden compost bin additional module all our wood is slow grown for strength and durability and is sourced from f. s.c. sustainable forests.
makes compost in 2-3 week...
fritillria meleagris fritillria meleagris ideal for naturalising – snakes-head lily  flower height: 20cm  flowerss: april/
a popular size for the amateur gardener.
- bird window feeder - the bird window feeder this attractive window bird feeder simply sticks to your window using the suckers provided.
2... - budget fruit cage - budget fruit cage dimensions: 2.5m wide x 5m long x 1.83 high (6ft).
includes: 1 x 250ml bottle of em-1 1 x 250ml bottle of a+ n.b.
it has four corner handles with eyelets and makes an ideal gift.
spring release for folding flat for  storage when not in use.
the pack consists of: 30ml of 100% organic rooting  compound 45 pieces of dried, compressed moss 45 re-sealable plastic bags fool  proof propagation cuttings magic is a n... deep classic raised bed and standard module deep classic raised bed and standard module tall posts for fixing crop  protection.
&... - blackboard labels & white marker - blackboard labels & white marker pen
messenger bag with mobile, ipad and computer and purse pockets and pleanty of room for lots more.
when used in a nestbox or simila...
these very informative book on the history of em and how the technology has developed over the last 20 ye... - asparagus conovers colossal - asparagus – cannova’s colossal .
harrow a versatile 3-in-1 potting shed tool comprising dibber, dibblet and three-pronged harrow for making furrows in a... - digital water timer - this digital electronic water timer is absolutely the simplest and best.
this handy 'fold up' bag has three large compartments and makes it ideal either for carrying plants and shopping.
in schools edible gardens in schools edible gardens in schools consists of a  teacher’s book and a cd, packed with photocopiable activities.
fat ball feeder is a seperate item.
- 6 fat ball feeding ring - fat ball feeding ring - 6 ball version
drought proof gardening invaluable if you have a water meter environmentally friendly ... - beech t
all purpose scoop the all purpose scoop narrow bodied to avoid spills for general household  and garden use.
the pac... - effective micro-organisms 'value' hamper - here at the recycle works, we know that there's nothing better than giving a present that's really appreciated by the recipient and our new range of hampers are designed to achieve precisely t... - eglu go run extension - eglu go run extension
a guide to british bats a guide to british bats produced by the field studies council, this  laminated, illustrated guide will help you to identify all 16 species of native  british bats.
compact compost bin lid the 'compact'  wooden compost bin lid
the  polytunnels are supplied as a complete unit...
black - suitable for hatchbacks and saloons 140 x 140cm (55” x 55”)
pin one in your hair or brighten up a shirt with one of these  pretty accessories.
it comes in either 500gm or 1kg bags.
250 worms             £15.90 1/2  kil... composting worms plus bedding the special bedding in which these native worms arrive will ensure  that they are in perfect condition & have available food to eat until your  scraps are decomposed enough for them.
the small size of the patio compostumbler is great for your de... - compost!
the choice of  'delicious pairs'  are: tomato and basil for salad.
every time you have scraps to  throw, be it meat fish or vegetable, just open t... boot grate with boot pull
eats more than the lumbricus rubellis please note:
a charming, attractive and stylish small bird feeder suitable for all gardens.
this 100% fsc certified wood nest box pack comes with  everything you need to produce your very own nest box ...
each asparagus kit is supplied with two 69 litre growing bags / planters making them perfect for small spaces such as patios and balconies.
- fsc oak wooden apple bird feeder - the apple bird feeder the apple bird feeder is designed not only to hold apples for your birds to feed on, but will also hold fat balls.
as a result, the mud balls are enriched wi... - em bokashi wheat bran - 2 x 2kg bags - the em bokashi wheat bran is wheat bran that has been fermented with em's - effective micro-organisms.
this ark will accommodate two fully grown pigs/ sow and  litter/up to six ‘porkers’ or 10 to 15 wean...
pack direct sowing seeds - spring pack
field guide to wetland birds looking for an identification guide to wetland birds?
each unit comes with two pointed posts ... - cloche hoops for raised beds - cloche hoops for raised beds simon has come up with these remarkably cheap hoops!
slots on to the big  square bins and can be set aside for sorting bits that need special attention  later such as pernicious weeds, thick wood, ro... bio pot saucer 8" (pack of 5) bio pot saucer
paper bag and gift tag complete with one bulb size 26-28.
in this book jo  readman takes a new and fun approach to weeds and shows how to identify them  and make the most of them in the garden.
&... blackboard labels & white marker blackboard labels & white marker pen
covers for soil & crop protection covers for soil & crop protection bird netting keep off birds cats,  squirrels, and in our case dogs who eat unripe strawberries!
there will be no trouble reading the message without  bending down & the glasses falling off you... blue tit feeding house
the 'duke of york' variety is an oval shaped potato and has a cream coloured exterior.
the good looking wheelbarrow with  a polypropylene tray and galvanised chassis.
it will not kill them but passes a ...
this heated propagator produces ideal conditions for growing cuttings and seedlings using a 22w long life economical heater.
these ended and  plain boards are exactly the same as we use f...
2 per pack - asparagus growing kits - asparagus growing kits
supplied with long-lasting polypropylene netting, the standard side netting is ... - agriframes standard fruit cage - agriframes standard fruit cage measures 2.5m x 5m x 2m high all fruit cages are 2m (6ft 6ins) above ground height.
the standing raised bed allows the ... - children's suede and canvas gardening gloves - children's sueded and canvas gardening gloves these sturdy suede and canvas gardening gloves are just like mum's and will protect little hands when helping in the garden.
shows temperatures in both celsius and fare... compost tumber - compact if you're looking for a fast and convenient way to compost your  kitchen throw-outs, grass clippings and organic garden wastes, our compact unit  is just right for you!
- compost tea systems - 40l starter kit, with 5 'brew' package this item appears at first sight to be expensive and is more for the purist and people obsessed with improving the health and microbi... - compost thermometer - compost thermometer
after use, these plastic flower pots are fully bio degradable.
drain magic is made from 100%  natural plant matter and does not contain any biologica...
drainage holes keep food fres... - fertile water storage granules - fertile water storage granules - 60gm bag the fertile water storage granules provide exceptionally fast water absorption when compared with other granules.
each ball weighs typically 88g and are not wrapped in  netting in which birds can become trapped.
children's nursery gardening kit these educational packs / kits are are excellent value for money and are  perfect for schools and nurseries getting involved in gardening and grow your  own.
the colour camera nestbox now comes with a removable and separate camera housing which can be us... - colour wildlife camera kit - an excellent value, high quality, colour camera kit with audio for diy installations.
this system is flexible and expandable.
set of four stiff brushes no permanent mounting needed, but mounting hardware included magnetic folding plate both sides allows user to stea...
white lisbon frenc... - divided original compost tumbler - divided original compostumbler 24 cu.ft.
the  ideal starter cage for fruit and vegetable protection.
double recycling box chest double recycling box chest quality and stylish made to measure recycling  box chest screen.
bokashi compost bucket - twin system compost food and vegetable scraps in the kitchen, without the fear of  smells by using em's - effective microrganisms!
- classic brass christmas angel chimes - classic brass christmas 'angel chimes' "the magic of christmas distilled" - cherished by generations, the original angel chimes are now once again available.
the 32mm hole is suitable for species including great tits, house sparrows and nuthatches. ...
the silver birch log is ideal for those  who prefer a more natural look.
fairtrade beaded scarves soft fair trade cotton scarves with beaded fringes glamour as light as a  feather for feminine flattery.
bird window feeder the bird window feeder this attractive window bird feeder simply sticks  to your window using the suckers provided.
actiferm can be u... - adjustable tool rack - adjustable tool rack this tool rack is an ingenious tool hanging system designed to keep tools off the floor and tool sheds neat and tidy.
in does not include the species fr... - acorn scouting wildlife camera - the ltl acorn scouting wildlife camera (model ltl-5210 , ltl-5210a) is a scouting device.
em sea  salt contains trace minerals including potassium, calcium, magnesium and other  minerals naturally found in the sea.
these are available in the following  quantities: 1/4 kilo - approx.
it has humidity and air temperatu... - essential heated propagator 52cm - the essential heated propagator 58cm
free  flowing and high in oil content.
desiree is also sold as a  baking potato.
they can either be used with grow bags ...
em consists of many different kinds of effective, disease-suppre... - em-x ceramic pipes 10mm - 250gms - effective micro-organisms can be fermented and baked in clay to form the products known as em ceramics.
it comes  in a  3 litre 'bag in a box' container, ... edible gardens
this heated propagator produces ideal conditions for growing cuttings and seedlings using a 8w long life economical heater.
colour: terracotta *... 8ft wide polytunnels 8ft wide polytunnel range a popular size for the amateur gardener.
8" bio flower pot (pack of 5) 8" bio flower pot these bio flower pots have both a long life  quality and appearance.
sizes available: age 4-7... children's twin wooden compost bin start them composting early with their own special 'double composter',  just like granddad's - only smaller!
the s... - basil pot - indoor terracotta seed kits hand painted basil pot - with basil seeds - bath and shower water saver -
dendrobena composting worm/fishing bait dendrobena larger composting worm & fishing bait.
the house is ... - 12ft wide polytunnels - 12ft wide polytunnel range
em ceramic pipes - 35mm em-x ceramic 35mm pipes box of 2 for water treatment;  the shape and  structure of this cylindrical type em-x ceramics provides a large surface  area for contact with the water.
the clipper 90-110lt  wheelbarrow
this original feeder will hold up to ten fat balls within the wire mesh, allowing more birds to feed at once.
this attractive, robust and very stylish triple wheelie bin screen is a must have if you want to hide away those dirty looking bins.
sold in pack... - biodegradable bags 20 & 40l - biodegradable bags - 20l & 40l
it is most important to ensure that birds have access to a clean water supply for drinkin...
it comes in a 3 litre 'bag in a box' container, ... - edible gardens in schools - edible gardens in schools edible gardens in schools consists of a teacher’s book and a cd, packed with photocopiable activities.
for use with the 8" bio pots.
this original feeder will hold up  to six fat balls within the wire mesh, allowing more birds to feed at once.
obsessed with improving the health and microbi... compost thermometer compost thermometer this sturdy thermometer is protected from damage by  its metal case and the bright orange ball at one end makes it difficult to  lose.
for full details on the uses of super cera c, please... - em-1 (1 litre) - em-1 is the em - effective microorganisms in their dormant state.
operate two chambers seperately for  efficient batch composting.
teach  your class, group or friends to rap, drum...
heat builds up naturally and if it can be maintained by day and night&... - compost first aid kit - compost first aid kit home made compost adds too the nutrients in the soil and puts back what has been taken out of the soil in waste.
i and many of our customers have used ... - dormouse house - dormouse (muscardinus avellanarius) house with their lovely ginger-brown fur, long fur covered tails and deep black eyes, the dormouse is one of our most beautiful and intriguing small mam...
- garden incinerator - ideal for all types of garden rubbish.
all the  equipment you need to grow the mushrooms, approx.
midway between a waxy and floury  potato, the 'carlingford' variety is usually very round and smooth.
the ideal starter cage for fruit and vegetable protection.
this attractive wooden nest box will attract nuthatches, house sparrows and great tits.
ideal for serving our popular special rec... 10ft wide polytunnels 10ft wide polytunnel range
garden incinerator ideal for all types of garden rubbish.
it has poppers in each corner so it can be formed into a tray and... - estima - estima 12 sets for £10.25 a versatile and is especially suited for dishes where a firm cooked potato texture is required, as in salads or some soups.
uses:  classic compost bins and modules classic raised ...
colleen is suitable for boiling chipping with this potato variety... - colour camera nest box and bird table/feeder camera - a multi-species, multi-season, plug-and-play camera system for nestbox, bird table and feeder.
estate car boot liner - black protect your estate car boot with the bosmere estate car boot liner.
the extr... - 4.5ltr long reach professional can - black - 4.5ltr
it is one of the all time favourite, quality early potatoes.&n... - dunluce - dunluce 12 sets for £10.25 an attractive, round-short oval potato with white flesh and skin.
made from heavy duty steel, plastic coat...
the same size as the original compost tumbler but divided  into two same-sized compartments, each with its... dog whelping boxes whelping boxes you have asked us for whelping boxes made from the same  unique construction we use for all of our wooden gardening products and here  they are.
the recycle works ltd all rights reserved | site by ci return to top of page
corner raised beds have the inclusive features of flexibility of size... - corner raised bed - 90x90x120 - corner raised beds - 90 x 90 x 120cm no nails, no screws, no holes to dig corner raised beds for adaptability and convenience.
boards for big square raised beds, long raised beds, big square compost  bins & modules side measuring 120cm 4ft wood is a live material & all trees are different.
desiree is suitable for: ... - dib dab dibber - the dib dab dibber this new 3-in-1 tool, works as a dibber, dibblet &
fitted with comfort pads on both seat and kneeler.
once the em-1 bottle is 'opened', it ... - em bokashi mud ball - em bokashi mud balls
no need to tangle with it.
9cm blade folds into 10cm handle.... clipper wheelbarrow 90-110lt
12 bird swiss chalet 12 bird swiss chalet
these  modules will enable you to extend our free standing manger vegetable and flower
it's hard to get kids to willingly embrace a healthy lifestyle, which is what gave us th... - chilli pot - indoor terracotta seed kits - hand painted chilli pot - with red demon chilli seeds - chilli starter kit - each kit contains 3 starter pots, compost, instructions and seed of the following verities of chilli.
the em bokashi wheat bran is wheat bran that has been fermented with em's - effective micro-organisms.
this em activator will make 1 litre of activated em em-a. em-a wil promote natural resistance to harmful bacteria and release good bioactive substances.
the big square wooden modular compost bins - additional modules no nails,  no screws, no holes to dig
it is primarily for use with the bokashi bucket, but can also be used to speed up the composti...
compostable caddy eco-sacs - 7 & 10l sizes biodegradeable corn starch bags 7ltr or 10ltr capacity, supplied as 3  rolls of 25 bags per roll.
you can keep high energy wild bird food such as fat balls and peanut cake tubes safe using these practical gua... - fat balls pack of 30 - fat balls x 30 these new reciepe cj fat balls are not wrapped in netting which birds can become trapped in.
this delightful porcelain feeding house is decorated with blue tit  illustrations by marjolein bastin.
may fruit and flower snips fruit & flower snips using a scissor action, this high quality snip  is perfect for harvesting flowers and fruit – even from tough stems.
ideal for serving our popular special reci... - 6ft wide polytunnels - the 6ft wide polytunnel range
compost magic activates the b... - compost pitchfork - this fabulous compost pitch fork cuts easily into compost and is useful for lifting large volumes.
bats require specific ledges to cling to in their roosts.
snow shovel windscreen ice scraper with mitten ice and snow shoe grippers - carlingford - carlingford 12 sets for £10.25
produced in  partnership with the wildfowl and wetlands trust, this 12-panel laminated  fold-out chart provides coloured illustrations and inf...
if you want to recycle bath or shower water, this little gadget is  ideal.
no nails, no screws, no holes to dig
these new barnel professional series tools are just a gardener’s dream.
a great tasting first early which are now making a comeback by popular ... - essential heated propagator 38cm - the essential heated propagator 38cm
our corner raised bed add-ons can quickly and easly be attached to your exi... - covers for soil & crop protection - covers for soil & crop protection bird netting keep off birds cats, squirrels, and in our case dogs who eat unripe strawberries!
it has humidity and air temperat...
this ark will accommodate two fully grown pigs/ sow and litter/up to six ‘porkers’ or 10 to 15 wean... - all purpose scoop - the all purpose scoop narrow bodied to avoid spills for general household and garden use.
the (mini-)musical - compost!
during that time he has set up a company,  nurturing nature, which has won the coveted green apple 'go...
- catriona - catriona 12 sets for £10.25 a general purpose potato, which produces good yields of long oval tubers with attractive blue eyes and delicious yellow flesh.
made from uv stable polypropylene, these cloche hoops simply slot firmly & securely into the posts of all ... - colleen - colleen 12 sets for £10.25 good overall resistance to disease this is a good potato for organic production.
the em bokashi wheat bran is wheat bran that has been fermented with em's  - effective micro-organisms.
corner raised bed - 120x120x160 corner raised beds - 120 x 120 x 160cm no nails, no screws, no holes to  dig corner raised beds for adaptability and convenience.
the sheer joy of feeling the precision ground blades slide smoothly all the way from one e... - barnel palm fit saber by-pass curved shear - palm fit saber by-pass curved shear tools for your lifetime.
during that time he has set up a company, nurturing nature, which has won the coveted green apple 'go... - composting worms - worms for composting or wormeries.
manufactured in a strong... - build your own nest box - all the joy of building your own nest box, without the need to get our a measuring tape!
hole: 60mm at wi... triple chest wheelie bin screen triple chest wheelie bin screen
privacy copyright © 1995-2012
folding garden kneeler stool can be used as a seat or kneeler to make gardening easier.
brown button mushroom kit brown button mushroom kit fully recyclable cardboard carton with  waterproof lining and quality suffolk mushroom compost and culturals.
composting worms worms for composting or wormeries.
eats  more than the lumbricus rubellis   please note: as all worm orders go via  royal mail, first c.ass desiree desiree 12 sets for £10.25 desiree can be used for great roast  potatoes and chips, creamy mash and also wedges.
the silver birch log is ideal for those who prefer a more natural look.
colleen is suitable for boiling
dibber beech t-dibber ideal for autumn bulb planting this large wooden t-dibber  is a must.
biodegradable bag made from renewable sources.
using  the simple but highly effective perching rings... defender metal seed feeders defender metal seed feeders - small & medium metal feeders are tough,  long-lasting and offer excellent protection from squirrel damage.
the 32mm hole is suitable for species including  great tits, house sparrows and nuthatches. ...
the original compost tumbler is the right size for you if your property is home to large trees that drop bushels of leaves each autumn ...
twine - coloured coloured chunky garden twine these chunky spool of twine wiegh1kg each  and are available in  red.
the total capa... - double recycling box chest - double recycling box chest quality and stylish made to measure recycling box chest screen.
it is made of the  same strong steel weldmesh with a durable p... em & a+ replacement bottles replacement bottles of em & a+ for use with the em garden yoghurt  activator.
each unit comes with two pointed posts ... cloche hoops for raised beds cloche hoops for raised beds simon has come up with these remarkably  cheap hoops!
compost tumbler - orginal the original compost tumbler is the right size for you if your property  is home to large trees that drop bushels of leaves each autumn ...
there will be no trouble reading the message without bending down & the glasses falling off you... - blue tit feeding house - this delightful porcelain feeding house is decorated with blue tit illustrations by marjolein bastin.
this original feeder will hold up  to ten fat balls within the wire mesh, allowing more birds to feed at once.
wooden raised beds will allow your roots to grow long, straight and  strong.
simply pull out the pin to replace the apple.
the quality is superb.
catriona are suitable for: ... catriona catriona 12 sets for £10.25 a general purpose potato, which  produces good yields of long oval tubers with attractive blue eyes and  delicious yellow flesh.
these lids are designed to only fit the compact wooden compost bin all our wood is slow grown for strength and durability and is sourced from f. s.c... - compost duvets - the 'classic' compost duvet has been developed to prevent heat loss in the compost in the early stages of decomposition.
made in uk from fsc wood.
produced from heavy gauge steel with a hot dip galvanised zinc coating to res... - 52cm premium thermostatic electric propagator - 52cm premium thermostatic electric propagator with starter kit allows precise control of growing conditions for seeds and cuttings.
this em activator will make 1 litre of  activated em  em-a. em-a wil promote natural resistance to harmful  bacteria and release good bioactive substances.
with a quick scrape the boot grate will take off excess mud from boots  and shoes and with its built-in boot pull you can remove your boots without  bending!
corner raised bed - 60x60x90cm corner raised beds - 60x60x90cm
the front panel will pivot open for ease of  cleaning.
made from red powder coated steel  will last for many years.
all b... controlling weeds - without chemicals controlling weeds - without chemicals by jo readman.
if you want to recycle bath or shower water, this little gadget is ideal.
measures: 52l x 42w x 28h cm thermostatic control mainta...
it is most important to ensure that birds  have access to a clean water supply for drinkin...
250 worms £15.90 1/2 kil... - composting worms plus
the colour camera nestbox now comes with a  removable and separate camera housing which can be us...
each ball weighs typically 88g and are not wrapped in netting in which birds can become trapped.
em bokashi mud ball em bokashi mud balls
produced in conjunction  with the uk ladybird survey, this popular fold-out chart to ladybird  identification covers 26 of the 46 coccinellid spec...
you will then be able to see the  birds feeding close up from inside the home.
desiree is also sold as a baking potato.
the black sunflower husks have been removed so the  birds can access the energy-rich hearts straight...
once  the em-1 bottle is 'opened', it ...
simply scrape any old food off, it curved shap...
they are ideal for food  scraps and can then be added directly to yo... birch log hole nest box birch nest box - hole entrance
no nails, no screws, no holes to dig these will allow you to increase the capacity of our newly introduced new bumper size to the m... - 'big square' compost bin lids - the 'big square' compost bin lids designed to fit the new 1200 x1200mm 'big square' compost bins hinged in the middle to give easy access to the contents, these handy compost bin lids are de... - 'classic' compost bin wooden additional modules (90x90x75cm) - 'classic compost bin wooden additional modules by utilising the posts on any side of the original 'classic' compost bin and sliding new panels into them
l 0.93... cape gooseberry pot indoor terracotta seed kits - hand painted exotic cape gooseberry -  physalis gold seeds car boot liner - black suitable for hatchbacks and saloons 140 x 140cm (55” x 55”)
everyday seed mix - 3l everyday seed mix - 3lt a versatile seed mix providing essential  nutrients to garden birds.
good yields, especially very early.
£4.75 each or 2 for £9.00 - see options - feeder tray - standard size - feeder trays feeder trays keep lawns free from dropped food and husks.
all b... - controlling weeds - without chemicals - controlling weeds - without chemicals by jo readman.
using the simple but highly effective perching rings, ... - delicious pairs - delicious pairs two packs of seeds.
it in... bark chips 60 litres/15kg bark chips:  60litres/15kg processed uk conifer bark fsc compliant  recommended uses mulching key benefits free from chemicals and foreign matter  medium brown colour free from p... barnel heavy duty precision pruner tools for your lifetime these new barnel  professional series tools  are just a gardener’s dream.
spring release for folding flat for storage when not in use.
- 12 bird swiss chalet - 12 bird swiss chalet
she... - cooked food waste rescue - cooked food waste rescue twin bokashi buckets
actiferm can be u... adjustable tool rack adjustable tool rack this tool rack is an ingenious tool hanging system  designed to keep tools off the floor and tool sheds neat and tidy.
spring onions and carrots for crop protection carrot and swede for ma... - dendrobaena worms - debdrobaena worms for composting these are available in the following quantities: 0.25kg £11.85 0.5kg £19.40 1kg &... - dendrobena composting worm/fishing bait - dendrobena larger composting worm & fishing bait.
useful for jobs requiring a sturdy cord and also great for crafts projects.
easy t... - direct sowing seeds -spring
it's hard to get kids to willingly embrace  a healthy lifestyle, which is what gave us th... chilli pot indoor terracotta seed kits - hand painted chilli pot - with red demon  chilli seeds chilli starter kit each kit contains 3 starter pots, compost, instructions and seed of the  following verities of chilli.
ideal for small gardens and balconies.
perfect for lini... - composting with worms - george pilkington has been working with worms and preaching their benefits for nearly 20 years.
divided original compost tumbler divided original compostumbler 24 cu.ft.
recycle up to 175 litres of kitchen and garden waste every 4-6 weeks.
fat ball & suet feeder
www.emproducts.co.uk - this is o... em sea salt an healthy alternative table salt to enhance the flavour of foods.
the 6ft wide garden tunnels are built to a high specification and are designed for customers with limited space.
compost tea systems - 40l
stores flat length: 45cm 18in  width: 45cm 18in height: 62cm 24... your basket
bird feeder seed bird feeder seed designed specifically for use in a tube feeder.
this system  is flexible and expandable.
useful ideas: hedge clippi...
these beautiful scarves have beaded fringes to  add a nice weight & sparkle.50% cotton a...
this frost resistant ceramic dish has both shallow and deep areas, allowing safe access for all your garden birds.
pack: 20 x 17 x 10cm - christmas angel tealight carousel - brass - brass christmas angel tealight carousel these tealight carousels are derived from the best-selling angel chimes but rely on heat rising from a single maxi tealight to get their energy to tur... - chunky garden twine - coloured - coloured chunky garden twine these chunky spool of twine wiegh1kg each and are available in red.
corner raised beds have the inclusive features of flexibility ... - corner raised bed - 60x60x90cm - corner raised beds - 60x60x90cm no nails, no screws, no holes to dig corner raised beds for adaptability and convenience.
these ended and plain boards are exactly the same as we use f... - bokashi bucket 18l - compost food and vegetable scraps in the kitchen, without the fear of smells by using em's - effective microrganisms!
here at the recycle works, we know that there's nothing better than  giving a present that's really appreciated by the recipient and our new  range of hampers are designed to achieve precisely t... eglu go run extension eglu go run extension the eglu go run extension adds a further 1m length  to your run, giving your chickens more space to to explore.
- extra chunky twine ball - chunky twine ball a substantial 950g spool of chunky natural twine.
the ltl acorn scouting wildlife camera (model ltl-5210 , ltl-5210a) is a  scouting device.
celebrate charles darwin’s bicentenary with a fun journey into the ... - cable buddi - put those trailing cables behind you.
made from solid fsc  timber with a water-based stain, the birdie bis... bird bistro refill these refills are designed for the birdie bistro and simply slot into the  bistro feeder.
- em super cera-c powder - this em ceramic powder can be applied to both garden soil and lawns to increase fertility and structure.
after use, these plastic flower pots are fully bio  degradable.
the sheer joy of... barnel palm fit straight needle nose shears palm fit straight blade needlenose sheer lightweight 93gm tools for your  lifetime.
boot scraper with brushes cleans wellington boots, walking shoes and golf shoes.
they can either be used with grow bags ... - a guide to british bats - a guide to british bats produced by the field studies council, this laminated, illustrated guide will help you to identify all 16 species of native british bats.
made from 200mm thick fsc cedar, or similar, naturally durable timber.
wooden raised beds will allow your roots to grow long, straight and strong.
traditional shaped pruning blade with pronounced  hook to ensure each cut is completed in one pass.
made from red powder coated steel will last for many years.
occasionally you may need to replace a part of your wooden compost bin.
bowland nest box bowland nest box
chipping with this potato variety... colour camera nest box and bird table/feeder camera
sizes available: age 4-7... - children's twin wooden compost bin - start them composting early with their own special 'double composter', just like granddad's - only smaller!
may - fruit and flower snips - fruit & flower snips using a scissor action, this high quality snip is perfect for harvesting flowers and fruit – even from tough stems.
- ceramic water dish - ground -
corner raised beds have the inclusive features of flexibility of... - corner raised bed add-ons - corner raised bed add-ons no nails, no screws, no holes to dig corner raised beds for adaptability and convenience.
- farm yard manure: 50 litres/25kg ingredients based on composted horse manure - without the smells!
car boot winter aid pack this offer bundle comprises all the things you will need when the snow  arrives!
hole: 60mm at wi... - triple chest wheelie bin screen - triple chest wheelie bin screen
these bio pot saucers have both a long life quality and appearance.
these new barnel  professional series tools are just a  gardener’s dream.
tools for your lifetime.
t... fat balls pack of 6 fat ball x 6
the front panel will pivot open for ease of cleaning.
colour: terracotta *... - 8ft wide polytunnels - 8ft wide polytunnel range
we also use non-toxic wood preser...
chunky handle suits larger  hands.
the guardian fat ball feeder for  birds.
it  has four corner handles with eyelets and makes an ideal gift.
perfect size and perfect balance garden/landscape  barrow polypropylene tray, galvanised chass...
drain magic is made from 100% natural plant matter and does not contain any biologica... - duke of york - duke of york 12 sets for £10.25
the same size as the original compost tumbler but divided into two same-sized compartments, each with its... - dog whelping boxes - whelping boxes you have asked us for whelping boxes made from the same unique construction we use for all of our wooden gardening products and here they are.
in this hdra publication by sue strickland you can find out about some of  the vegetables varieties no longer found in seed catalogues, and others that  are now but may not be for much longer.
composting with worms george pilkington has been working with worms and preaching their  benefits for nearly 20 years.
four, corner webbing handles to enable contents to be gathered up and hauled  out.
please feed them from a dedicated feeder or  chop them up and feed them from a table.
choice of either benfi... - an earth saving revolution - an earth saving revolution volume 2
our corner raised bed add-ons can  quickly and easly be attached to your exi...
steel frame construction ...
it works on a... - copper slug & snail tape - 4m (13ft) copper slug and snail tape, this copper tape has an adhesive backing and can be put around the top of any planter to stop attacks by slugs and snails.
pack - direct sowing seeds - spring pack
the house is ... 12ft wide polytunnels 12ft wide polytunnel range
100-120lt the cruiser 100-120lt wheelbarrow a king amongst wheelbarrows - the one  we all want to take home.
it has humidity and air temperatu... essential heated propagator 52cm
it is primarily for use with the bokashi bucket,  but can also be used to speed up the composti...
the varieties included are: c... back garden seed saving
- feeder pole hooks - feeder pole hooks these hooks enable you to hand additional feeders from the feeder pole.
extra chunky twine ball chunky twine ball a substantial 950g spool of chunky natural twine.
the essential heated propagator 58cm this heated propagator produces  ideal conditions for growing cuttings and seedlings using a 22w long life  economical heater.
- bowland nest box - bowland nest box
biodegradable bag made  from renewable sources.
cuttings magic cuttings magic box
butterfly and moth feeder manufactured from solid fsc certified timber, this product which is  designed for butterflies and moths, combines both a feeder and habitat for  roosting and hibernating.
catriona are suitable for: ... - ceramic bird and bee nester - the ceramic bird and bee nester is an attractive dual purpose habitat for small birds and bumble bees.
em-x ceramic pipes 10mm - 250gms effective micro-organisms can be fermented and baked in clay to form the  products known as em ceramics.
• pointed blades allow for precise work...
compost magic activates the b... compost pitchfork
supplied with long-lasting  polypropylene netting, the standard side netting ...
you can double, treble or even quadruple th... - 'classic' wooden compost bin lids - hinged in the middle to give easy access to the modules, these handy compost bin lids are designed to prevent access to the bins by vermin.
we recommend this non toxic, water based preservative for the re-treating  of your compost bins, raised beds, grow tables, mangers and so on every couple  of years.
occasionally you  may need to replace a part of your wooden compost bin.
catriona are suitable for: ... ceramic bird and bee nester the ceramic bird and bee nester is an attractive dual purpose habitat for  small birds and bumble bees.
needlenose sheer lightweight 93gm
a... bird first aid bird first aid    the natural nest sites on which many of  our bird species depend, such as holes in trees and buildings, are fast  disappearing as gardens and woods are 'tidied' and ... bird table scraper & wildkleen stainless steel bird table scraper tool plus  wildkleen sanitizer.
the original swedis... classic garden tidy compost module garden tidy module.
effective micro-organisms 'value' hamper
uk sylvia@recycleworks.co.uk www.recycleworks.co.uk t: +44 (0)1254 820088 f: +44 (0)1254 820066 home | product sitemap | affiliates | terms of use | terms of trade |
a charming, attractive  and stylish small bird feeder suitable for all gardens.
these biodegradable bags come in either 20l or 40l capacity, with 25 bags to the roll.
h18cm x w11.5cm x d8cm - approx weight 130g - buzzing by anneliese emmans dean - buzzing - a fun celebration of garden bugs and creepy crawlies in poetry and photos by anneliese emmans dean.
2 per pack asparagus growing kits asparagus growing kits
snow shovel windscreen ice scraper with mitten ice and snow shoe  grippers carlingford carlingford 12 sets for £10.25
so when planted out, this encourages your tomato plant to develop a healthy root system.
the essential heated propagator 38cm this heated propagator produces  ideal conditions for growing cuttings and seedlings using a 8w long life  economical heater.
if purchasing lids with a compost bin, we recommend... - 10 fat ball feeding ring - fat ball feeding ring - 10 ball version
bird bistro feeder the birdie bistro feeder includes nutrition bar.
midway between a waxy and floury potato, the 'carlingford' variety is usually very round and smooth.
4-ply pneumatic tubed tyre 400x100 wheel with roller bearings the clipper wi... - cloche handy hoops 2.4m - cloche handy hoops - 2.4m these cloche handy hoops are a simple solution for protecting your plants and vegetables from both the weather and predators.
car boot tidy bag green pod recycling bag car boot  liners - 3 options car bo... car boot tidy bag this handy 'fold up' bag has three large compartments and makes it ideal  either for carrying plants and shopping.
each module comprises and... - free standing manger trough planter - free standing manger trough planter these really pretty free-standing beds are not our own idea and i suspect may be a style that has been used for donkey’s years, but you have asked us to... - fritillria meleagris - fritillria meleagris ideal for naturalising – snakes-head lily flower height: 20cm flowerss: april/
christmas angel tealight carousel - brass brass christmas angel tealight carousel these tealight carousels are  derived from the best-selling angel chimes but rely on heat rising from a  single maxi tealight  to get their energy to tur... chunky garden
- em ceramic pipes - 35mm - em-x ceramic 35mm pipes box of 2 for water treatment; the shape and structure of this cylindrical type em-x ceramics provides a large surface area for contact with the water.
bird feeder pole bird feeder pole using a garden pole enables you to move your food about  the garden and gain height.
- fairtrade beaded scarves - soft fair trade cotton scarves with beaded fringes glamour as light as a feather for feminine flattery.
length: 61cm colour... - bird feeder seed - bird feeder seed designed specifically for use in a tube feeder.
in this book jo readman takes a new and fun approach to weeds and shows how to identify them and make the most of them in the garden.
all purpose pig ark all purpose pig ark floor size 8’ x 5’ with height of  4’6".
it also h... galvanised garden wire 30m x 2.5mm strong galvanised garden line wire comes in a reel and is ideal training  and fencing use.
this frost resistant ceramic dish has both shallow and deep areas,  allowing safe access for all your garden birds.
spe... - car boot winter aid pack - this offer bundle comprises all the things you will need when the snow arrives!
recommended uses for improving the soil, planting and mulching key benefits adds rich ... - fat ball & suet feeder guardian - fat ball & suet feeder guardian
these modules will enable you to extend our free standing manger vegetable and flower bed planters.
using the  simple but highly effective perching rings, ... delicious pairs delicious pairs two packs of seeds.
shape useful for cleaning gutters an... - amaryllis gift bag - amaryllis gift bag outstandingly beautiful gifts which will come up again for years to come.
6 fat ball feeding ring fat ball feeding ring - 6 ball version
large uniform  tubers of excellent quality that remain firm w... eden em ecological cleaner eden em ecological cleaner eden is our new em cleaner and it really  impressed sylvia when she used it for the first time in her kitchen!
9cm blade folds into 10cm handle.... - clipper wheelbarrow 90-110lt - the clipper 90-110lt wheelbarrow the good looking wheelbarrow with a polypropylene tray and galvanised chassis.
the polytunnels are supplied as a complete unit... - 8" bio flower pot (pack of 5) - 8" bio flower pot these bio flower pots have both a long life quality and appearance.
the eglu go run extension adds a further 1m length to your run, giving your chickens more space to to explore.
it has poppers in each  corner so it can be formed into a tray and... estima estima 12 sets for £10.25 a versatile and is especially suited for  dishes where a firm cooked potato texture is required, as in salads or some  soups.
use the double pole hook to add feeders and peanut cakes.
colour: brown or green - see opti... - cruiser wheelbarrow 100-120lt - the cruiser 100-120lt wheelbarrow a king amongst wheelbarrows - the one we all want to take home.
has the s... - em garden yoghurt activator - em 'garden yoghurt' activator.
length: 200cm 79in width: 140cm 55in - estate car drip tray - tough long lasting sheet for protecting the inside of your estate, van or wagon.
e... em lip balm em lip balsam this lip balm contains plant extracts and oils as well as em em related websites em related websites for more information.
these great plant labels are meant to be seen and read.
- bird feeder pole - bird feeder pole using a garden pole enables you to move your food about the garden and gain height.
recycle up to 175 litres of  kitchen and garden waste every 4-6 weeks.
measures: 52l x  42w x 28h cm thermostatic control mainta...
every spring, nest boxes put up for small birds  are regularly used by nesting bumble bees.
estima is also sold as a baking potato ...
heat builds up  naturally and if it can be maintained by day and night&...
classic brass christmas angel chimes classic brass christmas 'angel chimes' "the magic of christmas  distilled"  - cherished by generations
em-x ceramic powder for paint em-x ceramic paint powder this finely ground em ceramic powder is added  to paint at 1-2% by weight.
slots on to the big square bins and can be set aside for sorting bits that need special attention later such as pernicious weeds, thick wood, ro... - bio pot saucer 8" (pack of 5) - bio pot saucer
the pack consists of: 30ml of 100% organic rooting compound 45 pieces of dried, compressed moss 45 re-sealable plastic bags fool proof propagation cuttings magic is a n... - deep classic raised bed and standard module - deep classic raised bed and standard module tall posts for fixing crop protection.
l 0.93... - cape gooseberry pot - indoor terracotta seed kits - hand painted exotic cape gooseberry - physalis gold seeds - car boot liner -
em bokashi mud balls are a mixture of clay, bokashi and em which is mixed together and then allowed to ferment before being dried.
as a result, the mud balls are enriched wi... em bokashi wheat bran - 2 x 2kg bags the em bokashi wheat bran is wheat bran that has been fermented with em's  - effective micro-organisms.
the (mini-)musical compost!
she... cooked food waste rescue cooked food waste rescue     twin bokashi buckets bokashi  & bran.
attaches directly to the garden pole... bird feeder pole extension bird feeder pole extension add another section to your garden pole with  this handy extender - useful if you have soft ground, as the extra depth will  ensure stability.
dimensions 15 x 18cm.
algiclearpro 1ltr algiclearpro 1ltr super concentrate - green algae remover algiclear is a  concentrated, environmentally sensitive, curing and preventative treatment  which kills algae, moss and liverwort on all ha...
contains: black and striped sunflower seeds,  millet, kibbled peanuts, and pinhead oatmeal.
their positive activity can therefore be ret...
camera ready nest box with colour camera kit an attractive, robust starter camera nestbox suitable for a variety of  species including, tits, sparrows etc.
jalapeno, cayenne, scotch bonnet.
this handy garden thermometer comes with a sturdy cardboard tube, to protect it when not in use.
corner raised bed add-ons corner raised bed add-ons no nails, no screws, no holes to dig corner  raised beds for adaptability and convenience.
it is  identical to that supplied with the garden yoghurt maker.
this original feeder will hold up to six fat balls within the wire mesh, allowing more birds to feed at once.
generic styling, ma... - fairtrade hand stitched flower brooch - daisy hand stitched flower brooch fun to pin to the messenger bag and the whopper shopper.
estima is also sold as a baking potato ... - everyday seed mix - 3l - everyday seed mix - 3lt a versatile seed mix providing essential nutrients to garden birds.
high yield 3 per pack - asparagus gijnlim hybrid - asparagus – gijnlim - fi hybrid very early variety ideal for forcing.
colour: brown or green - see opti...
this selection of seeds for sowing direct include; the prince dwarf french bean - needs very little support.
- compost tumbler - orginal -
we also use non-toxic wood preser... - compact compost bin lid - the 'compact' wooden compost bin lid
pack: 20 x 17 x  10cm
raised beds for adaptability and convenience.
a great addition to the classic compost bins.
the original swedis... - classic garden tidy compost module - garden tidy module.
this attractive, robust and very  stylish triple wheelie bin screen is a must have if you want to hide away those  dirty looking bins.
length: 200cm  79in  width: 140cm 55in estate car drip tray tough long lasting sheet for protecting the inside of your estate, van or  wagon.
operate two chambers seperately for efficient batch composting.
it is 30m (98ft) long and 2.5(.01in) in diameter.
the s... basil pot indoor terracotta seed kits hand painted basil pot  - with basil  seeds bath and shower water saver
after use, these plastic flower  pots are fully bio degradable.
- bird bistro feeder - the birdie bistro feeder includes nutrition bar.
it will both help to neutralise the odours given  off by the paint and will exhert its resonance...
a quality cage at a  budget price!
comprises a single deep classic raised bed (90x90x45h)cm) with a 30... - defender metal seed feeder with 3 ltr seed - defender metal seed feeders - with 3ltr seed metal feeders are tough, long-lasting and offer excellent protection from squirrel damage.
using the simple but highly effective perching rings... - defender metal seed feeders - defender metal seed feeders - small & medium metal feeders are tough, long-lasting and offer excellent protection from squirrel damage.
plastic jammers ... aerogarden unit + chilli kit white aerogarden unit with gourmet chilli kit  aerogarden is a new  home gardening appliance that boasts miracle-like growth of fresh herbs and  other produce at just a push of a button.
- children's nursery gardening kit - these educational packs / kits are are excellent value for money and are perfect for schools and nurseries getting involved in gardening and grow your own.
this handy garden thermometer comes with a  sturdy cardboard tube, to protect it when not in use.
these very informative book on the history of em and how the  technology has developed over the last 20 ye...
every time you have scraps to throw, be it meat fish or vegetable, just open t... - boot grate with boot pull - with a quick scrape the boot grate will take off excess mud from boots and shoes and with its built-in boot pull you can remove your boots without bending!
this fabulous compost pitch fork cuts easily into compost and is useful  for lifting large volumes.
it has  white skin and white flesh.
if  purchasing lids with a compost bin, we recommend... 10 fat ball feeding ring fat ball feeding ring - 10 ball version
em bokashi mud balls are a mixture of clay, bokashi  and em which is mixed together and then allowed to ferment before being dried.
traditional shaped pruning blade with pronounced hook to ensure each cut is completed in one pass.
as all worm orders go via royal mail, first c.ass - desiree - desiree 12 sets for £10.25 desiree can be used for great roast potatoes and chips, creamy mash and also wedges.
just think - all those bulbs planted in no time!
- em-x ceramic powder for paint - em-x ceramic paint powder
these will allow you to increase the capacity of our  newly introduced new bumper size to the m... 'big square' compost bin lids the 'big square' compost bin lids designed to fit the new 1200 x1200mm  'big square' compost bins hinged in the middle to give easy access to the  contents, these handy compost bin lids are de... 'classic' compost bin wooden additional modules (90x90x75cm) 'classic compost bin wooden additional modules by utilising the posts on  any side of the original 'classic' compost bin and sliding new panels into them
uses: classic compost bins and modules classic raised ... - boards for big square raised beds, long raised beds, big square compost bins & modules side measuring 120cm 4ft - wood is a live material & all trees are different.
they increase feeding area – can be used to feed different foods and  attract new species.
a multi-species, multi-season, plug-and-play camera system for nestbox,  bird table and feeder.
every time you have scraps to  throw, be it meat fish or vegetable, just open t...
these new barnel  professional series tools are just a gardener’s  dream.
useful ideas: hedge clippi... - camera ready nest box with colour camera kit - an attractive, robust starter camera nestbox suitable for a variety of species including, tits, sparrows etc.
four, corner webbing handles to enable contents to be gathered up and hauled out.
guardian fat ball & suet feeder guardian
the sheer joy of  feeling the precision ground blades slide smooth... barnel palm fit curved blunt nose secateur these new barnel  professional series tools are just a  gardener’s dream.
duke of york duke of york 12 sets for £10.25
made from heavy duty steel, plastic coat... - boot scraper with brushes - cleans wellington boots, walking shoes and golf shoes.
all the equipment you need to grow the mushrooms, approx.
large uniform tubers of excellent quality that remain firm w... - eden em ecological cleaner - eden em ecological cleaner eden is our new em cleaner and it really impressed sylvia when she used it for the first time in her kitchen!
can be hung against a wall, tree or fence post.
double chamber wooden bat box double chamber wooden bat box.
lets you make a  batch every week!
stores flat length: 45cm 18in width: 45cm 18in height: 62cm 24... your basket basket empty your account username: password: - create an account - recover password email newsletter would you like to receive “sylvia's briefs?”
supplied as a pack of 3.
slots on to the classic bins and can be set aside for sorting any bits and bobs and pernicious weeds that need spe... - classic prunning knife - classic pruning knife
the nestbox c... cane growbag frame cane growbag frame so simple yet so sturdy this effective cane growbag  support frame is made from durable galvanised tube with plastic moulded  fittings to support 3 x 10mm growing canes.
the triple chest wheelie... - 'big square' compost bin additional module (1.2mx1.2mx75cm) - the big square wooden modular compost bins - additional modules
made out of heavy duty woven coated polyethylene.
5.5 x 2m wide for £10.00 clear polythene c... - croma non-toxic wood preservative - we recommend this non toxic, water based preservative for the re-treating of your compost bins, raised beds, grow tables, mangers and so on every couple of years.
epicure epicure 12 sets for £10.25 epicure produces high yields of floury  white fleshed tubers that are round in shape.
every time you have scraps to throw, be it meat fish or vegetable, just open t... - bokashi compost bucket - twin system - compost food and vegetable scraps in the kitchen, without the fear of smells by using em's - effective microrganisms!
perfect size and perfect balance garden/landscape barrow polypropylene tray, galvanised chass... - cuttings magic - cuttings magic box
fitted with  comfort pads on both seat and kneeler.
carlingford is suitab...
it will not kill them but passes a ... - corner raised bed - 120x120x160 - corner raised beds - 120 x 120 x 160cm no nails, no screws, no holes to dig corner raised beds for adaptability and convenience.
the 'duke of york' variety is an  oval shaped potato and has a cream coloured exterior.
bedding - the special bedding in which these native worms arrive will ensure that they are in perfect condition & have available food to eat until your scraps are decomposed enough for them.
celebrate charles  darwin’s bicentenary with a fun journey into the ... cable buddi put those trailing cables behind you.
bats require  specific ledges to cling to in their roosts.
each module comprises and... free standing manger trough planter free standing manger trough planter these really pretty free-standing  beds are not our own idea and i suspect may be a style that has been used for  donkey’s years, but you have asked us to...
if you have  a sizeable vegetable garden ... or if your lan... compost tumbler - patio a household size composter for daily amounts of kitchen and household  throwouts, which makes finished compost in 4-6 weeks!
slots on to the classic bins and can be set aside for sorting any bits  and bobs and pernicious weeds that need spe... classic prunning knife classic pruning knife
teach your class, group or friends to rap, drum... - compostable caddy eco-sacs - 7 & 10l sizes - biodegradeable corn starch bags 7ltr or 10ltr capacity, supplied as 3 rolls of 25 bags per roll.
length: 61cm  colour...
when not in can be folded up and  stored in it's own plastic wallet.
a... - bird first aid - bird first aid the natural nest sites on which many of our bird species depend, such as holes in trees and buildings, are fast disappearing as gardens and woods are 'tidied' and ... - bird table scraper & wildkleen - stainless steel bird table scraper tool plus wildkleen sanitizer.
t... - fat balls pack of 6 - fat ball x 6
contact us currency converter display prices in australian dollar danish krone  estonian kroon euro hong kong dollar indian rupee japanese yen new romanian leu  new turkish lira new zealand dollar norwegian krone pound sterling
the perfect solution for greenhouse or potting shed keeping tools out of the way and tidy so you can always ... - drain magic - drain magic is an intra-cellular, micro-nutrient additive, for application to domestic drains and septic tanks.
this is a detailed guide to growing food in school.
so  when planted out, this encourages your tomato plant to develop a healthy root  system.
made from solid fsc timber with a water-based stain, the birdie bis... - bird bistro refill - these refills are designed for the birdie bistro and simply slot into the bistro feeder.
height: 25c... - brown button mushroom kit - brown button mushroom kit fully recyclable cardboard carton with waterproof lining and quality suffolk mushroom compost and culturals.
no need to tangle  with it.
simply pull out  the pin to replace the apple.
the crop will be easy to harvest to... - deep raised bed, module. 3 hoops & compost - deep classic raised bed with standard module, 3 cloche hoops and 10 bags of vegetable compost the ideal raised bed starter kit!
each unit comes with two pointed posts an... - cloche handy hoops 3m - cloche handy hoops - 3m these cloche handy hoops are a simple solution for protecting your plants and vegetables from both the weather and predators.
boards for 'classic' wooden compost bins / raised beds 90cm/3ft sides these boards are exactly the same as we use for the wooden modular  compost bins and raised plots and measure 83cm (l) x 15cm (d) x 2cm (w).
- double chamber wooden bat box - double chamber wooden bat box.
4.5ltr long reach professional can - black 4.5ltr long reach professional can - black a classic long reach watering  can for the gardener who wants the very best.
feeder pole hooks feeder pole hooks these hooks enable you to hand additional feeders from  the feeder pole.
it will both help to neutralise the odours given off by the paint and will exhert its resonance...
5.5 x 2m wide for  £10.00 clear polythene c... croma non-toxic wood preservative
heig... - boards for 'classic' wooden compost bins / raised beds 90cm/3ft sides - these boards are exactly the same as we use for the wooden modular compost bins and raised plots and measure 83cm (l) x 15cm (d) x 2cm (w).
safely by fermentation and fast disposal.
corner raised beds  have the inclusive features of flexibility ...
pick  as soon as ready.
this is also a good way to keep ...
drainage holes keep food fres... fertile water storage granules fertile water storage granules - 60gm bag the fertile water storage  granules provide exceptionally fast water absorption when compared with other  granules.
each unit comes with tow pointed posts and ... - cloche handy hoops 1.5m - cloche handy hoops - 1.5m these cloche handy hoops are a simple solution for protecting your plants and vegetables from both the weather and predators.
wheel with roller bearings the clipper wi... cloche handy hoops 2.4m cloche handy hoops - 2.4m these cloche handy hoops are a simple solution  for protecting your plants and vegetables from both the weather and predators.
these lids are designed to  only fit the compact wooden compost bin all our wood is slow grown for strength  and durability and is sourced from f. s.c... compost duvets the 'classic' compost duvet has been developed to prevent heat loss in  the compost in the early stages of decomposition.
flower press flower presses these delightful simple to use hobby items will capture  the imagination of anyone who loves flowers and has a reason to keep the memory  alive.
made in great  britain from beech wood, sourced from uk man...
i... - ceramic hanging bird bath - hanging bird bath providing clean fresh water is an essential element of feeding garden birds responsibly.
www.emproducts.co.uk - this is o... - em sea salt - an healthy alternative table salt to enhance the flavour of foods.
this 100% fsc certified wood nest box pack comes with everything you need to produce your very own nest box ... - butterfly and moth feeder - manufactured from solid fsc certified timber, this product which is designed for butterflies and moths, combines both a feeder and habitat for roosting and hibernating.
the sheer joy of feeling the precision ground blades slide smooth... - barnel palm fit curved blunt nose secateur - these new barnel professional series tools are just a gardener’s dream.
produced in partnership with the wildfowl and wetlands trust, this 12-panel laminated fold-out chart provides coloured illustrations and inf... - flower cane caps - flower cane caps these plastic cane caps are designed to fit on the top of garden canes and will prevent you from getting poked in the eye or face while either picking flowers or weeding in the ga... - flower press - flower presses these delightful simple to use hobby items will capture the imagination of anyone who loves flowers and has a reason to keep the memory alive.
the  8ft wide garden polytunnel has 3ft 6in straight sides, which allow for plant  growth right up to the edge, even when using s... 9" tomato pot rings - packs of 3 9" tomato culture pot rings the tomato pot ring has no base -
field guide to ladybirds
messenger bag with mobile, ipad and computer and purse pockets and  pleanty of room for lots more.
a host of options are available to enhance your polytunnel ...
free standing manger bed extention modules free standing manger vegetable and flower beds additional modules.
this is a  detailed guide to growing food in school.
- epicure - epicure 12 sets for £10.25 epicure produces high yields of floury white fleshed tubers that are round in shape.
for  full details on the uses of super cera c, please... em-1 (1 litre) em-1 is the em - effective microorganisms in their dormant state.
small garden birds, whose diet  consists mainly of seeds, are in most need of fr... children's gardening apron child's gardening apron these charming, plastic coated child's gardening  aprons will help to keep the soil in your garden and not on your children's  clothes .... or maybe that's wishfull thinking!
drought proof gardening invaluable if you have a water meter  environmentally friendly ... beech t
supplied with long-lasting polypropylene  netting, the standard side netting is ... agriframes standard fruit cage agriframes standard fruit cage measures 2.5m x 5m x 2m high all fruit  cages are 2m (6ft 6ins) above ground height.
small garden birds, whose diet consists mainly of seeds, are in most need of fr... - children's gardening apron - child's gardening apron these charming, plastic coated child's gardening aprons will help to keep the soil in your garden and not on your children's clothes .... or maybe that's wishfull thinking!
corner raised bed - 90x90x120 corner raised beds - 90 x 90 x 120cm no nails, no screws, no holes to dig
the most natural way to dispose of cooked food waste.
you can program up to 8 different time/day combinations with ease, so ideal if you are going on holiday.
the 12ft wide garden tunnels offer all the  advantages of the smaller 10ft wide and are manufactured to the same high  standard using 28mm diameter steel hoops.
bokashi bucket 18l compost food and vegetable scraps in the kitchen, without the fear of  smells by using em's - effective microrganisms!
lets you make a batch every week!
specifications: length 104cm mild steel - compost tea system10 starter kit.
specifications: length 104cm mild steel compost tea system10 starter kit.
the small size  of the patio compostumbler is great for your de... compost!
it can be triggered by sudden change of ambient temperature  caused by moving game in a region of interest, ... actiferm actiferm 3l actiferm is the same as the 'garden yoghurt' made in the gy  activator - namely activated em - and comes in a 'bag in a box' for easy use,  with a 12 month shelf life.
, the original angel chimes are  now once again available.
the choice of 'delicious pairs' are: tomato and basil for salad.
ideal for greenhouses and an ideal gift.
made from uv stable polypropylene, these cloche hoops simply slot  firmly & securely into the posts of all ... colleen colleen 12 sets for £10.25 good overall resistance to disease this  is a good potato for organic production.
it has white skin and white flesh.
e... - em lip balm - em lip balsam
a great addition to the classic compost bins.
made from fsc wood dimensions: height 17cm,  width 25.5cm, depth 19.5cm.
contains: black and striped sunflower seeds, millet, kibbled peanuts, and pinhead oatmeal.
pick as soon as ready.
it is identical to that supplied with the garden yoghurt maker.
enamel garden thermometer enamel garden thermometer
sorry green out of stock.
this attractive, robust and very stylish double wheelie bin screen is a must have if you want to hide away those dirty looking bins.
use the double pole hook to add feeders and peanut  cakes.
high yield 3 per pack asparagus gijnlim hybrid asparagus – gijnlim - fi hybrid  very early variety ideal for  forcing.
the perfect solution for greenhouse or potting shed keeping  tools out of the way and tidy so you can always ... drain magic drain magic is an intra-cellular, micro-nutrient additive, for  application to domestic drains and septic tanks.
these are available in the following quantities: 1/4 kilo - approx.
budget fruit cage budget fruit cage dimensions: 2.5m wide x 5m long x 1.83 high (6ft).
this sturdy thermometer is protected from damage by its metal case and the bright orange ball at one end makes it difficult to lose.
eyelets for use with drawstring high qu... - car boot organiser pack - the car boot organiser pack contains a selection of useful tool to help you recycle all you rubbish.
new romanian leu new turkish lira new zealand dollar norwegian krone pound sterling swedish krona swiss franc us dollar blog it all in here product sitemap - robin & wren nest box -
they are ideal for food scraps and can then be added directly to yo... - birch log hole nest box - birch nest box - hole entrance
with simple focusing, the camera provides superb, high quality, colour images.
i and many of our customers have used ... dormouse house dormouse  (muscardinus avellanarius) house with their lovely  ginger-brown fur, long fur covered tails and deep black eyes, the dormouse is  one of our most beautiful and intriguing small mam...
the black sunflower husks have been removed so the birds can access the energy-rich hearts straight...
swedish krona swiss franc us dollar blog it all in here home product sitemap robin & wren nest box
you can keep high energy wild bird food such as fat balls and  peanut cake tubes safe using these practical gua... fat balls pack of 30 fat balls x 30 these new reciepe cj fat balls are not wrapped in netting  which birds can become trapped in.
it is made of the same strong steel weldmesh with a durable p... - em & a+ replacement bottles - replacement bottles of em & a+ for use with the em garden yoghurt activator.
you will then be able to see the birds feeding close up from inside the home.
a great tasting first  early which are now making a comeback by popular ... essential heated propagator 38cm
produced in conjunction with the uk ladybird survey, this popular fold-out chart to ladybird identification covers 26 of the 46 coccinellid spec... - field guide to wetland birds - looking for an identification guide to wetland birds?
asparagus conovers colossal asparagus – cannova’s colossal .
dunluce dunluce 12 sets for £10.25 an attractive, round-short oval potato  with white flesh and skin.
attach a cable buddi to your belt or trouser top and the cable buddi will look after the cable.
it will pay dividends to make sure that ... compost magic spray bottle 500ml compost magic is made from 100% naturally occurring inert plant extract  which means it is kind to the environment and harmless to all animal, aquatic  and plant life.
the guardian fat ball feeder for birds.
each unit comes with tow pointed posts and ... cloche handy hoops 1.5m cloche handy hoops - 1.5m these cloche handy hoops are a simple solution  for protecting your plants and vegetables from both the weather and predators.
lots of ways to bring... farm yard manure 50l farm yard manure: 50 litres/25kg ingredients based on composted horse  manure - without the smells!
the 8ft wide garden polytunnel has 3ft 6in straight sides, which allow for plant growth right up to the edge, even when using s... - 9" tomato pot rings - packs of 3 - 9" tomato culture pot rings the tomato pot ring has no base -
made from fsc wood dimensions: height 17cm, width 25.5cm, depth 19.5cm.
skip to navigation | skip to content our products - raised wooden beds - special offers - bird & wildlife products - scarecrows - books, cd's & dvd's - bulbs & seeds - charcoal kiln - children's gardening - cloche hoops & cloches - compost bins & composting - compost tea systems - electric shredders - first aid kits - em products & cleaners - fairtrade products - fruit cages & veg frames - gardening products - grow your own - home farming - home recycling - ladders - log splitters & saws - magic range - mushroom kits - pet products - polytunnels - soil sieves & sifters - school gardening - sensitive matters - solar power - starter kits - water conservation - worms & wormeries - charity contributions - latest products - gift certificates product search advanced search general information - home - worm forum - topical information - about recycle works - site news - faqs - useful links - delivery information - contact us currency converter display prices in australian dollar danish krone estonian kroon euro hong kong dollar indian rupee japanese yen
manufactured from superior tongue and groove range this chest  will protect your recycling boxes from t... double tool hooks - pack of 5 electro plated steel hooks for storage of tools in the garden shed,  garage or workshop.
each asparagus kit is supplied with two 69 litre  growing bags / planters making them perfect for small spaces such as patios and  balconies.
dibber - beech t-dibber ideal for autumn bulb planting this large wooden t-dibber is a must.
you can double, treble or even quadruple th... 'classic' wooden compost bin lids hinged in the middle to give easy access to the modules, these handy  compost bin lids are designed to prevent access to the bins by vermin.
the most popular of the polytunnels range, including design features which make growing easy and efficient.
it can be triggered by sudden change of ambient temperature caused by moving game in a region of interest, ... - actiferm - actiferm 3l actiferm is the same as the 'garden yoghurt' made in the gy activator - namely activated em - and comes in a 'bag in a box' for easy use, with a 12 month shelf life.
supplied with long-lasting polypropylene netting, the standard side netting ... - algiclearpro 1ltr - algiclearpro 1ltr super concentrate - green algae remover algiclear is a concentrated, environmentally sensitive, curing and preventative treatment which kills algae, moss and liverwort on all ha... - all purpose pig ark - all purpose pig ark floor size 8’ x 5’ with height of 4’6".
compost first aid kit compost first aid kit     home made compost adds too the  nutrients in the soil and puts back what has been taken out of the soil in  waste.
- em bokashi wheat bran 1kg -
this is also a good way to keep ... - folding garden kneeler stool - can be used as a seat or kneeler to make gardening easier.
chunky handle suits larger hands.
... - agriframes premier fruit cage - agriframes premier fruit cage measures: 5m x 5m x 2m high all fruit cages are 2m (6ft 6ins) above ground height.
if you have a sizeable vegetable garden ... or if your lan... - compost tumbler - patio - a household size composter for daily amounts of kitchen and household throwouts, which makes finished compost in 4-6 weeks!
- enamel garden thermometer - enamel garden thermometer
as bats like ledge spacing to be just so, these bat boxes are spaced exactly the... - double chest wheelie bin screen - double chest wheelie bin screen
the sheer joy of... - barnel palm fit straight needle nose shears - palm fit straight blade
a host of  options are available to enhance your polytunnel ...
agriframes premier fruit cage agriframes premier fruit cage measures: 5m x 5m x 2m high all fruit cages  are 2m (6ft 6ins) above ground height.
free flowing and high in oil content.
it will pay dividends to make sure that ... - compost magic spray bottle 500ml - compost magic is made from 100% naturally occurring inert plant extract which means it is kind to the environment and harmless to all animal, aquatic and plant life.
this selection of seeds for sowing  direct include; the prince dwarf french bean - needs very little support.
em sea salt contains trace minerals including potassium, calcium, magnesium and other minerals naturally found in the sea.
the 12ft wide garden tunnels offer all the advantages of the smaller 10ft wide and are manufactured to the same high standard using 28mm diameter steel hoops.
when not in can be folded up and stored in it's own plastic wallet.
shape useful  for cleaning gutters an... amaryllis gift bag amaryllis gift bag outstandingly beautiful gifts which will come up again  for years to come.
fairtrade cotton messenger bag messenger bag we just love the practicality of these wonderful everyday  bags.
these beautiful scarves have beaded fringes to add a nice weight & sparkle.50% cotton a... - fairtrade cotton messenger bag - messenger bag we just love the practicality of these wonderful everyday bags.
attach a cable buddi to your belt  or trouser top and the cable buddi will look after the cable.
the double chest wheelie bin... double patio compost tumbler make your own compost most of the year round.
wtitten by prof. teruo higa, who developed em.
car boot tidy bag green pod recycling bag car boot liners - 3 options car bo... - car boot tidy bag -
pin one in your hair or brighten up a shirt with one of these pretty accessories.
this attractive, robust and very stylish  double wheelie bin screen is a must have if you want to hide away those dirty  looking bins.
white lisbon frenc...
made from 200mm thick fsc cedar, or  similar, naturally durable timber.
choice of either benfi... an earth saving revolution an earth saving revolution volume  2 wtitten by prof. teruo higa,  who developed em.
eyelets for use with drawstring high qu... car boot organiser pack the car boot organiser pack contains a selection of useful tool to help  you recycle all you rubbish.
you can program up to 8 different time/day combinations with ease, so ideal if  you are going on holiday.
produced from heavy gauge steel  with a hot dip galvanised zinc coating to res... 52cm premium thermostatic electric propagator 52cm premium thermostatic electric propagator with starter kit allows  precise control of growing conditions for seeds and cuttings.
long reach professional can - black a classic long reach watering can for the gardener who wants the very best.
sign up to receive our weekly news and exclusive discount codes to help you... love your environment company details recycle works ltd unit 1, bee mill ribchester, pr3 3xj.
the attractively shaped '... - butterfly/bee nectar feeding station - butterfly/bee feeding station attract butterflies and bees to your garden with this attractive wooden butterfly/bee feed station.
starter kit, with 5 'brew' package this item  appears at first sight to be expensive and is more for the purist and people
this attractive, flat based open nest box has been designed specifically  with the robin and wren in mind.
fsc oak wooden apple bird feeder the apple bird feeder the apple bird feeder is designed not only to hold  apples for your birds to feed on, but will also hold fat balls.
ideal for serving our popular special rec... - 10ft wide polytunnels - 10ft wide polytunnel range
the micro-organisms cannot escape from the clay.
has the s... em garden yoghurt activator em 'garden yoghurt' activator.
this 12 bird ark provides the ideal housing solution for small numbers of birds as well as being suitable for broody hens and isolation/hospital accommodation.
shows temperatures in both celsius and fare... - compost tumber - compact - if you're looking for a fast and convenient way to compost your kitchen throw-outs, grass clippings and organic garden wastes, our compact unit is just right for you!
this handy 2 in 1 tool will make light work of keeping your bird table clean.
comprises a single deep  classic raised bed (90x90x45h)cm) with a 30... defender metal seed feeder with 3 ltr seed defender metal seed feeders -  with 3ltr seed metal feeders are  tough, long-lasting and offer excellent protection from squirrel damage.
it works on a... copper slug & snail tape 4m (13ft) copper slug and snail tape, this copper tape has an adhesive  backing and can be put around the top of any planter to stop attacks by slugs  and snails.
compact compost bin additional module the 'compact' wooden compost bin additional module all our wood is slow  grown for strength and durability and is sourced from f. s.c. sustainable  forests.
measure plant feeds, lawn compost, animal feeds.
em bokashi wheat bran 1kg
the triple chest wheelie... 'big square' compost bin additional module (1.2mx1.2mx75cm)
the (mini-)musical: a teaching pack with resource cd a bigbuzz  eco-musical by anneliese emmans dean calling all musical eco-activists!
attaches directly to the garden pole... - bird feeder pole extension - bird feeder pole extension add another section to your garden pole with this handy extender - useful if you have soft ground, as the extra depth will ensure stability.
h18cm x  w11.5cm x d8cm - approx weight 130g buzzing by anneliese emmans dean buzzing  - a fun celebration of garden bugs and creepy crawlies in  poetry and photos by anneliese emmans dean.
4-ply pneumatic tubed tyre 400x100
this attractive wooden nest box will attract nuthatches,  house sparrows and great tits.
corner raised beds have  the inclusive features of flexibility of size...
this means that water is absorbed in th... fertometer® soil nutrition tester fertometer® soil nutrition tester fertometer® measures your  plant’s hunger very often, fertilisation is being neglected or applied in  the wrong way, because up to now the real f... field guide to hedgehogs the field guide to hedgehogs this four page, illustrated laminated guide  to hedgehogs will provide you with the basic information on how to encourage  hedgehogs to take up residence in your garden....
it in... - bark chips 60 litres/15kg - bark chips: 60litres/15kg processed uk conifer bark fsc compliant recommended uses mulching key benefits free from chemicals and foreign matter medium brown colour free from p... - barnel heavy duty precision pruner - tools for your lifetime these new barnel professional series tools are just a gardener’s dream.
they increase feeding area – can be used to feed different foods and attract new species.
this finely ground em ceramic powder is added to paint at 1-2% by weight.
the (mini-)musical: a teaching pack with resource cd a bigbuzz eco-musical by anneliese emmans dean calling all musical eco-activists!
spring onions and carrots for crop protection  carrot and swede for ma... dendrobaena worms debdrobaena worms for composting these are available in the following  quantities: 0.25kg   £11.85 0.5kg      £19.40 1kg     &...
made ... em super cera-c powder this em ceramic powder can be applied to both garden soil and lawns to  increase fertility and structure.
ideal for serving our popular special reci... 6ft wide polytunnels the 6ft wide polytunnel range
this attractive, flat based open nest box has been designed specifically with the robin and wren in mind.
lots of ways to bring... - farm yard manure 50l
it has humidity and air temperat... - estate car boot liner - black - protect your estate car boot with the bosmere estate car boot liner.
colour wildlife camera kit an excellent value, high quality, colour camera kit with audio for diy  installations.
corner raised beds have  the inclusive features of flexibility of...
steel frame construction ... - free standing manger bed extention modules - free standing manger vegetable and flower beds additional modules.
catriona are suitable for: ... - catriona - catriona 12 sets for £10.25 a general purpose potato, which produces good yields of long oval tubers with attractive blue eyes and delicious yellow flesh.
the double chest wheelie bin... - double patio compost tumbler - make your own compost most of the year round.
a quality cage at a budget price!