please cut or fold your cardboard and brown paper flat so it fits into your blue bag and can fit onto our collection vehicles.
please keep the cardboard and brown paper separate from  the other paper as this is recycled separately.
it can also  contaminate the other materials, which means we might not be able to recycle  them.
please use your blue bag (see below) for cardboard, food and drinks cartons (tetra paks) and brown paper.
household plastic packaging recycling you can put plastic household packaging in your green box for recycling.
the composting facilities were increasingly having to sort the cardboard out of the green waste to get rid of any contaminants.
here are details of a few, but we would advise you to ring and  check first to ensure that this information is still current.
toys, washing up bowls, plant  pots) plastic trays (eg meat, cake, fruit trays)
toys, washing up bowls, plant pots) plastic trays (eg meat, cake, fruit trays) no plastics used to contain medical, chemical, garage or garden materials
can i use my blue bag for putting other recyclable items in?
tel: 01275 832296 - takes pots homebase: bath, pines way, bath avon ba2 3et, tel  08456 407036 -  takes pots for other customers to use 13.
the bags are 45cm cubed with a capacity of 91 litres.
plastic frequently asked questions 1.
cardboard recycling cardboard is collected every week and is recycled into packaging material instead of being composted.
the bag has a weighted base to reduce the chance of it blowing away and the recycling collectors will make sure that they leave it inside your green box after collection.
you can  put the lids back on bottles if they are squashed flat.
cardboard packaging newspaper and magazines cereal boxes, toothpaste boxes, ready meal sleeves etc.
all card must be folded or cut so that it is no bigger than 45 cm so that it can fit on the vehicle.
cardboard and brown paper contaminate the paper because they leave brown spots in the finished product.
bath & north east somerset council is not responsible for the content of external internet sites.
you can now put household plastic packaging in the mixed cans and plastic banks.
for the introduction of this new service we are only offering one  size of blue bag.
no food to be left on packaging cardboard and plastics cardboard frequently asked questions 1.
please put greeting cards  in your green box and brown paper in your blue bag.
if you need more space you can put your recycling out in carrier bags or request an extra container from council connect councilconnect@bathnes.gov.uk 01225 39 40 41.
to order a bag please contact  council connectcouncilconnect@bathnes.gov.uk 01225 39 40 41.
i live in flats and have a mini recycling centre (mrc).
won't the bag blow away?
the bags are 45cm  cubed with a capacity of 91 litres.
the bag has a weighted  base to reduce the chance of it blowing away and the recycling collectors will  make sure that they leave it inside your green box after collection.
do i have to remove the tape and plastics that comes with my cardboard?
junk mail and leaflets egg boxes, toilet roll tubes etc. catalogues, directories and yellow pages brown paper white paper and envelopes and small amounts of shredded paper food and drinks cartons (tetra paks).
you can  recycle all cardboard packaging such as cardboard boxes, cereal boxes, ready  meal sleeves, egg boxes and toilet roll tubes.
please put cardboard in your blue bag: please put paper in your green box: cardboard packaging cereal boxes, toothpaste boxes, ready meal sleeves etc.
you can also take them to one of the five recycling banks in bath and north east somerset.
how is the plastic recycled?
here are details of a few, but we would advise you to ring and check first to ensure that this information is still current.
tel: 0117 977 8945 - takes pots whitehall garden centre norton lane, whitchurch, bristol, avon bs14 0bt
why do cardboard and brown have to be collected separately from the rest of the paper?
council tax payers  do not subsidise the recycling or disposal of business waste.
why does the plastic need to be clean?
these are  difficult for the sorting machines to separate and we do not have an  established market that makes it cost effective to collect this material.
remember you only need to put out the  blue bag with cardboard when there's enough in it - not every week.
but we are currently installing wheelie bins for cardboard  recycling at most mini recycling centres.
the plastic is recycled into a variety of products from drainage pipes, park benches and waste bins to fleece jackets and food grade packaging.
please make sure they are clean.
unfortunately the blue bag collection is not suitable for flats where you have  your own mrcs
household   plastic packaging recycling you can put plastic household packaging in your green box for recycling.
council tax payers do not subsidise the recycling or disposal of business waste.
cardboard that is generated as a result  of a business activity can be collected for a charge.
you can recycle all types of solid household plastic food and drink packaging such as: please go to additional plastic frequently asked questions to find out about the types of plastic that we cannot recycle.
cans and plastic can be mixed together because the cans are then separated from the plastic using magnets.
can i put food and drinks cartons (tetra paks) in with my recycling?
we will monitor how it all works, how much is going in  the blue bags and whether a different size is also needed for people who only  have small quantities of cardboard.
i have lots of cardboard because i run a business from home -  why won't you take it all?
no black plastic (e.g. no black plastic trays or bags etc.)
you can also take  them to one of the five recycling banks in bath and north east  somerset.
yes, you can now mix household plastic packaging in with your plastic bottles and cans.
make sure that you remove all  plastic, tape and polystyrene as these can't be recycled and will contaminate  the cardboard.
it may be rejected  by the paper mill because it leaves brown spots that spoil the finished product.
please wash and squash and remove plastic lids if possible.
there is no established market for black plastic.
there is no  established market for black plastic.
i live in flats and have a mini recycling centres (mrc).
you can now put household plastic packaging in  the mixed cans and plastic banks.
what size are the blue bags?
can i recycle household plastic packaging at the recycling  centres?
other types of plastic are difficult to collect and to sort
i have lots of cardboard because i run a business from home - why won't you take it all?
keynsham town hall, temple street, keynsham, bs31 1edphone: links to external sites will open in a new browser window.
please use your blue bag (see below) for cardboard, food  and drinks cartons (tetra paks) and brown paper.
you can put the lids back on bottles if they are squashed flat.
if you need an additional container please contact council connect councilconnect@bathnes.gov.uk 01225 39 40 41.
you can still put cardboard out provided that you pack it flat and  keep it separate from the paper - see question 8.
make sure that you remove all plastic, tape and polystyrene as these can't be recycled and will contaminate the cardboard.
can i recycle household plastic packaging at the recycling centres?
plastic bottles (e.g milk bottles, washing up liquid bottles)
it cannot be put loose in the green box.
we no longer take cardboard for composting so please use your weekly recycling collection instead.
unfortunately the blue bag collection is not suitable for flats where you have your own mrcs but we are currently installing wheelie bins for cardboard recycling at most mini recycling centres.
please note,  we will only issue one bag per household.
the plastic is  recycled into a variety of products from drainage pipes, park benches and waste  bins to fleece jackets and food grade packaging.
can i put cardboard out if i don't have a blue bag?
what types of cardboard can i recycle?
is there a smaller sized blue bag available?
can i recycle household plastic packaging there?
no.  we no longer take cardboard for composting so please use  your weekly recycling collection instead.
contact details for this page: team: keynsham town hall, temple street, keynsham, bs31 1ed phone: 01225 39 40 41 fax: 01225 477809
recyclable plastic – yes please non recyclable plastic – no thanks
i live in flats and have a mini recycling  centre (mrc).
by  plastic packaging we mean solid items that have been used to package food or  drinks such as pots, tubs, trays and bottles  they must be clean.
and they also may contain non-plastic items.
you can also mix  them with the cans but please keep them separate from the rest of your  recycling.
by plastic packaging we mean solid items that have been used to package food or drinks such as pots, tubs, trays and bottles they must be clean.
can i recycle the plastic lids from bottles?
can i still put cardboard out for my composting collection?
please  wash and squash and remove plastic lids if possible.
for the introduction of this new service we are only offering one size of blue bag.
if you can squash your plastic it helps to saves room and means we can fit more on the vehicle.
white backed wrapping paper please remove all plastic, polystyrene and tape.
it can also contaminate the other materials, which means we might not be able to recycle them.
please put greeting cards in your green box and brown paper in your blue bag.
you can still put cardboard out provided that you pack it flat and keep it separate from the paper - see question 8.
why can i mix cans and plastic together when i have to separate everything else?
no.  you must only use your blue bag for cardboard and brown  paper.
yes, you can now put them in your blue bag.
extra cardboard can be placed  out for collection in untied carrier bags or tied with string.
plastic you can now recycle solid plastic items used to package food and drinks  such as plastic pots, trays and tubs as well as plastic bottles.
why do cardboard and brown have to be collected separately  from the rest of the paper?
please put cardboard in your blue bag: please put paper in your green box:
what if i have too much cardboard for the blue bag?
we only collect cardboard and brown paper that is in the blue box or presented separately to avoid the risk of it becoming mixed with the rest of the paper.
if cardboard and brown paper get mixed with the rest of the paper (newspapers, magazines etc.) it may be rejected by the paper mill because it leaves brown spots that spoil the finished product.
can i recycle plant pots?
dirty plastic can be unhygienic, unpleasant and unsafe to handle.
yes, you can now  mix household plastic packaging in with your plastic bottles and cans.
if you can squash your plastic it helps to saves room and means  we can fit more on the vehicle.
you can mix plastic with cans in your green box.
plastic bottles (e.g milk bottles, washing up liquid bottles) no black plastic (e.g. no black plastic trays or bags etc.)
cans and plastic can be mixed together  because the cans are then separated from the plastic using magnets.
you can recycle all cardboard packaging such as cardboard boxes, cereal boxes, ready meal sleeves, egg boxes and toilet roll tubes.
you must only use your blue bag for cardboard and brown paper.
you can also put your recycling out in any suitable container such as plastic carrier bags or a plastic box.
whitegate nurseries, stockwood hill, keynsham, bristol, avon bs31 2an, tel: 0117 986 2653 - take trays but not pots keynsham garden centre hicks gate, keynsham, bristol, avon bs31 2ad
plastic tubs (e.g margarine and ice-cream tubs) no plastic film (e.g bags, clingfilm, bubblewrap) plastic pots (eg yoghurt pots) no ‘non-packaging’ plastic (eg.
no plastics used to contain medical, chemical, garage or garden materials clean plastic packaging only no polystyrene containers or packaging no food to be left on packaging cardboard and plastics cardboard frequently asked questions 1.
cardboard and brown paper contaminate the paper because they  leave brown spots in the finished product.
you need to pack your cardboard flat so that it fits into the blue bag - it can easily hold a large amount of cardboard.
tel:  0117 977 8945 - takes pots whitehall garden centre norton lane, whitchurch, bristol, avon bs14 0bt
we cannot  collect plant pots but some local garden centres will collect these for reuse  or recycling.
please cut or fold your cardboard and  brown paper flat so it fits into your blue bag and can fit onto our  collection vehicles.
we will monitor how it all works, how much is going in the blue bags and whether a different size is also needed for people who only have small quantities of cardboard.
cardboard  recycling
what if i don't have any more space in my green box?
to find out more, please go torecycling banks.
cardboard can also be taken to one of our threerecycling centres for recycling.
you can also put your  recycling out in any suitable container such as plastic carrier bags or a  plastic box.
what types of plastic can i recycle?
can i recycle cardboard here?
why can't you take black plastic?
why can't you take plastic film?
if cardboard and brown paper get mixed  with the rest of the paper (newspapers, magazines etc.)
the cardboard is made back into cardboard packaging.
to order a bag please contact council connectcouncilconnect@bathnes.gov.uk 01225 39 40 41.
if you need an additional container please contact council connect councilconnect@bathnes.gov.uk 01225 39
home > environment & planning > recycling, rubbish and waste > cardboard and plastics cardboard and plastics we collect your cardboard and most  household plastic packaging weekly for recycling.
all the other materials need to be separated beforehand so they can be put into separate containers on our vehicles.
please contact council connect for details of our business waste recycling service or see commercial waste.
these are difficult for the sorting machines to separate and we do not have an established market that makes it cost effective to collect this material.
the easiest way to do this is to stamp on  it.
please note, we will only issue one bag per household.
all  the other materials need to be separated beforehand so they can be put into  separate containers on our vehicles.
the  composting sites were finding increasingly that cardboard was not being  composted successfully and quality of the compost was not as good as it could  be.
please make sure that you no longer put cardboard in your garden waste  wheeled bin or paper sack as we can no longer compost this.
can i put food and drinks cartons (tetra paks) in with my  recycling?
extra cardboard can be placed out for collection in untied carrier bags or tied with string.
the easiest way to do this is to stamp on it.
cardboard recycling cardboard frequently asked questions plastic frequently asked questions cardboard we collect cardboard every week for  recycling.
why can i mix cans and plastic together when i have to  separate everything else?
you can  recycle all types of solid household plastic food and drink packaging such as: tubs (eg ice-cream and margarine tubs) pots (eg yoghurt pots) trays (eg meat and fruit trays) bottles (eg. milk bottles, washing up bottles)
whitegate nurseries, stockwood hill, keynsham, bristol, avon bs31 2an, tel:  0117 986 2653 - take trays but not pots keynsham garden centre hicks gate, keynsham, bristol, avon bs31 2ad
and they also  may contain non-plastic items.
all card must be folded or cut so that it  is no bigger than 45 cm so that it can fit on the vehicle.
this cannot be recycled currently.
the composting facilities were increasingly having to sort the  cardboard out of the green waste to get rid of any contaminants.
cardboard can also be taken to  one of our threerecycling centres for recycling.
why can't you take other plastic items such as toys?
cardboard we collect cardboard every week for recycling.
how is the cardboard recycled?
can i mix plastic bottles and plastic food packaging together?
cardboard is collected every week and is recycled into packaging  material instead of being composted.
the composting sites were finding increasingly that cardboard was not being composted successfully and quality of the compost was not as good as it could be.
if you need more space you can put your recycling out in carrier  bags or request an extra container from council connect councilconnect@bathnes.gov.uk 01225 39 40 41.
why can the cardboard no longer be composted?
remember you only need to put out the blue bag with cardboard when there's enough in it - not every week.
plastic you can now recycle solid plastic items used to package food and drinks such as plastic pots, trays and tubs as well as plastic bottles.
please wash and squash.
can i put cardboard and brown paper in my green box?
yes, you can now put them in your blue bag.
please keep the cardboard and brown paper separate from the other paper as this is recycled separately.
please  contact council connect for details of our business waste recycling service or  see commercial waste.
please wash and squash plastic bottles to save space on our vehicles.
no.  we only collect cardboard and brown paper that is in the blue box  or presented separately to avoid the risk of it becoming mixed with the rest of  the paper.
you can also mix them with the cans but please keep them separate from the rest of your recycling.
cardboard that is generated as a result of a business activity can be collected for a charge.
plastic frequently asked questions 1.
it cannot  be put loose in the green box.
should i squash my plastic before i put it out?
do i have to remove the tape and plastics that comes with my  cardboard?
we cannot collect plant pots but some local garden centres will collect these for reuse or recycling.
dirty  plastic can be unhygienic, unpleasant and unsafe to handle.
please make sure that you no longer put cardboard in your garden waste wheeled bin or paper sack as we can no longer compost this.
this was  becoming a costly way of processing the cardboard waste and the end results  were not as good as expected.
please go to additional plastic frequently asked questions to find out  about the types of plastic that we cannot recycle.
this was becoming a costly way of processing the cardboard waste and the end results were not as good as expected.
tel: 01275 832296 - takes pots homebase: bath, pines way, bath avon ba2 3et, tel 08456 407036 - takes pots for other customers to use 13.
you need to pack your cardboard flat so that it fits into the blue bag - it can  easily hold a large amount of cardboard.
the cardboard is  made back into cardboard packaging.