this is why it is important to know which items you can and can't recycle in your local area.
this higher  temperature means that the enzymes and bacteria are quickly put to work  resulting in finished compost in just a few weeks.
below are some examples of recycled paper.
to find out what you can recycle at homecheck the postcode locator.
if electrical items end up in landfill, hazardous substances will leak out and cause soil and water contamination - harming wildlife and even human health.
different types of glass include: these different types of glass are not widely recycled so do not add these into your kerbside collection container or bottle banks at the recycling centre.
however, we can optimise the lifespan of plastics by reusing and recycling items as many times as possible.
if we all stopped wasting the food which could have been eaten, it would have  the same co2 impact as taking 1 in 5 cars off uk roads.
in 2008/9, a total of 5.1 million tonnes of material was composted or  digested  in the uk, of which approximately 90% was garden waste.
steel can be recycled time and time again without loss of quality, so by simply recycling our steel we can: both aluminium and steel are easy to recycle
recycling collection services vary across the country.
environmental impact reducing food waste is a major issue and not just about good food going to  waste; wasting food costs the average family with children £50 a month  and has serious environmental implications too.
compost can be applied in a range of end uses, within gardens, on  brownfield sites, landscaping and full scale agriculture.
at the paper mill it is pulped in a tank containing chemicals such as hydrogen peroxide, caustic soda, soap and water which separate out the various fibres.
flotation techniques are used to separate the paper fibres from the plastic and aluminium lining.
the prices paid for glass differ, depending on the colour (usually clear, brown, green - blue glass is collected with green glass) which is why we are asked to sort it when we recycle at bottle banks.
avoiding throwing out food that could have been eaten will save you money  and help reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we produce lots of clear glass, but export a lot of it as spirit bottles so it leaves our supply chain.
foil and other aluminium is generally recycled with other aluminium scraps such as window frames and road signs, and cast into engine components for vehicles, which makes them lighter and more fuel efficient.
each ingot  can be made into around 1.5m cans nb: aluminium foil is a different alloy and is usually recycled separately  with other aluminium scraps to make cast items such as engine components, where  it makes a big contribution to making vehicles lighter and more energy  efficient.
the main types of plastics are:polyethylene terephthalate - fizzy drink bottles and oven-ready meal trays
this section is  looking at co-mingled collections.
check with your council to see if you can recycle garden waste  locally!
if paper and card are sent to landfill it rots and in the process emits methane, a powerful greenhouse gas.
it can be recycled into a good quality soil improver or fertiliser and even generate electricity that can be fed back into the national grid.
the second method, anaerobic digestion, uses micro-organisms called  'methanogens' to break down food waste, animal manures and energy crops in the  absence of oxygen, inside an enclosed tank.
plastics are:- it is a two-stage process: plastic is a popular, useful material but we use a lot of it .
just think about all the energy, water and packaging used in food production, transportation and storage.
and there are huge environmental benefits for doing this - yet many cans still go to landfill.
find out more at simply drop electrical items contain a range of materials that can be separated for recycling and used in new products, such as plastics and precious metals including gold and copper.
the process makes the paper whiter, smoother and more useable.
around 7.2 million tonnes of food is thrown away by households in the uk  every year, and most of it could have been eaten.
the final part of the process involves screening the compost to remove any  remaining contaminants and to grade the material for various end uses.
these fibres are then screened to remove various bits of debris such as paper clips, staples, sticky tape and plastic.
the biggest problem is when incorrect items are put in the recycling  container as they have to be removed by hand.
of this: the amount of household waste we recycled in 2008 reached an impressive 8.7 million tonnes.
aluminium cans are: nb: aluminium foil is a different alloy and is usually recycled separately with other aluminium scraps to make cast items such as engine components, where it makes a big contribution to making vehicles lighter and more energy efficient.
it is then left for a further 1-3 months with regular turning and checks to ensure quality, before going on to be used as soil conditioner.
more information on how mixed recycling is sorted can be found in the  materials recycling facility (mrf) video.
composting  website for all you need to know about home composting.
the first, in-vessel composting, involves mixing food waste with garden waste, shredding it and composting it in a tunnel or container for around two to four weeks.
open air windrow composting is generally used for garden waste materials only, and cannot accept catering or animal wastes (such as food from household kitchens).
when the garden waste arrives at the composting site any material that is not compostable is removed, the remaining waste is then shredded and then laid out in a long pile to decompose, usually in the open air.
foil and other aluminium is generally recycled with  other aluminium scraps such as window frames and road signs, and cast into  engine components for vehicles, which makes them lighter and more fuel  efficient.
the biggest problem is when incorrect items are put in the recycling container.
any compost that is still oversized or hasn’t decomposed enough, can then be put back through the process until it has composted down sufficiently.
whitening agents are added at this stage and the pulp, which is 99% water and 1% fibre is then pumped onto a paper machine.
the predominant mechanism which decomposes biodegradable plastics is the action of micro-organisms which produces: compostable plastics - these are a subset of biodegradable plastics which must demonstrate that they biodegrade and disintegrate completely in a compost bin or system during the 3-4 months composting process.
cheese is a good example – feeding and milking the cows, cooling and  transporting the milk, processing it in to cheese, packing it, getting it to  the shops, keeping it at the right temperature all the time.
the material is turned frequently to provide much needed oxygen to micro organisms that help decompose the material.
egg shells, banana skins and tea bags are never going to be on the menu.
it is then taken to a reprocessing plant where they are shredded into small pieces.
the first, in-vessel composting, involves mixing food waste with garden  waste, shredding it and composting it in a tunnel or container for around two  to four weeks.
if you look on the plastics products you buy, you should spot the little symbol.
avoiding throwing out food that could have been eaten will save you money and help reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
once materials have been sorted, recycled materials become valuable commodities in the worldwide market.
if we recycle more cans we can reduce the amount of raw materials needed to produce new products.
disposal of degradable and biodegradable plastics - these plastics will not degrade effectively in a landfill site and could potentially hinder the quality of recycled plastic if they enter a conventional plastics recycling system.
most types of garden waste can be recycled, including bark, flowers, grass  and hedge cuttings, leaves, plants, small branches, twigs and weeds.
the main problem in the uk is that we do not recycle enough clear glass to keep up with demand.
if you live in an area that has alocal food waste recycling collection service, you can use this to dispose of anything you can’t eat, or compost at home.
recycling can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions over the whole life of the product.
this means that some plastic still goes to landfill, some is incinerated and some shipped abroad for recycling and foreign manufacturing reuse.
many councils now collect food waste, which can be recycled in one of two ways.
collection services overview recycling collection services vary across the country.
not only does the process require large amounts of energy but raw materials are wasted when mining, and the production process also produces waste and emissions.
the liquid metal is poured into a mould to form big slabs which are then  rolled into coils these coils are used to make all sorts of steel products such as bikes,  cars, bridges, paperclips or even new food and drink cans.
it can be recycled  into a good quality soil improver or fertiliser and even generate electricity  that can be fed back into the national grid.
recycling aluminium uses only around five per cent of the energy and  emissions needed to make it from the raw material bauxite.
the main issue faced by the paper re-processors is the lack of high quality material available.
organisations such as thebritish heart foundation the royal mail have a recycling campaign called simply drop for very small electricals such as cameras, mobile phones and mp3 players.
steel cans are: put into the furnace where molten iron is added oxygen is then blasted into the furnace which heats up to around 1700  degrees centigrade
once shredded... ...but my item is still in working order!
below are examples of what some of the recycled parts may become: hover mowers contain: games consoles contain: mobile phones contain: domestic waste glass (known as cullet) is easy to recycle.
most types of garden waste can be recycled, including bark, flowers, grass and hedge cuttings, leaves, plants, small branches, twigs and weeds.
electrical and electronic waste is the fastest growing waste stream in the uk.
cheese is a good example – feeding and milking the cows, cooling and transporting the milk, processing it in to cheese, packing it, getting it to the shops, keeping it at the right temperature all the time.
however due to the amount of material the temperature reached is a lot higher than in a normal household compost bin.
around 1 million tonnes are generated every year.
when the garden waste arrives at the composting site any material that is  not compostable is removed, the remaining waste is then shredded and then laid  out in a long pile to decompose, usually in the open air.
cans overview many of the food and drink products we buy are packaged in  cans made from either aluminium or steel and both of these  materials can be recycled after we have finished with them to make  either new cans or other products.
recycled steel can be found in incredibly diverse variety of products including: steel can be infinitely recycled and because it is such a widely used material, the ranges of possible uses for it are endless.
some councils collect cartons for recycling as part of the recycling collection service; however cartons are more usually collected at recycling centres.
garden waste collected at the kerbside is taken to a composting site where  it is turned into a nutritious soil conditioner.
each time paper is recycled, the fibres get shorter so unlike other materials it cannot be recycled forever.
however, by optimising the lifespan of plastics by reusing and recycling items as many times as possible, i.e. by recycling used plastic bottles into new ones, we can reduce our need to create ‘new’ plastic, thus: there are many different types of plastic in use, some of which we can recycle in the uk and other types – including that used to make yoghurt pots and margarine tubs for example - that require new technology which is not currently available here, to recycle it efficiently.
this slows down the process and if these items are missed it can clog or damage the machinery and other equipment.
however some food waste is inevitable.
degradable plastics - these are oil based and either eventually break down or disperse in to smaller fragments.
the second method, anaerobic digestion, uses micro-organisms called 'methanogens' to break down food waste, animal manures and energy crops in the absence of oxygen, inside an enclosed tank.
glass is 100% recyclable and can be endlessly reprocessed with no loss of quality.
you can check the postcode locator to find out which plastics your local authority collects.
environmental impact whilst recycled materials are valuable commodities in the worldwide market  and are financially important; recycling is good for the environment too.
this can be emptied into your compost bin  or council food waste bin every couple of days.
these items have to be removed; otherwise the quality of the recycling would be reduced - affecting the markets into which it can be sold.
the uk business sector still has a lot of work to do to recycle glass – bars, restaurants and pubs currently throw away 600,000 tonnes of glass every year, with most of it ending up in landfill.
recycling 1kg of aluminium saves up to: 6kg of bauxite 4kg of chemical products 14kwh of electricity steel is made from one of the earth’s most common  natural resources, iron ore, as well as limestone and coal.
the uk currently recycles around 50% of container glass (like bottles and jars) and whilst this figure has doubled over the last five years it still lags behind other countries i.e. both switzerland and finland recycle more than 90% of their glass.
new glass is made from four main ingredients: sand, soda ash, limestone and other additives for colour or special treatments.
overview councils use different methods of collecting your recycling.
broadly there are three scheme types: after the materials have been collected and sorted, they are sent for re-processing.
1 source: www.scrib.org made from recycled aluminium drinks cans are usually  recycled into ingots at a special 'closed-loop' plant in  warrington.
if you live in an area  that has alocal food waste recycling collection service, you can use this to  dispose of anything you can’t eat, or compost at home.
the metal is used in buildings, transport and other industrial applications, as well as packaging.
paper is collected either at local recycling sites or more usually by a local authority recycling collection.
in the meantime we can all do our bit to improve things now.
for this reason, recycling is part of the normal  lifecycle for large industrial products - around 75 per cent of all the  aluminium ever made is still in circulation.
more information on how mixed recycling is sorted can be found in the materials recycling facility (mrf) video.
for paper re-processors, this can result in a lack of high quality material being available.
in addition, all the  scraps left over from the aluminium production process can be melted down and  used again and again.
the paper recycled from the cartons can be turned into: overview the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) regulations came into force in january 2007 and aim to reduce the amount of this waste going to landfill and improve recovery and recycling rates.
recycled steel can be found in incredibly diverse variety  of products including: bicycle frames
many beverage cartons are recyclable, they are made from paper and lined with either plastic or for longer-life products, aluminium.
see ourhome composting website for all you need to know about home composting.
the metal  can be recycled time and time again without loss of properties, so getting the  aluminium recycling habit is one of the best things we can do for the  environment.
it can be used as soil improver, mulch, topsoil constituent, turf  dressing, and growing medium constituent.
the link to download is in the "about this video" panel on the right hand side of the vimeo page.
the surplus green glass is: recycled glass can be used to make a wide range of everyday products and some that are completely unexpected, including: the different types of glass
garden wastes containing these other types of material have to be  processed though in-vessel composting (ivc) or anaerobic digestion (ad) in  order to comply with the animal by-products regulations.
this is why it is important to  know which items you can and can't recycle in your local area.
this is the ultimate recycling process for environmental efficiency and used cans are often recycled, made into new cans, filled and put back on the shelf in just six weeks.
it is important not to mix up the different types of glass as they are re-processed differently.
the biggest problem is when incorrect items are put in the recycling container as they have to be removed by hand.
these rolls are then divided into smaller reels or sheets, packed and stored before despatching to printers.
this section is looking at co-mingled collections.
the remaining recyclables continue on another conveyor where steel and  tins are removed using magnets different types of plastic are identified and separated using optical  scanners a special kind of magnet is used to sort aluminium cans glass is the remaining material and this drops off the end of the conveyor  into a large container (note - not all mrf's accept glass).
shredded, removing any coloured coating melted in a huge furnace the molten metal is poured into ingot casts to set.
the material is turned frequently to provide much needed oxygen to micro  organisms that help decompose the material.
the machinery, processes and the materials that each mrf can accept do vary, so the video explains the basic principal of the process.
overview the best thing that can happen to food is that it makes it to our plates  and is enjoyed.
overview when garden waste is recycled it is transformed into nutrient rich soil  conditioner.
the machinery, processes and  the materials that each mrf can accept do vary, so the video  explains the basic principal of the process.
broadly there are three scheme types:
recycling 1kg of aluminium saves up to: steel is made from one of the earth’s most common natural resources, iron ore, as well as limestone and coal.
it is important to remember that whilst an item of packaging may be recyclable, you should only put it out for collection if your council has confirmed that they can accept it.
the cartons are shredded, mixed with warm water and pulped for approximately thirty minutes in a large machine, similar to a top loader washing machine.
steel can also be recycled time and time again without loss of quality; by simply recycling our steel cans we can conserve non-renewable fossil fuels, reduce the consumption of energy and the emission of gasses like carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
although composting sites have measures to remove  contamination, it is important that garden waste collected for composting is as  clean as possible and that plastics and large stones are kept to a minimum, in  order to ensure that a quality product can be made.
only use liners that are recommended by your council as  some may not break down in the composting process.
there are kerbside ‘sort’ schemes where recyclables are sorted into their respective materials on the lorry at the kerbside; and co-mingled collections where all your recyclables are put into one compartment on the lorry before being taken to a materials recycling facility (mrf) and sorted.
this is the ultimate recycling process for environmental  efficiency and used cans are often recycled, made into new cans, filled and put  back on the shelf in just six weeks.
the process at a composting site is similar to that that takes place in  home compost bin, but is actively managed to speed up the process.
the metal is used in buildings, transport  and other industrial applications, as well as packaging.
the factors  that influence these services include whether the area is urban or rural, the  different types of housing and the facilities available to process your  recycling.
it is mined and extracted from bauxite, which contains the compound alumina, in an energy-intensive electrolytic process.
colour and quality during the glass manufacturing process, extra raw materials can be added to give the glass a particular colour or special qualities.
the main issue faced by the paper re-processors is the lack of high quality  material available.
aluminium is the most cost-effective material to recycle, because of the  huge energy savings  -  up to 95%.
in a floatation tank the fibres are cleaned and deinked several times and as a result the fibres get whiter and whiter.
for this reason, recycling is part of the normal lifecycle for large industrial products - around 75 per cent of all the aluminium ever made is still in circulation.
items such as kitchen appliances, mobile phones, computers, tv’s, electrical and electronic tools can all be either recycled or reused.
just think about  all the energy, water and packaging used in food production, transportation and  storage.
by comparison, we import a large amount of green glass but do manage to recycle it – so the green bottles we make in the uk currently contain at least 85% recycled green glass.
this all goes to waste when we throw away perfectly good food.
temperatures of up to 70 degrees c speed up the process and kill  any harmful microbes.
although composting sites have measures to remove contamination, it is important that garden waste collected for composting is as clean as possible and that plastics and large stones are kept to a minimum, in order to ensure that a quality product can be made.
recycling aluminium uses only around five per cent of the energy and emissions needed to make it from the raw material bauxite.
steel can also be recycled time and time again without loss of quality; by  simply recycling our steel cans we can conserve non-renewable fossil fuels,  reduce the consumption of energy and the emission of gasses like carbon  dioxide into the atmosphere.
the factors that influence these services include whether the area is urban or rural, the different types of housing and the facilities available to process your recycling.
it is then passed over a vibrating machine or through rollers which remove most of the water.
how is it recycled many councils now collect food waste, which can be recycled in one of two  ways.
we use many different types of glass in the uk, but at home we mostly use ‘soda-lime-silica’ glass for containers like bottles and jars.
this slows down the  process and if these items are missed it can clog or damage the  machinery and other equipment.
‘kerbside sort’ schemes where recyclables are sorted into  their respective materials on the lorry at the kerbside; ‘two-stream’ where paper and card is collected in one  compartment and the containers (cans, plastic bottles and glass bottles and  jars) are collected in another compartment; and ‘co-mingled’ collections where all your recyclables are put  into one compartment on the lorry before being taken to a materials recovery  facility (mrf) and sorted.
the quality of paper produced through our recycled paper is comparable to that made from virgin raw material.
open air windrow composting is generally used for garden waste materials  only, and cannot accept catering or animal wastes (such as food from household  kitchens).
go to this video's page on vimeo.
for many people, paper is often collected from your home with other recyclable items.
high temperatures kill off any harmful microbes, weeds and plant diseases.
rinse out food cans with your leftover washing up water before the residue  has chance to dry out - it'll take much less effort!
recycling is a real success  story and we should be proud of what we have achieved as a nation – but  there is still much more we can do in 2008-09 over 27 million tonnes  of household waste was collected by local authorities.
to find out what you can recycle at home check out the postcode locator.
if we recycle more cans we can reduce the amount of raw  materials needed to produce new products.
see how household plastic packaging can now be recycled.
that alone saved the same amount of co2 that  nearly a million return flights from london to sydney would produce.
although these materials are later  separated at a materials recycling facility, the other items can sometimes  affect the quality of the paper.
recycling two bottles saves enough energy to boil enough water for five cups of tea!
garden waste makes up 14% of the average household bin (wrap, 2002).
92% of all uk local authorities now offer collection facilities for plastic bottles either from your kerbside collection scheme or at recycling centres.
however, the fibres that can no longer be used are separated by the mill and then either used for energy generation, soil conditioner or sent to landfill.
the metal can be recycled time and time again without loss of properties, so getting the aluminium recycling habit is one of the best things we can do for the environment.
if you can't find a  recycling bin - take it home and recycle it later.
home composting is a great way to stop this sort of waste ending up in landfill, and our gardens will really thank us for it.
the process the recycling bin, box or sack is emptied into collection vehicle the co-mingled materials are taken to a material recycling  facility and loaded onto conveyors
however there is still more we can all do, such as remembering to recycle our clear jars (pasta sauce jars and jam jars) which are often forgotten.
for example: all of the newsprint manufactured here in the uk is now made from 100%  recycled paper; all of the organic (garden and kitchen) waste we collect is recycled here,  usually quite close to where it is collected; over 80% of the glass collected for recycling is used in the uk, the  majority of it used to make new glass bottles and jars; and last year alone, we recycled 6 billion plastic bottles –  that’s the same as each person in britain recycling 99 bottles in a year!
many of the food and drink products we buy are packaged in cans made from either aluminium or steel and both of these materials can be recycled after we have finished with them to make either new cans or other products.
once collected and sorted, recycled materials become valuable commodities  in the worldwide market.
although these materials are later separated at a materials recycling facility, the other items can sometimes affect the quality of the paper.
check the postcode locator to see what you can recycle in your area.
this can then be used in a range of different applications, such as for agriculture, for land reclamation and as an ingredient in some multipurpose composts you can buy at a garden centre.
the materials collected for recycling vary from area to area; so although an item of packaging may state that it is recyclable, only put out for collection if your council has confirmed that they can accept it.
after the materials have been collected and sorted, they are sent for  re-processing.
glass is usually collected in 'bottle banks' at recycling centres or as part of our kerbside collection.
the final part of the process involves screening the compost to remove any remaining contaminants and to grade the material for various end uses.
at the moment, the recovered aluminium and plastic is separated out to be used for energy to power the mill, but the carton industry is currently working on other things that these materials can be recycled into.
the paper is then dried and then run through a machine that acts like an ironing board and then wound into huge rolls that weigh up to 30 tonnes.
therefore by simply recycling our glass we can: did you know?
whilst recycled materials are valuable commodities in the worldwide market and are financially important; recycling is good for the environment too.
throwing away food is also a huge waste of the  energy, water and packaging used in its production, transportation and storage.
paper produced from virgin raw material uses far more energy and water than if we recycle our unwanted paper.
these items have a tendency to sit in a cupboard or drawer and gather dust, when in fact they could be put to better use.
in the uk our steel cans only contain 25% recycled steel, while the cans manufactured in europe contain 54%.1 top tips 1 source: www.scrib.org aluminium drinks cans are usually recycled into ingots at a special 'closed-loop' plant in warrington.
issues and solutions don’t forget to try to avoid wasting food in the first place -  (for ideas and simple tips visit love food hate waste) and also try to compost  at home.
once logged in, use your browser's back button to find the video page and click on the download link.
the sheets are then passed through a drying section on heated rollers where the temperature reaches 130 degrees and water is reduced by 5%.
the whole process takes between 8 and 16 weeks, depending on the final use for the compost.
the extra raw materials that can be added are: we use paper every day and as a nation 12.5 million tonnes is used each year.
although glass is easy to recycle, there is currently some imbalance in the supply of glass for recycling compared to demand for recycled glass for manufacturing.
these items have to be removed; otherwise the quality of the recycling  would be reduced - affecting the markets into which it can be sold.
as it breaks down, it gives off  'bio-gas' that is collected and used to generate electricity, heat or transport  fuels.
garden wastes containing these other types of material have to be processed though in-vessel composting (ivc) or anaerobic digestion (ad) in order to comply with the animal by-products regulations.
there are many recycling factories here, reprocessing  million of tonnes of material every year.
where possible keep your bins out of direct sunlight and keep the bin lid  closed.
mining for these  raw materials and the production process involved in making steel have an  environmental impact.
the amount of household waste we recycled in 2008 reached an  impressive 8.7 million tonnes.
find out about more about recycling while out and about with recycle zones or visit the websites for scotland | wales
the whole process takes between 8 and 16 weeks, depending on the final use  for the compost.
the water is sent back to the beginning of the process, the remaining material now contains half fibre and half water.
to find out  what you can recycle at homecheck the postcode locator.
not only does the process require large amounts of energy  but raw materials are wasted when mining, and the production process also  produces waste and emissions.
this higher temperature means that the enzymes and bacteria are quickly put to work resulting in finished compost in just a few weeks.
however, its popularity is part of the problem: we now use about 20 times more plastic than we did 50 years ago.
waste electrical and electronic equipment are collected at council recycling centres and at some retailers.
in the uk our steel cans only contain 25% recycled steel, while the  cans manufactured in europe contain 54%.1 top tips remember to recycle drinks cans when away from home - i.e. at  work, while travelling or at sports and leisure locations.
of this: 50.3% of this waste was sent to landfill; 36.9% was recycled or composted and 12.2% was incinerated for energy recovery.
it also creates biofertiliser, which can be used in farming and land  regeneration.
in 2008/9, a total of 5.1 million tonnes of material was composted or digested in the uk, of which approximately 90% was garden waste.
your council may recommend that you line your food waste caddy with a  liner or newspaper.
these items have to be removed, can reduce the quality of the recycled paper and affect the markets into which it can be sold.
this can then be used in a range of different applications, such  as for agriculture, for land reclamation and as an ingredient in some  multipurpose composts you can buy at a garden centre.
high temperatures kill off  any harmful microbes, weeds and plant diseases.
home composting is a great way to stop this sort of waste ending up in  landfill, and our gardens will really thank us for it.
there is a wide range of products made from recycled plastic, including:- the american society of plastics industry developed a standard marking code to help consumers identify and sort the main types of plastic.
if it then gets  thrown away it will most likely end up in a landfill site, where, rather than  harmlessly decomposing as many people think, it rots and actually releases  methane, a powerful greenhouse gas.
environmental impact aluminium is a resource that forms about 8% of the  earth’s crust.
all this saves resources and energy.
what about other plastics?
the best thing that can happen to food is that it makes it to our plates and is enjoyed.
mixed glass has a lower value.
steel can be recycled time and time again without loss of quality, so by  simply recycling our steel we can: conserve non-renewable fossil fuels reduce the consumption of energy
temperature can reach up to 60oc.
once separated they are taken for processing at specialist factories.
the materials collected for recycling vary from area to area; so although  an item of packaging  may state that it is recyclable, only put out for  collection if your council has confirmed that they can accept it.
check with your council to see if you can recycle garden waste locally!
the process at a composting site is similar to that that takes place in home compost bin, but is actively managed to speed up the process.
there are currently huge investments being made in britain into plastics recycling technology to help our domestic recycling facilities cope with the variety of plastics in use and it won’t be long before we operate a more efficient recycling system for all different types of plastic packaging.
it refers to 'industrial composting' where the compost reaches higher temperatures than home composting .
problems and issues the biggest problem is when incorrect items are put in the recycling  container.
nearly  ¾ of this material was composted at sites that operate to the national  composting specification (pas100), which controls the quality of the process  and compost produced.
these may then potentially biodegrade or break down further to reduce the material to water, co2, biomass (plant matter) and trace elements.
the collection process for cartons varies between areas.
that alone saved the same amount of co2 that nearly a million return flights from london to sydney would produce.
around 95% of local councils collect garden waste.
as it breaks down, it gives off 'bio-gas' that is collected and used to generate electricity, heat or transport fuels.
items that are still in working order can be reused.
once glass is collected and taken to be reprocessed, it is: the production and use of glass has a number of environmental impacts.
although there is no shortage of these raw materials as yet, they all have to be quarried, which can damage the landscape, affect the environment and use more energy.
the paper is graded into different qualities.
some of the waste is made up of things like peelings, cores and bones, but  the majority is, or once was, perfectly good food.
a recent study demonstated mixed plastics packaging (trays, tubs, pots, films etc) can be mechanically recycled and is both economically and environmentally effective to do so.
four tonnes of bauxite contains two tonnes of alumina, which yields one tonne  of valuable aluminium.
little by little all this waste adds up, over a year the average family  throws away around £680 of food shopping – equivalent to an annual  utility bill.
it makes best use of our limited natural resources.
in addition, all the scraps left over from the aluminium production process can be melted down and used again and again.
a huge amount of electrical items are purchased each year and currently only a small proportion , particularly small items, are collected for recycling.
at the mrf, all the mixed recycling is sorted and separated into different types of materials by hand or machine (or both) before being sent to manufacturers who make it into new products.
reduce the amount of raw materials being wasted reduce the emission of gasses like carbon dioxide into the atmosphere problems and issues both aluminium and steel are easy to recycle and there are huge  environmental benefits for doing this - yet many cans still go to  landfill.
recycling is a real success story and we should be proud of what we have achieved as a nation – but there is still much more we can do in 2008-09 over 27 million tonnes of household waste was collected by local authorities.
you can check the postcode locator to see what can be collected in your  area.
many of us are not aware that items such as irons, toasters and mobile phones can be recycled.
these are usually made from two easily recyclable plastics – pet and hdpe – and can be recycled by most of us via our kerbside collection scheme or local recycling centres.
any  compost that is still oversized or hasn’t decomposed enough, can then be  put back through the process until it has composted down sufficiently.
there are many recycling factories here, reprocessing million of tonnes of material every year.
at the mrf, all the mixed recycling is sorted and separated into different  types of materials by hand or machine (or both) before being sent to  manufacturers who make it into new products.
plastic is one of the most popular and useful materials of modern times.
once collected and sorted, recycled materials become valuable commodities in the worldwide market.
so what items are included?
problems and issues
recycling plastic bottles is an easy way.
the sorting process begins with the removal of incorrect items such as  crisp packets and plastics bags a vibrating machines separates the cardboard and paper  - different types of paper are sorted by hand and then baled
steel cans are: aluminium is a resource that forms about 8% of the earth’s crust.
four tonnes of bauxite contains two tonnes of alumina, which yields one tonne of valuable aluminium.
one of the problems is when incorrect items are put in the recycling container.
a food waste caddy in your kitchen can help you to separate out your food  waste for recycling and composting.
the paper is then tested to make sure it reaches the correct standard and quality for strength, gloss and brightness.
once materials have been sorted, recycled materials become valuable  commodities in the worldwide market.
when garden waste is recycled it is transformed into nutrient rich soil conditioner.
we can make several uses of the fibres before they are no longer suitable for recycling.
the recovered paper fibres are rolled flat and are usually used as the paperboard component of plasterboard.
if it then gets thrown away it will most likely end up in a landfill site, where, rather than harmlessly decomposing as many people think, it rots and actually releases methane, a powerful greenhouse gas.
there are  kerbside ‘sort’ schemes where recyclables are sorted into their  respective materials on the lorry at the kerbside; and co-mingled collections  where all your recyclables are put into one compartment on the lorry before  being taken to a materials recycling facility (mrf) and sorted.
if  you are unable to compost at home, you can take it to your local garden waste  recycling point or put it into your garden waste collection scheme, if you have  one, where it will then be taken to a central composting facility to be  processed.
the amount of food we throw away is a waste of resources.
garden waste collected at the kerbside is taken to a composting site where it is turned into a nutritious soil conditioner.
nearly ¾ of this material was composted at sites that operate to the national composting specification (pas100), which controls the quality of the process and compost produced.
further work is being conducted in this area and it is hoped that the uk will have comprehensive infrastructure for the collection, sorting and reprocessing of these valuable resources in the uk in the near future.
biodegradable plastics - these should break down cleanly, in a defined time period, to form simple molecules found in the environment such as carbon dioxide and water.
aluminium is the most cost-effective material to recycle, because of the huge energy savings - up to 95%.
electrical items contain many different parts which, once recycled, can be used again in a variety of new applications.
egg shells, banana skins and tea  bags are never going to be on the menu.
if you are unable to compost at home, you can take it to your local garden waste recycling point or put it into your garden waste collection scheme, if you have one, where it will then be taken to a central composting facility to be processed.
it also creates biofertiliser, which can be used in farming and land regeneration.
for example: you can check the postcode locator to see what can be collected in your area.
however due  to the amount of material the temperature reached is a lot higher than in a  normal household compost bin.
log in or join vimeo.
temperatures of up to 70 degrees c speed up the process and kill any harmful microbes.
facilities for recycling are improving and there are also charities and stores, such as thebritish heart foundation, who take useable, working items for reuse.
it is then left for a further 1-3 months with regular  turning and checks to ensure quality, before going on to be used as soil  conditioner.
councils use different methods of collecting your recycling.
reducing food waste is a major issue and not just about good food going to waste; wasting food costs the average family with children £50 a month and has serious environmental implications too.
at present, cartons sent for recycling within the uk are transported to sweden.
it is mined and extracted from bauxite, which  contains the compound alumina, in an energy-intensive electrolytic process.
adding compost to soil increases the nutrients and improves the  soil’s structure to help plants grow.
most of it ends up in landfill sites where it rots and releases methane, a  damaging green house gas.
mining for these raw materials and the production process involved in making steel have an environmental impact.
for many people, paper is often collected from your  home with other recyclable items.