when you use better than rocks, which  weighs almost nothing, you can seriously reduce the weight of your containers.
in fact it's much better.
manufacturer's site user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks ten common mistakes in containers advantages of gardening in containers gallery of container garden pictures fixing your container design container gardening magazine from the editors ...
my one reservation about better than rocks is that it is expensive,  especially compared to rocks and packing peanuts, which, though not nearly as  good, are free.
gardening container gardening - about.com - home & garden - container gardening - product and book reviews - better than rocks - better than rocks is a container gardening product that rocks - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
it ensures good drainage and air circulation around roots creating an optimum growing environment for container garden plants.
before you start seeds 5 tips for starting seeds seed starting mistakes
the biggest advantage to better than rocks is that it is good for plants.
when you use better than rocks, which weighs almost nothing, you can seriously reduce the weight of your containers.
drainage is one of the primary keys to healthy container gardens and better than rocks can really help with this.
star rating be the first towrite a review
you can fill your container  gardens with better than rocks up to one third full - saving potting soil and  reducing weight.
because of its composition, the mesh will  keep soil in while letting excess water drain out of the bottom of your  container - keeping your plants from drowning.
a part of the new york times company.
it also comes in packages of two, pre-cut in 8, 10 or 12 inch  squares.
in  fact it's much better.
tired of dragging around heavy pots?
sign up - container gardening - pictures - how to - vegetables, herbs and fruit discuss in my forum better than rocks review about.com rating 5
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
your plants can still take advantage of the full size of your  container because the roots can go right through the mesh.
when i spoke to the owners of the company, they said they were still using the same pieces after ten years.
rock gardening techniques herbal container gardening - what are the 5 best herbs for container  garden...
lightweight plastic mesh cut to customize fit comes in 16" x 96" roll or packages of two, 8, 10 or 12 inch  squares guide review - better than rocks review better than rocks, is well, better than rocks for container gardening.
better than rocks is very easy to use.
at the end of the growing season you can simply hose the mesh off, let it  dry and then use it again and again.
i found there were many advantages to putting this lightweight plastic mesh in the bottom of container gardens over using rocks, pot shards, packing peanuts or other traditional drainage facilitators.
when i spoke to the owners of the company,  they said they were still using the same pieces after ten years.
drainage is one of the primary keys to healthy container gardens and better  than rocks can really help with this.
vegetable container gardening - vegetable container gardening basics kerry michaels sign up for my newsletter headlines related searches pot shards plastic mesh inch  squares packing peanuts potting soil cons cons explore container gardening  must reads
manufacturer's site pros - great for drainage - easy to use - lighter container gardens - allows you to use less potting soil - reusable and made from 100% recycled plastic cons - more expensive than rocks description - lightweight plastic mesh - cut to customize fit - comes in 16" x 96" roll or packages of two, 8, 10 or 12 inch squares guide review - better than rocks review better than rocks, is well, better than rocks for container gardening.
at the end of the growing season you can simply hose the mesh off, let it dry and then use it again and again.
by kerry michaels, about.com guide see more about: - more tools - keeping plants healthy better than rocks in a pot photograph © better than rocks the bottom line better than rocks is a great container gardening product that really works.
your plants can still take advantage of the full size of your container because the roots can go right through the mesh.
- about.com - home & garden - container gardening container gardening search free container gardening newsletter!
manufacturer's site user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks - oxo container tool kit - ten common mistakes in containers - advantages of gardening in containers - gallery of container garden pictures - fixing your container design suggested reading related articles - container gardening magazine from the editors ... - don't drown your container gardens - oxo container gardening tool set - is your garden hose safe? - container gardening - guide review - japanese zen rock gardens | alpine | japanese zen rock gardens - rock gardening techniques - herbal container gardening - what are the 5 best herbs for container garden... - vegetable container gardening - vegetable container gardening basics kerry michaels container gardening guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches pot shards plastic mesh inch squares packing peanuts potting soil cons cons explore container gardening must reads most popular - before you start seeds - 5 tips for starting seeds - seed starting mistakes - terrariums - winter container garden pictures see more about: - terrariums - vegetable container gardening - growing potatoes in containers - mistakes growing seeds - gallery of terrarium pictures by category - more tools - keeping plants healthy - container gardening 101 - container veggies and herbs - container garden design - container garden care - product and book reviews - container garden pictures - interviews - containers year-round - plants online and catalogs - container resources - green container
it ensures good drainage and air circulation around roots creating an optimum  growing environment for container garden plants.
because of its composition, the mesh will keep soil in while letting excess water drain out of the bottom of your container - keeping your plants from drowning.
don't drown your container gardens oxo container gardening tool set is your garden hose safe? related articles japanese zen rock gardens | alpine | japanese zen rock gardens
the more you use, the less potting soil you need.
you can either buy it by the roll, which is the most economical and cut it with scissors or shears, to fit your containers.
i found there were many advantages to putting this  lightweight plastic mesh in the bottom of container gardens over using rocks,  pot shards, packing peanuts or other traditional drainage facilitators.
you can fill your container gardens with better than rocks up to one third full - saving potting soil and reducing weight.
my one reservation about better than rocks is that it is expensive, especially compared to rocks and packing peanuts, which, though not nearly as good, are free.
you can either buy it by the roll,  which is the most economical and cut it with scissors or shears, to fit your  containers.
it also comes in packages of two, pre-cut in 8, 10 or 12 inch squares.