- pot up into the next size pot (example: a 6 inch pot re-pots into an 8 inch pot).
place plants on pebbles in a tray of water (the plant pot bottom should  not sit in the water).
if roots encompass the soil mass, cut them from top to bottom in 3 or 4 spots.
we need to know what conditions they needed  in their natural habitat such as light, water, temperature and humidity and try  to meet those requirements.
- keep evenly moist: soil should be wet throughout but not soggy.
in reading about your particular plant requirements you will run into several terms.
soil there are a wide variety of soils available.
you can do several things to  meet those humidity requirements.
it would be good to know what your  plant prefers.
soils with organic material hold water better than those with more drainage material.
- prune out damaged or sick areas.
- water when dry: when you put our finger 1 inch down in the soil and it's dry, it's time to water.
our goal is to help you be successful by helping you choose the right plant for your home or office and to answer questions you might have about keeping them looking good long term.
we offer many long lasting interior landscape floor plants, hanging plants  and a good variety of 3 and 4-inch plants for dish gardens and windowsills.
fertilizer - as a general rule: when in doubt, don't fertilize.
this is extremely  important.
to maintain thehigh quality and health of our plant material for you, we do not ship our plants, but keep them safe and watered here until you are able to arrange pick up or delivery within 100 miles of the nursery!
to maintain  thehigh quality and health of our plant material for you, we do not ship our plants, but keep them safe and watered here until you  are able to arrange pick up or delivery within 100 miles of the nursery!
water frequency do not water on a schedule.
o'donal's nursery garden center serving southern maine home | about us |contact us thursday, april 19, 2012 plant reference educational center gardening articles seminars and lectures gardening tips planting advice pests and diseases useful links the gift shop
extended time below 50° f. can damage foliage plants and cause leaf drop or discoloration.
sometimes a plant can grow in less intense light than recommended if it  receives lower light for a longer time.
by knowing your home or office light intensity you can pick a plant for any corner of your home or office.
thick leaved plants – as a rule they require less frequent watering  because of their ability to store water.
flowering plants generally require more light that non-flowering.
in  addition, we have a constantly changing selection of flowering plants, cactus,  succulents and citrus plants, depending on the season.
what light intensity do you have?
- the light a plant in bright light will need more frequent watering than the same plant in lower light.
prune out damaged or sick areas.
homes and offices in the winter usually have less than that.
allow to  dry completely; as in cacti and succulents.
don't plant deeper than it was in the previous pot.
all plants have a temperature range where they grow best.
if there isn't enough natural light you can supplement with artificial light.
sign up for our email newsletter the inside scoop on houseplants the key to houseplant success is putting the right plant in the  right place.
water when  the surface feels dry.
- be sure sides are filled with soil, press gently, then rap bottom of pot on hard surface several times to get out air pockets.
- water thoroughly until it runs through the drainage hole.
- mist with a mister bottle (especially ferns).
check out our  video library for gardening tips, product info, events and tutorials.
keep evenly moist: soil should be wet throughout but not soggy.
plant grooming - shape the plant by pruning, or pinching back the growing tips.
fertilizer as a general rule: when in doubt, don't fertilize.
- follow directions on the package and do not make the mixture stronger than manufacturers recommendations.
there are many factors that determine when to water.
do not allow soil to become "bone" dry.
the potting soil – every soil holds water differently.
if roots encompass the soil mass, cut them from top to bottom in 3 or 4  spots.
when we bring plants home, it's important to remember that we  bring their preferences with them.
- medium light - 5-8 ft from a sunny window or directly in a northern window - low light receiving indirect light only such as a corner or hall
too frequent or too strong can damage or kill  your plant.
light can be described as follows: - full sun 5 hours of sun, southern window - some sun less that 5 hours of sun, within 2 ft of a southern window, in an east/west window - bright light within 5 ft of any window that gets some sun.
pot up into the next size pot (example: a 6 inch pot re-pots into an 8  inch pot).
hanging plants – as a rule they need more frequent watering because  it is warmer closer to the ceiling.
soils with  organic material hold water better than those with more drainage material.
water requirements when do you water and how much?
- do not use topsoil often very heavy.
the stage of growth – actively growing plants need more frequent  watering than dormant plants.
- temperature when the temperature is warmer, plants need more frequent watering.
do not use native soil – because of possible pathogens and/or weeds.
do not use topsoil – often very heavy.
the plant will then put energy into new  growth.
then meet the other requirements such as  temperature, humidity, and proper watering and you'll have your own interior  plant success story!
remove faded blooms so energy goes back into flower production.
- the plant variety know your plant and its requirements.
in reading about your particular plant requirements you will run into  several terms.
take the plant out of the pot  and see if you have evidence of root-crowding.
- do not use native soil because of possible pathogens and/or weeds.
foliage plants with variegated leaves need more light than plants with solid green leaves.
- it is not a medicine for sick plants.
our goal is to help you be successful by helping you choose the right plant  for your home or office and to answer questions you might have about keeping  them looking good long term.
- the potting soil every soil holds water differently.
the size of the plant – a 4-inch plant requires more frequent  watering than the same 10-inch plant, which holds moisture longer.
- place plants on pebbles in a tray of water (the plant pot bottom should not sit in the water).
water when dry: when you put our finger 1 inch down in the soil and it's  dry, it's time to water.
fertilizer does not magically correct a water or light problem.
be sure sides are filled with soil, press gently, then rap bottom of pot  on hard surface several times to get out air pockets.
plant grooming shape the plant by pruning, or pinching back the growing tips.
the plant will then put energy into new growth.
we need to know what conditions they needed in their natural habitat such as light, water, temperature and humidity and try to meet those requirements.
- wait 6 months before fertilizing a newly purchased plant.
when we bring plants home, it's important to remember that we bring their preferences with them.
- allow to dry: water when the soil is dry between 1-2 inches deep.
you can do several things to meet those humidity requirements.
soil - there are a wide variety of soils available.
occasionally wash leaves with water and a soft sponge so the plant's  stomata are clear.
temperature – when the temperature is warmer, plants need more  frequent watering.
a few tips about light - light duration is the total amount of light a plant gets in a 24-hour period.
all plants have a  temperature range where they grow best.
re-potting plants need re-potting when they start to need water more frequently than normal, and when their roots encompass the soil in the pot, forming a heavy circle at the base of the plant.
fertilizer does not magically  correct a water or light problem.
group plants together.
- flowering plants generally require more light that non-flowering.
light requirements light is the most critical factor in growing interior plants successfully.
the plant variety – know your plant and its requirements.
humidity – the less humid the home, the more frequent you need to  water.
temperature requirements most plant prefer 65-75° f. during the day and 10° less at night.
if you don't see the plant you are searching for, please ask: we will try to find it for you.
a few tips about light light duration is the total amount of light a plant gets in a 24-hour  period.
by knowing your home or office light intensity you can pick a plant for any  corner of your home or office.
in addition, we have a constantly changing selection of flowering plants, cactus, succulents and citrus plants, depending on the season.
the container – the soil in clay pots dries out much more quickly  that that in plastic or glazed ceramic.
water only as needed.
light requirements light is the most critical factor in growing  interior plants successfully.
allow to dry completely; as in cacti and succulents.
- group plants together.
a cactus needs very  well drained, sandy soil.
- do not allow soil to become "bone" dry.
medium light - 5-8 ft from a sunny window or directly in a northern window low light – receiving indirect light only such as a corner or hall
moist-not-wet, as a general rule.
it would be good to know what your plant prefers.
water amount basically when watering, water thoroughly allowing water  to go completely through the plant so that the complete root system is watered,  and also so that salts that collect in the soils are washed out.
home | about us | contact us plant reference | news &  specials | educational center | the garden shop | at the nursery o'donal's nursery is a member of: american nursery and landscape association  ·maine nursery and landscape association new england nursery  association · perennial plant association · maine christmas tree  association
- occasionally wash leaves with water and a soft sponge so the plant's stomata are clear.
humidity requirements most plants prefer humidity over 30%.
water when the surface feels dry.
temperature requirements most plant prefer 65-75° f. during the  day and 10° less at night.
- thick leaved plants as a rule they require less frequent watering because of their ability to store water.
then meet the other requirements such as temperature, humidity, and proper watering and you'll have your own interior plant success story!
a cactus  needs much less frequent watering than a primrose.
we have covered the four major requirements (light, water, temperature, humidity) for plants but also key to interior plant success are fertilizing, soil, repotting and grooming.
- humidity the less humid the home, the more frequent you need to water.
- the plant determines the type of soil you should use.
- remove faded blooms so energy goes back into flower production.
©copyright o'donal's nursery, inc. 6 county road, rfd #4, gorham, me 04038 · 207-839-4262 · onurser1@maine.rr.com directions to odonal's nursery we pride ourselves on being your local nursery.
most growers use slow release fertilizers.
this is extremely important.
most growers use  slow release fertilizers.
water amount basically when watering, water thoroughly allowing water to go completely through the plant so that the complete root system is watered, and also so that salts that collect in the soils are washed out.
too frequent or too strong can damage or kill your plant.
- don't plant deeper than it was in the previous pot.
if you don't see the plant you are searching for, please ask: we will try  to find it for you.
re-potting plants need re-potting when they start to need water more  frequently than normal, and when their roots encompass the soil in the pot,  forming a heavy circle at the base of the plant.
if you fertilize on top of that, you could burn roots.
follow directions on the package and do not make the mixture stronger than  manufacturers recommendations.
use a good basic potting soil and put rocks in the bottom of the pot and  then a layer of soil.
foliage  plants with variegated leaves need more light than plants with solid green  leaves.
here are their definitions.
a cactus needs much less frequent watering than a primrose.
- the size of the plant a 4-inch plant requires more frequent watering than the same 10-inch plant, which holds moisture longer.
over-watering is the number one cause of interior plant death.
- light quality is the source of light energy, whether sun or artificial.
extended time below 50° f. can damage  foliage plants and cause leaf drop or discoloration.
take the plant out of the pot and see if you have evidence of root-crowding.
water thoroughly until it runs through the drainage hole.
- the container the soil in clay pots dries out much more quickly that that in plastic or glazed ceramic.
- moist-not-wet, as a general rule.
at the nursery order gift card photo gallery barth daylilies an o'donal's nursery exclusive o'donal's planting instructions check out our video library for gardening tips, product info, events and tutorials.
sometimes a plant can grow in less intense light than recommended if it receives lower light for a longer time.
do not allow plants to sit in water.
wait 6 months before fertilizing a newly purchased plant.
- hanging plants as a rule they need more frequent watering because it is warmer closer to the ceiling.
empty excess from saucer.
light can be described as follows: full sun – 5 hours of sun, southern window some sun – less that 5 hours of sun, within 2 ft of a southern  window, in an east/west window bright light – within 5 ft of any window that gets some sun.
later in the spring we  have the larger tropical orange trees, lemon, tangerine, and hibiscus trees so  you can really create a tropical paradise in your home.
a cactus needs very well drained, sandy soil.
homes and  offices in the winter usually have less than that.
- the stage of growth actively growing plants need more frequent watering than dormant plants.
the plant determines the type of soil you should use.
home | about us | contact us plant reference | news & specials | educational center | the garden shop | at the nursery o'donal's nursery is a member of: american nursery and landscape association ·maine nursery and landscape association new england nursery association · perennial plant association · maine christmas tree association
the light – a plant in bright light will need more frequent watering  than the same plant in lower light.
allow to dry: water when the soil is dry between 1-2 inches deep.
it is not a medicine for sick plants.
mist with a mister bottle (especially ferns).
sign up for our email newsletter the inside scoop on houseplants the key to houseplant success is putting the right plant in the right place.
we have covered the four major requirements (light, water, temperature,  humidity) for plants but also key to interior plant success are fertilizing,  soil, repotting and grooming.
- use a good basic potting soil and put rocks in the bottom of the pot and then a layer of soil.
later in the spring we have the larger tropical orange trees, lemon, tangerine, and hibiscus trees so you can really create a tropical paradise in your home.
we offer many long lasting interior landscape floor plants, hanging plants and a good variety of 3 and 4-inch plants for dish gardens and windowsills.
your goal is to get a well-balanced soil that holds water but allows for good drainage.
if  there isn't enough natural light you can supplement with artificial light.
your goal is to get a  well-balanced soil that holds water but allows for good drainage.
- do not allow plants to sit in water.
light quality is the source of light energy, whether sun or artificial.