observe children closely and intervene as necessary to prevent potential safety problems and ensure appropriate use of arts and crafts materials.
avoid use of materials with sharp points by children younger than 4 years.
lay down newspaper or  waxed paper over your work area for easy clean-up later.
let dry for  at least 3-days.
which plants flourished the most?
you can create symbols to represent your commitment or draw an entire scene around your pot.
the  following activity will illustrate the positive impact your actions can have! 3.
the following activity will illustrate the positive impact your actions can have! 3.
stain advisement: slick stix contain pigments that may stain clothing, fabrics and other household surfaces.
however, they are produced on the same machinery as crayola dough  which does contain gluten.
invite a guest from a local food bank, homeless shelter or nursing home to  speak to the class.
how  do the acts of these individuals benefit your community and the people that  live there?
commit to making a  positive change in your community.
some craft items, particularly beads and buttons, are potential choking hazards for young children.
have  students make a label for their plants that symbolizes their commitment to the  community.
what caused these plants to grow healthy and  strong?
observe children closely and intervene as necessary to prevent potential safety  problems and ensure appropriate use of arts and crafts materials.
some craft  items, particularly beads and buttons, are potential choking hazards for young  children.
crayola air-dry clay, crayola model magic and model magic fusion are  gluten-free.
for information regarding specific ingredients or allergic concerns,  please call our consumer affairs department at 1-800-272-9652 weekdays between  9 am and 4 pm eastern standard time.
lay down newspaper or waxed paper over your work area for easy clean-up later.
you can create  symbols to represent your commitment or draw an entire scene around your pot.
he used collage art to depict colorful scenes of his community.
let dry for at least 3-days.
cover the outside of a small plastic cup with the clay by molding smoothing it with your fingers.
students will create symbolic  planting pots and complete an activity to demonstrate how their actions can  benefit those less fortunate in their town.
handheld mirrors, picture frames with glass, ceramic pots, and similar breakable items may be used only by children 8 years and older.
when dry, draw your promise to the community on the flowerpot using crayola slick stix™.
handheld mirrors, picture frames with glass, ceramic pots, and similar  breakable items may be used only by children 8 years and older.
they would  disintegrate when exposed to moisture.
he used collage art to  depict colorful scenes of his community.
look at artwork by romare bearden for inspiration!
try techniques like rubbing or smearing the slick stix with your fingers for interesting effects!
crayola dough—contains gluten (wheat flour) as an ingredient.
unless sealed with a water-resistant glaze, do not make projects exposed  to or immersed in water, such as boats or outdoor bird feeders.
for children 7 years and younger, use unbreakable materials such as wood or sturdy plastic picture frames, unbreakable mirrors, and plant pots that will not shatter into sharp edges.
maybe your  parents or someone you know volunteers at a soup kitchen or a nursing home.
start by gently kneading the clay to make it soft and pliable.
place labels in the soil near each student’s seed.
write down your commitment on a piece of  paper, and describe how it will benefit the people in your community.
do not put in an oven, microwave, or kiln.
follow the directions on the seed package to care for your plant, and watch as your seed grows into a strong, beautiful plant.
what can you do to help out  those in need or make your community a better place?
write down your commitment on a piece of paper, and describe how it will benefit the people in your community.
the most important part of making a commitment is following through on your promise.
firing or baking in a kiln is not necessary.
adult assistance is required for this arts & crafts project.
cover the outside of a small  plastic cup with the clay by molding smoothing it with your fingers.
think about how following through on your commitment  to your community will help it grow stronger as well!
although the machines are cleaned prior to the start  of each production run, there is a slight possibility that trace amounts of  gluten from crayola dough may be present in the other modeling compound  products.
wear a smock to  protect clothing and cover your work surface with newspaper.
avoid use of such small parts with children younger than 3 years.
mirrors, picture frames, and plant pots—close adult  supervision is required when children use craft materials that could shatter or  break.
when dry, draw your promise to the community on the flowerpot using  crayola slick stix™.
for a public display, the class can plant a garden on school grounds!
stain advisement: slick stix contain pigments that  may stain clothing, fabrics and other household surfaces.
add potting soil and seeds to your pot.
how do the acts of these individuals benefit your community and the people that live there?
students can ask questions and hear stories to help them  recognize some community issues and find out how they can help.
what can you do to help out those in need or make your community a better place?
read all manufacturers' safety warnings before using arts and craft supplies.
wear a smock to protect clothing and cover your work surface with newspaper.
using crayola air-dry clay make a small flowerpot.
try techniques like rubbing or  smearing the slick stix with your fingers for interesting effects!
for children 7  years and younger, use unbreakable materials such as wood or sturdy plastic  picture frames, unbreakable mirrors, and plant pots that will not shatter into  sharp edges.
students will create symbolic planting pots and complete an activity to demonstrate how their actions can benefit those less fortunate in their town.
maybe your parents or someone you know volunteers at a soup kitchen or a nursing home.
adult supervision is required for any arts & crafts project.
read all manufacturers' safety warnings before using arts and  craft supplies.
the use of modeling material to make items that look like food is  discouraged for children younger than age 5 to avoid their confusion with real  food.
follow the directions on the  seed package to care for your plant, and watch as your seed grows into a  strong, beautiful plant.
think about how following through on your commitment to your community will help it grow stronger as well!
craft items such as scissors, push pins and chenille sticks may have sharp  points or edges.
monitor students’ success by watching the growth of the plants.
join the crayola community  today.
research canada standards research uk standards research u.s. standards
crayola modeling materials including crayola model magic®, and model  magic fusion™, crayola air-dry clay, and crayola dough— keep away from open flames.
do not make into vessels/containers that will hold unpackaged food.
pirate poems carry on the storytelling tradition friendship hearts
think about your role in your community.
avoid use of materials with sharp points by children younger  than 4 years.
start by gently  kneading the clay to make it soft and pliable.
do not use to make candleholders, hot plates,  trivets, or other similar objects that will be used or placed near fire and  other heat sources.
who in your community inspires you?
what could have been done to improve the  plant’s growth?
planting the seeds of change plant the seeds of change in your community!
do not add clay to the inside of the cup as moisture will soften air-dry clay.
the most  important part of making a commitment is following through on your promise.
do not add  clay to the inside of the cup as moisture will soften air-dry clay.
crayola modeling materials including crayola model magic®, and model magic fusion™, crayola air-dry clay, and crayola dough— mirrors, picture frames, and plant pots—close adult supervision is required when children use craft materials that could shatter or break.
craft items such as scissors, push pins and chenille sticks may have sharp points or edges.
commit to making a positive change in your community.
plant the seeds of change in your community!