availability:  shipping:  calculated in  cart  minimum purchase:  unit(s)  maximum purchase:  unit(s)  : gift  wrapping:  cowpot size\package: 3 inch (175 ml) pot - 12 pack 4 inch (450 ml) pot - 12 pack 3 inch - 6 cell (250 ml) 3
roots grew right through the walls..then the whole thing goes into the ground, i didn't have to crush or tear.
trays quantity: buy in bulk  and save product description made from 100% renewable composted cow manure, cowpots™ give  seedlings a better start.
tender, young roots easily penetrate the sides and bottoms of cowpots, allowing for unrestricted growth... and healthier roots mean stronger plants.
- cowpots work great posted by unknown on feb 16th 2010 they grow out some of the best plants i've ever grown.
cowpots were invented on freund’s farm by matt freund a dairy farmer  in northwestern connecticut.
round 26 pack $2.22 - jiffy peat pots 4 inch round 6 pack $1.99 - paper pots $6.99 - biodegradable eco twist $5.99 you recently viewed... - paper pot maker $13.85 add to cart - twist and clips $1.89 add to cart - garden marker $3.39 add to cart - onion walla walla sweet $2.79 add to cart - lead soil test kit $23.95 add to cart about us | contact us | privacy policy | user terms & conditions | shipping & returns | sitemap | copyright © 2012 seed and garden llc.
best of all, the manure in cowpots is a renewable resource, unlike peat which is mined from bog eco-systems or plastic which is derived from finite fossil sources!
customers who viewed this product also viewed - paper pot maker $13.85 add to cart - paper pots $6.99 choose options - jiffy peat pots 5 inch round 8 pack $3.29 add to cart - nviropotter paper pot making tool $11.99 choose options add to wish list click the button below to add the cowpots biodegradable planting pots to your wish list.
however i understand that it is made from manure even though its under the "peat pot" section, its better than peat!
write a headline for your review here: - - 3.
composted manure naturally  biodegrades quickly, so at 3 to 4 weeks, decomposition is well underway!
how do you rate this product?
these cost a little more than peat, but they are the real deal, well, well worth it.
grow sturdier, healthier plants go directly into the soil with the plant fully decompose - with no throw away encourage root development add soil-conditioning natural nutrients to your garden convenient and time-savingeasy to handle, odor-free and non-toxic cowpots™- 100% made in the usa reduces non-recyclable plastics reduces dependence on foreign oil reduces municipal waste promote recycling of agricultural waste to horticultural benefit cowpots™ are also: from a highly renewable resource nutrient-rich today show with cowpots (00:57)
planted cowpots breakdown fast in the ground.
shipping: calculated in cart minimum purchase: unit(s) maximum purchase: unit(s) : gift wrapping: cowpot size\package: quantity: buy in bulk and save - 3 inch (175 ml) pot - 12 pack - 4 inch (450 ml) pot - 12 pack - 3 inch - 6 cell (250 ml) 3
posted by brian on feb 2nd 2009 i suggest you buy 1 for every member of your extended family!
cowpots were invented on freund’s farm by matt freund a dairy farmer in northwestern connecticut.
joe lamp'l talks a bit about cowpots product videos - cowpots on tv (02:46) - today show with cowpots (00:57) find similar products by category product reviews write your own review - 1.
- grow sturdier, healthier plants - go directly into the soil with the plant - fully decompose - with no throw away - encourage root development - avoid plant stress - add soil-conditioning natural nutrients to your garden - convenient and time-savingeasy to handle, odor-free and non-toxic - cowpots™- 100% made in the usa - reduces non-recyclable plastics - reduces dependence on foreign oil - reduces municipal waste - promote recycling of agricultural waste to horticultural benefit - cowpots™ are also: - from a highly renewable resource - nutrient-rich product videos today show with cowpots (00:57)
no trash, and happy, happy roots.
joe lamp'l talks a bit about cowpots - cowpots on tv matt freund introduces mike rowe and the dirty jobs crew to a ... - today show wit...
enter the code below: - - beats peat hands down posted by lisa r on oct 20th 2010 tried this last season, the difference was in the plants.
best of all, the manure in cowpots is a renewable resource, unlike peat  which is mined from bog eco-systems or plastic which is derived from finite  fossil sources!
- - my account - order status - wish lists - view cart - sign in or create an account search advanced search | search tips categories new products - garden marker $3.39 add to cart - topsy turvy tomato planter $7.99 add to cart - lead soil test kit $23.95 add to cart - twist and clips $1.89 add to cart - onion walla walla sweet $2.79 add to cart our newsletter your first name: your email address: - home - biodegradable pots - cowpots biodegradable planting pots cowpots biodegradable planting pots see 3 more pictures price: price: $5.99 sku: cp34-x vendor: brand: condition: weight: rating: ( 4 product reviews ) availability:
trays product description made from 100% renewable composted cow manure, cowpots™ give seedlings a better start.
- not peat posted by jon on nov 19th 2009 great product!!
joe lamp'l  talks a bit about cowpots cowpots on tv  matt freund introduces mike rowe and the dirty jobs  crew to a ... today show wit...  joe lamp'l talks a bit about cowpots product videos today show with cowpots  (00:57)
loading... please wait...
related products - jiffy peat pots 5 inch round 8 pack $3.29 - jiffy peat pots 2.25 inch
tender, young roots easily penetrate the sides and  bottoms of cowpots, allowing for unrestricted growth... and healthier roots  mean stronger plants.
write your review here: - - 4.
- 5 stars (best) 4 stars 3 stars (average) 2 stars 1 star (worst) - 2.
the pot was absorbed into the dirt in a few weeks; seems like my old peat pots just stayed there forever.
cowpots are durable and long-lasting before planting seedlings in the ground – staying intact for up to 16 weeks – plenty of time to give seedlings a good strong start!
cowpots are durable and long-lasting before planting seedlings in the  ground – staying intact for up to 16 weeks – plenty of time to give  seedlings a good strong start!
find similar products by category biodegradable pots
cowpot microbes must have helped.
composted manure naturally biodegrades quickly, so at 3 to 4 weeks, decomposition is well underway!
enter your name: (optional) - - 5.