russian caravan  4.3 scented/flavored tea 4.3.1.
4.6 pu-erh  (mainland china, yunnan province) pu-erh is an unusual large-leafed tea with a  characteristic earthy flavor.
when the fire was hot, one  would place a teapot on top of the pipe and brew a strong concentrate of tea.
you may want to put the  leaves loose in the pot, or use a strainer, sock, or tea ball.
can i become  addicted to tea?
one important side effect (and a frequent cause of medical advice to limit or stop caffeine use) is sleep disruption.
the major differences between them are a result of the  different processing methods they undergo.
assam is reliably strong, full-bodied tea; many irish breakfast blends are entirely assam.
place the bag in your cup and pour boiling water over it.
why all the fuss  about expensive brands?
similar to the melior pot used for brewing coffee, the plunger pushes the leaves to the bottom of the pot and holds them there.
many varieties  of flavored teas oolong:
should the milk go in the cups before or after the tea?
unfortunately, nilgiri is not as distinctive or interesting as the other two.
a number of companies specialize in producing herbal  blends.
even if you rinse your pots and cups after every use, which is advisable, they will eventually build up stains.
experiment and see  how you prefer it.
the term 'earthy' applies almost literally, as some pu-erh  tastes remarkably like dirt.
some terms that you may find with regard to chinese  green teas are: gunpowder (pellets, tightly rolled from young leaves and buds)
this is a strong, earthy green.
it is well suited to the needs of a large community of voracious tea drinkers, but unfortunately is not really practical as a means of producing an afternoon cup for the solitary enthusiast.
this is a  strong, earthy green.
some of it is noteworthy, but not much.
as luck would have it, the first mass marketers of tea in the west were the dutch, whose contacts were in fujian.
english tea time tea time has been an important feature of  british life for hundreds of years.
logically enough, this tea  is scented with jasmine flowers.
as mentioned earlier, this is usually mostly assam--and very strong.
retail price  ranges from us$20/pound to a jaw-dropping us$200/pound.
genmaicha (japan) 4.5.6.
what is the best way to clean pots and cups?
the tea ceremony can last as long as four hours.
thanks in particular to kai  birger nielsen, the first person to put the faq in html; and to gabriel shahar,  who provided many helpful comments.
some yunnan is used in russian caravan blends  (see 4.2.3).
if you are reluctant to kick the habit all at once, you may want to try gradually easing yourself off caffeinated drinks.
unfortunately, nilgiri is not as distinctive or interesting  as the other two.
during the infusion, give the teapot a good shake  or stir to let the leaves circulate.
incidentally, tannic acid (used in tanning leather) is a kind of polyphenol, but it is _not_ found in tea.
less fancy varieties are called baimudan (or pai mu tan) and show mee (or shoumei).
protection against dehydration a perhaps  unexpected benefit of tea drinking is the resulting increase in water  consumption, which protects against dehydration.
oolong oolong is oxidized, but  not for as long as black tea.
does green tea have  caffeine?
also, there is considerable debate about whether to put milk in the cups before you add the tea or afterward.
herbs can also cause problems.
some people have reported good results by using a drop of chlorine bleach in a potful of water; but you must rinse the pot very carefully after this method!
the second infusion lasts slightly longer than the first; it has a weaker aroma but more flavor.
ti kuan yin (or tai guan-yin) (mainland china)  4.5.
while this is a good way to brew coffee, it is less than ideal for most kinds of tea.
the process differs for black, green, and oolong teas.
some people recommend using filtered  water immediately after it has been filtered, or re-oxygenating the water by  pouring it vigorously between two glasses about five or six times.
as with any stimulant, the period of enhanced alertness and  heightened mood is generally followed by a period of depressed mood and  ability.
if you are concerned about overheating these sorts of  delicate leaves, do not place a tea cozy on the pot during the infusion, as it  keeps too much heat in the pot.
europe and the americas 3.2.1.
scented/flavored (both black and green): jasmine (china; green, scented with  jasmine flowers) earl grey (international; black, scented with oil of bergamot)
after the guests drink the bitter tea, the host cleans the  utensils and the guests (more or less ritually) examine and discuss the  utensils.
if you plan to add milk and sugar to your tea, you should probably add more leaves.
more robust and complex than first flush.
this will help flush out heavy metals that may have collected in the water as it sat in the plumbing system.
it should be understood that tea drinking is not a "magic bullet" for the prevention of cancer.
take nothing with caffeine."
the leaves can circulate almost as freely as if they were loose.
if you prefer to drink tea without additional flavorings, a two-to-four minute infusion time will probably give you the best results.
b) 'tisane'  [pronounced tee-zahn], which in french means any herbal drink.
archive-name: drink/tea/faq posting-frequency: quarterly last-modified: 2001/06/11
in any case, it is an acquired taste.
milk  and honey don't seem to go very well together.
cozies come in a variety of shapes and sizes.
some earl greys are quite good; others, unfortunately, are saturated with too much of the aromatic oil, or contain low quality leaves, or both.
the best results  are with oolong.
oxidation, which starts during rolling, is allowed to proceed for an amount of time that depends on the variety of leaf.
others find the ceremony tedious beyond description, and the tea ghastly and barely drinkable.
many varieties of flavored teas oolong:
all_ real tea  contains caffeine unless the tea has been artificially decaffeinated.
using a teapot 2.2.1.
thanks in particular to kai birger nielsen, the first person to put the faq in html; and to gabriel shahar, who provided many helpful comments.
thin:  lacking body and/or color weedy: may be applied to thin, cabbagy black teas;  nonpejoratively, a green tea may be called weedy if it has a not-unpleasant  vegetative aroma and flavor, varying from simple "herbaceousness" to  scents of new-mown hay winey: usually descriptive of a mellow quality fine  darjeelings or keemuns acquire with six months to a year or more of age; more  rarely used to describe overfermented tea ********************** about the  author: my name is christopher roberson.
but if you drink enough tea on a regular basis, you can become addicted.
its use in india and sri lanka broadened to mean whole leaves of a uniform size, and this is what it generally means now.
it may be a good idea to store bagged tea in a tightly closed metal or opaque glass container to help keep it fresh longer.
most good  tea is not very expensive; and it may be cheaper than you think.
some tea drinkers start with filtered water, particularly in areas  with unpleasant or unhealthy tap water.
longjing (china) 4.5.7.
masala chai masala chai, or spiced tea, hails from the indian  subcontinent.
baking soda (sodium  bicarbonate) works surprisingly well as a cleaning agent.
there is nothing quite comparable in modern china (though, as noted above, the japanese ceremony originated in ancient china).
according to one's teacher and his or her training.
the porous interior of an unglazed pot is seasoned by repeated infusions of tea leaves, and does not need to be cleaned.
disadvantages: the paper is disposable, which may have unwanted environmental consequences.
tea is also grown commercially in turkey, russia, africa (notably kenya), and  south america.
astringency is usually quite pronounced, and the aroma and flavor hint of almonds and wildflowers.
some are also rumored to give an off taste to the drink.
some people recommend using filtered water immediately after it has been filtered, or re-oxygenating the water by pouring it vigorously between two glasses about five or six times.
indonesia produces a considerable harvest each  year, primarily in java and sumatra.
there are some brands of decaffeinated tea on the market, but unfortunately their quality is rarely very high.
should i put milk in my tea? 2.2.9.1.
rolling helps mix together a variety of chemicals found naturally within the leaves, enhancing oxidation.
if you are brewing more than one  cup, you can try any of the following: --warm two pots and pour the brewed tea  into the second pot.
********************** 3.
real tea contains caffeine unless the tea has been artificially decaffeinated.
advantages: the leaves have maximum freedom to uncurl and circulate in the water, which makes for stronger and more flavorful tea.
if you have never used a cozy, be careful!
this document, with many others about tea, is accessible on the world wide  web at my website, http://www.enteract.com/~robchr/tea/faq.html and at kai  birger nielsen's website, http://hjem.get2net.dk/bnielsen
the leaves turn out long and thin, hence the name  "spider leg."
some asian grocery stores do carry it,  though.
you can, of course, also use tea bags in a pot.
this method can also be used to prepare a highly caffeinated drink without many of the sedative components ordinarily found in the cup.
the _gongfu_ method the japanese tea ceremony is a  metaphysical/religious ritual centered around tea.
descriptions of popular and noteworthy teas 5.
liquor color ranges all over the spectrum, from a pale jade  green to pink to deep gold.
low-fat or skim milk seems to  work best.
detailed  descriptions of most of these teas follow in section 3.
since caffeine is a mild diuretic, the benefit is not quite as great as drinking plain water; but it is real nonetheless.
it is also good for producing a strong, robust flavor from leaves of middling quality; in fact, for many varieties of leaf ctc is the preferred processing method.
placing the milk in the cup before adding the tea helped protect the cup.
if you've ever tasted oversteeped tea, you know that it is bitter and astringent--an all-around nasty experience.
some is made from baozhong tea, but most is based on completely unoxidized green.
first, the leaves are spread out in the open  (preferably in the shade) until they wither and become limp.
the same is true for baozhong, lightly oxidized oolong such as tung ting, and first flush darjeeling.
disadvantages:  the leaves have not actually been removed from the liquor, so they continue to  infuse.
the mark t. wendell company sells ty-phoo and  pg tips.
most people find cream too heavy.
as above, although this may help protect teeth, it is no substitute for brushing, flossing, and regular dental checkups.
i have seen recommendations  ranging from one teaspoon per 5.5 ounces of water to one teaspoon per 16 ounces  of water -- and these also do not explain how big a teaspoon is, or whether  they mean level teaspoons or heaping teaspoons.
there is no real consensus about this matter.
this may be because these systems produce de-oxygenated water.
breaking a caffeine addiction is, mercifully, relatively easy to do.
thai restaurants often serve an orange drink called thai tea, usually iced.
the most highly valued japanese tea.
disadvantages: the leaves are still more restricted  than they would be loose.
indonesia produces a considerable harvest each year, primarily in java and sumatra.
the leaves are then "fired," or dehydrated.
one can also brew tea in a coffee maker, in much the same way that one brews coffee.
systems that filter the water and then store it in a reservoir (such as the  popular brita system) often yield flat, odd-tasting tea.
darjeeling, interestingly enough, is  often best with a steeping time between 90 seconds and three minutes.
(some teapots  are specially constructed to hold a filter.)
there is simply no reliable way, short of chemical analysis, of knowing exactly how much caffeine is in your cup; and chemical analysis is not terribly practical if you intend to drink the tea.
longjing [lung ching, dragon  well] (china) baozhong (china) gunpowder (china) other: pu-erh (china)
rec.food.drink.tea is a usenet newsgroup devoted to the discussion of tea and related beverages.
i have a ph.d. in philosophy from the university of michigan.
most good oolongs have an intense floral aroma and a remarkable peachy flavor.
popular blends there are more different blends of tea than  can reasonably be mentioned in the space available, so i will restrict myself  to listing the most well-known categories.
this is the most expensive, sought-after black tea in the  world.
if you have a clear case of addiction that is interfering with your sense of  well-being, you should try to quit.
the best tea, with few exceptions, is produced in cool, mountainous regions.
retail price ranges from us$20/pound to a jaw-dropping us$200/pound.
when you buy tea in bags, most of what you pay for is the process of putting the teas in the bags, and the brand name advertising.
should i  worry about caffeine addiction?
at best, it can be one part of a healthy lifestyle that includes the following: not smoking or using tobacco in other forms; minimizing exposure to radiation, carcinogenic chemicals, and direct sunlight; eating a varied diet based mostly on grains, beans, and plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables; getting regular aerobic exercise; practicing self-examination for lumps or unusual areas on the skin; and getting regular medical checkups.
it's not absolutely necessary, but it does keep the infusion from cooling off too quickly.
tea experts believe that this helps preserve some of the more subtle components of a fine cup of tea.
the acidic lemon juice instantly curdles the milk.
it consists of a straight-sided porcelain cup (without a handle), a lid, and a saucer.
thick glass pots have all the advantages (and  disadvantages) of ceramics, with the important difference that you can watch  the tea infuse.
loose tea is generally whole  leaves.
some yunnan is used in russian caravan blends (see 4.2.3).
ceramic pots are traditional  throughout most of asia; most retain heat well (depending on the thickness of  the ceramic) and many are attractively decorated.
most of the tea that goes into bags is not very high quality.
unfortunately, high  quality loose leaf tea is typically not available in supermarkets; you will  probably have to seek out a specialty shop or a mail-order company.
it may retain odors  from previous batches.
the highest quality white tea is called baihao yinzhen, which means "white down silver needles."
how much tea should i use?
also, in the bad old days, one might be offered a different sort of "white tea" in very poor chinese homes: namely, a cup of boiled water.
andrew weil (in _natural health, natural medicine_) offers the following advice for those who want to try to kick the habit "cold turkey": "do not attempt it unless you have three days with no responsibilities and no demands on your time and energy.
most tea balls are made of aluminum with small holes for water circulation.
clear glass jars are acceptable only if you can keep them in a closed cupboard away from light.
(the only  exception to this rule is japanese kokicha, made from stems of the tea plant.
advantages: the leaves have maximum freedom to uncurl and circulate  in the water, which makes for stronger and more flavorful tea.
cozies come in a variety  of shapes and sizes.
the first step in tea  production is the harvest.
but everything else in the preceding  paragraph is absolutely true.]
pointy: a liquor is said to "have  point" if it shows some desirable property--for example, briskness or fine  fragrance pungent: astringent; what gives a tea its bite self-drinking: any tea  with sufficient aroma, flavor, body, and color to stand alone and in no need of  blending for improvement stewed or stewy: poorly fired tea giving soft liquor  without "point"; also used of tea that's brewed too long and has  become bitter tarry: smoky flavor associated with lapsang souchong
adjust to your own specifications.
here are the basic grades of black tea: flowery orange pekoe (peck-oh),  orange pekoe pekoe souchong broken orange pekoe broken orange pekoe fannings  broken pekoe fannings
(i'm told that tea  prices outside the united states are roughly comparable.)
the composition and proportions of a  particular blend vary from dealer to dealer, and are sometimes well-guarded  secrets.
their main disadvantage is that  they conduct heat away from the infusion more rapidly than do ceramics.
this can also  affect the flavor of the brew.
caffeine is very water-soluble, more so than many of the flavor components in tea.
longer oxidation usually produces a less flavorful but more pungent tea.
the host brings in the  tea utensils and begins preparing the tea.
dry  leaf: bloom: sheen or luster on black leaf
as many readers of  rec.food.drink.tea will testify, asking for tea in a restaurant usually gets  one a cup of tepid water with a bargain-basement tea bag floating listlessly in  it like a dead fish.
here's what they actually stand for: tgfop: tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
advantages: easy to remove and clean.
other natural sources of caffeine are chocolate and yerba mate',  which is used as an herbal drink in parts of south america.
it is not well suited to indoor cultivation, though.
the first step in tea production is the harvest.
what are caffeine's effects?
the name (also sometimes spelled 'lung ching') means  "dragon well."
there  are many varieties of green tea, most of which are little-known outside asia.
but if price is a concern, start small.
cancer protection recent epidemiological studies suggest a lower tendency toward cancer in tea-drinking populations.
also, many tea retailers sell sample-size (one- or two-ounce) containers.
some people also like to add lemon.
the highest quality is called yin hao. jasmine tea ranges from abysmal stuff, where the flowers are used to mask the poor quality of the tea, to truly remarkable (and remarkably costly) delicacies.
version: 1.7b1 url:  http://pages.ripco.net/~c4ha2na9/tea/faq.html rec.food.drink.tea faq version  1.7
if you use loose  leaves and are brewing one cup, you can pour the tea through a strainer, which  will catch any leaves that escape the pot.
like cream, whole homogenized milk  is too heavy and strong tasting for most people.
however traditional and  evocative the term may be, i think it is best avoided.
large nurseries, particularly those that specialize in camellias, may be able to provide interested gardeners with tea plants ready for home growing.
'souchong' means large leaves, generally not from the tip of the branch.
pu-erh differs from other teas because it is "refermented," or oxidized a second time.
this tea is fired over  smoking pine needles, which produces a striking smoky odor and flavor.
it was inaugurated in 1995 with the following charter:
black teas black tea is produced by allowing harvested leaf to  wither and oxidize for several hours before the process is halted by firing  (i.e. heating and drying out) the leaf.
is fancy tea much more expensive than standard commercial tea?
this may include  leaves picked from lower on the branch. '
it  is a grading measurement that applies only to the size and physical condition  of the leaves, not their kind or quality.
some of the finest oolongs in the world are grown in taiwan.
at least one author also claims that most current students of the tea ceremony are more interested in matrimony than enlightenment.
(buds have a lighter color than fully formed leaves, hence 'golden'.)
some people like metal pots.
all three kinds are made from the same plant species.
the term 'earthy' applies almost literally, as some pu-erh tastes remarkably like dirt.
if  you reuse containers, avoid using materials that retain odors, as the tea will  pick them up.
the guests  wait in a special waiting room until summoned by the host.
if you also drink coffee and caffeinated soft drinks or take  medication containing caffeine, eliminating these from your diet will make it  easier for you to drink tea without fear of troublesome habituation.
young hyson (young leaves rolled long and thin) imperial (pellets loosely  rolled from older leaves)
autumnal flush: harvest after the rainy season.
makes: 2 large  cups 2.5 cups (570 ml) water 6-8 green cardamom pods 5-6 whole black  peppercorns 1-2 slices fresh ginger, peeled and diced 1 stick cinnamon, 1-2  inches long 1-2 cloves 2/3 cup (175 ml) milk 4 tsp sugar 2-3 tsp loose black  tea (preferably india or ceylon) put the water in a saucepan, add the spices,  and bring to a boil.
the latter method is used for the cheaper varieties of tea, as it is  not capable of discriminating between the high-quality tip leaves and the  coarser leaves toward the bottom of the branch.
oxidation, which starts during rolling, is allowed to proceed for an amount of  time that depends on the variety of leaf.
after two small cups, my hands were trembling and i could barely sit still.
the basic steps in the production of black tea are withering,  rolling, oxidation, and firing.
baozhong (china) 4.6.
ctc, which stands for "crush,  tear, curl," is used primarily for lower-quality leaves.
first flush: the leaves were plucked in the first growth of the season.
remove the bag when it has steeped long enough.
the portuguese call it 'cha', the russians 'chai'.
they adopted this name, and handed it on to most other european countries.
this method is, of course, not much use to those of us who drink tea for the flavor.
fine darjeelings usually have a lighter liquor than other black teas,  from a light reddish color to a bright gold.
as always, you should  experiment to see what suits you best.
this practice increases the likelihood of cancer of the mouth and  throat.
g) add whatever accessories you  prefer: milk, sugar, honey, lemon, etc.
bergamot is an unpalatable citrus fruit shaped like a  pear; the oil is pressed out of its rind and sprayed on a blend of black teas.
(some teapots are specially constructed to hold a filter.)
it is a grading measurement that applies only to the size and physical condition of the leaves, not their kind or quality.
this secondary oxidation sometimes is used to develop a thin layer of mold on the leaves.
some common herbs that are used as tisanes are peppermint, chamomile, rose hips, lemon verbena, and fennel.
how should i store tea?
the herb is not used in the production of earl grey.)
during the infusion, give the teapot a good shake or stir to let the leaves circulate.
some people also like to place a tea cozy over  the pot while the tea infuses, for the same reason.
as above, although  this may help protect teeth, it is no substitute for brushing, flossing, and  regular dental checkups.
caffeine is also an addictive drug if taken regularly.
add tea, turn off the  heat, and let infuse for two to three minutes.
supposedly, one should brew this tea with water from  that well.
(as "kung fu," it is also the term often used in the west for chinese  martial arts, which are more properly known as _wu shu_.
before you open a  container of frozen tea, let it warm to room temperature in order to avoid  contaminating the tea with condensation.
lapsang souchong see above, section 4.1.5.
caffeine addiction is probably the most common drug addiction in the world, with nicotine addiction a close second.
there is no standard base for  earl grey; its distinctiveness derives from the oil of bergamot.
so a very brief infusion can remove much of the  caffeine while preserving flavor.
very few leaves escape.
d) bring the teapot to the kettle and add the water.
in the united  states, the best climate is probably like that found in the carolinas.
(hence its frequency in names of japanese teas: sencha, hojicha, etc.)
since this method requires a large amount of tea and several small cups (typically four), it is best done for a group of oolong lovers.
people who were raised on  black tea often find green an acquired taste, but it is worth acquiring.
4.6 pu-erh (mainland china, yunnan province) pu-erh is an unusual large-leafed tea with a characteristic earthy flavor.
one is that it can attack some  kinds of transparent plastic, causing them to become opaque.
fancy [or fine] tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
tea-as-medicine discussions should take place in  misc.health.alternative.
(there is also an herb called 'bergamot' which smells like oil of bergamot.
if you do, place the bags on the bottom of  the pot so that they will be struck by the boiling water as it falls on them.
the chinese term  for this tea, zhucha, means 'pearl tea'.
here's what they actually stand  for: tgfop: tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
its use in india and sri lanka broadened to mean whole leaves of  a uniform size, and this is what it generally means now.
using a tea bag this is the most straightforward method.
advantages: easy to remove and  clean.
some is made from baozhong tea, but most is  based on completely unoxidized green.
sencha, bancha, hojicha (japan) 'sencha' is a generic name  for japanese green tea, applying to most high quality tea other than gyokuro.
(some english breakfasts are all keemun.)
it is hypothesized that this may have something to do with chemicals found in tea called polyphenols (or catechins, or tannins).
black, unblended: assam (india) ceylon (sri lanka)
other  areas (such as turkey, south asia and the arab countries) have some version of  'chai' or 'shai'.
this is the most expensive, sought-after black tea in the world.
my knowledge of tea comes from reading about it  and, of course, drinking it.
it usually produces a very light, delicate drink.
[the last sentence is a joke.
other side effects of withdrawal, usually found in frequent and heavy users of caffeine, are lethargy, irritability, and constipation.
fancy [or  fine] tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
english tea time 3.2.3.
advantages: easy to remove, fairly unrestrictive of  the expanding leaves.
of course, as with most things, you can spend a lot for tea if you try.
i doubt that there is any reliable figure that applies to  all tea drinkers.
these are chemically related but not identical to the tannins found in wine.
it often contains a bit of smoky lapsang souchong, though its base is typically keemun or yunnan.
--pour the brewed tea into a vacuum container.
super-fine [fancy] tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
high-quality darjeelings are often graded according to a complex (one is tempted to say baroque) system including terms such as tgfop and ftgfop.
still, i must admit that some tea (especially long-steeped english or irish breakfast) takes very well to a bit of milk.
scented/flavored tea (includes both green and black teas) 4.3.1.
longjing [lung ching, dragon well] (china) baozhong (china) gunpowder (china) other: pu-erh (china) detailed descriptions of most of these teas follow in section 3.
the porous interior of an unglazed pot is seasoned by repeated infusions of tea  leaves, and does not need to be cleaned.
where  does tea come from?
what about tea balls, strainers, etc.?
this is not a criticism, but novices should taste the tea before buying it.
there is no standard base for earl grey; its distinctiveness derives from the oil of bergamot.
perhaps the only thing both camps agree on is the historical fact that the earliest porcelain cups manufactured in england were likely to crack if very hot tea was poured directly into them.
the mark t. wendell company sells ty-phoo and pg tips.
pointy: a liquor is said to "have point" if it shows some desirable property--for example, briskness or fine fragrance pungent: astringent; what gives a tea its bite self-drinking: any tea with sufficient aroma, flavor, body, and color to stand alone and in no need of blending for improvement stewed or stewy: poorly fired tea giving soft liquor without "point"; also used of tea that's brewed too long and has become bitter tarry: smoky flavor associated with lapsang souchong
the samovar is a middle  eastern invention now most often associated with the culture of russia and its  geographic and cultural neighbors.
dust 'pekoe' (pronounced 'peck-oh') is derived from a chinese word meaning 'white'; this referred to the white hair on the leaf bud.
-- do not add milk and lemon.
why all the fuss about first flush  vintage super-fine fancy golden tippy flowery orange pekoe estate tea?
a tea cozy is a fabric cover, much like an oven mitt, which is placed over a teapot in order to prevent heat loss.
pu-erh is renowned for its alleged medicinal effects on the digestive tract.
you may eventually find yourself becoming a connoisseur, like many other readers of rec.food.drink.tea.
if you do not have a  _gongfu_ tea set, you can approximate the method with an ordinary teapot,  though the result may not be quite as good.
i am sure that i have left out your favorite tea, and i apologize in advance.
the japanese tea ceremony _cha-no-yu_, or "hot water for tea," is a ceremony of great antiquity and depth.
in any case, do not drink tea that is scalding hot.
then there are those of us who consider the whole dispute somewhat akin to scholastic debates about angels dancing on pinheads.
even so, some herbs do  have generally recognized benefits.
put the water in a kettle to boil.
it  has been widely claimed that green tea has less caffeine than black, but  various sources (including a professional tea chemist) have informed me that  this is not necessarily true.
placing the milk in the cup before adding the tea helped  protect the cup.
strain into two cups and serve hot. 3.2.
some  authorities recommend using cups that have been pre-heated with hot water.
(some  english breakfasts are all keemun.)
tap water is often acceptable; if your tap water has a noticeable taste, you may want to use filtered or bottled water.
in large doses, it can produce jitters, anxiety, and  insomnia.
in large doses, it can produce jitters, anxiety, and insomnia.
it is marketed in bulk as pu-erh, shaped into cakes as pu'er cake tea, or pressed into hemispherical pieces called "tuo cha," or "bird's nest tea."
the chinese do, however, have a special method for brewing tea, which can produce remarkable results.
c) shortly before the water in the kettle boils, empty out the teapot and add the tea leaves.
experiment and see how you prefer it.
advantages: completely free circulation of the leaves.
some growers have had success using a  machine that acts much like a vacuum cleaner, sucking the leaves off the  branch.
b) prepare a teapot: heat it by filling it  (or rinsing it) with hot water.
the powdered tea is placed in a bowl and whisked to a  thick consistency.
greens and oolongs do not peak but stand immediately and fully revealed.
others have a vegetative quality like  that of green tea.
there is simply no reliable way, short of  chemical analysis, of knowing exactly how much caffeine is in your cup; and  chemical analysis is not terribly practical if you intend to drink the tea.
if you do not have a _gongfu_ tea set, you can approximate the method with an ordinary teapot, though the result may not be quite as good.
'tay' was the pronunciation when the word first entered  english, and it still is in scotland and ireland.
it grows best outdoors in climates like its native ones: temperate, with warm summers and cool (not cold) winters.
there are  some brands of decaffeinated tea on the market, but unfortunately their quality  is rarely very high.
if you do, place the bags on the bottom of the pot so that they will be struck by the boiling water as it falls on them.
(as "kung fu," it is also the term often used in the west for chinese martial arts, which are more properly known as _wu shu_.
in fact, that same afternoon, i sat down and wrote this entire document in twenty-five minutes.
india, sri lanka, and other south asian countries produce a large portion of the world harvest.
some recent models have been effusively praised for the  sophistication of their brewing procedures and the flavor of the tea they  produce.
other ways to prepare and serve  tea 4.
as always, you should experiment to see what suits you best.
white tea (china) white tea is tea in which buds, rather than leaves, predominate.
others have a vegetative quality like that of green tea.
most that are commercially available in the west are not labeled with varietal or place names; the label usually just informs you that it is formosa oolong and gives its grade.
caffeine is a stimulant drug found in tea as well as in many other  natural substances.
bagged tea is usually broken orange pekoe and broken pekoe, fannings, and dust.
as noted above, tea bags usually contain broken grades so that they will infuse quickly.
(the most important factor in caffeine  content of leaves appears to be the climate in which the plant is grown.)
early western merchants used the word to mean that the leaves so graded were  exclusively plucked from the tip of the branch: the leaf bud and the two leaves  below the bud.
this seasoning is certainly desirable (and unavoidable) on unglazed equipment such as yixing-style pots (see 4.5.2.).
one way to avoid the issue is to eschew milk  completely.
if you are reluctant to kick the habit  all at once, you may want to try gradually easing yourself off caffeinated  drinks.
whole-leaf teas come in a larger number of varieties;  and the most interesting and enjoyable teas are sometimes not available in  bags.
orange' is  variously described as a reference to the dutch house of orange or as a  reference to an old chinese practice of including orange blossoms as a  flavoring agent.
it originated in china, where its practice eventually died out; but  combined with elements of zen, it remains a fascinating part of japanese  culture.
the best  varieties are not overwhelmed by the smoke, but retain subtlety and a mix of  other flavors.
sencha, bancha, hojicha (japan) 4.5.5.
low tea is served on tables which in the united states would be called  "coffee tables."
it is marketed in  bulk as pu-erh, shaped into cakes as pu'er cake tea, or pressed into  hemispherical pieces called "tuo cha," or "bird's nest  tea."
whichever story is true, orange pekoe leaves are higher quality than pekoe leaves.
russian caravan 4.3 scented/flavored tea 4.3.1.
homesick brits can buy a few british household brands by mail order.
oil of bergamot has two  unusual properties that deserve brief mention.
some tea drinkers weigh their tea on a kitchen scale.
some common  herbs that are used as tisanes are peppermint, chamomile, rose hips, lemon  verbena, and fennel.
the features common to most  versions are the following: a) the ceremony always involves a host and several  guests (but only a few).
if of good quality, this is a truly magnificent oolong, as good as many formosa oolongs.
oolong, which is always large leaves, can benefit from a long steeping time such as four to six minutes.
it can be fun, though, to try a fancy tea now and then.
it is  also easier to shake than most other addictions.
most are designed simply to cover the entire pot, handle  and spout.
the chinese term for this tea, zhucha, means 'pearl tea'.
inexpensive yunnan is not very exciting, but i am told that the higher quality harvests are wonderful.
it is a mild diuretic.
acknowledgements thanks to the following people for help,  information, suggestions, and encouragement: rob beauchamp, cathy berry,  blaize, andreas bogk, james campbell, noah coccaro, d. dalrymple, stephen  darwall, bruce de vries, michelle dick, r. n. dominick, robert dunbar, malcolm  dunn, g. s. durocher, jakris euahsunthornwattana, tom frenkel, john l. luigi  giasi, nagib z. hakim, matthew e. harbowy, duane healing, kris heidenstrom, jon  hodapp, charles hoot, matt hucke, lois-anna kaminski, robert h. klein, steven  leung, marciana, rick mendosa, vicki jean merriman, marlene mills, mike newton  (fig), jeremy rule, nobuo sakakura, roland saldanha, howard sinberg, slacker,  doug smith, mr d.f. steele, stephan schulz, tamale@primenet.com, gene wayne,  wembley, laura whaples, stephen ray williams.
most harvesting is still done by hand, which (as you can imagine) is very labor-intensive.
worse, most of the darjeeling contained in these blends is harvested during the rainy season and so is less flavorful.
it is sometimes regarded as a fourth basic category of tea, since it is intermediate in oxidation between green tea and oolong.
the best results are with oolong.
(hence its frequency in names  of japanese teas: sencha, hojicha, etc.)
it is in a sense "intermediate" between green and black, but good oolong should be judged on its own terms, and need not be compared to other kinds of tea.
some teas can take four to five infusions, or more.
as its botanical name suggests, the tea plant is a variety of camellia, and like other camellias it can be cultivated in a home garden.
opinions differ on whether it is desirable on china, porcelain, or glazed earthenware pots.
a number of companies specialize in producing herbal blends.
this may cause concerns for people who store earl grey in transparent plastic containers.
caffeine  addiction is probably the most common drug addiction in the world, with  nicotine addiction a close second.
it can be used like a teapot to brew tea which is  then decanted to a cup; or one can infuse the tea and then drink directly from  the guywan.
some terms that you may find with regard to chinese green teas are: gunpowder (pellets, tightly rolled from young leaves and buds)
the tea was served by pouring some of the concentrate into a serving glass,  then diluting it with hot water from the main container.
jasmine tea ranges from abysmal stuff, where the flowers are used to mask the  poor quality of the tea, to truly remarkable (and remarkably costly)
pu-erh differs from other teas because it is  "refermented," or oxidized a second time.
my knowledge of tea comes from reading about it and, of course, drinking it.
it is well suited to the needs of a large  community of voracious tea drinkers, but unfortunately is not really practical  as a means of producing an afternoon cup for the solitary enthusiast.
if you are worried about addiction, the  best thing to do is to cut down gradually on the amount of caffeine you  consume.
you should consider this water unfit for human consumption.
although this method is fairly popular, it may be somewhat risky, as it involves using water that has not been boiled -- indeed, water that has been left out in the sun to reach ideal bacterial-reproduction temperatures.
here's how to do it: boil enough water for  twice as many cups as you intend to drink.
the water is boiled and the tea bowl  and whisk are heated.
in the united states, the best climate is probably like that found in the carolinas.
some  are also rumored to give an off taste to the drink.
this tea is fired over smoking pine needles, which produces a striking smoky odor and flavor.
(using the cozy to keep tea warm after it has finished infusing is fine.)
if you like cream or whole milk in your tea, that's reason enough to use them.
fancy tea is generally sold loose, and the price per cup is often lower than for commercial tea.
people who were raised on black tea often find green an acquired taste, but it is worth acquiring.
its caffeine content is negligible.)
processed tea is sieved to insure that leaves of uniform  size are packaged together.
i have never been a tea trader, chemist, or other kind  of special authority on tea.
since this method requires  a large amount of tea and several small cups (typically four), it is best done  for a group of oolong lovers.
opinions differ on whether it  is desirable on china, porcelain, or glazed earthenware pots.
high-quality darjeelings are often graded according to a complex (one is  tempted to say baroque) system including terms such as tgfop and ftgfop.
strain into two cups and serve  hot. 3.2.
they  have no necessary relation to the aroma, color, or flavor of the end product.
one or two cups a day seems to be  quite sufficient for good results.
then there are those of  us who consider the whole dispute somewhat akin to scholastic debates about  angels dancing on pinheads.
how can i get rid of a  caffeine habit?
it combines darjeeling's delicate  flavor and light body with assam's maltiness.
one way of increasing the mineral content of  filtered water is to add a pinch of salt, as ancient tea sages did to rain  water.
it should be understood that tea drinking is  not a "magic bullet" for the prevention of cancer.
since much of the bagged tea sold in the us is marked "orange pekoe," many people think that orange pekoe is a special kind of tea.
'fancy' is a term also used in the grading of oolongs.
in any case, you should not add anything to green or oolong tea; they are meant to be drunk straight.
tea has been an item of trade and tribute for at least  three thousand years.
oolong is produced just like black tea, except that the leaves are oxidized for less time.
genmaicha (japan) genmaicha is sometimes called "popcorn tea" because  of its unusual taste.
where did the name 'tea' come from?
the sun sensitivity produces unusual darkening of the skin, which is called psoralen-induced photosensitive hyperpigmentation.
i can report that  the most caffeinated tea i have ever had was green.
although it is an excellent tea,  it is not very well known (yet) and thus not quite as expensive as darjeeling.
this text is not in the public domain.
a) leaves loose in the pot.
drinking the tea through a piece of rock sugar held between the teeth is also common.
apparently, many americans have the impression that  "high tea" is the meal served by "high-class" people.
using a teapot first, a general guide; details below.
this is a "basket-fired" variety of gyokuro, meaning that it is fired  in bamboo baskets.
wouldn't hot tap water boil faster?
loose tea, tea bags,  what's the difference?
most tea that is labeled "orange pekoe" is blended black tea, typically from india and/or sri lanka.
nilgiri (india) 4.1.7.
black teas black tea is produced by allowing harvested leaf to wither and oxidize for several hours before the process is halted by firing (i.e. heating and drying out) the leaf.
most tea balls are made of aluminum with small holes for water  circulation.
it originated in china, where its practice eventually died out; but combined with elements of zen, it remains a fascinating part of japanese culture.
just put some baking  soda on the wet brush and scrub.
similar to the melior pot used for brewing  coffee, the plunger pushes the leaves to the bottom of the pot and holds them  there.
most of the teapots sold in the west with the label "yixing" are not actually made from yixing clay; still, they seem to serve their purpose well enough.
bring the water to a boil again and  pour it over the same leaves, this time infusing for the normal three to five  minutes.
whole-leaf teas come in a larger number of varieties; and the most interesting and enjoyable teas are sometimes not available in bags.
many texts refer to the oxidation process  by the misleading term "fermentation."
protection against dehydration 5.6.
one important side effect (and a frequent cause of medical  advice to limit or stop caffeine use) is sleep disruption.
let  sit for an hour, empty, brush, and rinse.
advantages: easy to remove and discard.
oxidation of tea leaves  is a purely chemical process and has nothing to do with the yeast-based  fermentation that produces bread or beer.
the host  fills the pot with boiling water and immediately drains it to rinse the leaves.
occasionally, tea connoisseurs will express contempt for tea bags, for the  following reasons: 1.
one very popular combination, originating in morocco, is a blend of green tea and spearmint.
as a result, green tea usually has more of a vegetative or herbaceous quality than blacks or oolongs.
darjeeling (india) keemun (china) nilgiri (india) sikkim (india) yunnan (china)  popular blends: english breakfast irish breakfast russian caravan
this is probably closest to what most westerners think of when they think of tea: reddish-brown liquor; brisk, full flavor.
advantages: better circulation than an aluminum ball.
some people also like to add  lemon.
english  tea time 3.2.3.
low tea is served on tables which in the united states would be called "coffee tables."
this seasoning is certainly desirable (and unavoidable) on unglazed  equipment such as yixing-style pots (see 4.5.2.).
the  stainless-steel mesh infuser.
tea professionals and connoisseurs usually prefer  to restrict the name 'tea' to real tea, so you may see the following terms used  as well: a) 'herbal infusion', which simply means a drink made by steeping an  herb in hot water.
it is very much like ceylon tea.
tea should be stored in an airtight, opaque container in a cool, dry place.
fluoride content 5.5.3.
in addition, tea in bags goes stale much more quickly because of its greater surface area (and hence greater exposure to atmospheric oxygen); and it tends to pick up odors and flavors from surrounding foods (or, i'm told, from the box it's in).
ctc processing is  done by machine; its name is actually fairly descriptive.
most good tea is not very expensive; and it may be cheaper than you think.
english breakfast 4.2.2.
really tough stains can be softened by putting two teaspoons of baking soda into the pot and filling it with hot water.
it  can be fun, though, to try a fancy tea now and then.
disadvantages: you have to figure out some way to get the tea off the leaves once it has infused.
it is grown in zhejiang province, near  shanghai.
it is a  common component of high-quality blends, but is well worth seeking out  unblended.
where can i get british tea in the united states? 5.8.
most black and oolong tea should be infused in water that has just achieved a vigorous boil.
for medical advice,  consult your doctor.
to prepare tea, one filled the container with  water, then put charcoal in the pipe and lighted it.
good iced tea uses a decent brand of black tea which is then cooled (either in a refrigerator or by being poured over ice).
note that ceramic handles tend to become very hot when the pot is kept warm in this fashion.
the first thing to keep in mind is that these are descriptions of the dry, cured leaf _only_.
mattcha, tencha (japan) 4.5.4.
the amount of caffeine in a cup of tea varies tremendously, depending on the variety of tea and the brewing time.
why all the fuss about first flush vintage super-fine fancy golden tippy flowery orange pekoe estate tea?
the  simplest way to rid yourself of stains without using soap is to brush the  stains off with a soft kitchen brush or toothbrush.
tea is a drink made by infusing leaves of the tea plant (_camellia sinensis_,  or _thea sinensis_) in hot water.
all  forms of tea seem to have some anti-cancer effect, though the most pronounced  effects have been reported for green tea.
my advice is to be mindful of how much you drink, and pay attention to how you react to a particular brand or sample of tea.
this is especially true of first flush darjeeling.)
the guests wait in a special waiting room until summoned by the host.
but because  of their larger surface area, broken leaves also become stale more quickly.
if you  prefer to drink tea without additional flavorings, a two-to-four minute  infusion time will probably give you the best results.
the two exceptions are russia and portugal, which had independent trade links to china.
it is not well suited to  indoor cultivation, though.
this is often (but  not always) because they drink their tea with large amounts of milk and sugar  and want to make sure that they will also be able to taste the tea.
some people regard these stains as desirable, analogous to seasoning a wok.
lapsang souchong (china and taiwan; black, scented with smoke)
spider leg (japan) this is a "basket-fired" variety of gyokuro, meaning that it is fired in bamboo baskets.
see section 1.5.1 for information on the grading system applied to  darjeelings.
bring the water to a boil again and pour it over the same leaves, this time infusing for the normal three to five minutes.
be careful not to let the tea stand for too long.
well-twisted: fully withered, tightly rolled leaf wiry: stylish,  thin whole leaves; quite often op grade infusion: agony of the leaves:  unfolding of the leaves in boiling water tea liquor: bakey: unpleasant taste  caused by firing leaf at too high a temperature; not as strong as  "burnt" biscuity: pleasant characteristic often associated with assam  teas bite: not a taste but the astringent puckeriness that gives black tea its  refreshing quality body: viscosity, the strength of the liquor combined with  its weight on the tongue; body may be "full," "light," etc.
a  traditional bromide is that one should add "one teaspoon for each person,  plus one for the pot."
unlike other grading systems, this one actually rates the  quality of the drink you can get from the leaves.
this  is primarily important if you are using very thin porcelain that could be  cracked by the sudden addition of very hot tea.
some people seem to approach it more fervently than they do matters of theology.
for unknown reasons, at some  time in the early eighteenth century the english changed their pronunciation to  'tee'.
what are its symptoms?
if you have never used a cozy,  be careful!
ceylon (sri lanka)  4.1.3.
they have no necessary relation to the aroma, color, or flavor of the end product.
this variety comes  from a tea-growing area very near darjeeling.
hundreds of different herbs have been used in beverages.
chamomile, for example,  can cause allergic reactions in people who are allergic to ragweed.
fluoride content tea is well known as a good source of fluoride,  which helps strengthen teeth.
it consists of a straight-sided porcelain cup (without a  handle), a lid, and a saucer.
this is like a coffee filter and fits into a plastic holder.
although this can improve the quality of the final product, some filtration systems have an annoying disadvantage.
there are many varieties of green tea, most of which are little-known outside asia.
what are  some of the most popular varieties?
a cozy is primarily useful if you make several cups at a time and want the extra tea to remain hot in the pot until you're ready to drink it.
it is also called tencha (before it is powdered).
japan may have a standardized grading scheme, but my information is incomplete on this subject.
but if price is a concern,  start small.
the  samovar was traditionally a large metal container with a metal pipe running  vertically through its center.
it's probably a good idea to use a  strong-tasting tea that can stand up to the cold.
arrange for ways to keep yourself distracted and comfortable.
after the british took up tea drinking, they began cultivating the plants native to india in order to have more control over the trade.
there are, of course, many different varieties within these three main categories.
tea and health the possible beneficial health effects of tea drinking have been widely publicized lately (1998-1999).
pour the normal amount of water over the leaves, then infuse for twenty to thirty seconds.
as noted above, tea bags usually contain broken grades so that they  will infuse quickly.
some growers have had success using a machine that acts much like a vacuum cleaner, sucking the leaves off the branch.
many other unwanted effects are associated not so much with use as with withdrawal.
less  fancy varieties are called baimudan (or pai mu tan) and show mee (or shoumei).
infuse a strong concentrate of tea (i.e.  much less water than one would use for that amount of leaves) and add it to  cold water to the right proportions.
still, caffeine addiction can be serious for some people.
the cold encourages water  condensation, which can ruin the tea.
-- cream is too heavy for most teas  and should be avoided in favor of milk.
it is very difficult (perhaps impossible) to remove caffeine from tea without degrading its quality.
some varieties  are not even withered, but are simply harvested, fired, and shipped out.
(you may also want to do this on a dry day.)
caffeine addiction is not as serious as most drug addictions; it is certainly less serious than nicotine addiction.
here's how to do it: boil enough water for twice as many cups as you intend to drink.
this is primarily important if you are using very thin porcelain that could be cracked by the sudden addition of very hot tea.
the chinese do, however, have a special method  for brewing tea, which can produce remarkable results.
they adopted this name, and handed it on to most other european  countries.
baozhong (china) also called bao jong or pouchong, it is allowed to wither before firing; hence it is just shy of being oolong.
the amount of tea you should use depends on many variables.
discussion relating to tea, the world's second most consumed beverage (after water), made by infusing or boiling the leaves of the tea plant (c. sinensis or close relatives) in water.
finally, the leaves are heated, or "fired," to end the oxidation process and dehydrate them so that they can be stored.
you may want to place a tea cozy over the teapot during infusion in order to avoid heat loss.
it is a more  substantial meal -- essentially, it's dinner -- which includes bread, meats,  scones, and cake.
most black and oolong tea should  be infused in water that has just achieved a vigorous boil.
since it is a stimulant, caffeine  increases alertness and quickness of response, and often briefly improves mood.
acknowledgements thanks to the following people for help, information, suggestions, and encouragement: rob beauchamp, cathy berry, blaize, andreas bogk, james campbell, noah coccaro, d. dalrymple, stephen darwall, bruce de vries, michelle dick, r. n. dominick, robert dunbar, malcolm dunn, g. s. durocher, jakris euahsunthornwattana, tom frenkel, john l. luigi giasi, nagib z. hakim, matthew e. harbowy, duane healing, kris heidenstrom, jon hodapp, charles hoot, matt hucke, lois-anna kaminski, robert h. klein, steven leung, marciana, rick mendosa, vicki jean merriman, marlene mills, mike newton (fig), jeremy rule, nobuo sakakura, roland saldanha, howard sinberg, slacker, doug smith, mr d.f. steele, stephan schulz, tamale@primenet.com, gene wayne, wembley, laura whaples, stephen ray williams.
one way of increasing the mineral content of filtered water is to add a pinch of salt, as ancient tea sages did to rain water.
the composition and proportions of a particular blend vary from dealer to dealer, and are sometimes well-guarded secrets.
some  people seem to approach it more fervently than they do matters of theology.
tea is also grown commercially in turkey, russia, africa (notably kenya), and south america.
early western merchants used the word to mean that the leaves so graded were exclusively plucked from the tip of the branch: the leaf bud and the two leaves below the bud.
professional tasters' lexicon this is from james norwood pratt, _tea lover's treasury_.
the highest quality is called yin hao.
d) guests are served a small meal including a sweet.
it was inaugurated in 1995 with the  following charter: discussion relating to tea, the world's second most consumed  beverage (after water), made by infusing or boiling the leaves of the tea plant  (c. sinensis or close relatives) in water.
this infusion has the strongest aroma.
the basic steps in the production of black tea are withering, rolling, oxidation, and firing.
the powdered tea is placed in a bowl and whisked to a thick consistency.
the  whole point of drinking tea is to enjoy yourself.
can i become addicted to tea?
but it's also true that some very  discriminating tea drinkers have reported good results with tea brewing  machines.
thick glass pots have all the advantages (and disadvantages) of ceramics, with the important difference that you can watch the tea infuse.
supposedly, one should brew this tea with water from that well.
like many of the ancient japanese arts, it is viewed as a potential  means of enlightenment; in other words, it is a central part of _chado_, or the  way of tea.
baozhong is used as the base for some very good jasmine tea.
there  is also disagreement about whether scalding the milk is good or bad; some say  it improves the flavor, others that it ruins the milk.
prominent among  these effects is the withdrawal headache, caused by dilation of blood vessels  in the head that had been constricted by the consumption of caffeine.
like cream, whole homogenized milk is too heavy and strong tasting for most people.
you may want to place a tea cozy over the pot to keep the remaining tea hot.
gyokuro (japan) 4.5.2.
you may in any case be able to produce something like thai iced tea simply by brewing your favorite black tea and then adding, to taste, sweetened condensed milk.
a) start with fresh, cold water.
i can report that the most caffeinated tea i have ever had was green.
but if you drink enough tea on a  regular basis, you can become addicted.
reply-to: robchr@umich.edu (christopher roberson) summary: this document answers some of the most frequently asked questions about tea.
those who do so may find the figure of 15g of leaves  per liter of water useful; this produces a very strong cup and should be  adjusted as desired.
note (see above,  1.5.1) that oolong is graded according to quality, not just leaf size.
since much of the bagged tea sold in the us is marked "orange pekoe,"  many people think that orange pekoe is a special kind of tea.
their main disadvantage is that they conduct heat away from the infusion more rapidly than do ceramics.
the latter method is used for the cheaper varieties of tea, as it is not capable of discriminating between the high-quality tip leaves and the coarser leaves toward the bottom of the branch.
this variety has  orange or red liquor and a distinctive, "malty" flavor.
i have seen recommendations ranging from one teaspoon per 5.5 ounces of water to one teaspoon per 16 ounces of water -- and these also do not explain how big a teaspoon is, or whether they mean level teaspoons or heaping teaspoons.
lapsang souchong see above, section  4.1.5.
many tea companies also sell tisanes.
the brewing method is more or less the same as with the charcoal  samovar.
discussions of herbal teas (e.g.  chamomile, sassafras, etc.) are also approved, but this newsgroup should not be  used for advertising herbal tea products or discussing tea as anything other  than a beverage.
it is plucked from special varieties of  the tea plant known as shui hsien and dai bai.
some people  like their tea best when steeped for ten to fifteen minutes.
tea that's been spoiled by improper storage or packing or is simply past its prime and stale malty: a subtle underlying flavor often characteristic of assam peak: the high point of the tasting experience when, some instants after the liquor enters the mouth, its body, flavor, and astringency make themselves fully felt.
this goes for all tap water consumption, of course, not just  for tea.
it's probably a good idea to use a strong-tasting tea that can stand up to the cold.
but it's also true that some very discriminating tea drinkers have reported good results with tea brewing machines.
also, many tea retailers sell sample-size (one- or  two-ounce) containers.
to make  this drink properly, you need to find the red leaf tea grown in thailand, which  produces a bright orange brew.
what is  rec.food.drink.tea?
should i worry about caffeine addiction?
descriptions of popular and  noteworthy teas 4.1.
it is grown in zhejiang province, near shanghai.
this is, as the name implies, made of stainless-steel mesh.
black teas undergo several hours of  oxidation in their preparation for market; oolongs receive less oxidation, and  green teas are not oxidized at all.
russian caravan a popular blend, russian caravan harks back to  the days when tea was hauled to russia from china on camelback.
the three main categories are green, black, and oolong.
fine darjeelings usually have a lighter liquor than other black teas, from a light reddish color to a bright gold.
(buds have a  lighter color than fully formed leaves, hence 'golden'.)
the sweetened vs. non-sweetened divide is probably the american south's version of the milk-first vs. tea-first rift among brits.
high tea is served on the dinner table.
the name 'tea' is also used to refer to the  leaves themselves; and it is also the name of a mid- to late-afternoon meal in  the british isles and associated countries, at which tea (the drink) is served  along with various foods.
also, the water cannot circulate properly around the leaves.
the machines rapidly  compress withered tea leaves, forcing out most of their sap; they then tear the  leaves and curl them tightly into balls that look something like instant coffee  crystals.
the  _gongfu_ method is typically used for oolong and green teas.
young hyson (young leaves rolled long and thin) imperial (pellets loosely rolled from older leaves)
keemuns come in a remarkably large number  of varieties.
green teas, however, are generally better suited to water that has cooled off slightly from the boiling point.
the major differences between them are a result of the different processing methods they undergo.
these are sometimes called herbal teas.
its flavor is  intermediate between oolong and green, and its aroma is strongly reminiscent of  lilacs.
other areas (such as turkey, south asia and the arab countries) have some version of 'chai' or 'shai'.
the most reliable sign that you are  addicted to tea is a recurring headache that seems to have no obvious cause and  can be relieved by drinking tea or another caffeinated beverage (or by taking  excedrin, which contains caffeine).
even with ordinary water, it produces a marvelous tea with a complex, subtle, almost sweet flavor.
there are many varieties.
it  is sometimes regarded as a fourth basic category of tea, since it is  intermediate in oxidation between green tea and oolong.
there may be no better way to decide how to regulate your intake.
an alternative method is to make sun tea: fill a large glass jar with water, put in tea bags or leaves, cover it, and put it in direct sunlight for several hours.
some varieties are not even withered, but are simply harvested, fired, and shipped out.
bold: large leaf or sometimes pieces  of leaf too big for a grade, outsized chesty: resinous odor/taste imparted by  uncured wood in tea chest common: poor quality dull: leaf without sheen, i.e.,  "bloom" flaky: poorly made leaf that's flat and easily broken;  nonpejoratively, small grades shotty: well-made gunpowder; sometimes also  applied to souchong tippy: generous amounts of white or golden tip, i.e.,  budding leaf
they walk through the garden to the teahouse, which traditionally is elevated and has a three-foot-tall door (so that guests must crawl to enter the building).
it grows best outdoors in climates like its native  ones: temperate, with warm summers and cool (not cold) winters.
this holds especially if the tea is  high-quality (e.g. japanese gyokuro).
i encourage readers interested in further information to consult the many sources available on the web and in journals on health and life extension.
genmaicha (japan) genmaicha is sometimes called "popcorn tea" because of its unusual taste.
it often  contains a bit of smoky lapsang souchong, though its base is typically keemun  or yunnan.
but everything else in the preceding paragraph is absolutely true.]
middle and lower classes have a  "high" tea later in the day, at 5:00 or 6:00.
what are some of the most  popular varieties?
when dealing with darjeelings, you may also see the following terms: estate: names the plantation where the leaves were grown.
some truly fine teas retail in the united states for less than us$20 per pound, which means less than 10 cents per cup.
these are  sometimes called herbal teas.
other ways to prepare and serve tea 3.1.
is any tea grown  commercially in other regions?
clear glass jars are  acceptable only if you can keep them in a closed cupboard away from light.
perhaps the only thing both  camps agree on is the historical fact that the earliest porcelain cups  manufactured in england were likely to crack if very hot tea was poured  directly into them.
still, caffeine addiction can  be serious for some people.
yunnan (china) yunnan's brown liquor has a subtle, earthy, peppery  flavor.
the name 'tea' is also used to refer to the leaves themselves; and it is also the name of a mid- to late-afternoon meal in the british isles and associated countries, at which tea (the drink) is served along with various foods.
thin: lacking body and/or color weedy: may be applied to thin, cabbagy black teas; nonpejoratively, a green tea may be called weedy if it has a not-unpleasant vegetative aroma and flavor, varying from simple "herbaceousness" to scents of new-mown hay winey: usually descriptive of a mellow quality fine darjeelings or keemuns acquire with six months to a year or more of age; more rarely used to describe overfermented tea ********************** about the author:
some tea drinkers start with filtered water, particularly in areas with unpleasant or unhealthy tap water.
pour off the resulting  brew and discard, retaining the leaves.
panyaro panyaro is a korean tradition of tea preparation.
this variety has orange or red liquor and a distinctive, "malty" flavor.
these are chemically related but  not identical to the tannins found in wine.
rec.food.drink.tea is a usenet newsgroup devoted to the  discussion of tea and related beverages.
autumnal flush: harvest  after the rainy season.
ctc processing is done by machine; its name is actually fairly descriptive.
the biggest worry most tea drinkers have about these methods is that they heat the water somewhat short of the boiling point.
research in this area is still  progressing, and i am not really qualified to explain the complex biochemical  factors that appear to underlie tea's effects on health.
this is so that  they can be rolled without breaking.
logically enough, this tea is scented with jasmine flowers.
it is called the _gongfu_ method.
even if you rinse your  pots and cups after every use, which is advisable, they will eventually build  up stains.
why use cold tap water?
what kind of  teapot should i use?
the _gongfu_ method is typically used for oolong and green teas.
homesick brits can buy a few british  household brands by mail order.
as many readers of rec.food.drink.tea will testify, asking for tea in a restaurant usually gets one a cup of tepid water with a bargain-basement tea bag floating listlessly in
yunnan (china) yunnan's brown liquor has a subtle, earthy, peppery flavor.
of course, as with  most things, you can spend a lot for tea if you try.
genuine yixing teapots are made of  a sandy clay found near the town of yixing in jiangsu province.
lapsang souchong (china) 4.1.6.
bancha refers to late-harvested teas.
the whole point of drinking tea is to enjoy yourself.
popular blends there are more different blends of tea than can reasonably be mentioned in the space available, so i will restrict myself to listing the most well-known categories.
tap water is often acceptable; if your tap  water has a noticeable taste, you may want to use filtered or bottled water.
you may in any case be able to produce something like thai iced tea  simply by brewing your favorite black tea and then adding, to taste, sweetened  condensed milk.
this goes for all tap water consumption, of course, not just for tea.
but since you may have little information to work with other than the grade, let's look at the various grades.
the tea was served by pouring some of the concentrate into a serving glass, then diluting it with hot water from the main container.
it was first cultivated and brewed in china, and many of  the best varieties still come from china.
disadvantages: often, there is insufficient space for the leaves to expand.
its color ranges  from pinkish to gold, and its peachy flavor is strong and rich.
the use of whisked  powdered tea indicates the antiquity of the ritual.
it  usually produces a very light, delicate drink.
most of it is exported for use in blends.
tea should be stored  in an airtight, opaque container in a cool, dry place.
since caffeine is a mild  diuretic, the benefit is not quite as great as drinking plain water; but it is  real nonetheless.
i have a ph.d. in philosophy from the  university of michigan.
blends may be restricted to teas from a particular growing area, but in most cases are not.
'fancy' is a term also used in the  grading of oolongs.
the following recipe is not claimed to be definitive; it just happens to be my favorite.
another problem with filtered water is that it is usually very "soft" water, lacking the minerals normally found in well and spring water.
seriously, though, most tea drinkers use tea bags some of the time, simply because it may not be convenient to brew loose leaves (at work, for example).
different teas take different infusion times.
(the only exception to this rule is japanese kokicha, made from stems of the tea plant.
the japanese tea ceremony  3.1.2.
like ceylon, much of the nilgiri harvest ends up in blends.
there are different grading schemes for black and green teas.
it's not  absolutely necessary, but it does keep the infusion from cooling off too  quickly.
like many of the ancient japanese arts, it is viewed as a potential means of enlightenment; in other words, it is a central part of _chado_, or the way of tea.
other participants assert that if one approaches the ceremony in the right  frame of mind, it can be a very impressive, even enlightening, experience.
finally, the leaves are heated, or  "fired," to end the oxidation process and dehydrate them so that they  can be stored.
remove the bag when it has  steeped long enough.
most produce a red liquor with a subtle combination of flavors;  the aroma is often rich and fruity, sometimes with suggestions of plum and  apple.
also known as "pearl dew," it is a surprisingly rich, herbaceous tea.
ti kuan yin [tai guanyin] (mainland china)
some truly fine teas retail in the united states for less than  us$20 per pound, which means less than 10 cents per cup.
the following recipe is not claimed to be definitive; it just  happens to be my favorite.
makes: 2 large cups 2.5 cups (570 ml) water 6-8 green cardamom pods 5-6 whole black peppercorns 1-2 slices fresh ginger, peeled and diced 1 stick cinnamon, 1-2 inches long 1-2 cloves 2/3 cup (175 ml) milk 4 tsp sugar 2-3 tsp loose black tea (preferably india or ceylon) put the water in a saucepan, add the spices, and bring to a boil.
green teas, however, are generally better suited to water that has cooled off  slightly from the boiling point.
if you like the tea you're drinking right now, then that is all that you or anyone else needs to know.
the three  main categories are green, black, and oolong.
others find the  ceremony tedious beyond description, and the tea ghastly and barely drinkable.
take  nothing with caffeine."
to prepare tea, one filled the container with water, then put charcoal in the pipe and lighted it.
newsgroups: rec.food.drink.tea,rec.answers,news.answers subject:  rec.food.drink.tea faq followup-to: rec.food.drink.tea
although green tea often contains less caffeine than black, in some cases it may have just as much or more.
unfortunately, a great deal of tea  labeled 'darjeeling' consists of blends containing only 50% darjeeling.
unauthorized publication is prohibited.
there are many different versions of the tea ceremony, varying
it can be held in a screened-off alcove of a main room, but those who can afford it build a teahouse and garden.
some keemuns have a delicate smoky flavor (though not as smoky as lapsang souchong).
i am sure that i have left out your favorite tea, and i apologize in  advance.
should i worry about caffeine  addiction?
the broken grades are created by mechanized crushing of the leaves.
i like the bagged tea i buy at the grocery store.
pour off the resulting brew and discard, retaining the leaves.
the japanese tea ceremony  _cha-no-yu_, or "hot water for tea," is a ceremony of great antiquity  and depth.
drinking the tea through a piece of rock sugar held between the  teeth is also common.
systems that filter the water and then store it in a reservoir (such as the popular brita system) often yield flat, odd-tasting tea.
although this method is fairly popular, it may be somewhat risky, as it  involves using water that has not been boiled -- indeed, water that has been  left out in the sun to reach ideal bacterial-reproduction temperatures.
formosa oolong (taiwan, many varieties)
fancy tea is generally sold loose, and  the price per cup is often lower than for commercial tea.
this question is a matter of great contention and bitter disagreement in great britain.
jasmine (china, green)
'tippy', 'golden', and 'flowery'  are all references to the leaf bud at the tip of the branch.
'tippy', 'golden', and 'flowery' are all references to the leaf bud at the tip of the branch.
japan also produces a considerable amount of green tea, most of which is consumed domestically.
different teas take different  infusion times.
the typical method uses a very small teapot, preferably a  yixing-style teapot, and small thimble-sized cups.
it can be used like a teapot to brew tea which is then decanted to a cup; or one can infuse the tea and then drink directly from the guywan.
how hot should the water be?
suggest a lower tendency toward cancer in tea-drinking populations.
blends most commonly include tea grown in india, sri lanka, indonesia, or africa.
flowery orange pekoe' is often  abbreviated 'fop'.
although green tea often contains less caffeine  than black, in some cases it may have just as much or more.
coffee is better known as a dietary source of caffeine (and the source of the name 'caffeine'), but tea contains a significant amount of the drug.
ceylon (sri lanka) 4.1.3.
version: 1.7b1 url: http://pages.ripco.net/~c4ha2na9/tea/faq.html rec.food.drink.tea faq version 1.7
is  fancy tea much more expensive than standard commercial tea?
yixing-style teapots are made in a wide range of shapes, and are not glazed.
if of good quality, this is a  truly magnificent oolong, as good as many formosa oolongs.
in 1995, i ordered a small  pot of yin hao jasmine at a local coffeehouse, unaware that this delightful,  high-quality delicacy was eye-popping, jaw-clenching rocket fuel.
apparently, many americans have the impression that "high tea" is the meal served by "high-class" people.
(using the cozy to keep tea warm after it has  finished infusing is fine.)
it bears many similarities to the chinese _gongfu_ method, differing primarily in a higher level of formality and a few additional implements (notably a lipped cup used to cool the water before it is poured over the leaves).
(although this is unusual for most tea, skittish western tea drinkers ought to keep in mind that mold is also a key ingredient in widely consumed western products such as cheese.)
********************** 2.
this is not a criticism, but novices should taste  the tea before buying it.
if you plan to add milk and sugar to your tea, you should probably add more  leaves.
can tea be decaffeinated?
it is a common component of high-quality blends, but is well worth seeking out unblended.
i doubt that there is any reliable figure that applies to all tea drinkers.
this may entail using a teapot and/or strainer (see below, section 2.2.), since bagged tea does not come in as many varieties as loose.
caffeine is a stimulant drug found in tea as well as in many other natural substances.
grading for oolongs goes from fanciest or extra fancy (best)  to common (worst).
the _gongfu_ method 3.1.3.
i only list the better-known teas that are available in the west.
one very popular combination, originating in morocco, is a blend of  green tea and spearmint.
the term 'flowery' apparently refers to the leaf bud, since actual tea flowers are not used in the preparation of the drink.
the  other is that it contains chemicals called psoralens, which can induce  sensitivity to sunlight in susceptible individuals.
there is also some talk of "scalding" the milk, but some people say  that milk-first scalds the milk; others, that tea-first scalds the milk.
other  side effects of withdrawal, usually found in frequent and heavy users of  caffeine, are lethargy, irritability, and constipation.
the sun sensitivity  produces unusual darkening of the skin, which is called psoralen-induced  photosensitive hyperpigmentation.
other ways of preparing tea 2.3.1.
lapsang souchong (china)
this may cause  concerns for people who store earl grey in transparent plastic containers.
then, the first infusion: the pot is filled with boiling water and the leaves infuse for less than a minute.
also, you have to wash the leaves out of the pot just as with loose  leaves.
some people also like to place a tea cozy over the pot while the tea infuses, for the same reason.
the leaves turn out long and thin, hence the name "spider leg."
the teapot and cups are  slightly larger than the small chinese implements.
as always, though, this is just advice, not divine command.
one r.f.d.t reader was under the impression that these abbreviations stood for "too good for ordinary people" and "far too good for ordinary people."
a traditional bromide is that one should add "one teaspoon for each person, plus one for the pot."
popular blends 4.2.1.
there are several  varieties of ceylon tea, but most of the sri lankan harvest goes into blends.
commercial blends advertised as "orange pekoe" are usually blends of india and ceylon.
brassy: unpleasant tang caused by under-withering bright: sparkling liquor  characteristic of all fine teas; also describes taste opposite of  "dull" brisk: lively, not flat complex: the harmonious melange of  various flavors characteristic of the very finest teas dull: muddy looking  liquor, the opposite of "bright"; "flat" tasting flat:  soft, rather flabby-bodied tea lacking "bite" and  "briskness" fruity: piquant quality characteristic of good oolongs,  some keemuns, etc.
if you like tea in  general, why not?
(keep in mind that european appliances need special adapters to work on american electrical current.)
in any case, you should not  add anything to green or oolong tea; they are meant to be drunk straight.
this method is, of course, not much use to those of  us who drink tea for the flavor.
easy to remove and clean.
not a bad guess, in my opinion.
it is the root of the term often used for chinese black teas, "congou."
most of the tea that goes into bags is not very high  quality.
sencha, bancha, hojicha (japan) 'sencha' is a generic name for japanese green tea, applying to most high quality tea other than gyokuro.
reply-to:  robchr@umich.edu (christopher roberson) summary: this document answers some of  the most frequently asked questions about tea.
pu-erh is renowned for its alleged medicinal effects on the digestive  tract.
tea blended with herbs many cultures blend tea with various  herbs.
caffeine is very water-soluble, more so than many of  the flavor components in tea.
place the  bag in your cup and pour boiling water over it.
but, like all ceramics, they can chip and break.
how can i get rid of a caffeine habit?
prepare to be without energy and to have a headache for forty-eight to seventy-two hours.
if you like the tea you're  drinking right now, then that is all that you or anyone else needs to know.
there may be no better way to  decide how to regulate your intake.
rolling is the next step.
note that ceramic handles tend to become very  hot when the pot is kept warm in this fashion.
the  sweetened vs. non-sweetened divide is probably the american south's version of  the milk-first vs. tea-first rift among brits.
earl grey 4.3.3 lapsang  souchong 4.3.4.
prepare to be without  energy and to have a headache for forty-eight to seventy-two hours.
loose tea, tea bags, what's the difference?
(one source says "four to five slow breaths.")
second flush: second-growth harvest.
chamomile, for example, can cause allergic reactions in people who are allergic to ragweed.
two cups of tea are approximately equivalent to one cup of  plain water in their hydrating effect.
the use of whisked powdered tea indicates the antiquity of the ritual.
tea blended with herbs many cultures blend tea with various herbs.
subsequent infusions  take progressively longer; you may want to add a slow breath to each infusion.
b) prepare a teapot: heat it by filling it (or rinsing it) with hot water.
the most popular  combination is probably orange and cloves.
in any case, do not drink tea that is  scalding hot.
the  ultimate guide is personal taste: it is advisable to experiment and decide on  the amount that suits you best.
for medical advice, consult your doctor.
roasted tea is called hojicha.
the second infusion lasts slightly longer  than the first; it has a weaker aroma but more flavor.
just put some baking soda on the wet brush and scrub.
i like the  bagged tea i buy at the grocery store.
the teapot and cups are slightly larger than the small chinese implements.
ti kuan yin (or tai guan-yin) (mainland china) 4.5.
one way to avoid the issue is to eschew milk completely.
really tough stains can be softened by putting  two teaspoons of baking soda into the pot and filling it with hot water.
after they settle, pour the tea.
this is the foundation of many english breakfast blends.
this may include leaves picked from lower on the branch. '
spider leg (japan) 4.5.3.
i am informed that modern russians now use electric  samovars which are available in the west via mail order.
flavored teas there are many different  flavorings (too many to list) that can be added to tea.
connoisseurs like to have something to sneer at.
here are the basic grades of black tea: flowery orange pekoe (peck-oh), orange pekoe pekoe souchong broken orange pekoe broken orange pekoe fannings broken pekoe fannings
the following is presented for its informational value only, and is not to be regarded as medical advice.
a machine expressly designed to brew tea automatically has also recently been introduced to the marketplace.
as luck would have it, the  first mass marketers of tea in the west were the dutch, whose contacts were in  fujian.
also,  there is considerable debate about whether to put milk in the cups before you
what are the different kinds of tea?
if there's a good coffeehouse or specialty tea shop in your area, you may be able to try a cup of an expensive tea without making a big investment.
one of my philosophical  colleagues swears by it, saying it's the only source of caffeine that gives him
this is a metal, plastic, or ceramic basket to hold the leaves.
japan may have a standardized grading scheme, but my information is  incomplete on this subject.
the method is essentially a series of brief infusions.
pour the normal amount of water over  the leaves, then infuse for twenty to thirty seconds.
bags are semi-non-biodegradable additions to the biodegradable tea  leaves.
this variety comes from a tea-growing area very near darjeeling.
(in some chinese dialects, this tea's name is pronounced 'po lay'.)
all three kinds are made from the  same plant species.
its color is very dark, almost red.
the same is true for baozhong, lightly  oxidized oolong such as tung ting, and first flush darjeeling.
it is very difficult (perhaps impossible) to remove  caffeine from tea without degrading its quality.
for instance, rose hips contain vitamin c;  chamomile helps many people relax; and peppermint has a noticeable soothing  effect on the stomach.
(although this  is unusual for most tea, skittish western tea drinkers ought to keep in mind  that mold is also a key ingredient in widely consumed western products such as  cheese.)
disadvantages: the leaves have not actually been removed from the liquor, so they continue to infuse.
if you like tea in general, why not?
it is possible to get a delicious cup from ugly, broken leaves; it is possible  to get an awful cup from well-handled, beautiful whole leaves.
you may want to  place a tea cozy over the teapot during infusion in order to avoid heat loss.
english breakfast some english breakfasts  are blends of india and ceylon teas; others, mostly or entirely keemun.
when the tea is strong enough, pour over ice and serve.
bags are semi-non-biodegradable additions to the biodegradable tea leaves.
super-fine [fancy] tippy golden flowery orange  pekoe.
how  much caffeine does tea contain?
actually, the names derive from the height of the tables on which the meals are  served.
those who do want  to remove tea stains face some minor complications.
what about  herbal teas?
all forms of tea seem to have some anti-cancer effect, though the most pronounced effects have been reported for green tea.
twankay (unrolled leaves of poor quality)
even so, some herbs do have generally recognized benefits.
discussions of herbal teas (e.g. chamomile, sassafras, etc.) are also approved, but this newsgroup should not be used for advertising herbal tea products or discussing tea as anything other than a beverage.
the tiny pot is filled halfway (or more) with leaves.
tea has been an item of trade and tribute for at least three thousand years.
the most popular combination is probably orange and cloves.
some methods use two  sets of cups: the tea is poured into the first cup and then poured from that  cup into the second cup.
this well-known british blend is scented  with oil of bergamot.
how seriously should i take the time limits?
household water heaters heat water for washing, not for drinking.
if you use loose leaves and are brewing one cup, you can pour the tea through a strainer, which will catch any leaves that escape the pot.
the classic additions to tea are: honey; milk; sugar; lemon; milk and sugar; lemon and sugar; lemon and honey.
those who do so may find the figure of 15g of leaves per liter of water useful; this produces a very strong cup and should be adjusted as desired.
tea is a drink made by infusing leaves of the tea plant (_camellia sinensis_, or _thea sinensis_) in hot water.
also, you have to wash the leaves out of the pot.
the host ceremonially decorates the teahouse with screens and a scroll or flowers.
japan also produces a considerable amount of green  tea, most of which is consumed domestically.
an alternative method is to make sun tea: fill a large glass  jar with water, put in tea bags or leaves, cover it, and put it in direct  sunlight for several hours.
some people have reported good  results by using a drop of chlorine bleach in a potful of water; but you must  rinse the pot very carefully after this method!
the guywan the guywan (also spelled gaiwan; also called  "chung") is a simple but elegant system used in china to brew green  and oolong teas.
irish breakfast 4.2.3.
in any case, it is an  acquired taste.
the samovar is a middle eastern invention now most often associated with the culture of russia and its geographic and cultural neighbors.
after the british took up tea  drinking, they began cultivating the plants native to india in order to have  more control over the trade.
water out of the hot tap generally has health-threatening levels of heavy metals (such as lead), as well as an off taste.
is any tea grown commercially in other regions?
there are many different options for dealing with loose leaves.
(i'm told that tea prices outside the united states are roughly comparable.)
traditionally, the upper classes serve a "low" or "afternoon" tea around 4:00 pm, at which one might find crustless sandwiches, biscuits, and cake.
unlike most other teas, many darjeelings are sold under the name  of the plantation where they were grown.
(keep in mind that  european appliances need special adapters to work on american electrical  current.)
specially constructed teapots are expensive.
what  are the best kinds of tea?
like ceylon, much of the  nilgiri harvest ends up in blends.
household water heaters heat water for  washing, not for drinking.
you may want to place a tea cozy over the pot to keep the  remaining tea hot.
caffeine is also  added to many foods and drugs, including soft drinks and pain relievers such as  excedrin.
infusers also come in plastic mesh and gold mesh.
some authorities even suggest leaving the lid off the teapot when infusing green tea, to let some heat escape.
this is like a coffee filter and  fits into a plastic holder.
if you reuse containers, avoid using materials that retain odors, as the tea will pick them up.
the amount of caffeine in a cup of tea varies tremendously, depending on the  variety of tea and the brewing time.
fannings and dust are bits and pieces of tea leaves  left over from the sievings that separate out whole leaves and large pieces of  leaf.
this practice increases the likelihood of cancer of the mouth and throat.
most of the  teapots sold in the west with the label "yixing" are not actually  made from yixing clay; still, they seem to serve their purpose well enough.
don't bother with a second infusion; just drink  the results of the twenty- to thirty-second infusion.
it may retain odors from previous batches.
the simplest way to rid yourself of stains without using soap is to brush the stains off with a soft kitchen brush or toothbrush.
at best, it can be  one part of a healthy lifestyle that includes the following: not smoking or  using tobacco in other forms; minimizing exposure to radiation, carcinogenic  chemicals, and direct sunlight; eating a varied diet based mostly on grains,  beans, and plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables; getting regular aerobic  exercise; practicing self-examination for lumps or unusual areas on the skin;  and getting regular medical checkups.
but this does not specify how much water each person gets, or exactly how big a teaspoon is.
most tea that is labeled "orange  pekoe" is blended black tea, typically from india and/or sri lanka.
in addition to good genetic "parentage," the right growing conditions are crucial.
professional  tasters' lexicon this is from james norwood pratt, _tea lover's treasury_.
it bears many  similarities to the chinese _gongfu_ method, differing primarily in a higher  level of formality and a few additional implements (notably a lipped cup used  to cool the water before it is poured over the leaves).
this infusion is the one to drink.
but this does not specify how much water each  person gets, or exactly how big a teaspoon is.
darjeeling (india) 4.1.4.
lapsang souchong is found in many russian caravan blends.
you can, of  course, also use tea bags in a pot.
this method can also be used to  prepare a highly caffeinated drink without many of the sedative components  ordinarily found in the cup.
for unknown reasons, at some time in the early eighteenth century the english changed their pronunciation to 'tee'.
the samovar was traditionally a large metal container with a metal pipe running vertically through its center.
some keemuns have a delicate smoky flavor (though not as smoky as  lapsang souchong).
unlike most other teas, many darjeelings are sold under the name of the plantation where they were grown.
as you might imagine, red leaf thai tea is difficult to find outside thailand.
cancer protection 5.5.2.
how  seriously should i take the time limits?
it is a more substantial meal -- essentially, it's dinner -- which includes bread, meats, scones, and cake.
see below for more  detailed information.
some commentators complain that the contemporary emphasis is often on ritual rather than on aesthetic or spiritual experience.
jasmine (china) 4.3.2.
don't bother with a second infusion; just drink the results of the twenty- to thirty-second infusion.
even with ordinary water, it produces a marvelous tea with a  complex, subtle, almost sweet flavor.
in 1995, i ordered a small pot of yin hao jasmine at a local coffeehouse, unaware that this delightful, high-quality delicacy was eye-popping, jaw-clenching rocket fuel.
incidentally, if you live in the united states in a house whose plumbing system was constructed between the 1930s and the late 1970s, it's a good idea to let the cold tap run at full for about a minute before using it.
so a very brief infusion can remove much of the caffeine while preserving flavor.
assam is reliably strong, full-bodied tea; many irish breakfast  blends are entirely assam.
bergamot is an unpalatable citrus fruit shaped like a pear; the oil is pressed out of its rind and sprayed on a blend of black teas.
many tea retailers sell  tea in metal tins that close tightly, which seems optimal.
the machines rapidly compress withered tea leaves, forcing out most of their sap; they then tear the leaves and curl them tightly into balls that look something like instant coffee crystals.
there are many different kinds of teapots, all with their own particular good points and bad points.
however traditional and evocative the term may be, i think it is best avoided.
caffeine addiction is not as serious as most  drug addictions; it is certainly less serious than nicotine addiction.
disadvantages: slight additional expense.
the _gongfu_ method the japanese tea ceremony is a metaphysical/religious ritual centered around tea.
the faq was first written in 1995 and has gone through several revisions since then.
should i put milk in my tea?
although it is an excellent tea, it is not very well known (yet) and thus not quite as expensive as darjeeling.
in general, the  closer a tea is to green, the cooler the water should be.
the classic additions to tea are: honey; milk; sugar; lemon; milk and  sugar; lemon and sugar; lemon and honey.
what is  the best way to clean pots and cups?
gone off: tea that's been spoiled by improper storage or  packing or is simply past its prime and stale malty: a subtle underlying flavor  often characteristic of assam peak: the high point of the tasting experience
many tea retailers sell tea in metal tins that close tightly, which seems optimal.
if there's a good coffeehouse or specialty  tea shop in your area, you may be able to try a cup of an expensive tea without  making a big investment.
tisane' [pronounced tee-zahn], which in french means any herbal drink.
for most black and oolong  teas, add the water just after it reaches a full boil.
it can be held in a screened-off alcove of a main  room, but those who can afford it build a teahouse and garden.
some chinese, in fact, drink it only as medicine.
whichever story is true, orange pekoe leaves are higher  quality than pekoe leaves.
virtually every other european language, however, retains the original pronunciation of 'tay'.
most pots are not dishwasher safe.
in addition to good  genetic "parentage," the right growing conditions are crucial.
'souchong' means large leaves, generally not from  the tip of the branch.
my  advice is to be mindful of how much you drink, and pay attention to how you  react to a particular brand or sample of tea.
iced tea iced tea is a staple of american southern life; it is very popular throughout much of the united states, enough so that it is now being marketed in cans and bottles.
its flavor is intermediate between oolong and green, and its aroma is strongly reminiscent of lilacs.
as its  botanical name suggests, the tea plant is a variety of camellia, and like other  camellias it can be cultivated in a home garden.
if you  like cream or whole milk in your tea, that's reason enough to use them.
middle and lower classes have a "high" tea later in the day, at 5:00 or 6:00.
you may want to put the leaves loose in the pot, or use a strainer, sock, or tea ball.
the top grades are fanciest or extra fancy, fancy, and extra choice (or extra fine).
after the guests drink the bitter tea, the host cleans the utensils and the guests (more or less ritually) examine and discuss the utensils.
one is that it can attack some kinds of transparent plastic, causing them to become opaque.
the highest quality white tea is  called baihao yinzhen, which means "white down silver needles."
c) shortly before the water in the kettle  boils, empty out the teapot and add the tea leaves.
(since it  tends toward astringency, the short steeping time helps keep the balance of  flavors right.
add milk and sugar and bring to a boil (or heavy simmer).
some people  add sugar; others would rather drink muddy water than sugared iced tea.
this tea is named after a famous well which is said to be the  home of a dragon.
some people add sugar; others would rather drink muddy water than sugared iced tea.
use what works for you.
ctc, which stands for "crush, tear, curl," is used primarily for lower-quality leaves.
this is not a major concern for people whose municipal water is fluoridated, but it may matter to people who drink from wells (or who use water filters that filter out fluoride).
a) leaves loose  in the pot.
russians traditionally serve their tea in tall, straight-sided glasses, flavored with lemon or jam.
why all the fuss about expensive brands?
some of the finest oolongs in the  world are grown in taiwan.
assam, for example, makes terrific iced tea.
where does tea come from?
the process differs for black, green, and  oolong teas.
i have never been a tea trader, chemist, or other kind of special authority on tea.
one then smells the aroma left behind in the first  cup, and drinks from the second cup.
if you intend to buy real darjeeling, make sure you are buying 100% darjeeling, preferably first or second flush (see 1.5.1).
chinese greens are graded differently depending on where they came from.
descriptions of popular and noteworthy teas 4.1.
but, like all ceramics, they  can chip and break.
tea also contains a related chemical  called theobromine, which has similar (slightly milder) effects on the body.
still, bags can be very convenient, especially if you are preparing tea away from home.
white tea (china) white tea is tea in which  buds, rather than leaves, predominate.
although this can improve the quality  of the final product, some filtration systems have an annoying disadvantage.
russian caravan a popular blend, russian caravan harks back to the days when tea was hauled to russia from china on camelback.
white tea (china) there are hundreds, perhaps thousands, of different teas.
tea and health 5.5.1.
green tea: there is no uniform grading terminology for green tea.
there is very little common ground in this debate.
tea professionals and connoisseurs usually prefer to restrict the name 'tea' to real tea, so you may see the following terms used as well: a) 'herbal infusion', which simply means a drink made by steeping an herb in hot water.
black, unblended: assam (india) ceylon (sri lanka) darjeeling (india) keemun (china) nilgiri (india) sikkim (india) yunnan (china) popular blends: english breakfast irish breakfast russian caravan scented/flavored (both black and green): jasmine (china; green, scented with jasmine flowers) earl grey (international; black, scented with oil of bergamot) lapsang souchong (china and taiwan; black, scented with smoke)
most greens produce a greenish-gold liquor.
it is also good for producing a strong, robust  flavor from leaves of middling quality; in fact, for many varieties of leaf ctc  is the preferred processing method.
advantage: easy to remove and clean.
traditionally, the upper classes serve a  "low" or "afternoon" tea around 4:00 pm, at which one might  find crustless sandwiches, biscuits, and cake.
formosa  oolong (taiwan, many varieties) green: gyokuro (japan) spider leg (japan)
bagged tea is usually broken orange pekoe and broken pekoe, fannings,  and dust.
in addition, many people would rather not use soap or detergent on tea equipment, since they find that the drink picks up an off flavor.
well-twisted: fully withered, tightly rolled leaf wiry: stylish, thin whole leaves; quite often op grade infusion: agony of the leaves: unfolding of the leaves in boiling water tea liquor: bakey: unpleasant taste caused by firing leaf at too high a temperature; not as strong as "burnt" biscuity: pleasant characteristic often associated with assam teas bite: not a taste but the astringent puckeriness that gives black tea its refreshing quality body: viscosity, the strength of the liquor combined with its weight on the tongue; body may be "full," "light," etc. brassy: unpleasant tang caused by under-withering bright: sparkling liquor characteristic of all fine teas; also describes taste opposite of "dull" brisk: lively, not flat complex: the harmonious melange of various flavors characteristic of the very finest teas dull: muddy looking liquor, the opposite of "bright"; "flat" tasting flat: soft, rather flabby-bodied tea lacking "bite" and "briskness" fruity: piquant quality characteristic of good oolongs, some keemuns, etc.
but because of their larger surface area, broken leaves also become stale more quickly.
two cups of tea are approximately equivalent to one cup of plain water in their hydrating effect.
this may entail using a teapot and/or strainer (see below,  section 2.2.), since bagged tea does not come in as many varieties as loose.
iced tea is very easy to make.
liquor color ranges all over the spectrum, from a pale jade green to pink to deep gold.
assam, for example, makes  terrific iced tea.
tea-as-medicine discussions should take place in misc.health.alternative.
the refrigerator is not a good place.
tea and caffeine  5.6.1.
fannings are slightly larger than dust.
low-fat or skim milk seems to work best.
you can freeze tea for long-term storage if you tightly seal your container and wrap it in plastic.
still, bags can be very convenient, especially if you are preparing  tea away from home.
tea also contains a related chemical called theobromine, which has similar (slightly milder) effects on the body.
be  careful not to let the tea stand for too long.
black teas undergo several hours of oxidation in their preparation for market; oolongs receive less oxidation, and green teas are not oxidized at all.
but ctc has an important and legitimate role in the tea industry: since it is a mechanized process, it allows for the rapid processing of a high volume of leaves which otherwise would go to waste.
if you are brewing fresh, high-quality leaves, you can use fewer.
some exaggerated claims have been  made for the medicinal properties of herbal infusions.
the stainless-steel mesh infuser.
sikkim (india) 4.1.8.
some are sized to fit into a teacup; some, to fit a pot.
the harvested leaves can be processed in two ways: ctc or orthodox.
the orthodox method is a bit more complex,  and is usually done mostly by hand.
you may eventually find yourself becoming a connoisseur, like many  other readers of rec.food.drink.tea.
second flush: second-growth  harvest.
there is probably a little  margin for error, but if you put the tea on to infuse and forget about it for  half an hour, start over again.
as a result, green  tea usually has more of a vegetative or herbaceous quality than blacks or  oolongs.
a tea cozy is a fabric cover, much like an oven mitt, which  is placed over a teapot in order to prevent heat loss.
advantages: easy to remove, fairly unrestrictive of the expanding leaves.
earl grey 4.3.3 lapsang souchong 4.3.4.
as you might imagine, red leaf thai tea is  difficult to find outside thailand.
it is called the  _gongfu_ method.
changes since version  1.6: ongoing 1.
the better the quality of the tea, the  better the iced tea will taste.
the top grades are fanciest  or extra fancy, fancy, and extra choice (or extra fine).
the word for tea in most  of mainland china (and also in japan) is 'cha'.
newsgroups: rec.food.drink.tea,rec.answers,news.answers subject: rec.food.drink.tea faq followup-to: rec.food.drink.tea
protection against dehydration a perhaps unexpected benefit of tea drinking is the resulting increase in water consumption, which protects against dehydration.
the typical method uses a very small teapot, preferably a yixing-style teapot, and small thimble-sized cups.
if you are worried about addiction, the best thing to do is to cut down gradually on the amount of caffeine you consume.
but since you  may have little information to work with other than the grade, let's look at  the various grades.
this is probably closest to what most westerners think of  when they think of tea: reddish-brown liquor; brisk, full flavor.
most pots are not  dishwasher safe.
mattcha, tencha (japan) mattcha is the powdered tea used in the famed tea ceremony.
how much caffeine does tea contain?
oil of bergamot has two unusual properties that deserve brief mention.
where can i  get british tea in the united states?
the best varieties are not overwhelmed by the smoke, but retain subtlety and a mix of other flavors.
the better the quality of the tea, the better the iced tea will taste.
rolling helps mix  together a variety of chemicals found naturally within the leaves, enhancing  oxidation.
one or two cups a day seems to be quite sufficient for good results.
where can i get british tea in the united states?
english tea time tea time has been an important feature of british life for hundreds of years.
for instance, rose hips contain vitamin c; chamomile helps many people relax; and peppermint has a noticeable soothing effect on the stomach.
some people like their tea best when steeped for ten to fifteen minutes.
the word for tea in most of mainland china (and also in japan) is 'cha'.
seriously, though,  most tea drinkers use tea bags some of the time, simply because it may not be  convenient to brew loose leaves (at work, for example).
formosa oolong (taiwan) formosa oolongs,  grown in taiwan, have a long-standing reputation as the finest oolongs  available.
in fact, that  same afternoon, i sat down and wrote this entire document in twenty-five  minutes.
the host brings in the tea utensils and begins preparing the tea.
baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) works surprisingly well as a cleaning agent.
ti kuan yin (or tai guanyin) (mainland china)
so the following is no more than a brief, non-technical summary of some of the effects on health that have been tentatively identified.
those who do want to remove tea stains face some minor complications.
milk and honey don't seem to go very well together.
since its effects are subtle and socially accepted, caffeine addiction can be an unnoticed and difficult to diagnose source of health problems.
some commentators complain that the contemporary emphasis is often  on ritual rather than on aesthetic or spiritual experience.
white tea (china) there are hundreds, perhaps thousands, of  different teas.
as with any stimulant, the period of enhanced alertness and heightened mood is generally followed by a period of depressed mood and ability.
infuse a strong concentrate of tea (i.e. much less water than one would use for that amount of leaves) and add it to cold water to the right proportions.
is there something wrong with tea bags?
subsequent infusions take progressively longer; you may want to add a slow breath to each infusion.
if you are brewing more than one cup, you can try any of the following: --warm two pots and pour the brewed tea into the second pot.
fannings and dust are bits and pieces of tea leaves left over from the sievings that separate out whole leaves and large pieces of leaf.
broken leaves infuse more quickly, which is desirable in a tea bag.
when, some instants after the liquor enters the mouth, its body, flavor, and  astringency make themselves fully felt.
large  nurseries, particularly those that specialize in camellias, may be able to  provide interested gardeners with tea plants ready for home growing.
so the following is no  more than a brief, non-technical summary of some of the effects on health that  have been tentatively identified.
see section 1.5.1 for information on the grading system applied to darjeelings.
the features common to most versions are the following: a) the ceremony always involves a host and several guests (but only a few).
this list is only a tiny fraction of the varieties of green tea drunk  throughout china, japan, and india.
vintage: means that  the leaves are the product of one harvest, and are not blended with any others.
dry leaf: bloom: sheen or luster on black leaf bold: large leaf or sometimes pieces of leaf too big for a grade, outsized chesty: resinous odor/taste imparted by uncured wood in tea chest common: poor quality dull: leaf without sheen, i.e., "bloom" flaky: poorly made leaf that's flat and easily broken; nonpejoratively, small grades shotty: well-made gunpowder; sometimes also applied to souchong tippy: generous amounts of white or golden tip, i.e., budding leaf
flowery orange pekoe' is often abbreviated 'fop'.
other  ways of preparing tea 2.3.1.
caffeine is also added to many foods and drugs, including soft drinks and pain relievers such as excedrin.
i recommend avoiding this sort of risk by always brewing tea with boiling or near-boiling water.
oddly enough, most restaurants in the united states are  incapable of performing this simple procedure.
the orthodox method is a bit more complex, and is usually done mostly by hand.
most that are commercially available in  the west are not labeled with varietal or place names; the label usually just  informs you that it is formosa oolong and gives its grade.
*********************
gunpowder  is rolled very tightly; the leaves look like small pellets.
some tea drinkers weigh their  tea on a kitchen scale.
what are some of the most popular varieties?
since it is a stimulant, caffeine increases alertness and quickness of response, and often briefly improves mood.
some asian grocery stores do carry it, though.
three to five minutes is fine for most varieties.
ceramic pots are traditional throughout most of asia; most retain heat well (depending on the thickness of the ceramic) and many are attractively decorated.
-- cream is too heavy for most teas and should be avoided in favor of milk.
add the tea or afterward.
worse,  most of the darjeeling contained in these blends is harvested during the rainy  season and so is less flavorful.
blends may be restricted to teas from a particular growing area, but  in most cases are not.
my name is christopher roberson.
this is not a major concern for people whose  municipal water is fluoridated, but it may matter to people who drink from  wells (or who use water filters that filter out fluoride).
it is also called tencha (before it is  powdered).
after rolling, the clumped leaves are broken up and set to oxidize.
other natural sources of caffeine are chocolate and yerba mate', which is used as an herbal drink in parts of south america.
professional tasters' lexicon 5.1.
coffee is better known as a dietary source of caffeine (and  the source of the name 'caffeine'), but tea contains a significant amount of  the drug.
if you are concerned about overheating these sorts of delicate leaves, do not place a tea cozy on the pot during the infusion, as it keeps too much heat in the pot.
it is plucked from special varieties of the tea plant known as shui hsien and dai bai.
for most black and oolong teas, add the water just after it reaches a full boil.
the host fills the pot with boiling water and immediately drains it to rinse the leaves.
prominent among these effects is the withdrawal headache, caused by dilation of blood vessels in the head that had been constricted by the consumption of caffeine.
as mentioned earlier, this is usually mostly assam--and very  strong.
it is green tea blended with toasted rice.
it has been widely claimed that green tea has less caffeine than black, but various sources (including a professional tea chemist) have informed me that this is not necessarily true.
can i grow tea plants myself?
you can freeze tea for long-term storage  if you tightly seal your container and wrap it in plastic.
there are several varieties of ceylon tea, but most of the sri lankan harvest goes into blends.
i  recommend avoiding this sort of risk by always brewing tea with boiling or  near-boiling water.
one of my philosophical colleagues swears by it, saying it's the only source of caffeine that gives him a "clean burn."
incidentally, if you live in the united states in a house whose plumbing system  was constructed between the 1930s and the late 1970s, it's a good idea to let  the cold tap run at full for about a minute before using it.
also known as "pearl  dew," it is a surprisingly rich, herbaceous tea.
it is possible to get a delicious cup from ugly, broken leaves; it is possible to get an awful cup from well-handled, beautiful whole leaves.
in addition, many people would rather not use soap or  detergent on tea equipment, since they find that the drink picks up an off  flavor.
there are, of course, many different  varieties within these three main categories.
(i have provided the  preceding instructions for informational use only; if you get an antique  samovar, you should rely on the instructions that accompany it.)
the guywan the guywan (also spelled gaiwan; also called "chung") is a simple but elegant system used in china to brew green and oolong teas.
formosa oolong (taiwan) formosa oolongs, grown in taiwan, have a long-standing reputation as the finest oolongs available.
gunpowder is rolled very tightly; the leaves look like small pellets.
one  r.f.d.t reader was under the impression that these abbreviations stood for  "too good for ordinary people" and "far too good for ordinary  people."
(one source says "four to five slow  breaths.")
the brewing method is more or less the same as with the charcoal samovar.
disadvantages: the paper is disposable, which may have unwanted environmental  consequences.
nilgiri (india) nilgiri, darjeeling, and assam are the three indian teas which  the indian tea board promotes as "self-drinkers," i.e. teas worth  drinking unblended.
what is a tea cozy, anyway?
dust 'pekoe' (pronounced 'peck-oh') is derived from a  chinese word meaning 'white'; this referred to the white hair on the leaf bud.
(tea itself is an infusion of tea leaves.)
this is rarely done by hand any more; it is more often done by machine.
on the other hand, it is possible to prepare ordinary tea so as to remove most (not all) of the caffeine from the finished product.
copyright  2000, christopher roberson.
the ultimate guide is personal taste: it is advisable to experiment and decide on the amount that suits you best.
there are many different kinds of teapots, all with their  own particular good points and bad points.
thai  restaurants often serve an orange drink called thai tea, usually iced.
i encourage readers interested in further  information to consult the many sources available on the web and in journals on  health and life extension.
there is also disagreement about whether scalding the milk is good or bad; some say it improves the flavor, others that it ruins the milk.
it may be a good idea to store bagged tea in a tightly  closed metal or opaque glass container to help keep it fresh longer.
other participants assert that if one approaches the ceremony in the right frame of mind, it can be a very impressive, even enlightening, experience.
keemuns come in a remarkably large number of varieties.
copyright 2000, christopher roberson.
since its effects are subtle and socially accepted,  caffeine addiction can be an unnoticed and difficult to diagnose source of  health problems.
another  problem with filtered water is that it is usually very "soft" water,  lacking the minerals normally found in well and spring water.
disadvantages: annoying to clean.
mattcha, tencha (japan) mattcha is the powdered  tea used in the famed tea ceremony.
(since it tends toward astringency, the short steeping time helps keep the balance of flavors right.
but impressions differ.
inexpensive yunnan is not very exciting, but i am told that the higher  quality harvests are wonderful.
first, the leaves are spread out in the open (preferably in the shade) until they wither and become limp.
but ctc has an  important and legitimate role in the tea industry: since it is a mechanized  process, it allows for the rapid processing of a high volume of leaves which  otherwise would go to waste.
tea blended with herbs 4.3.5.
unfortunately, high quality loose leaf tea is typically not available in supermarkets; you will probably have to seek out a specialty shop or a mail-order company.
there is probably a little margin for error, but if you put the tea on to infuse and forget about it for half an hour, start over again.
this is often (but not always) because they drink their tea with large amounts of milk and sugar and want to make sure that they will also be able to taste the tea.
some authorities even suggest leaving the lid off  the teapot when infusing green tea, to let some heat escape.
before you open a container of frozen tea, let it warm to room temperature in order to avoid contaminating the tea with condensation.
this will help  flush out heavy metals that may have collected in the water as it sat in the  plumbing system.
there is nothing quite  comparable in modern china (though, as noted above, the japanese ceremony  originated in ancient china).
one can also brew tea in a coffee maker, in much  the same way that one brews coffee.
e) allow the tea to infuse for three to five minutes.
chinese greens are graded differently depending on where they came  from.
its color ranges from pinkish to gold, and its peachy flavor is strong and rich.
this tea is named after a famous well which is said to be the home of a dragon.
cancer protection recent epidemiological studies
a machine expressly designed to brew tea  automatically has also recently been introduced to the marketplace.
tea and caffeine 5.6.1.
virtually every other european language, however, retains the original  pronunciation of 'tay'.
after two  small cups, my hands were trembling and i could barely sit still.
there are almost as many recipes for masala chai as there are  drinkers of it.
there are not many such areas outside asia that have been given over to tea production.
some exaggerated claims have been made for the medicinal properties of herbal infusions.
can  i grow tea plants myself?
in general, the closer a tea is to green, the cooler the water should be.
when you buy  tea in bags, most of what you pay for is the process of putting the teas in the  bags, and the brand name advertising.
this well-known british blend is scented with oil of bergamot.
this list is only a tiny fraction of the varieties of green tea drunk throughout china, japan, and india.
(as with most things about tea, opinions differ on this subject.)
disadvantages:  you have to figure out some way to get the tea off the leaves once it has  infused.
loose tea is generally whole leaves.
what about herbal teas?
there  are not many such areas outside asia that have been given over to tea  production.
the most reliable sign that you are addicted to tea is a recurring headache that seems to have no obvious cause and can be relieved by drinking tea or another caffeinated beverage (or by taking excedrin, which contains caffeine).
not all baskets fit all teapots.
the term 'flowery' apparently refers to the leaf bud, since  actual tea flowers are not used in the preparation of the drink.
lapsang souchong (china)  4.1.6.
good iced tea uses a decent brand of black tea which is  then cooled (either in a refrigerator or by being poured over ice).
blends most commonly include tea grown in india, sri  lanka, indonesia, or africa.
the faq was first written in 1995 and has gone through  several revisions since then.
green tea is not oxidized at all.
let sit for an hour, empty, brush, and rinse.
the japanese tea ceremony 3.1.2.
this is so that they can be rolled without breaking.
the  herb is not used in the production of earl grey.)
also, you have to wash the leaves out of the pot just as with loose leaves.
********************** 4.
if you intend to buy real darjeeling, make  sure you are buying 100% darjeeling, preferably first or second flush (see  1.5.1).
oxidation of tea leaves is a purely chemical process and has nothing to do with the yeast-based fermentation that produces bread or beer.
if you also drink coffee and caffeinated soft drinks or take medication containing caffeine, eliminating these from your diet will make it easier for you to drink tea without fear of troublesome habituation.
to make this drink properly, you need to find the red leaf tea grown in thailand, which produces a bright orange brew.
see below for more detailed information.
this method of preparing tea dates from the time of china's sung dynasty, which lasted from the 900s to the 1200s.
darjeeling, interestingly enough, is often best with a steeping time between 90 seconds and three minutes.
one then smells the aroma left behind in the first cup, and drinks from the second cup.
note that green and oolong  teas often benefit from slightly cooler water than black tea, so using a cozy  during infusion is not recommended for these varieties.
oolong oolong is oxidized, but not for as long as black tea.
this secondary oxidation  sometimes is used to develop a thin layer of mold on the leaves.
it is  hypothesized that this may have something to do with chemicals found in tea  called polyphenols (or catechins, or tannins).
popular  blends 4.2.1.
then, the first infusion: the pot is filled with boiling water and the leaves  infuse for less than a minute.
i only list the better-known teas that are available in the  west.
it can be a very convivial occasion!
other ways to prepare and serve tea 4.
actually, the names derive from the height of the tables on which the meals are served.
most harvesting is still done by hand, which (as you  can imagine) is very labor-intensive.
oolong, which is always large leaves, can benefit from a long  steeping time such as four to six minutes.
the biggest  worry most tea drinkers have about these methods is that they heat the water  somewhat short of the boiling point.
some people have lingering withdrawal symptoms for two or more weeks after ceasing intake.
disadvantages: the leaves are still more restricted than they would be loose.
in  addition, tea in bags goes stale much more quickly because of its greater  surface area (and hence greater exposure to atmospheric oxygen); and it tends  to pick up odors and flavors from surrounding foods (or, i'm told, from the box  it's in).
oolong is produced just like black tea, except that the leaves  are oxidized for less time.
mattcha,  tencha (japan) 4.5.4.
breaking a caffeine addiction is,  mercifully, relatively easy to do.
many also contain oolong.
this document, with many others about tea, is accessible on the world wide web at my website, http://www.enteract.com/~robchr/tea/faq.html and at kai birger nielsen's website, http://hjem.get2net.dk/bnielsen changes since version 1.6: ongoing 1.
gongfu_ means something like "skill and care."
orange' is variously described as a reference to the dutch house of orange or as a reference to an old chinese practice of including orange blossoms as a flavoring agent.
this holds especially if the tea is high-quality (e.g. japanese gyokuro).
what is a  tea cozy, anyway?
they are called the "champagne of teas," and rightly so in  most cases.
turn down the heat and let simmer for 5 to 10 minutes.
note (see above, 1.5.1) that oolong is graded according to quality, not just leaf size.
this may be because  these systems produce de-oxygenated water.
occasionally, tea connoisseurs will express contempt for tea bags, for the following reasons: 1.
when dealing with darjeelings, you may also see the following terms:  estate: names the plantation where the leaves were grown.
the two exceptions are russia and portugal, which had independent  trade links to china.
there are different grading schemes for black and green  teas.
this question  is a matter of great contention and bitter disagreement in great britain.
add  milk and sugar and bring to a boil (or heavy simmer).
research in this area is still progressing, and i am not really qualified to explain the complex biochemical factors that appear to underlie tea's effects on health.
when the tea is strong enough, pour over ice and  serve.
the method is essentially a series of  brief infusions.
formosa oolong (taiwan) 4.4.2.
the water is boiled and the tea bowl and whisk are heated.
i am informed that modern russians now use electric samovars which are available in the west via mail order.
vintage: means that the leaves are the product of one harvest, and are not blended with any others.
also, in the bad old days, one might be offered a different sort of "white  tea" in very poor chinese homes: namely, a cup of boiled water.
some authorities recommend using cups that have been pre-heated with hot water.
some people have lingering withdrawal symptoms for  two or more weeks after ceasing intake.
they are called the "champagne of teas," and rightly so in most cases.
most tea connoisseurs are not very interested in ctc tea, since this process does not allow for the careful treatment that high-quality leaves merit.
unlike other grading systems, this one actually rates the quality of the drink you can get from the leaves.
while this is a good way to brew coffee,  it is less than ideal for most kinds of tea.
most are designed simply to cover the entire pot, handle and spout.
if you have a clear case of addiction that is interfering with your sense of well-being, you should try to quit.
the  best tea, with few exceptions, is produced in cool, mountainous regions.
unfortunately, a great deal of tea labeled 'darjeeling' consists of blends containing only 50% darjeeling.
(i have provided the preceding instructions for informational use only; if you get an antique samovar, you should rely on the instructions that accompany it.)
at least one author also claims that most current students of the tea ceremony  are more interested in matrimony than enlightenment.
some, however, are made with openings and elastic so that they cover  only the body of the teapot, leaving the handle and spout exposed so that you  needn't remove the cozy in order to pour the tea.
processed tea is sieved to insure that leaves of uniform size are packaged together.
this can also affect the flavor of the brew.
oddly enough, most restaurants in the united states are incapable of performing this simple procedure.
add tea, turn off the heat, and let infuse for two to three minutes.
gunpowder (china) 4.5.8.
the cold encourages water condensation, which can ruin the tea.
what are the best kinds of tea?
some, however, are made with openings and elastic so that they cover only the body of the teapot, leaving the handle and spout exposed so that you needn't remove the cozy in order to pour the tea.
scented/flavored tea (includes both  green and black teas) 4.3.1.
what kind of teapot should i use?
commercial blends advertised as "orange pekoe" are usually blends of  india and ceylon.
it is in a sense "intermediate" between  green and black, but good oolong should be judged on its own terms, and need  not be compared to other kinds of tea.
the first thing to  keep in mind is that these are descriptions of the dry, cured leaf _only_.
water out of the hot tap generally has  health-threatening levels of heavy metals (such as lead), as well as an off  taste.
some methods use two sets of cups: the tea is poured into the first cup and then poured from that cup into the second cup.
the following is presented for its informational  value only, and is not to be regarded as medical advice.
green tea: there is no uniform grading terminology for  green tea.
high-quality tea is usually sold as loose tea.
what is rec.food.drink.tea?
fluoride content tea is well known as a good source of fluoride, which helps strengthen teeth.
but the word for tea in fujian province is 'te' (pronounced approximately 'tay').
keemun (china) 4.1.5.
addiction to tea is less common than addiction to coffee, because tea has less caffeine than coffee.
it combines darjeeling's delicate flavor and light body with assam's maltiness.
this is rarely  done by hand any more; it is more often done by machine.
on the other hand, it is  possible to prepare ordinary tea so as to remove most (not all) of the caffeine  from the finished product.
a fabric  enclosure for the leaves.
this method of preparing  tea dates from the time of china's sung dynasty, which lasted from the 900s to  the 1200s.
********************** 5.
baozhong (china) also called bao jong or pouchong,  it is allowed to wither before firing; hence it is just shy of being oolong.
there is also some talk of "scalding" the milk, but some people say that milk-first scalds the milk; others, that tea-first scalds the milk.
the other is that it contains chemicals called psoralens, which can induce sensitivity to sunlight in susceptible individuals.
it is also easier to shake than most other addictions.
unauthorized publication is  prohibited.
mark t. wendell p.o. box 1312 west concord, ma 01742 5.8.
but the word for tea in fujian  province is 'te' (pronounced approximately 'tay').
genmaicha (japan)  4.5.6.
the lid is used to strain out the leaves and keep the tea warm.
green tea is not oxidized at all; the  freshly harvested leaves are rolled and fired immediately.
tea experts believe that this helps preserve some of the more subtle  components of a fine cup of tea.
most tea  connoisseurs are not very interested in ctc tea, since this process does not  allow for the careful treatment that high-quality leaves merit.
does green tea have caffeine?
the name (also sometimes spelled 'lung ching') means "dragon well."
still, i must admit that some tea (especially long-steeped english  or irish breakfast) takes very well to a bit of milk.
it  is the root of the term often used for chinese black teas, "congou."
a cozy is primarily useful if  you make several cups at a time and want the extra tea to remain hot in the pot  until you're ready to drink it.
using a  teapot 2.2.1.
the harvested leaves can be  processed in two ways: ctc or orthodox.
g) add whatever accessories you prefer: milk, sugar, honey, lemon, etc.
some people regard these stains as desirable, analogous to seasoning  a wok.
some earl  greys are quite good; others, unfortunately, are saturated with too much of the  aromatic oil, or contain low quality leaves, or both.
archive-name: drink/tea/faq  posting-frequency: quarterly last-modified: 2001/06/11
green: gyokuro (japan) spider leg (japan) mattcha (japan, used in the tea ceremony) sencha (japan) hojicha (japan) genmaicha (japan) (blended with toasted rice)
genuine yixing teapots are made of a sandy clay found near the town of yixing in jiangsu province.
many texts refer to the oxidation process by the misleading term "fermentation."
longer oxidation usually produces a  less flavorful but more pungent tea.
the  host ceremonially decorates the teahouse with screens and a scroll or flowers.
a fabric enclosure for the leaves.
english breakfast some english breakfasts are blends of india and ceylon teas; others, mostly or entirely keemun.
green tea is not oxidized at all; the freshly harvested leaves are rolled and fired immediately.
flavored teas there are many different flavorings (too many to list) that can be added to tea.
tea  and health the possible beneficial health effects of tea drinking have been  widely publicized lately (1998-1999).
most produce a red liquor with a subtle combination of flavors; the aroma is often rich and fruity, sometimes with suggestions of plum and apple.
mattcha (japan, used in the tea ceremony) sencha (japan) hojicha (japan)  genmaicha (japan) (blended with toasted rice)
how  much tea should i use?
(the most important factor in caffeine content of leaves appears to be the climate in which the plant is grown.)
russians  traditionally serve their tea in tall, straight-sided glasses, flavored with  lemon or jam.
andrew weil (in _natural health, natural  medicine_) offers the following advice for those who want to try to kick the  habit "cold turkey": "do not attempt it unless you have three  days with no responsibilities and no demands on your time and energy.
some recent models have been effusively praised for the sophistication of their brewing procedures and the flavor of the tea they produce.
iced  tea iced tea is a staple of american southern life; it is very popular  throughout much of the united states, enough so that it is now being marketed  in cans and bottles.
it was first cultivated and brewed in china, and many of the best varieties still come from china.
incidentally, tannic acid (used in  tanning leather) is a kind of polyphenol, but it is _not_ found in tea.
this is, as the name implies, made of  stainless-steel mesh.
if you've ever tasted oversteeped tea, you know that it is bitter  and astringent--an all-around nasty experience.
astringency is usually quite  pronounced, and the aroma and flavor hint of almonds and wildflowers.
most good oolongs have an intense floral  aroma and a remarkable peachy flavor.
masala chai masala chai, or spiced tea, hails from the indian subcontinent.
they walk through  the garden to the teahouse, which traditionally is elevated and has a  three-foot-tall door (so that guests must crawl to enter the building).
many other unwanted  effects are associated not so much with use as with withdrawal.
there are almost as many recipes for masala chai as there are drinkers of it.
(in some chinese dialects, this tea's name is  pronounced 'po lay'.)
when the fire was hot, one would place a teapot on top of the pipe and brew a strong concentrate of tea.
three to five minutes is fine for most  varieties.
india, sri lanka, and other south asian countries  produce a large portion of the world harvest.
arrange  for ways to keep yourself distracted and comfortable.
4.1.6. nilgiri (india) nilgiri, darjeeling, and assam are the three indian teas which the indian tea board promotes as "self-drinkers," i.e. teas worth drinking unblended.
this works well for some people and poorly for others.
greens and oolongs do not peak but  stand immediately and fully revealed.
addiction to tea is less common than addiction to coffee,  because tea has less caffeine than coffee.
why bother pre-heating the teapot?
grading for oolongs goes from fanciest or extra fancy (best) to common (worst).
note that green and oolong teas often benefit from slightly cooler water than black tea, so using a cozy during infusion is not recommended for these varieties.
(modern porcelain, however, does not need a milk buffer.)
(you may also want to do this on a dry  day.)
'tay' was the pronunciation when the word first entered english, and it still is in scotland and ireland.