vote upvote downshareprintflagwas this hub ...?
the main selling point remains that it’s new,  not that it’s any sort of actual improvement.
if nothing makes you happier than to have a plaster something-or-other sitting in the ivy, please have one.
entertaining as  the sight of a tree devouring a suburb is, surely we could do more to enhance  the life of the tree than just allowing it to play with any old rubbish.
chic  gardening invariably includes a range of pots which are probably better for  attracting fungi and diseases than growing anything but excuses.
they can also be rather an atavism, something out of its time.
the lavender might well be the next mingus, and the petunia a better motorist than most.
nor does a garden shed looking like the  sistine chapel and costing as much necessarily transport me to valhalla.
a bit of incinerated mammoth translated into a  major industry and the cause of more sincere cursing than any commercial ever  run.
between modern sculptures, charming bric-a-brac and entirely forgettable odds and sods, the only thing that can be safely said is that it prevents cluttering up the garden with plants.
it's just that i'm pretty sure the basic idea of gardening isn't to provide a wreath for the funeral of human aesthetics.
there is a theory which i’ve been spreading that formal gardens are a  sort of efficient masochism.
in gardening, this syndrome has branched out  recklessly into chic gardening, the pursuit of novelty at any price.
as mentioned above, there are plenty of  arguments in favor of at least looking at design ideas through a computer.
entertaining as the sight of a tree devouring a suburb is, surely we could do more to enhance the life of the tree than just allowing it to play with any old rubbish.
whole generations are raised in the squalid piles of concrete we are told are normal human habitations called cities.
name: comment: read more hubs by paul wallis contact paul wallis copyright © 2012 hubpages inc. and respective owners.
if you don't happen to have a palace of versailles, consider other options.
you wear by now only what’s comfortable.
the roots will cook with a bit of help from  the black plastic, if left in the sun.
chic gardening takes advantage of both the marketing and the fact that anything old enough is usually considered “art”, however bloody awful it is.
you could make a fortune in chat show appearances discussing  what’s likely to happen to the plumber when the agapanthus realized he  was disconnecting the outlet from the bathroom.
they were designed to cater for large areas, like the palace of versailles,  and the smaller chic versions tend to look window-box-like.
there’s an insidious tendency  on the part of the industry to intrude with novelties, gadgets, and the sort of  hack advertising that makes people think they can’t live without them.
in terms of the garden, it’s also usually chic lacking anything useful or tolerable.
using a lot of whizzbang nutrients is a great way of growing molds and fungi, and with a little effort a healthy crop of mysterious afflictions will keep you very busy and help keep your asthma and hay fever feeling appreciated.
even the shapes are arcane.
unless a major breakthrough in the construction of really intelligent flowerpots happens soon, pots have their limits.
you then progress to living in something very like a necro diner eating slop amid that original lifeless modern supermarket look most of the baby boom generation grew up in, and wearing the results of advanced alcoholism.
usually it will be known by some restrained market description like cosmic phallus, or credit card symbiote, and look like the remains of a car accident.
nothing else will...) wrote about the domestic  horrors of his day, including the revered willow pattern in much the same way.
you can start in a life of soap operatic innocence in your gothic apartment eating gruel and wearing things that look anonymous in crowds.
there is an interminable supply of little things to hang about the garden,  and designer planters for that primary school look.
they don’t have credit  cards so they can go to the nursery and buy their own, so they’ve learned  to make do without.
have what youlike, not what is thrust upon you.
it has been praised more than the latest hit movie, and credited with saving lives and starting a few cults, and it’s still rubbish.
where the wallet goes, the mind will follow……eventually.
the  thunderous rote praise is usually an omen of the mediocrity to come.
it is also unique for its ability to completely defeat its own purpose.
anything not covered by case law or statutes can drag on for years.
art is often misrepresented as something it simply isn’t.
i got lucky and found an old piece that actually looks like real willow pattern.)
as  discussed above, the normal version of this is tiresome décor, soggy  management-seminar level orientation to design concepts, and a supply of third  rate materials.
i know they’re not  new.
a plant that looks like a hamburger or a can of soup isn’t impossible, it’s just that nobody with sufficient lack of taste and class has yet evolved to produce them.
like pop art, it has no depth and no basis.
better quality pots are thicker, with a feel of real durability.
the pitiful spectacle of a pot bound plant is so familiar and so obvious that i’m wary of mentioning it, but pots will kill plants as efficiently as neglect.
virtually everything in a normal household can be lethal with a little effort.
the main selling point remains that it’s new, not that it’s any sort of actual improvement.
you eat a balanced diet of medications and occasionally something which might theoretically be digestible.
as land sizes relative to buildings shrink, and the laughable mentalities of those who design living space becomes more infected with the belief that everyone lives in a sitcom with compulsory squalor, the garden has become something which is seen more as art deco than a design feature.
the black spot factory seems to be much the  same, and the thing may or may not flower properly.
the black spot factory seems to be much the same, and the thing may or may not flower properly.
ergo the garden lover is usually a bit less than impressed with the normal  run of chic everythings, even in the normal forms.
all of the above is expensive to maintain, repair, and operate.
the formal  styles are out of fashion these days, and one of the reasons for that is that  they are unbelievably expensive, and require a technical expertise that few  people either have or can afford.
venus rising from the styrofoam doesn’t strike me as  particularly inspiring, or inspired.
while forgivable in anyone with any talent under about 25, the conceit is a bit much for the art lover.
the "spanish look" can give you a hernia.
whole generations are  raised in the squalid piles of concrete we are told are normal human  habitations called cities.
anyone who’s ever tried to unravel a pot bound plant knows the story.
but… does one want to live among the idiocies of consumerism?
consider the possibilities of one of your more bovine acquaintances trying to tame a jazz-playing lavender.
unless a major breakthrough in the construction of really intelligent  flowerpots happens soon, pots have their limits.
no, not a supply of cars being fixed in the back yard, but a programmed  garden, growing according to a plan.
no, not a supply of cars being fixed in the back yard, but a programmed garden, growing according to a plan.
nor is it impossible that something with leaves like van gogh’swheatfield with crows will be grown for its rustic charm, and dear tiny little flowers that look like price tags.
using a lot of whizzbang nutrients is a  great way of growing molds and fungi, and with a little effort a healthy crop  of mysterious afflictions will keep you very busy and help keep your asthma and  hay fever feeling appreciated.
in all honesty, anything really chic usually starts as a sort of accident.
if nothing else it  will explain england to you.
you then progress to living in something very  like a necro diner eating slop amid that original lifeless modern supermarket  look most of the baby boom generation grew up in, and wearing the results of  advanced alcoholism.
the “new” rose is a transparent mix of older cultivars, and the name, “smarmy goo goo” lacks a certain poise.
therein the essence of motifs.
by paul wallis starting with the basic premise that what people grow in their own gardens is their own business, it has to be said that both style and technology intrude if they get the chance.
chic gardening generally dumps large amounts of new looks, new shapes, new products, and new books about itself onto the gardener.
formality uber alles.
chic gardening, like commercials, works on the predictability as the garden's raison d'etre, believe it or not.
it will be made by some hitherto unknown genius called gushette maximus, and be duly revered as a breakthrough in domestic life, the entrance of culture onto the previously barren stage of human existence.
none of which has prevented the daily flood of consumer goods being rammed  delicately into everyone’s lives.
he wondered if the commonplaces of his day would become hallowed a hundred  years from then.
they arethe incarnate form of garden  perfectionism.
in middle age you advance to the wholesome cheapness that  only real architectural mediocrity can hope to achieve, eating something  requiring a degree in food technology to understand and wearing the aberrations  of fashion designers whose shoes are smarter than they are.
the pitiful spectacle of a pot  bound plant is so familiar and so obvious that i’m wary of mentioning it,  but pots will kill plants as efficiently as neglect.
they were designed to cater for large areas, like the palace of versailles, and the smaller chic versions tend to look window-box-like.
but it's growing more chiropractors than plants.
repetition makes the mind less interested.
this wonderful product is  inevitably the latest thing in rose design.
so you see the beginnings of neo garden art.
primulas  able to singthe hallelujah chorus are only a punnet away.
it will be written up for centuries afterward as a symbol of the great  artistic masters of the day.
your sedge getting arrested for  shoplifting.
add to this the invention of increasingly garish and  unnatural garden features, and you can assume that senility of the species is  well advanced.
venus rising from the styrofoam doesn’t strike me as particularly inspiring, or inspired.
it’s just that the  human race brings this unspeakable irritant with itself wherever it goes.
i know they’re not new.
the art analogy isn’t entirely misplaced.
this wonderful product is inevitably the latest thing in rose design.
even the fertilizer trade has its uncharacteristic chic moments, particularly with indoor pot plants.
chic gardening tends to reflect this inferior thinking.
chic gardening,  like commercials, works on the predictability as the garden's raison d'etre,  believe it or not.
chic gardening now produces images which are related to formal gardening, and require an army to grow and maintain.
between modern sculptures,  charming bric-a-brac and entirely forgettable odds and sods, the only thing  that can be safely said is that it prevents cluttering up the garden with  plants.
chic gardening generally dumps large amounts  of new looks, new shapes, new products, and new books about itself onto the  gardener.
terra cotta is generally reliable, and breathes better, allowing some  movement of air and water when the potting mix isn’t impacted, but they  are very heavy and very breakable, and should only be handled by those that  know how.
it also achieves the straitjacket effect of preventing much else being done.
big pots should be handled by those who are insured.
the idea of garden décor has been a great boon to those that sell  garden décor, and almost nobody else.
if this unavoidable eyesore is a plant, it will inevitably be the most daring thing in gardening since plastic daisies.
usually  it will be known by some restrained market description like cosmic phallus, or  credit card symbiote, and look like the remains of a car accident.
on of the big selling points of anything is that it’s “new”.
that they lack substance is obvious, but look at what’s happened.
the slightly prudish garden statuary has been supplanted byobjé ts de anonymous, personality-less things with no known purpose or aesthetic
like wearing a tuxedo to breakfast, there is a  degree of “demanding self image” placed on the gardener.
the equation is "plant first, decorative values of pot last".
in gardening, this syndrome has branched out recklessly into chic gardening, the pursuit of novelty at any price.
hence the remains of some gruesome excess will sit in the garden for centuries, in some cases, protected by archaeologists and other masochists.
where the wallet goes, the mind will  follow……eventually.
art suffers from the artist, as well as the aficionado.
it will be  made by some hitherto unknown genius called gushette maximus, and be duly  revered as a breakthrough in domestic life, the entrance of culture onto the  previously barren stage of human existence.
it has been praised more than the  latest hit movie, and credited with saving lives and starting a few cults, and  it’s still rubbish.
vote upvote downshareprintflag
from predictable to dull as a fence post is a very small step.
anyone can be persuaded they know what they're doing if it's  banal enough.
arguably no  form of artistic pretension could survive without it.
a few plants missing is a conceptual disaster.
consider the possibilities of one of your more bovine acquaintances trying  to tame a jazz-playing lavender.
one of the problems with chic anything is that it’s usually chic devoid of practicalities.
nevertheless, even a professional cynic who practices regularly will look at something “new” because it is “new”, at least in theory.
the idea of garden décor has been a great boon to those that sell garden décor, and almost nobody else.
(i’m actually eating anzac biscuits out of a willow pattern saucer as  i write… fate, eh?
it is a process of acceptance, the valuing of things as what they represent, not what they actually are.
you can start in a life of soap  operatic innocence in your gothic apartment eating gruel and wearing things  that look anonymous in crowds.
the willow pattern has since degenerated into a rather tacky imitation of its original self, a mere series of smears under the glaze, no life or personality in them.
you can  slaughter all your plants by weakening a pot plant to the extent it gets a  disease and passes it on to the others.
they can also make small  plants out of big plants, and do enough damage to make repotting a real  problem.
add to this the invention of increasingly garish and unnatural garden features, and you can assume that senility of the species is well advanced.
it  is also unique for its ability to completely defeat its own purpose.
everything ever designed as a consumer item usually turns out to be substandard.
nor does a garden shed looking like the sistine chapel and costing as much necessarily transport me to valhalla.
it’s interesting that modern design tends to come in outcrops.
my father was an industrial designer, among other things, so i’m not  quite so impressed with this mongrelization of ideas.
submit a comment members and guests sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account.
a car salesman earnestly explaining the benefits of all wheel drive to a petunia.
centuries’ worth of perfectly good, reliable ceramic pots have been replaced by seconds’ worth of bland little plastic things.
people have every right to their own aesthetic values, and i’ll never say otherwise.
however, there are some chic gardening motifs that deserve to be questioned: the modern desert with flowerpots.
like wearing a tuxedo to breakfast, there is a degree of “demanding self image” placed on the gardener.
nor is it impossible that something with leaves like  van gogh’swheatfield with crows will be grown for its rustic  charm, and dear tiny little flowers that look like price tags.
chic gardening now produces images which are  related to formal gardening, and require an army to grow and maintain.
a  plant that looks like a hamburger or a can of soup isn’t impossible,  it’s just that nobody with sufficient lack of taste and class has yet  evolved to produce them.
if you want to be an chic gardener, make sure it’s your idea  of chic, not the marketing industry’s latest attempt to prove it’s  ever seen a plastic daisy.
it is a process of acceptance, the valuing of things as  what they represent, not what they actually are.
as discussed above, the normal version of this is tiresome décor, soggy management-seminar level orientation to design concepts, and a supply of third rate materials.
(metal planters are equally deadly, and  dangerous to you, too, if heated up enough.)
the need to have the latest of everything is probably the best possible example of a social inferiority complex applied in practice.
ergo the garden lover is usually a bit less than impressed with the normal run of chic everythings, even in the normal forms.
nothing else will...) wrote about the domestic horrors of his day, including the revered willow pattern in much the same way.
my father was an industrial designer, among other things, so i’m not quite so impressed with this mongrelization of ideas.
the thunderous rote praise is usually an omen of the mediocrity to come.
the “new” rose  is a transparent mix of older cultivars, and the name, “smarmy goo  goo” lacks a certain poise.
that’s a fairly good analysis of the design process.
weight is a real issue, particularly after watering.
otherwise most of this stuff is about as useful as a whale in a bathtub, and far less interesting.
uniformity is a rarity in gardens these days, and with good reason.
sometimes unkindly and  inaccurately referred to as train set planning, the hideous procedure of  neatness settles in.
even the fertilizer trade has its uncharacteristic chic moments,  particularly with indoor pot plants.
terms of use privacy policy (0.89 sec) hubpages livingworking
there is a theory which i’ve been spreading that formal gardens are a sort of efficient masochism.
in the arts, chic is normally a synonym for insufferable.
there is an interminable supply of little things to hang about the garden, and designer planters for that primary school look.
they arethe incarnate form of garden perfectionism.
that they lack substance is obvious, but look at what’s  happened.
pot plants in unsuitable containers can get sick pretty easily.
in middle age you advance to the wholesome cheapness that only real architectural mediocrity can hope to achieve, eating something requiring a degree in food technology to understand and wearing the aberrations of fashion designers whose shoes are smarter than they are.
the  lavender might well be the next mingus, and the petunia a better motorist than  most.
weight is a real  issue, particularly after watering.
the formal styles are out of fashion these days, and one of the reasons for that is that they are unbelievably expensive, and require a technical expertise that few people either have or can afford.
fake chic is usually the result of some sleazy desire to flog merchandise, and it shows.
care to guess what 90% of chic is, at any given moment in history?
there will be an architectural renaissance, followed by a décor revolution, followed by cheesy packaging innovations.
(i’m actually eating anzac biscuits out of a willow pattern saucer as i write… fate, eh?
some pots are truly useless; the cheapo variety, thin black plastic, are genuinely dangerous for the plant.
a “piece” will appear, a “feature” like  a table setting, will slither into the postage stamp sized garden area.
the sedge could become a sort of clumpy robin hood, and the agapanthus  could make the most wanted list look a bit nicer, but is that all we expect  from designer plants, to merely make do with suburbia as a venue?
in terms of the garden, it’s also usually chic  lacking anything useful or tolerable.
privet hedges able to park the car and lawns able to mow themselves while conducting ballet classes may be safely assumed to be on their way.
seems to me that you might as well start by making yourself comfortable, and simply ignore the rest of the process.
(metal planters are equally deadly, and dangerous to you, too, if heated up enough.)
i got lucky and found an old piece that  actually looks like real willow pattern.)
if  you don't happen to have a palace of versailles, consider other options.
a “piece” will appear, a “feature” like a table setting, will slither into the postage stamp sized garden area.
thin plastic anything is well worth avoiding in pots, however  chic.
â  the mental restrictions are arguably  much worse, and they're the basis of garden art as it is now called, blending  with an unspeakable environment.
there  will be an architectural renaissance, followed by a décor revolution,  followed by cheesy packaging innovations.
hence  the remains of some gruesome excess will sit in the garden for centuries, in  some cases, protected by archaeologists and other masochists.
it will be written up for centuries afterward as a symbol of the great artistic masters of the day.
anyone who’s ever tried to unravel a pot bound plant knows the  story.
some plants must have large pots, and you'll be astonished to hear that most of the more fashionable big pots are useless as anything but shop displays.
if you want to be an chic gardener, make sure it’s your idea of chic, not the marketing industry’s latest attempt to prove it’s ever seen a plastic daisy.
however, there are some chic gardening motifs that deserve to be  questioned: the modern desert with flowerpots.
the pot garden can be a lot of fun, and can be done truly brilliantly.
small pots are for small plants.
thin plastic anything is well worth avoiding in pots, however chic.
actually putting a bit more absurdity into modern life does have a few things to recommend it.
a life sentence, or a death  sentence, in fact, if the gardener isn’t careful.
art is often misrepresented as something it  simply isn’t.
chic gardening invariably includes a range of pots which are probably better for attracting fungi and diseases than growing anything but excuses.
it also achieves  the straitjacket effect of preventing much else being done.
cookery is a case in point.
some plants must have large pots, and you'll  be astonished to hear that most of the more fashionable big pots are useless as  anything but shop displays.
an array of plants in formal rows looks great en masse, in a large setting, but it’s not the same, jammed against the garage, sandwiched between the car and the hose.
jerome k jerome, author of three men in a boat, (if you  haven’t read it, rush out immediately and get a copy.
they don’t have credit cards so they can go to the nursery and buy their own, so they’ve learned to make do without.
none of which has prevented the daily flood of consumer goods being rammed delicately into everyone’s lives.
in old age you  progress still further into the depths of lifestyle among the restful shades of  places designed specifically for those who need to be containerized.
arguably no form of artistic pretension could survive without it.
on of the big selling points of  anything is that it’s “new”.
the pot is a potential prison.
ideas have to grow, too.
sometimes unkindly and inaccurately referred to as train set planning, the hideous procedure of neatness settles in.
a bit of incinerated mammoth translated into a major industry and the cause of more sincere cursing than any commercial ever run.
but- there’s something irritating about the predictable.
we appreciate….sometimes, if we can.
nevertheless, even a professional cynic who practices regularly will look at  something “new” because it is “new”, at least in theory.
given the vast advances in biological science, the desire to play god can’t be far away.
so it follows that chic gardening is going to be a horror of epic vistas.
a car salesman earnestly explaining the  benefits of all wheel drive to a petunia.
as land sizes relative to buildings  shrink, and the laughable mentalities of those who design living space becomes  more infected with the belief that everyone lives in a sitcom with compulsory  squalor, the garden has become something which is seen more as art deco than a  design feature.
by paul wallis how to avoid getting planted by fashionable gardening starting with the basic premise that what people grow in their own gardens  is their own business, it has to be said that both style and technology intrude  if they get the chance.
the culture creates the art, which is rather a pity.
they can also make small plants out of big plants, and do enough damage to make repotting a real problem.
the need to have the latest of  everything is probably the best possible example of a social inferiority  complex applied in practice.
he wondered if willow pattern  would be revered 100 years from 1888.
everything ever designed as a consumer item usually turns out to be  substandard.
art suffers from the  artist, as well as the aficionado.
plants naturally don’t grow in pots.
while forgivable in anyone with any talent under about 25,  the conceit is a bit much for the art lover.
in gardening, the equivalent is a sort of grow your own cliche, and that's where chic gardening really hits top gear.
if nothing makes you happier than to have  a plaster something-or-other sitting in the ivy, please have one.
jerome k jerome, author of three men in a boat, (if you haven’t read it, rush out immediately and get a copy.
cultural events, art exhibits or gardens, are occasionally touted as tours de force when they’re really tours de farce.
if you live in a place where you have scope to design, remember that you might want to design something else sometime, too.
fake chic is usually the result of some sleazy desire to flog merchandise,  and it shows.
other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners.
actually putting a bit more absurdity into modern life does have a few  things to recommend it.
virtually everything in a normal household can be lethal with a little  effort.
people  don’t have the space to play with, and they want to look at more than one  plant.
you could make a fortune in chat show appearances discussing what’s likely to happen to the plumber when the agapanthus realized he was disconnecting the outlet from the bathroom.
indoor chic size does matter.
given the vast advances in biological science, the  desire to play god can’t be far away.
if this unavoidable eyesore is a  plant, it will inevitably be the most daring thing in gardening since plastic  daisies.
in old age you progress still further into the depths of lifestyle among the restful shades of places designed specifically for those who need to be containerized.
he wondered if willow pattern would be revered 100 years from 1888.
i was reading him almost exactly a hundred years later, and i  can see what he meant.
the fun is programmed, the plants  are usually neurotic things that believe their own publicity, even if nobody  else does, and the result is chic atrocity.
your sedge getting arrested for shoplifting.
it's just that i'm pretty sure  the basic idea of gardening isn't to provide a wreath for the funeral of human  aesthetics.
chic gardening  takes advantage of both the marketing and the fact that anything old enough is  usually considered “art”, however bloody awful it is.
if nothing else it will explain england to you.
the  slightly prudish garden statuary has been supplanted byobjé ts de anonymous, personality-less things with no known purpose or aesthetic
formal gardens emphasize their own failures, too.
one of the problems with chic anything is that it’s usually chic  devoid of practicalities.
the roots will cook with a bit of help from the black plastic, if left in the sun.
in the arts, chic is normally a synonym  for insufferable.
people don’t have the space to play with, and they want to look at more than one plant.
otherwise most of this stuff is about as useful as a whale in a bathtub, and  far less interesting.
it’s just that the human race brings this unspeakable irritant with itself wherever it goes.
a few plants missing is a  conceptual disaster.
anyone can be persuaded they know what they're doing if it's banal enough.
some pots are truly useless; the cheapo variety, thin black plastic, are  genuinely dangerous for the plant.
as mentioned above, there are plenty of arguments in favor of at least looking at design ideas through a computer.
care to guess what  90% of chic is, at any given moment in history?
centuries’ worth of perfectly good, reliable ceramic pots have  been replaced by seconds’ worth of bland little plastic things.
an array of plants  in formal rows looks great en masse, in a large setting, but it’s not the  same, jammed against the garage, sandwiched between the car and the hose.
seems to me that you might as well start by making yourself comfortable,  and simply ignore the rest of the process.
the serried ranks of daffodils were an icon once, but even then they were set amid other features.
the garden palette is made not only formal but symmetrical, and the mind is as likely to just see the symmetry and ignore it,because it’s too deliberately symmetrical, as it is to look further.
terra cotta is generally reliable, and breathes better, allowing some movement of air and water when the potting mix isn’t impacted, but they are very heavy and very breakable, and should only be handled by those that know how.
the serried ranks of daffodils were an icon once, but even then they  were set amid other features.
the garden palette is made not  only formal but symmetrical, and the mind is as likely to just see the symmetry  and ignore it,because it’s too deliberately symmetrical, as it  is to look further.
privet  hedges able to park the car and lawns able to mow themselves while conducting  ballet classes may be safely assumed to be on their way.
you can slaughter all your plants by weakening a pot plant to the extent it gets a disease and passes it on to the others.
people have every right to their own aesthetic values, and i’ll never
primulas able to singthe hallelujah chorus are only a punnet away.
the sedge could become a sort of clumpy robin hood, and the agapanthus could make the most wanted list look a bit nicer, but is that all we expect from designer plants, to merely make do with suburbia as a venue?
in gardening, the equivalent is a sort of grow your own cliche, and that's  where chic gardening really hits top gear.
if that isn’t warning enough, consider: 1.
the fun is programmed, the plants are usually neurotic things that believe their own publicity, even if nobody else does, and the result is chic atrocity.
the mental restrictions are arguably much worse, and they're the basis of garden art as it is now called, blending with an unspeakable environment.
he wondered if the commonplaces of his day would become hallowed a hundred years from then.
there’s an insidious tendency on the part of the industry to intrude with novelties, gadgets, and the sort of hack advertising that makes people think they can’t live without them.
the willow pattern has since degenerated into a  rather tacky imitation of its original self, a mere series of smears under the  glaze, no life or personality in them.
cultural events, art exhibits or gardens, are occasionally  touted as tours de force when they’re really tours de farce.
you eat a  balanced diet of medications and occasionally something which might  theoretically be digestible.
if you live in a  place where you have scope to design, remember that you might want to design  something else sometime, too.
i was reading him almost exactly a hundred years later, and i can see what he meant.
a life sentence, or a death sentence, in fact, if the gardener isn’t careful.