there are two range-topping versions the urban and sport.
the immune system of a young child has not yet developed and this one of the reasons why infections can occur so often.
the region sweeps in a wide arc north-eastwards from bath and is best seen by car or on a bus tour.
nearby is warwick, location of an iconic castle that brings  medieval england to life, with all its chivalry, romance - and gore.
try mixing them with plain probiotic yoghurts which are also good for  helping the digestive system to keep healthy because of the friendly bacteria  they contain.
en_magazine: #enfield council need  volunteers for events linked to the 2012 olympics - visithttp://t.co/u64termx  for more details _en_magazine: @ lucyswebdesigns
the secretary of state should ensure that priority must be given to improving the quality and availability of primary and community based services at the chase farm site.
these are all good on wholemeal toast for quick meals at home both in  summer and winter.
kids can help making smoothies which include these  fruits.
if local artists want to sell their work through this shop they should contact me on 020 8379 3755.”
other watering equipment you might see at the garden centres include pop-up sprinklers for lawns (i don’t water my home lawns and they always recover in the autumn when the rain increases) and porous soaker hoses made from recycled tyres, which i have found tend not to work in hard water areas such as ours as they block up with limescale too easily.
in the meantime, the line-up comprises of revised versions of existing  engines which are now quicker and more eco-friendly.
on to other things in the garden!
if the  damage looks as it’s going to get too great then pesticide sprays are  available: try to find one that won’t harm the bees as they have suffered  a sharp decline in numbers in recent years.
other additions to the standard specification include a leather-covered steering wheel, chrome exhaust and keyless start.
science museum from the future of space travel to asking that difficult question,  "who am i?", the science museum makes your brain perform  olympic-standard mental gymnastics.
‘visit london’ project manager, lael scheckter, said,  ”enfield is establishing a firm base to introduce new people to north  london and we welcome the great efforts being made to promote its arts and  museums and the work it is doing with local arts and crafts people.
each child on the ward was given a teddy, reindeer, snowman or penguin cuddly toy and the staff have held on to the remaining toys to give out over the christmas period.
the sport  models have different alloys, revised bumpers and m-sport suspension.
we’ve selected ten of the best and, within minutes of breakfasting in the capital, visitors can be on their way to a stately home, seaside resort or historic city, confident they will be back in time for the nightlife.
discover its 900-year history as a royal  palace, prison and place of execution, arsenal, jewel house and zoo!
our information officers will make them all very welcome.”
this  heart of england market town put itself on the map in 1564 when poet and  playwright, william shakespeare was born.
i am off the opinion, although the government denies this, that this decision is about money.
see a life-sized blue whale, a 40-million-year-old spider and the amazing new darwin centre.
move your pots to a shady are if possible and cover them with horticultural fleece to reduce evaporation.
there  are five variants available at launch: two petrol engined-models, and three  diesels.
“enfield council will continue to fight for residents best interests and lobby tirelessly for these services to be retained.
6) there can be no compromise of patient safety in planning facilities.
luxury training: orient-express british pullman.
the cities have remarkable museums: oxford’s ashmolean is the grand-daddy of museums, dating from 1683; cambridge has the fitzwilliam.
this heart of england market town put itself on the map in 1564 when poet and playwright, william shakespeare was born.
the secretary of state should ensure that priority must be  given to improving the quality and availability of primary and community based  services at the chase farm site.
kitchens: we offer handmade, bespoke, made to measure kitchens in contemporary or classic traditional styles.
ideally water in the early  morning but lots of us don’t have time to do that
the joinery company london can make this happen for your home.
if you would like to get involved get in touch!
these are all good on wholemeal toast for quick meals at home both in summer and winter.
at  both, you can go punting along the river, though the bicycle is the preferred  means of transport.
i’d recommend setting up an automatic irrigation  system running off a battery-powered timer: this is available from most garden  centres as a starter kit for a reasonable price.
boosting immunity many parents find that that once their children are at school or nursery, they start to pick up one bug after another with a constant round of coughs, colds and sore throats.
in the absence of foundation trust status the secretary of state  should take action to safeguard receipts (revenue and capital) from the chase  farm site for reinvestment in front line nhs services in enfield and at chase  farm 7.
“it will be a hub for all kinds of information and will be a great help to anyone who wants to enjoy the borough but does not know how to get around or what to see.
a lot of soft fruit will be ready to harvest soon and needs protecting with netting to prevent birds taking your crop.
no i hate my picture :-( _en_magazine: @ lucyswebdesigns thanks for the re tweet _en_magazine:
robbie and the team continue to offer the high-quality workmanship that they’re known for - from made to measure traditional and contemporary kitchens, to sash windows and home furniture.
asking a youngster to start thinking about  osteoporosis is like asking them to invest their pocket money in a pension!
in addition berries, oranges and grapefruits are full of vitamin c which is vital for the immune system.
the region sweeps in a wide arc north-eastwards  from bath and is best seen by car or on a bus tour.
“it will be a hub for all kinds of information and will be a great  help to anyone who wants to enjoy the borough but does not know how to get  around or what to see.
business directory click here for your guide to local businesses.
*to win a copy of the guy fox london children’s map, please send in  on a postcard including your name, age and postal address the answer to the  following question, 3 winners will be drawn at random by 30th july 2010.
you’ll be amazed at the weight of the performance road bikes and you can borrow demonstration bikes for the weekend to help you make your decision.
they have a simple mission: to create innovative activities and publications that encourage children to explore the neighbourhood around them, with its eponymous cartoon fox figure and revealing tag line, "history on the sly".
as well as offering smooth, quick shifts, the new gearbox promises stronger efficiency than the manual models.
it is better to water thoroughly once a week than give plants a light water daily as light waterings can evaporate before the water reaches the plants’ roots.
local residents favour strategic option 1.
how long before the builders move in?
“we have already established a cultural festival and the edmonton carnival, but i know that many people will want to welcome the olympic torch into the borough on 25th july, encourage their children to take part in school sports and above all enjoy the games.
once again the oils need other nutrients to help them convert to those “little grey cells”.
in doing so additional primary care and community services, could assist with demand management and should be explored as part of this option.
“enfield’s population is predicted to increase by 40,000 over the  next 20 years and birth rates are predicted to increase by 8.3 per cent in  coming years, so there is a desperate need for the chase farm maternity and  a&e units to be retained to meet future need.
he wrote his first of many plays when only ten (in 1822), was a keen amateur actor and had warm relationships with many leading actors, such as macready.
closing the a&e  and maternity departments at chase farm hospital is a slap in the face for  local people who overwhelmingly support retaining these services.
closing the a&e and maternity departments at chase farm hospital is a slap in the face for local people who overwhelmingly support retaining these services.
this will create extra demand on health services locally.
http://www.hertslink.org/buildingfutures home secretary backs "i love enfield" campaign a poster campaign started by a local printers after the riots in enfield  town has been backed by home secretary, theresa may. fast signs, of colman parade, southbury road, started giving away free the  "i love enfield - keep smiling" posters in an effort to boost morale  among shops and businesses in enfield town after the violence and looting of  last monday.
try to replace sugary snacks with healthy alternatives – hummus and carrots or cucumber for example.
see, touch and experience the major  scientific advances of the last 300 years; don't forget the awesome imax  cinema.
it was the fun-loving prince regent, later king george iv, who made this resort fashionable, building the exotic, oriental-style royal pavilion as his pleasure dome in 1822.
oxford was founded in the 12th century, beating its rival by a few decades.
happy gardening! martin day ‘history on the sly’ with guy fox london children’s map when cartoonist kourtney harper imparted the story of guy fawkes to her  young nephew, he asked her why a fox would want to bomb parliament.
the kingfisher ward sees children from new born up to the age of 16 years and receives no funding.
if a small pot is completely dried out then try dunking it in a bucket of water for quick results.
to help fund community projects, kourtney decided produce and sell the guy fox london children's map isbn 9781904711049 £2.95, an easy-to-use, highly illustrated, simplified yet accurate graphic pocket map.
journey times are by train unless otherwise stated.
the affectionally named ‘arsometer’ will even help you to find your ideal saddle to maximise your comfort!
and it comes with free stickers!
home to the dukes of bedford for 400  years, woburn is a feast of art and extravagance, embellished with fine  furniture, old masters, gold, silver and porcelain.
other cast members include samantha bond, stephanie cole, matthew kelly and eddie redmayne.
you will probably be surprised at how dry th  soil is despite the watering you have just done.
decadent perhaps, but a great way to celebrate a special occasion.
hoards of cyclists of all shapes and sizes are a common site on london’s roads as many people enjoy the benefits of this exciting activity; regular cycling can help you to lose weight, reduce stress, improve your health, save you money and it’s kind to the environment.
just 20 km west is a bigger neighbour: bristol, with its landmark suspension bridge across the avon gorge; a lively arts scene; a new shopping hub, cabot circus; and the world’s first iron-hulled ocean liner, ss great britain.
it is worth doing this though to keep the shrub in shape and  healthy.
if foods are unfamiliar, introduce them one at a time not altogether
our popular wedding gift service enables you to design a unique piece for the happy couple, with past commissions including an engraved coffee table and a bookcase made of solid oak.
getting your children out in the fresh air can help to naturally increase vitamin d levels and improve bone strength.
we’re especially pleased with the new roses which are flowering well and putting on lots of new growth.
the queen, as patron of the royal theatrical fund, will mark dickens’ bicentenary by attending a theatrical performance entitledmr dickens and the actors by philip franks at the city of london’s guildhall.
if the damage looks as it’s going to get too great then pesticide sprays are available: try to find one that won’t harm the bees as they have suffered a sharp decline in numbers in recent years.
depending on whterh you used water-retaining gel in the compost mix or not, you will need to water every other day or daily in the hottest weather.
doors: it takes just eight seconds to decide whether or not you will buy a house, according to the latest research.
a real treasure trove of goodies, you never know what you'll discover next: furniture, paintings, sculpture, metalwork, and textiles, the list goes on and on… entry is free but special exhibitions require tickets.
we’re especially pleased with the new roses which  are flowering well and putting on lots of new growth.
you could spend a lifetime there, let alone a holiday, without getting bored.
this time of year is when we are often away on holiday for a week or more so unless you have a gardener or a kind neighbour to water for you some of your plants will suffer whilst you are away.
adequate funding must be made available by central government.
enfield north mp nick de bois said, "these posters from fast signs are a great example of the way people in enfield have responded in such a positive manner to the dreadful events of last week.
this will be the  first bmw to drop below the 100g/km barrier, and give exemption from road tax.
green and pleasant land: the cotswold hills.
on to some jobs to do in your garden over the next couple of months.
over half of the human brain is made from fat but a diet high in  saturated fats (ice cream, biscuits, cakes and fried foods) is not the right  kind.
paintings and prints by geoffrey wright.
if  you have a sprinkler licence then a sprinkler is a good way of watering a large  area evenly and thoroughly, otherwise spot water with a hose or watering can.
you need javascript enabled to view it or 020 8379 1461 email:this e-mail address is being protected from spambots.
i advise this because it seems to help avoid setting up a pattern of comfort eating later in life which can lead to gaining weight and other health problems.
one of stephen james core values is to ‘make a difference’
it is the world's highest observation wheel, with 32 capsules, each weighing 10 tonnes, and holding up to 25 people.
we typically only get  20 to 22 inches (50 – 55 cm) of rain per year in the enfield region which  is the same as beirut, which we tend to think of as a desert region!
the london eye is a major feature of london's skyline.
the secretary of state should recommend to  the emerging enfield gp consortium, that as it becomes established, it has as a  leading priority the engagement with local stakeholders about how to build a  future long-term consensus for service delivery and genuine innovation.
council recommendations to the independent reconfiguration panel.
the other problem  areas are plants in containers, pots and hanging baskets, where there is little  compost in relation to the amount of plant material they contain.
if local artists  want to sell their work through this shop they should contact me on 020 8379  3755.”
"the first edition of the  london children's map sold out in six months," she says, "and we have  recently published the 10th edition”, and also a french translation!
i am off the opinion, although the government denies this, that this  decision is about money.
brighton  hasn’t been out of fashion since.
centre manager, eleanor hunter, says, “this is a rare opportunity for  visitors to buy original handmade products and for artists and crafts people to  sell and advertise their skills in the heart of enfield town.
find out about the traditions of maritime london, recall the romance of great ocean liners, and study the controversial history of trade across the atlantic.
don’t miss queen mary’s intricate  doll’s house with its working lifts and water system.
an exhibition of treasures, marking 500 years since king henry viii’s accession, runs until april 2010.
go out to sea without getting your  feet wet by strolling along the pier.
while york is many leagues beyond the capital, windsor is almost next-door.
it  heads for day-trip destinations including gardens of kent and sussex, hever or  leeds castle, with everything arranged, including fine dining as the  countryside flashes by.
attractions include a minster church filled with rainbow-coloured stained  glass; shopping along medieval cobbled streets, a chance to step back a  thousand years to the city’s
the government has outlined plans to create a new offence of using a knife to threaten or endanger a life, which will carry a mandatory six month prison sentence for those found guilty.
however in both instances it is best to start young and investing in bone strength is more likely to give better returns than investing in the stock market!
in november 2010, the full council, with cross party support, agreed the following motion in response to the barnet, enfield and haringey clinical strategy review: 1) patients and residents should be key in planning future facilities and their voice should be heard as the primary stakeholder in healthcare.
kids can help making smoothies which include these fruits.
neither has a central campus: oxford – the ‘city of dreaming spires’ - has 39 separate colleges; 31 make up the university of cambridge.
walk  streets trod by innumerable famous folk: from j.r.r. tolkien and lewis carroll  (oxford) to charles darwin and maynard keynes (cambridge).
and welcoming all visitors to the centre are two bright graduates, lucia  okenve and naveenia virasami, who have been trained to a high standard in  customer care and have learned all about enfield’s unique cultural  attractions and hidden treasures.
e-mail search en magazine click on ad to go to site my tweets _en_magazine: rt @ charlottahughes: two days to go until  maximise you in 2012 takes place.
thanks to a fast train service, this historic walled city 337 km north of london is within the realms of day-trip territory.
water the soil rather than the leaves to prevent leaf scorch and make the watering more efficient.
the root run is obviously restricted to the container and the plants’ leaves tend to prevent any rain we do get reaching the compost’s surface, compounding the problem.
national gallery the national gallery houses one of the greatest collections of western  european painting in the world.
no decisions should undermine the quality and viability of north middlesex hospital.
4) proper investment in our hospitals must be guaranteed.
try mixing them with plain probiotic yoghurts which are also good for helping the digestive system to keep healthy because of the friendly bacteria they contain.
the immune system of a young  child has not yet developed and this one of the reasons why infections can  occur so often.
are we being ruled by a "conalition"?
nearby is warwick, location of an iconic castle that brings medieval england to life, with all its chivalry, romance - and gore.
other ways of making pots and containers easier to water are to stand them in saucers which act as a reservoir of water, or group them together in gravel trays which you can fill up before going on holiday.
the 118d and 120d use the same 2.0-litre diesel engine, but produce 143bhp and 184bhp respectively.
what to do in your garden in mid-summer i’m writing this at the end of june, after a hot, dry week in the  gardens at capel manor and on my allotment.
this needs to be supported by a whole variety of vitamins and minerals alongside a specific balance of fats, proteins, carbohydrates, fibre and water.
see, touch and experience the major scientific advances of the last 300 years; don't forget the awesome imax cinema.
in order to avoid problems later on, one of the  best things we can do is eat a diet full of calcium plus other minerals which  help calcium to do its job.
city and seaside combine in a heady mixture.
while york is many leagues beyond the capital,  windsor is almost next-door.
enfield enterprise and the enfield business community celebrated local business success at a gala dinner on thursday 3rd november.
small pumps are  available which can be used to run a hosepipe from your water-butt (this is  legal even during a hosepipe ban) which is quicker than using a watering can.
small pumps are available which can be used to run a hosepipe from your water-butt (this is legal even during a hosepipe ban) which is quicker than using a watering can.
if you have a sprinkler licence then a sprinkler is a good way of watering a large area evenly and thoroughly, otherwise spot water with a hose or watering can.
cllr bambos charalambous, cabinet member for youth, leisure, culture and  olympics, said, “this is a much needed service in the heart of enfield  town.
viking stronghold: york.
aim for clusters of no more than 4 fruit, removing the short-stalked “king fruit” and removing misshapen or damaged fruitlets, and a spacing of 10 – 15cm between clusters.
intake of fizzy drinks should  be limited.
with bikes ranging from £350 to well over £3000, including a wide range of children’s bikes and with a full cycle workshop for repairs and servicing, no matter what the age or manufacturer of your machine, whether you’re an an experienced cyclist of yet to turn your first pedal, stephen james cycles is committed to helping you enjoy cycling more.
it has certainly felt like this in the past couple of weeks as newly planted areas need a lot more water than just the small amount of rain we’ve had to keep them alive.
the best  time to water is in the early morning before the sun becomes too strong: set  the timer for 5 or 6 o’clock in the morning for 5 minutes to start with  and keep an eye on things for a few days to check that enough water is reaching  the plants.
the world-famous british museum exhibits the works of man from prehistoric to modern times from around the world.
compost tends to shrink in containers making re-wetting tricky and  potentially wasteful of both time and water.
watering in the morning means that evaporation losses are much  lower and unlike evening watering the foliage doesn’t stay wet for too  long so reduces fungal problems.
over half of the human brain is made from fat but a diet high in saturated fats (ice cream, biscuits, cakes and fried foods) is not the right kind.
so the evening will be  fine: do watch out for slug and snail problems as they will be attracted by the  damp soil and head towards your plants, so control them suing your favourite  method.
this includes: ceramics by steve harrison, jewellery and accessories by monica grande, jewellery and candles by cher morresey, aromatherapy products by zuleikha assenjee, heritage and walk guides from the enfield society, and paintings and prints by geoffrey wright.
apples are excellent choices and great for  energy levels.
an added interest at the centre is the shop which is showcasing the  creative talent in enfield with tasteful handmade products for sale by enfield  crafts people and artists.
also remember  that foods can sometimes be easily disguised and added to pasta sauces, mashed  potatoes and other things with which they are already familiar.
water the soil rather than the leaves to prevent leaf scorch  and make the watering more efficient.
completing the range is a new generation of twin-turbocharged  direct-injection 1.6-litre petrol engines – available as the 118i with  170bhp and the 116i with 136bhp.
gooseberries need to be thinned: typically remove half of the fruit to allow the remaining crop to reach a larger size.
a lot of soft fruit will be ready to  harvest soon and needs protecting with netting to prevent birds taking your  crop.
cross the bridge into eton, famed for its boys’ school which has tutored 18 british prime ministers: see the exclusive graffiti on the desks!
the 118d and 120d use the same 2.0-litre diesel engine, but produce 143bhp  and 184bhp respectively.
spot watering is best for larger plants as just the soil around the plant needs  to be watered and the bare soil will stay dry and this will help prevent weed  seed germination.
kourtney has found that the map can really help children and young adults understand and get excited about their london experience and help develop independent, inquiring minds and boost self confidence . . .
so what better way to spread some christmas cheer to donate the teddies to the children at the king fisher ward at chase farm hospital.
there is always so much in the news about healthy eating nowadays including most worryingly childhood obesity, but having a healthy child doesn’t just mean maintaining a healthy weight.
bathrooms: bathrooms can often be a tricky size to get quite right.
some of the tall or floppy plants in the  herbaceous borders need staking to keep them looking tidy, and if you do it now  they will soon grow enough to hide their supports.
the guy fox london children's map is sold at many london tourist attractions, at good bookstores, and online and now at the new enfield tourist information centre at the dugdale centre, staffed tues-fri 11am-3pm.
brain food before the age of three the brain is developing particularly  fast.
and welcoming all visitors to the centre are two bright graduates, lucia okenve and naveenia virasami, who have been trained to a high standard in customer care and have learned all about enfield’s unique cultural attractions and hidden treasures.
many of the foods mentioned above can also help to boost immunity.
home secretary theresa may gave her backing for the campaign after visiting enfield last friday.
climb aboard for a breathtaking experience, offering  you unforgettable views of more than 55 of london's most famous landmarks  – all in just 30 minutes!
dozens of the posters are now on display in shop windows, helping to show that enfield is getting back to normal and is 'open for business' once again.
the v&a celebrates art and design with 3,000 years worth of amazing artefacts from around the world.
what to do in your garden in mid-summer i’m writing this at the end of june, after a hot, dry week in the gardens at capel manor and on my allotment.
robbie and his team of qualified timber joinery craftsmen offer you an unrivalled service that enables you to find the perfect fit to match your style of home, from a victorian terrace to a contemporary new home.
london is very difficult to leave.
perhaps you’re working with an unusual shape, or wanting to improve upon an existing space.
so the evening will be fine: do watch out for slug and snail problems as they will be attracted by the damp soil and head towards your plants, so control them suing your favourite method.
sing along with kylie; strike a  penalty with rooney or receive a once-in-a-lifetime audience with her majesty  the queen.
two of the world’s oldest universities are north-west and north of the capital respectively.
try to replace sugary snacks with healthy alternatives – hummus and  carrots or cucumber for example.
towns such as chipping  campden, broadway and bourton-on-the-water are deservedly popular.
this latest edition has grown in most dimensions over the first 1-series: it is 85mm longer overall, and sits 30mm longer.
the secretary of state should also ensure the future financial sustainability of nhs service in enfield by providing funding to mitigate the impact of the private finance initiative debts on local hospitals 8.
click here for your guide to local businesses.
babies and teenagers in particular are growing and developing at a phenomenal  rate.
it may also be best not to call foods “bad” or use terms such  as “being good” in relation to food intake.
a day out in london april 2009 london is very difficult to leave.
completing the range is a new generation of twin-turbocharged direct-injection 1.6-litre petrol engines – available as the 118i with 170bhp and the 116i with 136bhp.
tour his birthplace and other properties linked to the bard.
calcium is found in dairy foods but also in green  leafy vegetables, broccoli or seeds such as sesame or sunflower.
with a showroom and workshop now on site, romarc joinery has recently rebranded to‘the joinery company london’.
when cartoonist kourtney harper imparted the story of guy fawkes to her young nephew, he asked her why a fox would want to bomb parliament.
stephen james has seen an increasing number of its customers express an interest in cycling, so it’s taken the plunge to become the first bmw dealership in the country to feature a full bike shop: stephen james cycles.
there were four awards categories for companies to enter.
there is always so much in the news about healthy eating nowadays including  most worryingly childhood obesity, but having a healthy child doesn’t  just mean maintaining a healthy weight.
exercise is also good for building strong bones – just the normal  childhood games involving running and jumping as well as the more structured  kinds such as football or dancing fizzy drinks on the other hand are bad news because they can cause calcium  to be lost from bones decreasing their strength.
so let’s look forward to a summer of fun and pleasure.”
kourtney has found that the map can really help children and young adults  understand and get excited about their london experience and help develop  independent, inquiring minds and boost self confidence . . .
enfield north mp, nick de bois has written a joint letter with southgate mp david burrowes to prime minister david cameron, calling for the government's tough new crime policies to also apply to under 18s.
two of the world’s  oldest universities are north-west and north of the capital respectively.
newer plantings of either  bare-root or pot-grown plants are more likely to be suffering as their roots  may not have spread out enough to reach the available water.
the government has outlined plans to create a new offence of using a knife  to threaten or endanger a life, which will carry a mandatory six month  prison sentence for those found guilty.
this latest edition has grown in most dimensions over the first  1-series: it is 85mm longer overall, and sits 30mm longer.
the winner received a family hamper from marks and spencer.
doug taylor, leader of enfield council, said: “the secretary of state said he would listen to enfield’s residents and he has not.
tour their bath, then bathe in  modern thermal pools (complemented by wide ranging spa treatments) at the  thermae spa.
the tradition of afternoon  tea reputedly originated here, circa 1840, and you can partake too, in the  duchess’ tea room.
the most vulnerable are hanging baskets as they typically contain a large number of bedding plants which grow quickly and need lots of water.
however, nick has raised in parliament  the fact that the new policy will not apply to those under 18 years of age.
tour their bath, then bathe in modern thermal pools (complemented by wide ranging spa treatments) at the thermae spa.
you need javascript enabled to view it chickenshed theatre is delighted to be invited to join a celebrity cast in the royal theatrical fund celebration of charles dickens’ bicentenary year in the presence of her majesty the queen on tuesday 14 february.
vitamin d will be very limited during the winter months but can be stored in the body so it is particularly important to build up stores during the summer months.
cutting the grass and edging the lawns is one of the quickest ways of  making a garden look tidier.
the population of enfield is predicted to increase by 40,800 over the next  20 years (14%) with the biggest increases being in the 0-14 and 50+ age groups.
has already  tried to partly sell off!
specifically, the secretary of  state should use the data produced by barnet and chase farm trust on the  viability of full maternity and paediatric consultant led services on both  chase farm and north middlesex sites.
cross the bridge into eton, famed for its boys’ school  which has tutored 18 british prime ministers: see the exclusive graffiti on the  desks!
smaller diameter pipes (4mm) are then  conected to the feeder pipe and lead to micro jets or misters placed in the  hanging basket, more than one may be needed if the basket is a large one.
see a life-sized blue whale, a  40-million-year-old spider and the amazing new darwin centre.
the high calibre of entries was whittled down two finalists in each category.
the preferred home of  the monarch, you will know when queen elizabeth ii is in residence as the royal  standard flies from the ramparts.
vitamin d is vital for the functioning of calcium.
renowned for its shopping and nightlife, brighton’s population is predominantly young, its pace frenetic.
“i would urge  the government to reconsider this decision and listen to what the people of  enfield have said, namely that they value their local hospital and believe it  provides vitally important healthcare to those most in need.”
towns such as chipping campden, broadway and bourton-on-the-water are deservedly popular.
however, nick has raised in parliament the fact that the new policy will not apply to those under 18 years of age.
the secretary of state should  recognise the benefit of local management of hospital services.
there is still time to sow quickly maturing crops such a stump-rooted carrots, lettuce, raddish etc.
furniture: the beauty of bespoke timber joinery is you can have exactly what you wish for.
the worst problems we’re seeing at the moment are black spot, powdery mildew and aphid build up.
pinch out side-shoots on tomatoes if they are a cordon  variety but not a bush type.
adequate funding must be made available by central  government.
in 2000, kourtney went on to establish guy fox history project limited, an educational london charity that engages children with local history through art workshops.
this includes: ceramics by steve harrison, jewellery and accessories by  monica grande, jewellery and candles by cher morresey, aromatherapy products by  zuleikha assenjee, heritage and walk guides from the enfield society, and
the romans were quick to make use of the hot thermal waters gushing out of the rock that bath stands upon.
the timer fits onto a mains  tap and a pipe of typically 12mm diameter is conected to reach near to the  hanging baskets that need watering.
it was through this naive misunderstanding that another type of history was made - the birth of guy fox.
4) proper investment in our hospitals must be  guaranteed.
gaze up at the white tower, tiptoe through a medieval king's bedchamber and marvel at the crown jewels.
with art works ranging from 1250 to 1900,  inside the national gallery you can see work by botticelli, da vinci,  rembrandt, turner, van gogh, cézanne, caravaggio, canaletto and stubbs.
as well as the permanent (and permanently fascinating!) dinosaur exhibition, the natural history museum boasts a collection of the biggest, tallest and rarest animals in the world.
housed in the former bankside power station beside the thames, the gallery displays major works by bonnard, matisse, picasso, rothko, dalí, pollock and warhol, as well as contemporary work, exhibitions and installations.
they also have a sound knowledge of central london and hertfordshire and will be able to help all visitors with information about specific places of interest, transport details, shopping areas and hotel accommodation.
it is easy to find near to enfield town station and major bus routes, and  provides information about all the main attractions to entertain, as well as  our home grown businesses and services throughout the borough.
vitamin d will be very limited during the winter months  but can be stored in the body so it is particularly important to build up  stores during the summer months.
midsummer night’s dream: stratford-upon-avon.
containers and pots can also be watered using this system and i’ve had up to 20 pots and containers watered at home using just one timer and feed pipe with lots of misters connected to it with no problems.
find out about  the traditions of maritime london, recall the romance of great ocean liners,  and study the controversial history of trade across the atlantic.
i’d recommend setting up an automatic irrigation system running off a battery-powered timer: this is available from most garden centres as a starter kit for a reasonable price.
the tourist  information centre will provide a high profile for the borough and add greatly  to the london image.”
front and rear tracks grow by 51mm and 72mm respectively.
the most vulnerable are hanging baskets as  they typically contain a large number of bedding plants which grow quickly and  need lots of water.
cllr bambos charalambous, cabinet member for leisure & olympics, said, “for most people, the olympic and paralympics games happen in their own country once in a lifetime.
alternatively, relax whilst you enjoy a complimentary drink and browse through the products.
workshop/showroom: robbie and the team produce all joinery work on-site in our crews hill workshop, so you can view the production of your commission in action.
however the one place where there is space to build and expand hospital services is to be downgraded.
it features over 150 child-friendly attractions in london.
our routine maintenance includes removing the dead flowers (dead-heading) to encourage new flowers to develop, and checking for pests and diseases.
including these in packed lunches is just as easy as biscuits or  sweets.
stroll around the quadrangles or ‘courts’ at selected times – usually in the afternoons (times vary).
a final tip: a few  minutes a week with a hoe in this dry weather quickly kills off weed seedlings  and keeps beds and borders weed-free.
you could spend a lifetime there, let  alone a holiday, without getting bored.
entry is free but  special exhibitions require tickets.
a café culture is epitomised by  betty’s, where tea and cakes is a gastronomic experience.
douglas· lee publsiher en magazine saturday the 17th september, stephen james will launch the new bmw 1 series with revised engines, more striking design, roomier cabin and improved technology.
these could all  form part of packed lunches on family days out over the summer.
one, snowshill manor,  contains a collection of artefacts so large its eccentric owner was forced to  live in an adjacent cottage.
recently planted bedding plants will  only have shallow roots and will need extra water until they settle down.
winner pressbay ltd www.pressbaymotors.co.uk third door ltd www.thirddoor.co.uk the rsa trust green business of the year
many spring-flowering shrubs  can be pruned now: do check in a good gardening book though to make sure that  you won’t be removing next year’s flower buds if you prune  incorrectly.
highlights include the  rosetta stone, the parthenon sculptures, and the mummies in the ancient egypt  collection.
it may also be best not to call foods “bad” or use terms such as “being good” in relation to food intake.
many spring-flowering shrubs can be pruned now: do check in a good gardening book though to make sure that you won’t be removing next year’s flower buds if you prune incorrectly.
the joinery company london specialise in wardrobes to wow, and can build into the most difficult of spaces.
don’t worry too much about the other 20%.
6) there can be no compromise of patient safety in  planning facilities.
the worst problems we’re  seeing at the moment are black spot, powdery mildew and aphid build up.
there are so many other aspects of  human development that are influenced by the type of foods your child consumes.
it is the world's  highest observation wheel, with 32 capsules, each weighing 10 tonnes, and  holding up to 25 people.
if you planted potatoes you might be lucky enough to be able to take a crop from your first earlies: mine have been delayed by a couple of weeks due to the heavy may frost cutting the foliage right back despite earthing them up.
you will probably be surprised at how dry th soil is despite the watering you have just done.
neither has a central campus: oxford – the  ‘city of dreaming spires’ - has 39 separate colleges; 31 make up  the university of cambridge.
the social action network www.i-volunteer.org.uk is being used to recruit volunteers to the ‘enfield 2012 family’.
“visitors include enfield residents, their friends and families, other londoners, uk domestic visitors and international visitors mainly from north america, europe and china.
i believe the local health trust has over spent on  developments of barnet hospital and north mid hospital and the only asset it  has to offset this is the land at chase farm hospital, which it
apples are excellent choices and great for energy levels.
a train of opulent  carriages with starched tablecloths, polished mahogany decor, and white-suited  attendants, pulls out of london’s victoria station every few days.
well we did warn you that we might  see some frosts in may, and the middle of the month saw an overnight low of -5c
foods should also not  be used as “treats” or as bribes or rewards.
the first difference you will notice is the front with the large ‘kidney shaped’ front grille and with bigger lights on the front and back.
so delightful that many celebrities, from kate winslet to liz hurley, choose to live hereabouts.
there are so many other aspects of human development that are influenced by the type of foods your child consumes.
its focal point is world’s largest and oldest inhabited royal castle, towering above the thames.
entry  is free but special exhibitions require tickets.
adding seeds  to mueslis or using them as snacks is a good way to include these important  foods in our diets.
our made to measure furniture range includes tv units, bookcases, dressers, dining tables, coffee tables and sideboards.
tel: 0208 363 3011 opening hours: monday - saturday 9.30am - 5pm sunday - 10am - 4pm en magazine responds to the decision to close chase farm a&e and maternity units enfield residents are waking up this morning to the news that the secretary of state has decided to ignore them and close the a&e and maternity units at chase farm hospital.
stone fruit such as plums and peaches also need thinning: plums in a similar way to apples and peaches to 10 – 15cm between fruits.
the same routes that bring millions of commuters into the capital daily can be used to advantage as highways to adventure.
this applies especially to cherries and redcurrants, but once they have eaten them they will move on to the other fruit!
not only is it roomier than before, it’s  cheaper to run, too, thanks to a new range of engines – including a 116d  that will arrive next year, with 74mpg and 99g/km of co2.
just 20 km west is a bigger neighbour: bristol, with its landmark  suspension bridge across the avon gorge; a lively arts scene; a new shopping  hub, cabot circus; and the world’s first iron-hulled ocean liner, ss  great britain.
tour his birthplace and other  properties linked to the bard.
walk streets trod by innumerable famous folk: from j.r.r. tolkien and lewis carroll (oxford) to charles darwin and maynard keynes (cambridge).
useful phone numbers articles
the best source comes from oily fish such as salmon, sardines or  mackerel.
stephen james cycles’ staff have a depth of experience in the bike industry as well as state of the art equipment to help you find your ideal bike.
an added interest at the centre is the shop which is showcasing the creative talent in enfield with tasteful handmade products for sale by enfield crafts people and artists.
for the first time in this class, the 1-series  is available with an optional eight-speed auto.
so  delightful that many celebrities, from kate winslet to liz hurley, choose to  live hereabouts.
tahini is made from sesame seeds and can be eaten with pitta bread or vegetables for dipping and may be something your child enjoys particularly if they already like the more well-known hummus.
specifically, the secretary of state should use the data produced by barnet and chase farm trust on the viability of full maternity and paediatric consultant led services on both chase farm and north middlesex sites.
the secretary of state should require further doh analysis of the strategic options produced by barnet and chase farm hospital acute trust which indicate costs and viability of alternative options to the barnet, enfield and haringey clinical strategy.
outside, deer roam a spacious park, and there’s  a new exhibition of monumental sculpture.
establishing a good relationship with food establishing a relaxed  relationship with food is very important and for this reasons i suggest making  sure that your child is following a good balanced diet for, let’s say,  80% of the time.
outside, deer roam a spacious park, and there’s a new exhibition of monumental sculpture.
in november 2010, the full council, with cross party support, agreed  the following motion in response to the barnet, enfield and haringey clinical  strategy review: 1) patients and residents should be key in planning  future facilities and their voice should be heard as the primary stakeholder in  healthcare.
a quick scrape back of the  soil will tell you how moist the soil is under the surface and how far the  water has travelled into the soil.
in capel manor’s walled garden.
discover the perfect bike for leisurely rides with friends, choose and be fitted to a new machine for pedalling your way to fitness.
a real treasure trove of goodies, you never  know what you'll discover next: furniture, paintings, sculpture, metalwork, and  textiles, the list goes on and on… entry is free but special exhibitions  require tickets.
entry is free but special exhibitions require tickets.
our kitchens are handcrafted by experienced craftsmen, using the raw material of your choice, be it solid oak through to sprayed mdf (matt or gloss), in any colour.
entry is free but some exhibitions require tickets.
good choices would be pumpkin  seeds, avocadoes, wholegrains (brown rice, pasta or bread).
take a tour with one of the yeoman warders around the tower of london, one of the world's most famous buildings.
i believe that if you are too strict about foods you can create a worse situation later on with them rebelling and binging once they are out of your clutches.
and it comes with  free stickers!
tahini is made from sesame seeds and can be eaten with  pitta bread or vegetables for dipping and may be something your child enjoys  particularly if they already like the more well-known hummus.
in the longer term, enfield residents want good value services at both the enfield hospitals and there should be joined up thinking and working that ensures this occurs, which might result in a closer relationship than the current one.
north londoner robbie pritchett has been a joiner for over 20 years, and his passion for producing bespoke handcrafted timber pieces is truly unique.
the british museum the world-famous british museum exhibits the works of man from  prehistoric to modern times from around the world.
watering in the morning means that evaporation losses are much lower and unlike evening watering the foliage doesn’t stay wet for too long so reduces fungal problems.
adding seeds to mueslis or using them as snacks is a good way to include these important foods in our diets.
home to the dukes of bedford for 400 years, woburn is a feast of art and extravagance, embellished with fine furniture, old masters, gold, silver and porcelain.
you  can’t control what they eat all of the time, particularly once they are  out and about with their friends over the summer months.
in  addition berries, oranges and grapefruits are full of vitamin c which is vital  for the immune system.
they usually love to be involved in cooking and over the summer holidays there should hopefully be far more time for such activities.
good choices would be pumpkin seeds, avocadoes, wholegrains (brown rice, pasta or bread).
they also have a sound knowledge of central london and hertfordshire and  will be able to help all visitors with information about specific places of  interest, transport details, shopping areas and hotel accommodation.
include pop-up sprinklers for lawns (i don’t water my home lawns and they  always recover in the autumn when the rain increases) and porous soaker hoses  made from recycled tyres, which i have found tend not to work in hard water  areas such as ours as they block up with limescale too easily.
luggage grows 30 litres to 360 litres with the seats up, and 1200 litres with  the seats down.
i have followed the fight to keep chase farm hospital fully open over the  last few years and have seen nothing that has made me believe this is the right  decision.
seaside delights: brighton.
apples and pears need thinning out to give better sized and healthier fruit.
en magazine responds to the decision to close chase farm a&e and  maternity units enfield residents are waking up this morning to the news that the secretary  of state has decided to ignore them and close the a&e and maternity units  at chase farm hospital.
other watering equipment you might see at the garden centres
so  there are lots on the plate that the child does not recognise.
onto the kitchen garden!
entry is free  but special exhibitions require tickets.
dead-heading will encourage repeat-flowering on a lot of garden plants eg dahlias so is worth doing unless you want to save the seed heads on the plant for winter interest, and many of them do look good with the frost on them in the winter sun.
the new 1 series is more eco-friendly, with reduced co2 emissions and improved economy across the range.
what was the date of the official opening of tower bridge?*
while this model may mark the entry point to bmw ownership, the german firm hasn’t cut any corners.
our bones are built up in our youth and once we hit our thirties their  strength starts to decline.
the joinery company london has been providing homeowners in north london and the surrounds, with custom-made joinery for more than 20 years.
spot watering is best for larger plants as just the soil around the plant needs to be watered and the bare soil will stay dry and this will help prevent weed seed germination.
the same day a year ago had 7c as the  minimum so that’s a 12c drop – no wonder it felt cold!
try out the cycling simulator in store, ride an alpine pass or find out if you’re the next chris hoy on the virtual velodrome.
renowned for its shopping and nightlife,  brighton’s population is predominantly young, its pace frenetic.
the range includes models from bmw and trek including the tour de france winning madone, state of the art mountain bikes as well as fitness, recreational and even electrically assisted bikes to give you a helping hand as you build your stamina.
“i would urge the government to reconsider this decision and listen to what the people of enfield have said, namely that they value their local hospital and believe it provides vitally important healthcare to those most in need.”
ideally water in the early morning but lots of us don’t have time to do that
the tower of london take a tour with one of the yeoman warders around the tower of london, one  of the world's most famous buildings.
a quick scrape back of the soil will tell you how moist the soil is under the surface and how far the water has travelled into the soil.
the population of enfield is predicted to increase by 40,800 over the next 20 years (14%) with the biggest increases being in the 0-14 and 50+ age groups.
natural history museum as well as the permanent (and permanently fascinating!)
think picture-perfect towns  and villages of golden stone, tea shops, and countryside of rolling hills and  meadows, dotted with gardens and historic houses.
they have a simple mission: to create innovative activities and  publications that encourage children to explore the neighbourhood around them,  with its eponymous cartoon fox figure and revealing tag line, "history on  the sly".
intake of fizzy drinks should be limited.
aim for clusters of no more than  4 fruit, removing the short-stalked “king fruit” and removing  misshapen or damaged fruitlets, and a spacing of 10 – 15cm between  clusters.
cllr bambos charalambous, cabinet member for youth, leisure, culture and olympics, said, “this is a much needed service in the heart of enfield town.
in preference use fruit juices diluted with water, or just  encourage the drinking of plain water.
it was  through this naive misunderstanding that another type of history was made - the  birth of guy fox.
culver garden centre cattlegate road crews hill en2 9ds
the future of chase farm as a viable hospital must be guaranteed, providing the services that local people need, want and ask for.
however in both instances it is best to start young and investing in bone  strength is more likely to give better returns than investing in the stock  market!
we’ve selected ten of the best and, within minutes of  breakfasting in the capital, visitors can be on their way to a stately home,  seaside resort or historic city, confident they will be back in time for the  nightlife.
“enfield council will continue to fight for residents best  interests and lobby tirelessly for these services to be retained.
“enfield council believes these services meet a genuine need in enfield and their closure would have devastating effect on healthcare in our borough.
there are two range-topping versions the urban and sport.
foods should also not be used as “treats” or as bribes or rewards.
the secretary of state should recognise the benefit of local management of hospital services.
some of the tall or floppy plants in the herbaceous borders need staking to keep them looking tidy, and if you do it now they will soon grow enough to hide their supports.
you can’t control what they eat all of the time, particularly once they are out and about with their friends over the summer months.
“more and more young people are carrying and using knifes in our local community and we feel that members of the public should not have to face the treat of knife crime from anyone what ever their age.”
the new space offers the opportunity to experience a selection of the finished products in the showroom plus see how we work behind the scenes.
it is better to water thoroughly once a  week than give plants a light water daily as light waterings can evaporate  before the water reaches the plants’ roots.
award winner zinfinity www.zinfinity.co.uk runner up junk junk llp www.junkjunk.co.uk the rsa trust start up business of the year award (businesses trading under 2 years)
the secretary of state should ensure the future financial sustainability of nhs services in enfield by undertaking an urgent and transparent review of the funding formula for local pcts 6.
these could all form part of packed lunches on family days out over the summer.
victoria & albert museum the v&a celebrates art and design with 3,000 years worth of amazing  artefacts from around the world.
dozens of the posters are now on display in shop windows, helping  to show that enfield is getting back to normal and is 'open for business' once  again.
the thinnings can be used for crumbles and pies!
i’ve been asked to pass on  some watering advice as a lot of plants are beginning to flag in the heat: the  strong breeze has made things dry out even more quickly.
sing along with kylie; strike a penalty with rooney or receive a once-in-a-lifetime audience with her majesty the queen.
i’ve been asked to pass on some watering advice as a lot of plants are beginning to flag in the heat: the strong breeze has made things dry out even more quickly.
the urban is  more luxury focused, getting a wide choice of exterior styling options  including white wheels, wing mirrors and trim, and a slatted grille.
as with everything we create, our windows are made to measure, giving you the perfect fit every time.
stone fruit such as plums and peaches also need thinning: plums in a  similar way to apples and peaches to 10 – 15cm between fruits.
the guy fox london children's map is sold at many london tourist  attractions, at good bookstores, and online and now at the new enfield tourist  information centre at the dugdale centre, staffed tues-fri 11am-3pm.
i’m now going to suggest  some ways of making the watering process more efficient and easier.
our routine maintenance  includes removing the dead flowers (dead-heading) to encourage new flowers to  develop, and checking for pests and diseases.
i advise this because  it seems to help avoid setting up a pattern of comfort eating later in life  which can lead to gaining weight and other health problems.
stroll around the quadrangles or  ‘courts’ at selected times – usually in the afternoons (times  vary).
it will be a hit with company car drivers and private buyers who are keen to cut their tax bills.
the secretary of state should consult with the hospital trusts about joint arrangements across the hospitals to address workforce concerns, clinical issues and maximise patient services and patient choice.
the root run  is obviously restricted to the container and the plants’ leaves tend to  prevent any rain we do get reaching the compost’s surface, compounding  the problem.
council motion enfield council  has been a consistent commentator on the barnet, enfield and haringey clinical  strategy.
i have followed the fight to keep chase farm hospital fully open over the last few years and have seen nothing that has made me believe this is the right decision.
at both, you can go punting along the river, though the bicycle is the preferred means of transport.
this will be the first bmw to drop below the 100g/km barrier, and give exemption from road tax.
don’t miss queen mary’s intricate doll’s house with its working lifts and water system.
exercise is also good for building strong bones – just the normal childhood games involving running and jumping as well as the more structured kinds such as football or dancing fizzy drinks on the other hand are bad news because they can cause calcium to be lost from bones decreasing their strength.
it will be a hit with company car drivers and private buyers who are keen to  cut their tax bills.
fast signs, whose own shop window was shattered during the riots, are  considering continuing the posters after an initial 100 print run in order to  raise money for a local charity.
there's still a couple of places left so give  me a shout...http://t.co/tcbqof8t _
it features  over 150 child-friendly attractions in london.
a new royal shakespeare theatre is set to open  in 2010; in the meantime, it’s possible to take in a performance at the  courtyard theatre.
robbie and his team of qualified timber joinery craftsmen offer an unrivalled service that enables clients to find the perfect fit to match your style of home, from a victorian terrace to a contemporary new home.
*to win a copy of the guy fox london children’s map, please send in on a postcard including your name, age and postal address the answer to the following question, 3 winners will be drawn at random by 30th july 2010.
the best way to do this is to register an interest with the enfield ‘family of 2012 volunteers’ which is a database of people who want to get involved with anything going on in enfield during 2012 that is linked to the olympics and olympic values.
move  your pots to a shady are if possible and cover them with horticultural fleece  to reduce evaporation.
“visitors include enfield residents, their friends and families,  other londoners, uk domestic visitors and international visitors mainly from  north america, europe and china.
calcium is found in dairy foods but also in green leafy vegetables, broccoli or seeds such as sesame or sunflower.
the store offers a wide selection of bikes, parts and accessories from leading manufacturers in an environment you’ll love spending time in.
the prime minister, when in opposition pledged to reverse the plans to  close chase farm hospital when he visited the hospital in 2007 – was this  an outright con to win local votes?.
newer plantings of either bare-root or pot-grown plants are more likely to be suffering as their roots may not have spread out enough to reach the available water.
viking past at the jorvik centre; museums; regular festivals and daily ghost walks.
the secretary of  state should ensure that 24/7 consultant led accident and emergency services  are retained on the chase farm and north middlesex sites.
pricing is dependent on size, however to give you an indication, based on a double glazed unit of 5ft x 2.5ft, the cost would be £850 per window (including draft excluders).
royal castle: windsor.
doug taylor, leader of  enfield council, said: “the secretary of state said he would  listen to enfield’s residents and he has not.
douglas· lee en magazine new bmw 1 series saturday the 17th september, stephen james will launch the new bmw 1 series  with revised engines, more striking design, roomier cabin and improved  technology.
its focal point is world’s largest and  oldest inhabited royal castle, towering above the thames.
they usually love to be  involved in cooking and over the summer holidays there should hopefully be far  more time for such activities.
with art works ranging from 1250 to 1900, inside the national gallery you can see work by botticelli, da vinci, rembrandt, turner, van gogh, cézanne, caravaggio, canaletto and stubbs.
the london eye the london eye is a major feature of london's skyline.
the timer fits onto a mains tap and a pipe of typically 12mm diameter is conected to reach near to the hanging baskets that need watering.
the first difference you will notice is the front with the large  ‘kidney shaped’ front grille and with bigger lights on the front  and back.
recently planted bedding plants will only have shallow roots and will need extra water until they settle down.
if you would like to support the campaign you can download a petition  document here http://www.nickdebois.com/downloads/petition-to-house-of-commons--youth-knife-crime.pdf tourist information centre launch – enfield’s first tourist information centre makes its debut at the  dugdale centre on tuesday 6th july.
guy fox also publish a family newsletter three times a year; it features  family-friendly events and activities across london which is free to download www.guyfox.org.uk guy fox history project receives no government or  statutory funding.
i’m now going to suggest some ways of making the watering process more efficient and easier.
a final tip: a few minutes a week with a hoe in this dry weather quickly kills off weed seedlings and keeps beds and borders weed-free.
long fashionable, the city is full of elegant 18th century neoclassical architecture which has earned it world heritage city status from unesco.
cutting the grass and edging the lawns is one of the quickest ways of making a garden look tidier.
dead-heading will encourage  repeat-flowering on a lot of garden plants eg dahlias so is worth doing unless  you want to save the seed heads on the plant for winter interest, and many of  them do look good with the frost on them in the winter sun.
an exhibition of  treasures, marking 500 years since king henry viii’s accession, runs  until april 2010.
healthy eating in the school summer holidays all parents want the best for their children but in the long summer  holidays how can you ensure that their diet stays healthy and nutritious
enfield north mp nick de bois said, "these posters from fast signs are  a great example of the way people in enfield have responded in such a positive  manner to the dreadful events of last week.
the secretary of state should also ensure the  future financial sustainability of nhs service in enfield by providing funding  to mitigate the impact of the private finance initiative debts on local  hospitals 8.
come and see us at stephen james enfield, or give us a call on 020 8443 8443 enfield council statement on government's decision to close chase farm hospital a&e and maternity services.
this needs to be supported by a whole variety of vitamins and minerals  alongside a specific balance of fats, proteins, carbohydrates, fibre and water.
in the season of giving, stephen james gives back to the community.
fortunately  things have warmed up now and the new plantings for the queen’s visit  have settled in well.
the future of chase farm as  a viable hospital must be guaranteed, providing the services that local people  need, want and ask for.
asking a youngster to start thinking about osteoporosis is like asking them to invest their pocket money in a pension!
this is helped with auto start stop  technology, which is now standard in both manual and automatic versions.
strong healthy bones
wardrobes: you can’t beat a made to measure wardrobe.
providing them with everything they need for now and their future.
winner halo dogs ltd www.halodogs.co.uk runner up just like mum ltd www.justlikemum.com enfield retailer of the year sponsored by enfield council winner papylon www.papylonlondon.co.uk runner up holtwhites bakery www.holtwhitesbakery.co.uk cycling in the uk is more popular than ever.
this is helped with auto start stop technology, which is now standard in both manual and automatic versions.
it was the fun-loving prince regent, later king  george iv, who made this resort fashionable, building the exotic,  oriental-style royal pavilion as his pleasure dome in 1822.
including these in packed lunches is just as easy as biscuits or sweets.
come and see us at stephen james enfield, or give us a call on 020 8443 8443 enfield council statement on government's decision to close chase  farm hospital a&e and maternity services.
the prime minister, when in opposition pledged to reverse the plans to close chase farm hospital when he visited the hospital in 2007 – was this an outright con to win local votes?.
the new 1 series is more eco-friendly, with reduced co2 emissions and  improved economy across the range.
our bones are built up in our youth and once we hit our thirties their strength starts to decline.
smaller diameter pipes (4mm) are then conected to the feeder pipe and lead to micro jets or misters placed in the hanging basket, more than one may be needed if the basket is a large one.
our handmade bespoke units for bathrooms will fit the bill, with our popular sink units and toilet units designed to make the most of even the smallest room.
bmw has kept the height  identical but found 17mm extra width and delivers 21mm morerear legroom.
the interiors can be fitted out as per your specifications, leaving you with the perfect selection of drawers, shoe racks, double hanging and mirrors.
the rsa trust business of the year award (businesses trading over 2 years)
however the one place where there is space to build and expand hospital  services is to be downgraded.
the best time to water is in the early morning before the sun becomes too strong: set the timer for 5 or 6 o’clock in the morning for 5 minutes to start with and keep an eye on things for a few days to check that enough water is reaching the plants.
the sport models have different alloys, revised bumpers and m-sport suspension.
as the borough gears up for the london 2012 games and the queen’s diamond jubilee, enfield council with the volunteer centre enfield are appealing to residents and businesses to volunteer and become part of the action.
a train of opulent carriages with starched tablecloths, polished mahogany decor, and white-suited attendants, pulls out of london’s victoria station every few days.
gooseberries need to be thinned: typically remove half of the fruit to allow  the remaining crop to reach a larger size.
it has certainly felt like this in the past  couple of weeks as newly planted areas need a lot more water than just the  small amount of rain we’ve had to keep them alive.
this december stephen james mini held a competition to guess how many teddies can you fit in the mini!
climb aboard for a breathtaking experience, offering you unforgettable views of more than 55 of london's most famous landmarks – all in just 30 minutes!
so for those of us in london this year’s games and other events are a great opportunity to take part in some way with a local event or volunteer.
all parents want the best for their children but in the long summer holidays how can you ensure that their diet stays healthy and nutritious providing them with everything they need for now and their future.
the new showroom and workshop is at unit 7
even though the more powerful version promises 0-62mph in 7.2 seconds, its co2 output is as low as 119g/km, while fuel economy is 65mpg.
compost tends to shrink in containers making re-wetting tricky and potentially wasteful of both time and water.
luggage grows 30 litres to 360 litres with the seats up, and 1200 litres with the seats down.
the impressive tate modern is britain's national museum of modern art.
i do want people in all parts of the borough to have a chance to take part.”
it is easy to find near to enfield town station and major bus routes, and provides information about all the main attractions to entertain, as well as our home grown businesses and services throughout the borough.
we also have a small fund for the big jubilee lunch street parties on 2nd and 3rd june for the queen’s diamond jubilee.
in the meantime, the line-up comprises of revised versions of existing engines which are now quicker and more eco-friendly.
from shakespeare to britney, you'll meet influential figures from  showbiz, sport, politics and even royalty.
if foods are unfamiliar, introduce them one at a time not altogether so there are lots on the plate that the child does not recognise.
i think people want to focus on the  good things to come out of this, and see the posters as a symbol of something  optimisitc".
thanks to a fast train service, this historic  walled city 337 km north of london is within the realms of day-trip territory.
viking past at the jorvik centre; museums;  regular festivals and daily ghost walks.
in preference use fruit juices diluted with water, or just encourage the drinking of plain water.
brain food before the age of three the brain is developing particularly fast.
other ways of making pots and containers easier to water  are to stand them in saucers which act as a reservoir of water, or group them  together in gravel trays which you can fill up before going on holiday.
the tourist information centre will provide a high profile for the borough and add greatly to the london image.”
there are five variants available at launch: two petrol engined-models, and three diesels.
to help fund community projects, kourtney decided produce and sell the guy  fox london children's map isbn 9781904711049 £2.95, an easy-to-use,  highly illustrated, simplified yet accurate graphic pocket map.
we’re cutting the lawns at capel weekly now, but if the dry weather continues we will raise the height of cut another notch to help prevent the grass from being stressed so much.
while this model may mark the entry point to bmw ownership, the german firm  hasn’t cut any corners.
once again the oils need other nutrients to help them  convert to those “little grey cells”.
i was very pleased to see enfield council and local mp nick de bois openly  saying that this is the wrong decision and hope that they will join forces and  do what ever they can to try and overturn this decision.
visit our new showroom and workshop in crews hill to experience a selection of our finished products plus see how we work behind the scenes.
we’re cutting  the lawns at capel weekly now, but if the dry weather continues we will raise  the height of cut another notch to help prevent the grass from being stressed  so much.
the secretary of state should require further doh  analysis of the strategic options produced by barnet and chase farm hospital  acute trust which indicate costs and viability of alternative options to the  barnet, enfield and haringey clinical strategy.
http://www.hertslink.org/buildingfutures a poster campaign started by a local printers after the riots in enfield town has been backed by home secretary, theresa may. fast signs, of colman parade, southbury road, started giving away free the "i love enfield - keep smiling" posters in an effort to boost morale among shops and businesses in enfield town after the violence and looting of last monday.
a new royal shakespeare theatre is set to open in 2010; in the meantime, it’s possible to take in a performance at the courtyard theatre.
we typically only get 20 to 22 inches (50 – 55 cm) of rain per year in the enfield region which is the same as beirut, which we tend to think of as a desert region!
other  additions to the standard specification include a leather-covered steering  wheel, chrome exhaust and keyless start.
for the first time in this class, the 1-series is available with an optional eight-speed auto.
"the first edition of the london children's map sold out in six months," she says, "and we have recently published the 10th edition”, and also a french translation!
from the future of space travel to asking that difficult question, "who am i?", the science museum makes your brain perform olympic-standard mental gymnastics.
long fashionable, the city is full of elegant 18th century  neoclassical architecture which has earned it world heritage city status from  unesco.
the same routes that bring millions  of commuters into the capital daily can be used to advantage as highways to  adventure.
they placed a car outside the entrance of the david lloyds leisure centre in enfield and lots of people took part guessing everything from 50 to 380.
this includes: cllr charalambous added, “this is a busy year with over 100 events throughout the borough involving voluntary groups.
centre manager, eleanor hunter, says, “this is a rare opportunity for visitors to buy original handmade products and for artists and crafts people to sell and advertise their skills in the heart of enfield town.
also remember that foods can sometimes be easily disguised and added to pasta sauces, mashed potatoes and other things with which they are already familiar.
other parts of britain get two or three times this amount, so we need to water our plants more than other areas.
the best source comes from oily fish such as salmon, sardines or mackerel.
this applies especially to cherries and redcurrants, but once they have  eaten them they will move on to the other fruit!
the secretary of state should ensure that 24/7 consultant led accident and emergency services are retained on the chase farm and north middlesex sites.
as well as offering smooth,  quick shifts, the new gearbox promises stronger efficiency than the manual  models.
the other problem areas are plants in containers, pots and hanging baskets, where there is little compost in relation to the amount of plant material they contain.
there are plenty of  other things that can be used for rewards – magazines or comics for  example or trips to the park or swimming pool – even better!
i was very pleased to see enfield council and local mp nick de bois openly saying that this is the wrong decision and hope that they will join forces and do what ever they can to try and overturn this decision.
pots should have a watering gap between the top of the  rim and the compost’s surface of 1.5 to 3cm depending on the pot size  (plastic pots usually have a moulded rim: if you fill with compost to the  bottom of the rim this leaves the correct watering gap) and the best method is  to fill the pot with water to the brim, leave 5 minutes and repeat, to ensure  thorough wetting.
but london isn’t england:  there’s so much to see and do beyond the extremities of the underground  that some longer day trips are de rigueur.
on to some jobs  to do in your garden over the next couple of months.
“enfield council believes these services meet a genuine need in enfield  and their closure would have devastating effect on healthcare in our borough.
if you would like to support the campaign you can download a petition document here http://www.nickdebois.com/downloads/petition-to-house-of-commons--youth-knife-crime.pdf tourist information centre launch – enfield’s first tourist information centre makes its debut at the dugdale centre on tuesday 6th july.
charles dickens, considered one of the greatest writers of the 19th century, is as famous on-screen and on-stage as on the page.
pots should have a watering gap between the top of the rim and the compost’s surface of 1.5 to 3cm depending on the pot size (plastic pots usually have a moulded rim: if you fill with compost to the bottom of the rim this leaves the correct watering gap) and the best method is to fill the pot with water to the brim, leave 5 minutes and repeat, to ensure thorough wetting.
well we did warn you that we might see some frosts in may, and the middle of the month saw an overnight low of -5c in capel manor’s walled garden.
to find out more contact meera vasudevan 020 8373 6348 email this e-mail address is being protected from spambots.
e-mail www.lucyswebdesigns.co.uk .
“enfield’s population is predicted to increase by 40,000 over the next 20 years and birth rates are predicted to increase by 8.3 per cent in coming years, so there is a desperate need for the chase farm maternity and a&e units to be retained to meet future need.
home secretary theresa may gave her backing for the campaign after visiting  enfield last friday.
council motion enfield council has been a consistent commentator on the barnet, enfield and haringey clinical strategy.
en magazine is backing this campaign.
the national gallery houses one of the greatest collections of western european painting in the world.
windows: the joinery company london specialises in double glazed sash windows, that replicate the traditional ones we all know and love, but with double glazed modern technology.
charles dickens was instrumental in founding the royal theatrical fund (formerly the general theatrical fund association), the profession’s oldest charity, and was the first chairman in 1839.
the preferred home of the monarch, you will know when queen elizabeth ii is in residence as the royal standard flies from the ramparts.
but london isn’t england: there’s so much to see and do beyond the extremities of the underground that some longer day trips are de rigueur.
i believe that  if you are too strict about foods you can create a worse situation later on  with them rebelling and binging once they are out of your clutches.
stephen james cycles is situated on the first floor of stephen james’ bmw showroom in enfield (lincoln road junction of a10).
babies and teenagers in particular are growing and developing at a phenomenal rate.
pinch out side-shoots on tomatoes if they are a cordon variety but not a bush type.
local residents favour  strategic option 1.
the reception, hosted by her majesty the queen and his royal highness, the duke of edinburgh, celebrates the bicentenary of dickens birth.
centres of learning: oxford, 60 and cambridge.
one, snowshill manor, contains a collection of artefacts so large its eccentric owner was forced to live in an adjacent cottage.
if a small pot is completely dried out then try dunking it in  a bucket of water for quick results.
dinosaur  exhibition, the natural history museum boasts a collection of the biggest,  tallest and rarest animals in the world.
the romans were quick to make use of the hot thermal waters  gushing out of the rock that bath stands upon.
the same day a year ago had 7c as the minimum so that’s a 12c drop – no wonder it felt cold!
it heads for day-trip destinations including gardens of kent and sussex, hever or leeds castle, with everything arranged, including fine dining as the countryside flashes by.
the cities have remarkable museums: oxford’s ashmolean is the  grand-daddy of museums, dating from 1683; cambridge has the fitzwilliam.
this  time of year is when we are often away on holiday for a week or more so unless  you have a gardener or a kind neighbour to water for you some of your plants  will suffer whilst you are away.
establishing a good relationship with food establishing a relaxed relationship with food is very important and for this reasons i suggest making sure that your child is following a good balanced diet for, let’s say, 80% of the time.
fortunately things have warmed up now and the new plantings for the queen’s visit have settled in well.
attractions include a minster church filled with rainbow-coloured stained glass; shopping along medieval cobbled streets, a chance to step back a thousand years to the city’s
decadent perhaps, but a great way to celebrate a  special occasion.
depending on whterh you used water-retaining gel in the compost mix or not, you  will need to water every other day or daily in the hottest weather.
gaze up at  the white tower, tiptoe through a medieval king's bedchamber and marvel at the  crown jewels.
bmw has kept the height identical but found 17mm extra width and delivers 21mm morerear legroom.
local mp’s fighting to stop knife crime enfield north mp, nick de bois has written a joint letter with southgate mp david burrowes to prime minister david cameron, calling for  the government's tough new crime policies to also apply to under 18s.
i believe the local health trust has over spent on developments of barnet hospital and north mid hospital and the only asset it has to offset this is the land at chase farm hospital, which it has already tried to partly sell off!
getting your children  out in the fresh air can help to naturally increase vitamin d levels and  improve bone strength.
the secretary of state should consult with the hospital trusts  about joint arrangements across the hospitals to address workforce concerns,  clinical issues and maximise patient services and patient choice.
not only is it roomier than before, it’s cheaper to run, too, thanks to a new range of engines – including a 116d that will arrive next year, with 74mpg and 99g/km of co2.
three normal and five metallic exterior paint colours are available.
‘visit london’ project manager, lael scheckter, said, ”enfield is establishing a firm base to introduce new people to north london and we welcome the great efforts being made to promote its arts and museums and the work it is doing with local arts and crafts people.
it is worth doing this though to keep the shrub in shape and healthy.
from shakespeare to britney, you'll meet influential figures from showbiz, sport, politics and even royalty.
apples and pears need thinning  out to give better sized and healthier fruit.
the secretary of state should ensure the future financial  sustainability of nhs services in enfield by undertaking an urgent and  transparent review of the funding formula for local pcts 6.
front and  rear tracks grow by 51mm and 72mm respectively.
in order to avoid problems later on, one of the best things we can do is eat a diet full of calcium plus other minerals which help calcium to do its job.
#chickenshed theater to perform in front of the queen as part of the charles  dickens’ bicentenary year celebrationshttp://t.co/u64termx _en_magazine: #enfield town ladies are just one victory away from facing  manchester city - find out more athttp://t.co/vu2syh01 follow me on twitter
go out to sea without getting your feet wet by strolling along the pier.
a café culture is epitomised by betty’s, where tea and cakes is a gastronomic experience.
housed in the former bankside power station beside the thames, the gallery  displays major works by bonnard, matisse, picasso, rothko, dalí, pollock  and warhol, as well as contemporary work, exhibitions and installations.
following the performance, members of chickenshed theatre will join other organisations for a private reception at buckingham palace where memorabilia from the royal collection of dickens will be on display.
in the absence of foundation trust status the secretary of state should take action to safeguard receipts (revenue and capital) from the chase farm site for reinvestment in front line nhs services in enfield and at chase farm 7.
think picture-perfect towns and villages of golden stone, tea shops, and countryside of rolling hills and meadows, dotted with gardens and historic houses.
other  parts of britain get two or three times this amount, so we need to water our  plants more than other areas.
at madame tussauds, you'll come face-to-face with some of the world's most famous faces.
in doing so  additional primary care and community services, could assist with demand  management and should be explored as part of this option.
the thinnings can be used for  crumbles and pies!
the secretary of state should recommend to the emerging enfield gp consortium, that as it becomes established, it has as a leading priority the engagement with local stakeholders about how to build a future long-term consensus for service delivery and genuine innovation.
home most stately: woburn abbey.
if you mulched  your plants as advised in this column in early spring your established plants  should be holding up well in the recent dry spell.
there are plenty of other things that can be used for rewards – magazines or comics for example or trips to the park or swimming pool – even better!
brighton hasn’t been out of fashion since.
there is still time to sow quickly maturing crops  such a stump-rooted carrots, lettuce, raddish etc.
and there are many ways that residents can make a contribution to enfield’s activities and to the games.
guy fox also publish a family newsletter three times a year; it features family-friendly events and activities across london which is free to download www.guyfox.org.uk guy fox history project receives no government or statutory funding.
fast signs, whose own shop window was shattered during the riots, are considering continuing the posters after an initial 100 print run in order to raise money for a local charity.
if you mulched your plants as advised in this column in early spring your established plants should be holding up well in the recent dry spell.
and at least four of them will be spent waiting at the front door.
national maritime museum one of the world's greatest maritime museums, the national maritime museum  contains models, paintings and trophies from every continent.
one of the world's greatest maritime museums, the national maritime museum contains models, paintings and trophies from every continent.
easily accessible and with convenient parking, stephen james cycles is open to everyone.
containers and pots can also be watered  using this system and i’ve had up to 20 pots and containers watered at  home using just one timer and feed pipe with lots of misters connected to it  with no problems.
boosting immunity many parents find that that once their children are  at school or nursery, they start to pick up one bug after another with a  constant round of coughs, colds and sore throats.
discover its 900-year history as a royal palace, prison and place of execution, arsenal, jewel house and zoo!
here at the joinery company london, we offer the design and production of exterior and internal doors.
the urban is more luxury focused, getting a wide choice of exterior styling options including white wheels, wing mirrors and trim, and a slatted grille.
“more and more young people are  carrying and using knifes in our local community and we feel that members of  the public should not have to face the treat of knife crime from anyone what  ever their age.”
madame tussauds at madame tussauds, you'll come face-to-face with some of the world's most  famous faces.
even though the more powerful version promises 0-62mph  in 7.2 seconds, its co2 output is as low as 119g/km, while fuel economy is  65mpg.
encourage children to help you in preparing foods.
be it a design you choose from our showroom, or perhaps you have a photograph from a magazine you’d like replicated, they also accept doodles!
in the longer term, enfield residents want  good value services at both the enfield hospitals and there should be joined up  thinking and working that ensures this occurs, which might result in a closer  relationship than the current one.
if you planted potatoes you might be lucky enough to be  able to take a crop from your first earlies: mine have been delayed by a couple  of weeks due to the heavy may frost cutting the foliage right back despite  earthing them up.
all doors are crafted in our on-site workshop, in a material chosen by you, and if you’d like, designed by you too.
in 2000, kourtney went on to establish guy fox history project limited, an  educational london charity that engages children with local history through art  workshops.
the stellar cast will include derek jacobi in the title role of charles dickens and samantha spiro as queen victoria.
the tradition of afternoon tea reputedly originated here, circa 1840, and you can partake too, in the duchess’ tea room.
i think people want to focus on the good things to come out of this, and see the posters as a symbol of something optimisitc".
our information officers will make them all  very welcome.”
we also offer other window units including french doors and casements.
tate modern the impressive tate modern is britain's national museum of modern art.
highlights include the rosetta stone, the parthenon sculptures, and the mummies in the ancient egypt collection.