figure 5 illustrates the divergent appearances of the  basic agronomic categories ofcannabis in typical field configurations.
ashs press, alexandria, va.
grain  growers should be aware that flocks of voracious birds are a considerable  source of damage to hempseed, particularly in small plantations.
in  germany, more stringent limits were set for food in 2000: 5 ppm in food oil,  0.005 ppm in beverages, and 0.15 ppm in all other foods.
hemp paper is  typically made only from bast fibers, which require separation from the hurds,  thereby increasing costs.
moreover, summarizing four state analyses of hemp production (mcnulty 1995, ehrensing 1998, kraenzel et al. 1998, thompson et al. 1998), profitability seemed doubtful.
van der werf, h.m.g. 1994a.
there is also considerable potential for other industries using hemp in  the manner that the automobile industry has demonstrated is feasible.
however, no comparable support is available in north america, and indeed those contemplating entering into hemp cultivation are faced with extraordinary costs and/or requirements in connection with licensing, security, thc analysis, and record keeping.
nova institute. 1995.
admittedly, such advertising  works.
soil characteristics, latitude and climatic stresses have been found to have significant effects on thc concentrations, and there are seasonal and even diurnal variations (small 1979; pate 1998b).
marcus*this paper was considerably improved by criticism provided by a. mcelroy.
hemp grown for fiber was introduced to western asia and egypt, and subsequently to europe somewhere between 1000 and 2000bce.
in addition to cotton, flax is the only other significant plant fiber crop grown in temperate regions of the world (kenaf has received some enthusiastic backing in the southern us in recent years, but is most cheaply produced in india, bangladesh, and china).
a marketing board could be useful to prevent unrestrained competition and price fluctuations, but is difficult to establish when the industry is still very small.
hemp oil is now marketed throughout the world in a range of body care products, including creams, lotions, moisturizers, and lip balms.
(frankfurt am main, germany, feb.  27–march 2, 1997).
hemp seed can be  processed using existing equipment, while processing of hemp fiber usually  requires new facilities and equipment.
man-made fibers of glass, kevlar and  carbon are most commonly used today, but plant fibers offer considerable cost  savings along with comparable strength properties.
this represents less than 50% of the possible fiber  yield of the plant, and future technologies that pulp the whole stalks could  decrease costs substantially.
(www.medmjscience.org/pages/reports/nihpt1.html) nature.
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (d9-thc, or simply thc) is the  predominant psychoactive component.
this  is a market that is growing very fast, and hemp insulation products are  increasing in popularity.
feasibility of industrial hemp production in the  united states pacific northwest.
the most pressing need of the hemp industry in north america is for the  breeding of more productive oilseed cultivars.
hemp is of high nutritional quality because it contains high amounts of unsaturated fatty acids, mostly oleic acid (c18:1, 10%16%), linoleic acid (c18:2, 50%60%), alpha-linolenic acid (c18:3, 20%25%), and gamma-linolenic acid (c18:3, 2%5%) (fig. 37).
the possibility of using hemp for bioremediation deserves additional study.
since virgin pulp is required for added strength in the  recycling of paper, hemp pulp would allow for at least twice as many cycles as  wood pulp.
reproduced with the permission of harvard university, cambridge, ma.
while oilseed land races in northern russia would have been short,  early-maturing plants in view of the short growing season, in more southern  areas oilseed landraces likely had moderate height, and were spaced more widely  to allow abundant branching and seed production to develop.
plastic composites for automobiles are the second most important component of the hemp industry of the eu.
in europe, it has been predicted that tens of  thousands of tonnes will be sold by 2005, shared between hemp and flax (karus  et al. 2000).
it has had limited success, of course,  because there are very few circumstances that permit private gardeners can grow cannabis as an ornamental today.
the woody core fibers are shortabout 0.55 mmand like hardwood fibers are cemented together with considerable lignin.
water retting has been largely abandoned in countries  where labor is expensive or environmental regulations exist.
most germplasm stocks of hemp are in europe, and the largest and  most important collection is the vavilov institute gene bank in leningrad.
there may not  even be extant land races of the kind of hemp oilseed strains that were once  grown in russia, so that except for a very few very recent oilseed cultivars,  there has been virtually no breeding of oilseed hemp.
in the us, drug enforcement agency guidelines issued dec. 7, 1999 expressly allowed products with a thc content of less than 0.3% to enter the us without a license; but subsequently permissible levels have been a source of continuing contention.
the nutritive  value of hemp meal for ruminants.
should the us permit commercial hemp cultivation to resume, it will likely be for the same reasons.
in 1826 a congressional  report that recommended the preparation of a practical manual on the industry  resulted in a contagious desire to plant mulberries for silk production, with  the eventual collapse of the industry, the loss of fortunes, and a legacy of  “mulberry streets” in the us (chapter 2, bailey 1898).
the seeds (fig. 33) have  traditionally been employed as bird and poultry feed, but feeding the entire  seeds to livestock has been considered to be a poor investment because of the  high cost involved (although subsidization in europe allows such usage,  especially in france where hemp seeds are not legally permitted in human food).
hemp as an industrial absorbent has generated some interest in alberta, for use in land reclamation in the oil and gas industry.
budgetary problems in  russia have endangered the survival of this invaluable collection, and every  effort needs to be made to find new funding to preserve it.
pinfold consulting (1998) concluded that while there may be some potential for hemp biomass fuel near areas where hemp is cultivated, a fuel ethanol industry is not expected to develop based on hemp.
these fat-soluble vitamins are essential for human nutrition, especially the alpha-form, which is commonly called vitamin e. about 80% of the tocopherols of hempseed oil is the alpha form.
the extraction technology and spinning facilities, to say nothing of much lower labor costs, make it very difficult for the potential development of a hemp textile industry in north america.
doubling the productive capacity of a  conventional crop would normally be considered impossible, but it needs to be  understood just how little hemp has been developed as an oilseed.
production of hemp erosion control mats is continuing in both europe and canada.
the oil has a relatively short shelf life.
in european manufacturing of cars, natural fibers are used to reinforce door panels, passenger rear decks, trunk linings, and pillars.
a single, relatively expensive machine called a decorticator can do these two steps as one.
however, appropriate processing and blending with  other natural fibers has significantly improved the “feel” of the  product, and in china hemp textiles indistinguishable from fine linens in  texture are available.
workshop on the medical utility of  marijuana.
hemp seed is often found canned or vacuum-packed (fig. 35).
hemp yields are sometime uncertain, and could be exaggerated by as much as 50% when moist weights are reported.)
selecting monoecious strains overcomes the problem of differential maturation  times and quality of male (staminate) and female (pistillate) plants (males  mature 1–3 weeks earlier).
individual entrepreneurs, and indeed whole industries, as a matter of economic survival need to adopt a clear investment policy with respect to whether their market is to be output-driven or demand-led.
grotenhermen, f. and m. karus. 1998.
the  essential oil is a mixture of volatile compounds, including monoterpenes,  sesquiterpenes, and other terpenoid-like compounds that are manufactured in the  same epidermal glands in which the resin ofcannabis is synthesized  (meier and mediavilla 1998).
practically, this has meant in  canadian experience that a few cultivars have been eliminated from further  commercial cultivation because they sometimes exceed the 0.3% level  (‘fedora 19’ and ‘futura,’ authorized in 2000, have now  been removed because some test results in several years exceeded 0.3%;  ‘finola’ and ‘uniko b’ are under probation because of  elevated levels), but on the whole most of the permitted cultivars have  maintained highly consistent development of quite low levels of thc.
the extraction  technology and spinning facilities, to say nothing of much lower labor costs,  make it very difficult for the potential development of a hemp textile industry  in north america.
the botany and chemistry of cannabis.
scheifele, g.l. 2000.
economic impact of  industrial hemp in kentucky.
left, collection of e. small and d. marcus; of the 167 accessions, 43% had thc levels >0.3%.
provincial agronomists in canada now have experience with hemp, and can make local recommendations.
pulp and paper van roekel (1994) has pointed out that egyptian papyrus sheets are not  “paper,” because the fiber strands are woven, not  “wet-laid;” the oldest surviving paper is over 2,000 years of age,  from china, and was made from hemp fiber (fleming and clarke 1998).
henry ford swinging an axe at his 1941 car to demonstrate  the toughness of the plastic trunk door made of soybean and hemp.
despite this,  use of pesticides and fungicides on hemp is usually unnecessary, although  introduction of hemp to regions should be expected to generate local problems.
right, the collection of the vavilov institute, st. petersburg; of the 278 accessions for which chemical analyses were reported in anonymous (1975), about 55% had thc levels >0.3%.
however, there are no publicly available germplasm banks housingc. sativa in north america.
quarters can be woody core).
in addition, there are substantial social costs, such as adverse effects on users, particularly those who are convicted.
the fibers so that one has a more refined  (thinner) hemp fiber that currently is only available from water retting.
in this context, the chief significance of medicinal cannabis is that, like the issue of recreational use, it has made it very difficult to rationally consider the development of industrial hemp in north america for purposes that everyone should agree are not harmful.
house of lords,  session 1997–98, science and technology ninth report.
the us office of national drug control policy issued a statement on industrial hemp in 1997 (www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/policy/hemp%5fold.html) which included the following: our primary concern about the legalization of the cultivation of industrial hemp (cannabis sativa) is the message it would send to the public at large, especially to our youth at a time when adolescent drug use is rising rapidly...
in germany, a laundry detergent manufactured entirely from hemp oil has been marketed.
nevertheless, hemp has been rated on a variety of criteria as one of the best crops available to produce energy in europe (biewinga and van der bijl 1996).
however, wong (1998) notes  evidence that in the southern us hemp would produce only twice as much pulp as  does a pine plantation (but see discussion below on suitability of hemp as a  potential lumber substitute in areas lacking trees).
however, in north america particleboards and fiberboards, which  generally contain less than 10% adhesive or matrix, are sometimes referred to  as composites.
for example,  hemp with gypsum and binding agents may produce light panels that might compete  with drywall.
the use of agricultural residues (e.g. straw bales in house construction) is an especially environmentally friendly solution to sparing trees, but material limitations restrict use.
particularly good web  documents are: for ontario (omafra hemp series, several documents):  www.gov.on.ca/omafra/english/crops/hort/hemp.html); for manitoba (several  documents): www.gov.mb.ca/agriculture/crops/hemp/bko01s00.html; for british  columbia: (bc ministry of agriculture and foods fact sheet on industrial hemp,  prepared by a. oliver and h. joynt):  www.agf.gov.bc.ca/croplive/plant/horticult/specialty/specialty.htm in the us, extension publications produced up to the end of world war ii  are still useful, albeit outdated (robinson 1935;
germplasm resources germplasm for the improvement of hemp is vital for the future of the  industry in north america.
although some forms ofc. sativa have quite large seeds, until recently oilseed forms appear to have been mainly selected for a heavy yield of seeds, usually recognizable by abundant branching.
(courtesy of kenex  ltd., pain court, ontario.)
there is also good potential for hemp oil in cosmetics and skin-care products.
proposed biosynthetic pathways of the principal cannabinoids (after pate 1998b).
wilsie et al. 1942; hackleman and domingo 1943;
(courtesy of the breeder, p. dragla, and of the  industrial hemp seed development company, chatham, ontario.)
however, the added-value potential in the form of proprietary drug derivatives and drug-delivery systems is huge.
selection for non-psychoactive hemp varieties ( cannabis sativa l.) in the cis (former ussr).
limits have been set because of concerns about  possible toxicity and interference with drug tests (grotenhermen et al. 1998).
the lower quality fiber, however, is quite utilizable for pulp and non-woven usages.
the hurds can absorb up to five times their weight in moisture (typically  50% higher than wood shavings), do not produce dust (following initial dust  removal), and are easily composted.
in the 19th century softer fabrics took over the clothing market, and today, hemp constitutes only about 1% of the natural fiber market.
narcotic strains tend to be more attractive in odor than  fiber strains, and because they produce much higher numbers of flowers than  fiber strains, and the (female) floral parts provide most of the essential oil,  narcotic strains are naturally adapted to essential oil production.
basic categories of cannabis and their field architecture cannabis sativa is an annual wind-pollinated plant, normally  dioecious and dimorphic, although sometimes monoecious (mostly in several  modern european fiber cultivars).
as pointed out later, higher yield and better harvesting practices may make  whole hempseed an economical livestock feed.
by contrast, beautiful ornamental cultivars of opium poppy are widely cultivated in home gardens across north america, despite their absolute illegality and the potentially draconian penalties that could be imposed.
the second major concern is  that legalizing hemp production may mean the de facto legalization of marijuana  cultivation.
hemp may also enhance forestry management by responding to short-term fiber demand while trees reach their ideal maturation.
cannabis sativa is known to be exceptionally resistant to pests (fig. 51),  although, the degree of immunity to attacking organisms has been greatly  exaggerated, with several insects and fungi specializing on hemp.
the regulations require that one of the dozen independent laboratories licensed for the purpose conduct the analyses and report the results to health canada.
specialty pulp is the most important component of the hemp industry of the eu, and is expected to remain its core market for the foreseeable future.
maintenance of cannabis germplasm in the  vavilov research institute gene bank - five year report.
this classification has since been adopted in the european community,  canada, and parts of australia as a dividing line between cultivars that can be  legally cultivated under license and forms that are considered to have too high  a drug potential.
preliminary work in germany (noted in karus and leson 1994) suggested that hemp could be grown on soils contaminated with heavy metals, while the fiber remained virtually free of the metals.
(courtesy of la chanvrière de laube, bar sur aube, france.)
this stem was bent sharply after retting, breaking the woody central portion  (hurds), leaving the bark fibers unbroken.
the profitability of the illegal  crop is indicated by a comparison of the cost of a bushel of corn (roughly  $2.50) and a bushel of manicured marijuana (about $70,000; it has been  suggested that prices range from $500 a pound, for low-quality marijuana, to  more than $5,000 a pound for “boutique” strains like “northern  lights” and “afghan kush”).
while oilseed land races in northern russia would have been short, early-maturing plants in view of the short growing season, in more southern areas oilseed landraces likely had moderate height, and were spaced more widely to allow abundant branching and seed production to develop.
however, there are no publicly available germplasm  banks housingc. sativa in north america.
while the value  of unsaturated fats is generally appreciated, it is much less well known that  the north american diet is serious nutritionally unbalanced by an excess of  linoleic over alpha-linonenic acid.
the result is to slough off the outer parts  of the stem and to loosen the inner woody core (the “hurds”) from the  phloem fibers (fig. 14).
viewed from this perspective, the hemp industry in north america is still very much in its infancy.
hemp cigarette paper, the most profitable paper product currently manufactured from hemp.
similarly, limited  seed productivity concentrates the plant’s energy into production of  fiber, and fiber cultivars often have low genetic propensity for seed output.
virovets, v.g. 1996.
coco (coir) fiber has been said to be much more suitable, due to higher lignin content (40%50%, compared to 2%5% in bast fibers); these are much cheaper than flax and hemp fibers (karus et al. 2000).
as much as 15% of the human population may benefit from addition of gla to their diet.
in north america, such usage has only reached the level of a cottage  industry.
the windrows should be turned once or twice.
synthetic preparations of thcdronabinol (marinol®) and nabilone (cesamet®)are permitted in some cases, but are expensive and widely considered to be less effective than simply smoking preparations of marijuana.
hemp oil in capsule  form sold as a dietary supplement.
cultivation, commerce, and consumption of drug preparations ofcannabis have been proscribed in most countries during the present century.
the cultivation of hemp: botany,  varieties, cultivation and harvesting.
hemp is therefore pre-adapted to organic agriculture, and accordingly to the growing market for products associated with environmentally-friendly, sustainable production.
commonwealth of kentucky, frankfort, ky. mcpartland, j.m. 1997.
with respect to textiles, the report noted the lack of a thriving textile flax (linen) us industry (despite lack of legal barriers), so that it would seem unlikely that hemp could achieve a better market status.
a truckload of canadian medicinal marijuana from a  plantation in ottawa in 1971.
1998 ontario studies in determining the genetic stability,  environment and latitude effect on the levels of delta-9 thc for industrial  hemp varieties.
for a period, 0.3% was also the allowable thc content limit for cultivation of hemp in the soviet union.
for example, the  widespread current use of plastic netting to reinforce grass sod is quite  objectionable, the plastic persisting for many years and interfering with lawn  care.
a truckload of canadian medicinal marijuana from a plantation in ottawa in 1971.
alberta  agriculture, food and rural development, edmonton, ab.
among the problems that canadian farmers have faced are  the challenge of government licensing (some delays, and a large learning  curve), very expensive and sometime poor seed (farmers are not allowed to  generate their own seed), teenagers raiding fields in the mistaken belief that  marijuana is being grown, and great difficulties in exportation because of the  necessity of convincing authorities that hemp is not a narcotic.
foods  (follow links at www.hempreport.com/).
the seed cake is  also referred to as “seed meal,” and has proven to be excellent for  animals (mustafa et al. 1999).
fall plowing is recommended, followed by careful preparation of a seedbed in the spring.
according to the us national  institute on drug abuse (www.nida.nih.gov/infofax/marijuana.html), more than 72  million americans (33%) 12 years of age and older have tried marijuana.
the woody core (hurds, sometimes called shives) of hemp makes remarkably good animal bedding (fig. 28, 29).
drug strains can be very similar in  appearance to fiber strains.
it should be extracted under nitrogen (to prevent oxidation), protected from  light by being kept in dark bottles, and from heat by refrigeration.
unfortunately there was no market for the new “wonder  crop” and hundreds of farmers lost about $20 million (paarlberg 1990).
cbn andd8-thc are considered to be  degradation products or analytical artifacts (pate 1998a).
a disturbingly high percentage  of the collections have thc levels higher than 0.3%, making it difficult to  incorporate these into breeding programs.
at least 800 tonnes (t) of marijuana were grown in canada in 1998, representing a harvest of 4.7 million flowering plants.
pharmacology and  potential therapeutic uses of cannabis.
at present, losses of  30% of the seed yields are not uncommon, so that improvements in
the politics of cannabis with particular reference to the us
wilsie, c.p., e.s. dyas, and a.g. norman. 1942.
however, such industrial  end uses are not presently feasible as the oil is considered too expensive (de  guzman 2001).
food products  press (haworth press), london.
even  when one has suitably separated long fiber, specialized harvesting, processing,  spinning and weaving equipment are required for preparing fine hemp textiles.
selecting monoecious strains overcomes the problem of differential maturation times and quality of male (staminate) and female (pistillate) plants (males mature 13 weeks earlier).
nevertheless the presence of even minute trace amounts of thc in  foods remains a tool that can be used by those wishing to prevent the hemp  oilseed industry from developing.
“industrial  hemp” is a phrase that has become common to designate hemp used for  commercial non-intoxicant purposes.
the canadian system of monitoring thc content has rigidly limited hemp cultivation to cultivars that consistently develop thc levels below 0.3%.
breeding for low thc cultivars in europe has been reviewed by bócsa  (1998), bócsa and karus (1998), and virovets (1996).
the need to produce new industrial markets for  farm products led to a broad movement for scientific research in agriculture  that came to be labeled “farm chemurgy,” that today is embodied in  chemical applications of crop constituents.
drug forms have historically been grown in areas south of the north-temperate  zone, often close to the equator, and are photoperiodically adapted to a long  season.
the  non-intoxicant cbn (cannabinol) is a frequent degradation or oxidation product.
typical architecture of categories of cultivated cannabis  sativa.
hemp is not competitive for newsprint, books, writing papers, and general paper  (grocery bags, coffee cups, napkins), although there is a specialty or novelty  market for those specifically wishing to support the hemp industry by  purchasing hemp writing or printing paper despite the premium price (fig. 17).
varieties of hemp specifically  suited to given products and regions have only started to be developed in north  america.
in addition to cotton, flax is the only other  significant plant fiber crop grown in temperate regions of the world (kenaf has  received some enthusiastic backing in the southern us in recent years, but is  most cheaply produced in india, bangladesh, and china).
however, such industrial end uses are not presently feasible as the oil is considered too expensive (de guzman 2001).
hemp, a war crop for  iowa.
germplasm for the improvement of hemp is vital for the future of the industry in north america.
as noted above, unwise investment in canada produced a glut of seeds that resulted in price dumping and unprofitable levels for the majority.
the american drug enforcement administration is hostile to the medicinal use ofcannabis, and for decades research on medicinal properties ofcannabis in the us has been in an extremely inhospitable climate, except for projects and researchers concerned with curbing drug abuse.
the conclusion was that us markets for hemp fiber (specialty textiles, paper, and composites) and seed (in food or crushed for oil) are, and will likely remain, small, thin markets.
nevertheless it has been suggested that the  core fibers could be used for paper making, providing appropriate technology  was developed (de groot et al. 1998).
the emperor wears no  clothes.
oregon state university, corvallis.
although hemp plants can  lodge, on the whole very tall hemp is remarkably resistant against wind.
the first and  foremost breeding goal is to decrease the price of hempseed by creating more  productive cultivars.
additionally, the general  attitude towards cannabis, in which it is seen only as a drug of abuse and  addiction, has not helped.”
30.pelleted hemp hurds.
indeed, studies are in  progress in ontario to evaluate the agronomic usefulness of wild north american  hemp.
the fact that spinning facilities for natural fibers are so  concentrated in china is making it increasingly difficult to competitively  produce hemp fabrics elsewhere.
probably more so than any plant in living memory, hemp attracts people to attempt its cultivation without first acquiring a realistic appreciation of the possible pitfalls.
hemp fiber can potentially replace other biological fibers in many applications, but also, as noted below, can sometimes compete with minerals such as glass fiber and steel.
das hanfproduktlinienprojekt.
however, according to the usda  and the us department of commerce, the profitability of industrial hemp is  highly uncertain and probably unlikely.
joy, j.e., s.j. watson jr., and j.a. benson jr. (eds.).
van der werf, h.m.g. 1994b.
drug strains can be very similar in appearance to fiber strains.
bottom right: some recent oilseed cultivars are grown at moderate density and are short and relatively unbranched.
the recent focus of canadian hemp breeders has been to develop cultivars with high seed yields, low stature (to avoid channeling the plants energy into stalk, as is the case in fiber cultivars), early maturation (for the short growing seasons of canada), and desirable fatty acid spectrum (especially gamma-linolenic acid).
foreign sources, china in particular, can produce hemp seed cheaply, but  imported seed must be sterilized, and the delays this usually requires are  detrimental.
the hundreds of seed collections acquired for smalls studies (reviewed in small 1979) were destroyed in 1980 because canadian government policy at that time envisioned no possibility that hemp would ever be developed as a legitimate crop.
agri.gov.ns.ca/pt/agron/hemp/hempms.htm popular mechanics.
technology should also contribute to higher yields.
food products press  (haworth press), london.
www.drugpolicy.org/library/pdf_files/hempreport.pdf groot, b. de, g.j. van roeckel jr., and j.e.g. van dam. 1998.
the quality of an oil or fat is most importantly  determined by its fatty acid composition.
(chanvre is french for hemp.)
industrial hemp is not marijuana:  comments on the drug potential of fibercannabis.
marijuana has become the most widely disseminated illicit species in the world  (schultes and hofmann 1980).
(abstract at  www.ndp.govt.nz/cannabis/cannabiswho.html).
this is difficult to judge, but the following considerations suggest  this might occur: (1) increasing awareness of the differences between  industrial hemp and marijuana; (2) growing appreciation of the environmental  benefits of hemp cultivation; (3) continuing demonstration of successful hemp  cultivation and development in most of the remaining western world; all the g8  countries, except the us, produce and export industrial hemp; and
the short, strongly-branched cultivar panorama (fig. 43) bred by iván bósca, the dean of the worlds living hemp breeders, was commercialized in hungary in the 1980s, and has been said to be the only ornamental hemp cultivar available.
in the words of hirst et al. (1998):
young plants are  sensitive to wet or flooded soils, so that hemp must have porous, friable,  well-drained soils.
loose isochanvre® thermal insulation being placed between joists.
marijuana has become the most widely disseminated illicit species in the world (schultes and hofmann 1980).
processing  costs are higher for industrial hemp because the fibers vary from the standard  specifications for fiber length and diameter established for the equipment used  in most textile and apparel factories, necessitating the use of specialty  machines.
in canada, many of the  available cultivars flower too late in the season for fiber production, and the  same may be predicted for the northern us.
measuring harm and benefit: the  biodiversity friendliness ofcannabis sativa.
“by the turn of the century 3 billion people may live in  areas where wood is cut faster than it grows or where fuelwood is extremely  scarce” (world commission on environment and development 1987).
fibers are found in the phloem-associated tissues external to the phloem, just  under the “bark.”
fields intended for hemp use are still  frequently normally cleared of weeds using herbicides, but so long as hemp is  thickly seeded (as is always done when hemp is grown for fiber), the rapidly  developing young plants normally shade out competing weeds.
utilizing the ancient technique of reinforcing clay with straw to produce reinforced bricks for constructing domiciles, plant fibers have found a number of comparable uses in modern times.
molded fiberboard products are commercially viable in europe (fig.
www.hort.purdue.edu/newcrop/proceedings1990/v1-002.html pate, d.w. 1995.
hemp in our opinion is particularly suited to be developed as an oilseed crop in north america.
switzerland has permitted strains with higher thc content to be grown than is allowed in other parts of the world, giving the country an advantage with respect to the essential oil market.
marijuana in the illicit market typically has a thc content of 5% to 10% (levels as high as 25% have been reported), and as a point of interest, a current canadian government experimental medicinal marijuana production contract calls for the production of 6% marijuana.
the botany and chemistry of  hallucinogens, 2d ed.
examples of commercial essential oil product products are shown in fig.
today, at least 95% of paper is made from wood pulp.
garcia,-jaldon, c., d. dupreyre, and m.r. vignon. 1998.
currently, up to 10 ppm thc is permitted in seeds and oil products used for food purposes in canada.
in the us, drug enforcement agency  guidelines issued dec. 7, 1999 expressly allowed products with a thc content of  less than 0.3% to enter the us without a license; but subsequently permissible  levels have been a source of continuing contention.
the  characteristics of hemp fibers have proven to be superior for production of  molded composites.
references abel, e.l. 1980.
hemp seed and oil can fetch higher prices than hemp fiber.
since the nodes tend to disrupt the length of the fiber bundles, thereby limiting quality, tall, relatively unbranched plants with long internodes have been selected.
p49, iowa state college, ames. wong, a. 1998.
there is considerable uncertainty regarding yields, costs of  production, harvesting and processing equipment, product characteristics,  foreign competition, governmental support, and the vagaries of the regulatory  environment.
given this distribution, the glands would seem to be protective of young and reproductive above-ground tissues (the roots lack glands).
when the stalks have become sufficiently retted requires experiencethe fibers should have turned golden or grayish in color, and should separate easily from the interior wood.
the drug potential is, for practical purposes, measured by the presence of thc.
www.naihc.org/hemp_information/content/nova_report/part1.html guzman, d. de. 2001.
a rather thorough analysis of the scope of the illicit marijuana industry in canada for 1998 is reported at www.rcmp-grc.gc.ca/html/drugsituation.htm#marihuana and summarized in macleod (1999).
not surprisingly, the most highly domesticated drug strains were selected in  india.
hemp  processing requires non-wood-based processing facilities.
proposed biosynthetic pathways of the principal  cannabinoids (after pate 1998b).
although some forms ofc.  sativa have quite large seeds, until recently oilseed forms appear to have  been mainly selected for a heavy yield of seeds, usually recognizable by  abundant branching.
as argued above, to be  competitive, hemp should produce approximately 2 t/ha; at present 1 t/ha is  considered average to good production.
up until the first  half of the 20th century, drug preparations ofcannabis were used  predominantly as a recreational inebriant in poor countries and the lower  socio-economic classes of developed nations.
cannabis sativa is an annual wind-pollinated plant, normally dioecious and dimorphic, although sometimes monoecious (mostly in several modern european fiber cultivars).
this is considered to be a highly stable, high-priced niche market in europe, where hemp has an 87% market share of the specialty pulp sector (karus et al. 2000).
hemp hurds  are rich in silica (which occurs naturally in sand and flint), and the hurds  mixed with lime undergo mineralization, to produce a stone-like material.
during the age of sailing ships, cannabis was considered to provide the very best of canvas, and indeed this word is derived fromcannabis.
such marketing is unfortunate, sending the message that some in the industry are indifferent to the negative image that this generates in the minds of much of the potential consuming public.
the hundreds of seed  collections acquired for small’s studies (reviewed in small 1979) were  destroyed in 1980 because canadian government policy at that time envisioned no  possibility that hemp would ever be developed as a legitimate crop.
there is certainly a need to utilize available germplasm sources in order to breed suitable cultivars for north america.
seed that has been sterilized tends to go rancid quickly, and so  it is imperative that fresh seed be available, a great advantage for domestic  production.
the mineralized material can  be blown or poured into the cavities of walls and in attics as insulation.
the demand for automobile applications of hemp is expected to increase considerably, depending on the development of new technologies (karus et al. 2000).
nevertheless it has been suggested that the core fibers could be used for paper making, providing appropriate technology was developed (de groot et al. 1998).
biodegradable landscape matting & plant culture products gamma-linolenic acid dietary supplements coarse textiles (carpets,  upholstery)
the resin is synthesized both in  stalked and sessile glands.
with respect to textiles, the report noted the lack of a thriving  textile flax (linen) us industry (despite lack of legal barriers), so that it  would seem unlikely that hemp could achieve a better market status.
larger production volumes and lower prices may be possible, in which case hemp oil may find industrial uses similar to those of linseed (flax), soybean, and sunflower oils, which are presently used in paints, inks, solvents, binders, and in polymer plastics.
water  retting of hemp in yugoslavia.
physical evidence for the antiquity  ofcannabis sativa l. j. int.
market considerations also heavily determine the wisdom of investing in hemp.
a  single, relatively expensive machine called a decorticator can do these two  steps as one.
the dutch company hempflax has developed or  adapted several kinds of specialized harvesting equipment (fig. 44, 45).
renovation of plaster walls of a traditional timber frame  16th century house (mansion raoul de la faye, paris) with isochanvre®  lime-hemp conglomerate.
the short, strongly-branched cultivar ‘panorama’ (fig. 43) bred by  iván bósca, the dean of the world’s living hemp breeders,  was commercialized in hungary in the 1980s, and has been said to be the only  ornamental hemp cultivar available.
in the plant the cannabinoids exist predominantly in the form of carboxylic acids, which decarboxylate with time or when heated.
to date, governmental authorities in the us, on the advice of medical experts, have consistently rejected the authorization of medical use of marijuana except in a handful of cases.
the four conditions that will need to be met are (after bolton 1995): (1) the material should be produced at a large enough scale; (2) the price should be low enough; (3) the fiber characteristics should be adequate for the end use; and (4) proven technology should be available for the processing of the new raw material.
some special hybrids, obtained by pollinating females of dioecious  lines with pollen from monoecious plants, are predominantly female (so-called  “all-female,” these generally also produce some hermaphrodites and  occasional males).
non-fiber strains rarely have as much as 15%  fiber in the bark.
in the 1990s, european firms introduced lines of hemp oil-based personal  care products, including soaps, shampoos, bubble baths, and perfumes.
the non-intoxicant cannabigerol (cbg) is considered to be a  precursor of the other cannbinoids (see fig. 10).
guide to the scientific literature on potential medical  uses ofcannabis and the cannabinoids.
the root is a laterally branched taproot,  generally 30–60 cm deep, up to 2.5 m in loose soils, very near the surface  and more branched in wet soils.
the traditional and still major first step in fiber extraction is to ret (rot) away the softer parts of the plant, by exposing the cut stems to microbial decay in the field (dew retting, shown in figs. 46 and 47) or submerged in water (water retting, shown in fig. 13).
decorticated material (i.e. separated at least into crude fiber) is the raw material, and this is subjected to steam under pressure and increased temperature which explodes (separates) the fibers so that one has a more refined (thinner) hemp fiber that currently is only available from water retting.
in canada, every acquisition of hemp grown at a particular  place and time must be tested for thc content by an independent laboratory and,  under the industrial hemp regulations, fields of hemp with more than 0.3% thc  may require destruction (a slight degree of flexibility is generally  exercised).
robinson, b.b. 1935.
in europe and asia, there is little concern  about wild hemp, which remains a valuable resource.
prepared for nova scotia agriculture and marketing (marketing and food industry  development), and new brunswick agriculture & rural development (marketing  and business development).
fields intended for hemp use are still frequently normally cleared of weeds using herbicides, but so long as hemp is thickly seeded (as is always done when hemp is grown for fiber), the rapidly developing young plants normally shade out competing weeds.
it should be extracted under nitrogen (to prevent oxidation), protected from light by being kept in dark bottles, and from heat by refrigeration.
however, the canadian government has found that some french material has proven to be excessively high in thc.
flax held 2.7% of the world plant fiber market in 1999, while hemp had only 0.3% (karus 2000).
bottom left: fiber cultivars are grown at high density, and are unbranched and  very tall.
in addition, there are substantial social costs, such as  adverse effects on users, particularly those who are convicted.
hemp fibers added to concrete increase tensile strength while reducing shrinkage and cracking.
essential oil has been produced in canada by  gen-x research inc., regina.
concentrations of 0.3% to 0.9%  are considered to have “only a small drug potential” (grotenhermen  and karus 1998).
the potential as a  “new crop” for medicinal cannabinoid uses is therefore limited.
the resource list presented below should be consulted by those wishing  to learn about hemp production.
thc-limits for food: a  scientific study.
the body shop now markets an impressive array of hemp nutraceutical cosmetics (fig. 39), and this has given the industry considerable credibility.
organic matter is preferably  over 3.5%, phosphorus should be medium to high (>40 ppm), potassium should  be medium to high (>250 ppm), sulfur good (>5,000 ppm), and calcium not  in excess (<6,000 ppm).
accordingly, europe is far more advanced in hemp development with respect to all fiber-based applications than other parts of the world.
p63, iowa state college, ames.
this typically requires weeks.
since world war ii, breeding has been concerned most particularly with  the development of monoecious varieties.
as noted above, hemp seed cake makes an excellent feed for animals.
(review of a german m.sc.
gathering the evidence on medical marijuana.
we suggest that an average productivity of 2 t/ha will be necessary to transform hempseed into a major oilseed, and that this breeding goal is achievable.
a maritime industrial hemp product marketing study.
1999 thc summary report from northern ontario and  northwestern quebec for hemp tissue analysis collected from inflorescence at  time of 50% pollen shedding.
although similar in  appearance to narcotic strains ofc. sativa, the chinese land races we  grew were in fact low in intoxicating constituents, and it may well be that  what dewey thought was a narcotic strain was not.
biomass energy  14:251–260.
while the breeding of hemp fiber cultivars has proceeded  to the point that only slight improvements can be expected in productivity in  the future, the genetic potential of hemp as an oilseed has scarcely been  addressed.
this superb composite plate by  artist elmer smith, often reproduced at a very small scale and without  explanation in marijuana books, is the best scientific illustration of the hemp  plant ever prepared.
unfortunately both proponents and opponents have tended to engage in exaggeration.
while the value of unsaturated fats is generally appreciated, it is much less well known that the north american diet is serious nutritionally unbalanced by an excess of linoleic over alpha-linonenic acid.
karus, m., m. kaup, and d. lohmeyer. 2000.
once stalks are  retted, dried, and baled, they are processed to extract the fiber.
france is the leading country in hemp cultivation in the eu, and 95% of the non-seed production is used for specialty pulp as described below.
in  addition, various european nations and private firms contributed to the  development of hemp technologies.
there are two widespread technologies.
countries with low labor costs such as the philippines and china  have a competitive advantage over any us hemp producer.”
steam explosion is another potential technology that has been  experimentally applied to hemp (garcia-jaldon et al. 1998).
red eye press, los angeles.
the war on drugs: helicopter  spraying of paraquat herbicide on field of marijuana.
c-class mercedes-benz automobiles have more than 30 parts  made of natural fibers, including hemp.
non-fiber strains rarely have as much as 15% fiber in the bark.
at  present the main materials used are polymeric (polythene, spun-blown  polypropylene) and some glass fiber and natural fibers.
while crop residues like cereal straw will probably supply much of the need, specialty fiber plants such as hemp also have potential.
while small, secretory, resin-producing glands occur on the  epidermis of most of the above-ground parts of the plant, the glands are very  dense and productive on the perigonal bracts, which are accordingly of central  interest in marijuana varieties.
however, wild plants ofc. sativa have naturally undergone selection for high seed productivity, and are a particularly important potential source of breeding germplasm.
gehl (1995) reviewed fiber hemp development in canada in the early 20th century, and concluded that the prospects for a traditional fiber industry were poor.
in north america the use of nonwood fibers in sheet fiberboard (pressboard or composite board) products is relatively undeveloped.
budgetary problems in russia have endangered the survival of this invaluable collection, and every effort needs to be made to find new funding to preserve it.
linseed oil, a drying oil, has a very high percentage of linolenic acid.
figure 11 shows thc concentrations in the vavilov collection, as well as in our own collection, largely of european germplasm.
although the seedlings will germinate and survive at temperatures just above freezing, soil temperatures of 8°10°c are preferable.
another strategy has been to select stems that are hollow at the internodes, with limited wood, since this maximizes production of fiber in relation to supporting woody tissues.
survey of minor fatty acids in cannabis sativa l. fruits of various origins.
mechoulan, r. and l. hanus.
gla is a widely consumed supplement known  to affect vital metabolic roles in humans, ranging from control of inflammation  and vascular tone to initiation of contractions during childbirth.
degree of branching and height are determined both by the density of the plants and their genetic background.
indeed, studies are in progress in ontario to evaluate the agronomic usefulness of wild north american hemp.
the netherlands firm hortapharm developed strains ofcannabis rich in particular cannabinoids.
oilseed production was a specialty of the ussr, and there is some likelihood that northern regions of north america may find short-season, short-stature oilseed cultivars ideal.
the  regulations require that one of the dozen independent laboratories licensed for  the purpose conduct the analyses and report the results to health canada.
report on the  maintenance of hemp (cannabis sativa) germplasm accessioned in the  vavilov research institute gene bank - 1994.
at present, gla is available in health food shops and pharmacies primarily as soft gelatin capsules of borage or evening primrose oil, but hemp is almost certainly a much more economic source.
with  respect to hemp oil, the report noted that hemp oil in food markets is limited  by its short shelf life, the fact that it can not be used for frying, and the  lack of us food and drug administration approval as gras (“generally  recognized as safe”).
cross sections of stems at internodes of a fiber plant (left) and of a narcotic plant (right).
despite this, use of pesticides and fungicides on hemp is usually unnecessary, although introduction of hemp to regions should be expected to generate local problems.
when the stalks have become sufficiently retted requires  experience—the fibers should have turned golden or grayish in color, and  should separate easily from the interior wood.
larger production volumes and lower prices may be possible, in  which case hemp oil may find industrial uses similar to those of linseed  (flax), soybean, and sunflower oils, which are presently used in paints, inks,  solvents, binders, and in polymer plastics.
hemp seeds have been used as food since ancient  times, but generally the whole seed, including the hull, was eaten.
by contrast, in fiber strains half of the stem  tissues can be bark, and more than half of this can be the desirable long  primary fibers (de meijer 1995).
sometimes plaster of paris (pure gypsum), cement, or sand is added.
utilize a thc metabolite level of 50 parts per billion in urine.
some north american food products made with hemp seed and/or  hemp seed oil.
the genetic future of hemp.
(not legal in  north america.)
there is certainly a need to utilize available germplasm sources in order  to breed suitable cultivars for north america.
such forms are typically grown at lower densities than hemp  grown only for fiber, as this promotes branching, although it should be  understood that the genetic propensity for branching has been selected.
it has been estimated that 510 kg of natural fibers can be used in the molded portions of an average automobile (excluding upholstery).
the basic commercial options for growing hemp in north america is as a  fiber plant, an oilseed crop, or for dual harvest for both seeds and fiber.
thc content increases in the following order: achenes  (excluding bracts), roots, large stems, smaller stems, older and larger leaves,  younger and smaller leaves, flowers, perigonal bracts covering both the female  flowers and fruits.
some researchers  have claimed to have produced essentially thc-free strains, although at present  no commercial cultivar seems to be 100% free of thc.
a marketing board could be useful to prevent  unrestrained competition and price fluctuations, but is difficult to establish  when the industry is still very small.
nevertheless, present policies in north america require the eradication of wild hemp wherever encountered.
this results in small levels of thc appearing in hempseed oil  and foods made with the seeds.
an inquiry regarding the 56 united states department of agriculture hemp germplasm collections supplied to and grown by small and beckstead (1973) resulted in the reply that there are no remaining hemp collections in usda germplasm holdings, and indeed that were such to be found they would have to be destroyed.
foreign  affairs 78:82–98.
(courtesy of kenex ltd., pain court, ontario.)
ten years ago hemp cultivation was illegal in germany, england, canada,  australia, and other countries.
most significantly, modern selection is occurring with regard to mechanized harvesting, particularly the ability to grow in high density as single-headed stalks with very short branches bearing considerable seed.
unlike fiber strains that have been selected to grow well at extremely high densities, drug strains tend to be less persistent when grown in high concentration (de meijer 1994).
industrial hemp risk assessment.
for example, hemp with gypsum and binding agents may produce light panels that might compete with drywall.
it should be  possible to select thc-free strains, and there has been speculation that  genetic engineering could be helpful in this regard.
however, there is insufficient  fiber processing capacity to handle hemp produced in canada.
for an authoritative medical review, and pate (1995) for a guide to the medical  literature].
there is considerable uncertainty regarding yields, costs of production, harvesting and processing equipment, product characteristics, foreign competition, governmental support, and the vagaries of the regulatory environment.
mustafa, a.f., j.j. mckinnon, and d.a. christensen. 1999.
waste straw is widely available from cereals and other crops, and although generally not nearly as desirable as hemp, can produce bulk pulp far more cheaply than can be made from hemp.
in western europe, the fiber is often cottonized, i.e. chopped into short segments the size of cotton and flax fiber, so that the fibers can be processed on flax processing machinery, which is very much better developed than such machinery is for hemp.
it is possible, however, that new technologies could change this situation, and especially in the eu development is underway to establish a fledgling domestic hemp textile industry.
it has been claimed that hemp produces three to four times as much useable fiber per hectare per annum as forests.
building construction products thermal insulation.
densities for seed production for tall,  european, dual-purpose cultivars are less than for short oilseed cultivars.
have been applied loosely to all three forms, although historically hemp has been used primarily for the fiber cultigen and its fiber preparations, and marijuana for the drug cultigen and its drug preparations.
centre for agriculture and  environment, utrecht, the netherlands.
this variety is best suited  for grain production.
although the stem is often woody, the species is frequently  referred to as a herb or forb.
sandy soils will grow good hemp, provided that adequate irrigation and fertilization are provided, but doing so generally makes production uneconomical.
seed is best planted at  2–3 cm (twice as deep will be tolerated).
british j. anaesthesia 81:77–84.
(4)  increasing pressure on state and federal governments to permit hemp cultivation  by farmers, particularly wheat, corn, and tobacco farmers in desperate need of  substitute crops, but also for rotation crops to break pest and disease cycles.
no significant differences were found between yield of the hemp and of barley/oat silage fed to heifers, suggesting that fermenting hemp plants reduces possible harmful constituents.
bales must be stored indoors.
more importantly, hempseed oil is not competitive, except in the novelty niche market, with the popular food oils.
d9-thc (delta-9  tetrahydrocannabinol) is the chief intoxicant chemical and predominates in  intoxicant strains, while the isomerd8-thc is usually present in no more than  trace amounts.
hemp oil  is now marketed throughout the world in a range of body care products,  including creams, lotions, moisturizers, and lip balms.
the war on drugs: burning seized marijuana.
p. c1, the ottawa citizen may 28.
in north america the use of hemp for production of even  crude textiles is marginal.
molded fiberboard products are commercially viable in europe (fig. 23), but their potential in north america remains to be determined.
present cultivation of oilseed hemp is not competitive with linseed for production of oil for manufacturing, or to sunflower and canola for edible vegetable oil.
the taste is pleasantly nutty, sometimes  with a touch of bitterness.
information canada, ottawa.
hemp products are an advertisers dream, lending themselves to hyperbole (healthiest salad oil in the world, toughest jeans on the market).
of course, all other types of transportation vehicles from bicycles to airplanes might make use of such technology.
similarly in 1938 the cultivation ofcannabis became illegal in canada under the opium and narcotics act.
top left: close-up of  100% hemp fiber blanket.
new billion-dollar crop.
using crop residues to save forests.
(summary:  www.sarnia.com/groups/antidrug/mjmeds/nthrlnds.html)
with the exception of alcohol, it is the most  widely used recreational euphoric drug.
hemp’s long fibers could make  paper more recyclable.
isolation distances for ensuring  that seeds produced are pure are considerable for many plants, and often  impractical.
hemp is therefore pre-adapted to organic  agriculture, and accordingly to the growing market for products associated with  environmentally-friendly, sustainable production.
sample collection is also normally carried out by an independent authorized firm.
commercial  warehouse of baled hemp animal bedding.
technically, the euphoric psychological effects of thc are best described by the word psychotomimetic.
baled, retted hemp straw.
in any event, the core fibers, have found a variety of uses, as detailed below.
in: yearbook of the us  department of agriculture - 1913.
a chief argument that has been advanced in favor of developing hemp as a paper and pulp source has been that as a non-wood or tree-free fiber source, it can reduce harvesting of primary forests and the threat to associated biodiversity.
some researchers have claimed to have produced essentially thc-free strains, although at present no commercial cultivar seems to be 100% free of thc.
conversion of hemp biomass into fuel or alcohol is impractical on this  continent, where there are abundant supplies of wood, and energy can be  produced relatively cheaply from a variety of sources.
doubling the productive capacity of a conventional crop would normally be considered impossible, but it needs to be understood just how little hemp has been developed as an oilseed.
the use ofc. sativa as a recreational inebriant in sophisticated, largely urban settings is substantially a 20th century phenomenon.
industrial hemp grows well in areas that corn produces high yields.
hempseed oil has been classified as a semi-drying oil, like soybean oil,  and is therefore more suited to edible than industrial oil purposes.
top right: plants grown for oilseed were traditionally well-spaced, and the plants developed medium height and strong branching.
the hemp industry flourished in kentucky, missouri, and illinois between 1840 and 1860 because of the strong demand for sailcloth and cordage (ehrensing 1998).
there are practical, if cruder alternatives to separate the long fiber for high-quality textile production, but in fact such techniques are used mostly for non-textile applications.
the myth that hemp is a wonder crop that can be grown on any soil led some to cultivate on soils with a history of producing poor crops; of course, a poor crop was the result.
water retting,  typically by soaking the stalks in ditches, can lead to a high level of  pollution.
in addition to textiles used in clothing, coarser woven cloth (canvas) is used for upholstery, bags, sacks, and tarpaulins.
www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/article/2036-4299.html anon.
grain growers should be aware that flocks of voracious birds are a considerable source of damage to hempseed, particularly in small plantations.
hemp stalks are very bulky,  requiring much handling and storage.
(in german) p. 265–276.
of these criteria only point 3 is adequately met at this time for hemp in north america, but this is to be expected in a crop that has only begun to be cultivated after an absence of many years.
this was a rather courageous and principled move that required overcoming american legal obstacles related to thc content.
wall castings  are a conglomerate of isochanvre® lime-hemp, for production of a 200 mm  thick monolithic wall without an interior wall lining.
health, bethesda, md.
from the end of the civil war until 1912, virtually all hemp in the us was produced in kentucky.
ecological friendliness of hemp
(courtesy of  kenex ltd., pain court, ontario.)
in canada, the methodology used for analyses and sample collection for thc  analysis of hemp plantings is standardized (at the health canada/therapeutics  program/hemp web site at www.hc-sc.gc.ca/hpb-dgps/therapeut/htmleng/hemp.html,  see “industrial hemp technical manual” for procedures on sampling  plant materials and chemical procedures for determining thc levels).
long section of cystolith hair (note calcium carbonate concretion at base).
studies of cannabis sativa and sorghum bicolor oils.
so prolific is pollen production that an isolation distance of about 5 km is usually recommended for generating pure-bred foundation seed.
will hemp commercial cultivation resume in the us in the foreseeable  future?
hemp is harvested once a year, so that it needs to be stored to feed mills throughout the year.
weaving of hemp fibers into textiles and apparel is primarily done in china, hungary, romania, russia, and the ukraine.
low plant densities, as commonly found in growing tall european cultivars for seed, may not suppress weed growth adequately, and under these circumstances resort to herbicides may pose a problem for those wishing to grow hempseed organically.
the appearance is rather like a short, conical christmas tree.
content of principal fatty acids in  hempseed oil, based on means of 62 accessions grown in southern ontario  (reported in small and marcus 2000).
unlike flax, hemp long fiber requires water retting for  preparation of high-quality spinnable fibers for production of fine textiles.
marihuana - the first twelve thousand years.
the canadian system of monitoring thc content has rigidly limited hemp  cultivation to cultivars that consistently develop thc levels below 0.3%.
since virgin pulp is required for added strength in the recycling of paper, hemp pulp would allow for at least twice as many cycles as wood pulp.
hemp is not presently a standard crop, and is likely to continue experiencing the risks inherent in a small niche market for some time.
hemp facts and hemp fiction.
this approach is currently dominant in western europe and canada, and commences with field dew retting (typically 23 weeks).
wild north american plants have undergone many  generations of natural adaptation to local conditions of climate, soil and  pests, and accordingly it is safe to conclude that they harbor genes that are  invaluable for the improvement of hemp cultivars.
except for the troublesome  characteristic of dying after anthesis, male traits are favored for fiber  production, in contrast to the situation for drug strains noted below.
hempline in ontario, the first firm to grow hemp for commercial purposes in north america since the second word war (starting with experimental cultivation in 1994), is the exception, and is concerned with production of fiber for upholstery and carpeting.
crop physiology of fibre hemp (cannabis  sativa l.).
of course, the high thc in  drug cultivars makes these a difficult source of germplasm.
this is dioecious, short (about a meter in height), highly branched, with large leaves (i.e. wide leaflets), and it is slow to mature.
fibres from  semi-retted hemp bundles by steam explosion treatment.
a wild female  hemp plant grown in southern ontario [accession #16 from georgia (formerly  ussr), reported in small and marcus (2000)].
in  practice, however, the illicit drug trade has access to easier methods of  synthesizing thc or its analogues than by first extracting cbd from non-drug  hemp strains.
hemp seeds have an attractive nutty taste, and are now incorporated into  many food preparations (fig. 34), often mimicking familiar foods.
however, according to bócsa and  karus (1998), “it matters little what crops are grown prior to hemp .”
increasingly, however, the world is  testing the potential of hemp in the field and marketplace, which surely must  be the ultimate arbiters.
since the nodes tend to disrupt the length of the fiber  bundles, thereby limiting quality, tall, relatively unbranched plants with long  internodes have been selected.
asian land races are similarly adapted to long seasons.
for a fiber crop, hemp is cut in the early flowering stage or while pollen is being shed, well before seeds are set.
until canada replaced china in 1998 as a source of imported seeds for the us, most seeds used for various purposes in the us were sterilized and imported from china.
nevertheless, present policies in north america require the eradication  of wild hemp wherever encountered.
moreover, seed cake left after  expressing the oil is an excellent feed.
given these current demands for research on medicinal marijuana, it  will be necessary to produce crops of drug types ofc. sativa.
harvesting and processing machinery for fiber hemp is highly advanced in  europe, and some has been imported into canada.
a practical treatise on  the culture of hemp for seed and fiber with a sketch of the history and nature  of the hemp plant.
one of the most significant developments for the north american hemp  industry was investment in hemp products by anita and gordon roddick, founders  of the body shop, a well known international chain of hair and body care  retailers.
nevertheless, hemp has been rated on a variety of  criteria as one of the best crops available to produce energy in europe  (biewinga and van der bijl 1996).
the core fibers are generally considered too short for high grade paper applications (a length of 3 mm is considered ideal), and too much lignin is present.
the value of the canadian crop is uncertain, but has been estimated to be in the billions of dollars annually (heading 1998;
about 25% of north americans are  believed to have usedcannabis illegally.
the phytochemistry of cannabis: its ecological  and evolutionary implications.
well-drained clay soils can be used, but poorly-drained clay soils are very inappropriate because of their susceptibility to compaction, which is not tolerated.
the us drug enforcement administrations online criminal justice statistics for 2000 (cscmosaic.albany.edu/sourcebook/1995/pdf/t440.pdf) shows the following seizures and eradication of plants ofc. sativa: 40,929 outdoor plots (2,597,796 plants), 139,580,728 ditchweed (ruderal plants), 2,361 indoor operations (217,105 plants), for a grand total of 2,814, 903 plants destroyed.
all-female lines are productive for some purposes (e.g. they are very uniform, and with very few males to take up space they can produce considerable grain), but the hybrid seed is expensive to produce.
occurrence of  “omega-3” stearidonic acid (cis-6,9,12,15-octadecatetraenoic acid) in  hemp (cannabis sativa l.) seed.
this  vigorous plant had a fresh weight of 1.5 kg. fig. 53.
seed (achene), showing wide face.
such appears to be unsurpassed for horse bedding, and also make an excellent litter for cats and other pets (fig. 31).
the biosynthetic pathways of the cannabinoids  are not yet satisfactorily elucidated, although the scheme shown in fig.
the oil varies in  color from off-yellow to dark green.
food dehulled (i.e. hulled) hemp seed is a very recent phenomenon, first  produced in quantity in europe.
the resin is a sticky mixture of  cannabinoids and a variety of terpenes.
a bottle of commercial medicinal extract is shown  in fig.
the hurds can absorb up to five times their weight in moisture (typically 50% higher than wood shavings), do not produce dust (following initial dust removal), and are easily composted.
as well, the hurds become more difficult to separate.
hemp may also enhance forestry  management by responding to short-term fiber demand while trees reach their  ideal maturation.
by contrast, letniak et al. (2000) conducted an experimental trial of hemp as silage.
sometimes plaster of paris (pure  gypsum), cement, or sand is added.
in europe, decortication/refining machines are available that can  produce 10 t/hour of hemp fiber suitable for such pulp use.
at least some production  of hemp for fiber still occurs in russia, china, the ukraine, poland, hungary,  the countries of the former yugoslavia, romania, korea, chile, and peru.
in this light, subsidy will be denied producers who are growing grain for use in human nutrition and cosmetics.
in the eu, a yield of 1 t/ha is considered good.
dried plant parts and extracts of cannabis have received rather extensive usage for these purposes in the past,  raising the possibility that research could produce formulations of commercial  value.
it has been claimed that hemp produces three to four times as  much useable fiber per hectare per annum as forests.
in ontario it has been recommended that hemp not follow canola,  edible beans, soybeans or sunflowers.
product  safety bureau, health canada, ottawa.
hemp bedding is especially suited to horses  allergic to straw.
industrial hemp is a phrase that has become common to designate hemp used for commercial non-intoxicant purposes.
index | search | home | table of contents small, e. and d. marcus.
in europe, the animal bedding market is not considered  important (karus et al. 2000), but in north america there are insufficient hemp  hurds available to meet market demand.
hemp, especially the hurds, can be burned as  is or processed into charcoal, methanol, methane, or gasoline through pyrolysis  (destructive distillation).
alberta hemp symposia proceedings, red deer,  alberta, march 10, 1998, and edmonton alberta, april 8, 1998.
highly selected forms of the fiber cultigen possess features maximizing fiber production.
harvesting tall varieties for grain is difficult.
published doctoral thesis.
in contrast to shorter-chain and more saturated fatty acids, these essential fatty acids do not serve as energy sources, but as raw materials for cell structure and as precursors for biosynthesis for many of the bodys regulatory biochemicals.
as noted, as a crop hemp offers  some real environmental advantages, particularly with regard to the limited  needs for herbicides and pesticides.
gla has been found to alleviate psoriasis, atopic eczema, and mastalgia, and may also benefit cardiovascular, psychiatric, and immunological disorders.
animal bedding made from hemp hurds.
the present  productivity of oilseed hemp—about 1 t/ha under good conditions, and  occasional reports of 1.5 to 2 t/ha, is not yet sufficient for the crop to  become competitive with north america’s major oilseeds.
cultural and production costs of hemp have been said  to be comparable to those for corn, and while the truth of this remains to be  confirmed, the legislative burden that accompanies hemp puts the crop at a  unique disadvantage.
bioremediation preliminary work in germany (noted in karus and leson 1994) suggested that  hemp could be grown on soils contaminated with heavy metals, while the fiber  remained virtually free of the metals.
the myth that  hemp is a wonder crop that can be grown on any soil led some to cultivate on  soils with a history of producing poor crops; of course, a poor crop was the  result.
the above uses are based on hemp as a mechanical strengthener of  materials.
in france, dual purpose hemp is typically  harvested twice—initially the upper seed-bearing part of the stems is cut  and threshed with a combine, and subsequently the remaining stems are  harvested.
dewey (1914) gave the following information:  “the short oil-seed hemp with slender stems, about 30 inches high, bearing  compact clusters of seeds and maturing in 60 to 90 days, is of little value for  fiber production, but the experimental plants, grown from seed imported from  russia, indicate that it may be valuable as an oil-seed crop to be harvested  and threshed in the same manner as oil-seed flax.”
these proposals are currently being  challenged by the hemp industry.
because of the extensive  development of oilseeds in canada, there is extensive capacity to produce  high-quality cold-pressed hemp oil.
those sold in north america include nutritional (granola-type) or snack bars, nut butters and other spreads, bread, pretzels, cookies, yogurts, pancakes, porridge, fruit crumble, frozen dessert (ice cream), pasta, burgers, pizza, salt substitute, salad dressings, mayonnaise, cheese, and beverages (milk, lemonade, beer, wine, coffee nog).
the possibility of marijuana becoming a legal commercial crop in  north america is, to say the least, unlikely in the foreseeable future.
reproduced with  the permission of harvard university, cambridge, ma.
in 1826 a congressional report that recommended the preparation of a practical manual on the industry resulted in a contagious desire to plant mulberries for silk production, with the eventual collapse of the industry, the loss of fortunes, and a legacy of mulberry streets in the us (chapter 2, bailey 1898).
hemp shows a remarkable range of  variation in oil constituents, and selection for oilseed cultivars with high  content of valued industrial constituents is in progress.
given the uncertainties and handicaps associated with hemp, it is  fortunate that there are compensating factors.
this possibility is currently hypothetical.
1 to be published 2002.
if not turned, the stems close to the ground will remain green while the top ones are retted and turn brown.
other desirable features of hemp fibers are strength and durability  (particularly resistance to decay), which made hemp useful in the past for  rope, nets, sail-cloth, and oakum for caulking.
sample collection is also normally carried out by an independent authorized  firm.
moreover, density of cultivation is used to accentuate certain  architectural features.
seed that has been sterilized tends to go rancid quickly, and so it is imperative that fresh seed be available, a great advantage for domestic production.
hemp as an alternative crop in north dakota.
however, according to the usda and the us department of commerce, the profitability of industrial hemp is highly uncertain and probably unlikely.
hemps long fibers could make paper more recyclable.
the objectivity of scientific evaluation of the medicinal value of  marijuana to date has been questioned.
cannabis sativa is also relatively resistant to weeds, and so usually  requires relatively little herbicide.
www.gov.on.ca/omafra/english/crops/hort/hemp/info_hempthcd9.htm schultes, r.e. 1970.
www.nova-institut.de/bioresource-hemp/home.htm (by subscription) kraenzel, d.g., t. petry, b. nelson, m.j. anderson, d. mathern, and r.  todd. 1998.
(courtesy of mark myrowich, erosioncontrolblanket.com) the cultivation of hemp in the eu is heavily weighted toward fiber production over oilseed production.
another chief  advantage of several annual fiber crops over forestry crops is relative  productivity, annual fiber crops sometimes producing of the order of four times  as much per unit of land.
hemp pulp and paper production.
notable are the health-promoting gamma-linolenic  acid; improving the amino acid spectrum of the protein; and increasing the  antioxidant level, which would not only have health benefits but could increase  the shelf life of hemp oil and foods.
(frankfurt am main,  germany, feb. 27–march 2, 1997).
global biodiversity  7(4):7–11.
the long, lignin-poor bast fibers also have considerable potential to be used in many non-paper, non-textile applications, as noted below.
fiber (i.e.  tall) cultivars of hemp were also once used in europe as wind-breaks,  protecting vulnerable crops against wind damage.
in vitro studies of  the cultivation of various hemp varieties on heavy metal polluted soils and the  evidence for phytochelatins in hemp.
wilsie, c.p., c.a. black, and a.r. aandahl. 1944.
the second breeding goal is for larger seeds, as these are more easily shelled.
mölleken, h., a. oswald, and r.r. theimer. 1997.
seeds (achenes) of hemp, with a match for scale.
hemp fibers are produced at much  more cost than wood chips and straw from many other crops, so high-end  applications requiring high strength seem most appropriate.
rijswikj, the netherlands.
hemp, grown under license mostly in canada, is the most publicized new crop in north america.
national institutes of health.
gla is a widely consumed supplement known to affect vital metabolic roles in humans, ranging from control of inflammation and vascular tone to initiation of contractions during childbirth.
once stalks are retted, dried, and baled, they are processed to extract the fiber.
in addition, it has been suggested that other components, including trace amounts of terpenes and cannabinoids, could have health benefits (leizer et al. 2000).
le dain, g. (chair).
(courtesy dr. k. domier,  univ.
one of the most significant developments for the north american hemp industry was investment in hemp products by anita and gordon roddick, founders of the body shop, a well known international chain of hair and body care retailers.
henry ford swinging an axe at his 1941 car to demonstrate the toughness of the plastic trunk door made of soybean and hemp.
more than 50% of the marijuana available in canada is grown domestically.
unlike fiber strains that have been selected to grow well at  extremely high densities, drug strains tend to be less persistent when grown in  high concentration (de meijer 1994).
low  plant densities, as commonly found in growing tall european cultivars for seed,  may not suppress weed growth adequately, and under these circumstances resort  to herbicides may pose a problem for those wishing to grow hempseed  organically.
an absence of such fiber-strain traits as tallness, limited branching, long internodes, and very hollow stems, is characteristic of narcotic strains.
because hemp is regaining its ancient status as an important crop, a number of private germplasm collections have been assembled for the breeding of cultivars as commercial ventures (de meijer and van soest 1992; de meijer 1998), and of course these are available only on a restricted basis, if at all.
the medicinal efficacy ofcannabis is extremely controversial, and regrettably is often confounded with the issue of balancing harm and liberty concerning the proscriptions against recreational use of marijuana.
supporters of the hemp legalization effort claim hemp  cultivation could be profitable for us farmers.
wheat straw is the dominant nonwood fiber in such applications.
simply displaying ac. sativa leaf on advertising has led to the threat of criminal charges in the last decade in several g8 countries.
in any event, the core fibers, have found  a variety of uses, as detailed below.
the most widespread claim for environmental friendliness of hemp is that it has the potential to save trees that otherwise would be harvested for production of lumber and pulp.
some american manufacturers and distributors have  chosen to exploit the association of hemp products with marijuana in their  advertising.
in former, labor-intensive times, the male plants were harvested earlier than the females, to produce superior fiber.
although the seedlings will  germinate and survive at temperatures just above freezing, soil temperatures of  8°–10°c are preferable.
this of course lessens the value-added future of growing hemp for a potential textile industry in north america.
flax, jute, kenaf, hemp, and wheat straw can be used to make composite board.
the vavilov institute of plant research in st. petersburg, russia has by far the largest germplasm collection of hemp of any public gene bank, with about 500 collections.
during the age of sailing ships, cannabis was considered to provide the very best of canvas, and indeed  this word is derived fromcannabis.
hemp fiber usage in the european union in 1999 (after karus et al. 2000).class of product quantity table 2.
not surprisingly, the most highly domesticated drug strains were selected in india.
the essential fatty acids are available in other oils,  particularly fish and flaxseed, but these tend to have unpleasant flavors  compared to the mellow, slightly nutty flavor of hempseed oil.
agroforestry using tree species is one useful response,  but nevertheless sacrifices wild lands and biodiversity, and is less preferable  than sustainable wildland forestry.
thc content increases in the following order: achenes (excluding bracts), roots, large stems, smaller stems, older and larger leaves, younger and smaller leaves, flowers, perigonal bracts covering both the female flowers and fruits.
hemp shows a remarkable range of variation in oil constituents, and selection for oilseed cultivars with high content of valued industrial constituents is in progress.
health  council of the netherlands, standing committee on medicine, publication no.
this is a market that is growing very fast, and hemp insulation products are increasing in popularity.
the economic viability of such remains to be tested.
all-female lines are productive for some purposes (e.g. they  are very uniform, and with very few males to take up space they can produce  considerable grain), but the hybrid seed is expensive to produce.
the mineralized material can be blown or poured into the cavities of walls and in attics as insulation.
adding nitrogen when it is not necessary is deleterious to fiber production, so that knowledge of the fertility of soils being used is very important.
whereas most drug strains contain primarily thc and little or no cbd, fiber and oilseed strains primarily contain cbd and very little thc.
8), but in either case the glandular cells  are covered by a sheath under which resin is accumulated, until the sheath  ruptures, releasing resin on the surface.
ornamental forms hemp has at times in the past been grown simply for its ornamental value.
(“chanvre” is french for hemp.)
unless the producer participates in sharing of value-added income, large profits are unlikely.
the root is a laterally branched taproot, generally 3060 cm deep, up to 2.5 m in loose soils, very near the surface and more branched in wet soils.
hemp-based erosion control blanket.
while the breeding of hemp fiber cultivars has proceeded to the point that only slight improvements can be expected in productivity in the future, the genetic potential of hemp as an oilseed has scarcely been addressed.
an additional extremely significant advantage that domestic  producers have over foreign sources is organic production, which is important  for the image desired by the hemp food market.
marijuana was judged to be the largest revenue producing crop in  alabama, california, colorado, hawaii, kentucky, maine, rhode island,  tennessee, virginia, and west virginia, and one of the top five cash crops in  29 other states.
currently, up to 10 ppm thc  is permitted in seeds and oil products used for food purposes in canada.
retted stalks are loosely held together, and for highest quality fiber applications need to be decorticated, scutched, hackled, and combed to remove the remaining pieces of stalks, broken fibers, and extraneous material.
although the content of gla in the seeds is lower, hemp is far easier to cultivate and higher-yielding.
italy has an outstanding reputation for high-quality hemp, but productivity has waned for the last several decades.
in france, the principal grower of dual-purpose varieties, the grain is taken off the field first, leaving most of the stalks for later harvest (fig. 49).
thc in hemp  foods and cosmetics: the appropriate risk assessment.
probably indigenous to temperate asia, c. sativa is the most widely cited example of a camp follower.
orr, j. and m.e. starodub.
an absence of such fiber-strain traits as tallness, limited branching,  long internodes, and very hollow stems, is characteristic of narcotic strains.
italy has an outstanding reputation for high-quality  hemp, but productivity has waned for the last several decades.
should the us permit commercial hemp cultivation to resume, it will  likely be for the same reasons.
the basic commercial options for growing hemp in north america is as a fiber plant, an oilseed crop, or for dual harvest for both seeds and fiber.
in plastics,  fibers are introduced to improve physical properties such as stiffness, impact  resistance, bending and tensile strength.
although the environmental and biodiversity benefits of growing hemp have been greatly exaggerated in the popular press,c. sativa is nevertheless exceptionally suitable for organic agriculture, and is remarkably less ecotoxic in comparison to most other crops (montford and small 1999b).
the demise of the sail diminished the market for  canvas.
grotenhermen, f., m. karus, and d. lohmeyer.
in  historical times, hemp rag was processed into paper.
antioxidants in hempseed oil are believed to stabilize the  highly polyunsaturated oil, tending to keep it from going rancid.
small, e. and h.d. beckstead.
unfortunately there was no market for the new wonder crop and hundreds of farmers lost about $20 million (paarlberg 1990).
seeding rate is specific to each variety, and this information should be sought from the supplier.
rather ironically  in view of today’s parallel situation, henry ford’s hemp innovations  in the 1920s occurred at a time of crisis for american farms, later to  intensify with the depression.
as with maize, hemp can also be used to create ethanol.
third is breeding for specific seed components.
until the early 19th century, hemp, and flax were the chief paper-making materials.
these cultivars are approved for use in canada not on agricultural criteria, but merely on the basis that they meet the thc criterion.
for a fiber crop, hemp is cut in the early flowering stage or while pollen  is being shed, well before seeds are set.
most hemp breeding  that has been conducted to date has been for fiber characteristics, so that  there should be considerable improvement possible.
wild north american hemp is derived mostly from escaped european cultivated hemp imported in past centuries, perhaps especially from a revival of cultivation during world war ii.
however, a characteristic type of narcotic plant  was selected in southern asia, particularly in india and neighboring countries.
we have grown chinese hemp land races, and these were short, branched, adapted to a very long growing season (i.e. they come into flower very slowly in response to photoperiodic induction of short days in the fall), and altogether they were rather reminiscent of deweys description of smyrna.
ground-retaining, biodegradable matting designed to prevent soil erosion,  especially to stabilize new plantings while they develop root systems along  steep highway banks to prevent soil slippage (fig. 32); and (2) ground-covers  designed to reduce weeds in planting beds (in the manner of plastic mulch).
however, a characteristic type of narcotic plant was selected in southern asia, particularly in india and neighboring countries.
a summary of hemp research in canada conducted by the  fibre division of agriculture canada, 1923–1942.
ten years ago hemp cultivation was illegal in germany, england, canada, australia, and other countries.
recommendations for seeding rates for grain production vary  widely, from 10–45 kg/ha.
increasing use of the plant for drugs gave hemp a bad image.
hunters and birdwatchers who discover wild  patches of hemp often keep this information secret, knowing that the area will  be a magnet for birds in the fall when seed maturation occurs.
it would seem unwise to grow hemp as an oilseed on contaminated soils, but such a habitat might be suitable for a fiber or biomass crop.
this typically  requires weeks.
marijuana in medicine - past, present and future.
from the individual  producer’s perspective, the old adage “find your market before you  plant your seed” remains sound advice.
wilsie et al. 1942; hackleman  and domingo 1943;
hemp production  experiments, cultural practices and soil requirements.
this involves production of whole fibers (i.e. harvesting both the long fibers from the cortex and the shorter fibers from throughout the stem), and technologies that utilize shortened hemp fibers.
bottom center: “dual purpose” plants are grown at moderate  density, tend to be slightly branched and of medium to tall height.
top right: grass growing through blanket.
the drug enforcement agency and the office of national drug control policy  of the us raised concerns over tests conducted from 1995 to 1997 that showed  that consumption of hempseed products available during that period led to  interference with drug-testing programs for marijuana use.
personal care products
young plants are sensitive to wet or flooded soils, so that hemp must have porous, friable, well-drained soils.
at present the main materials used are polymeric (polythene, spun-blown polypropylene) and some glass fiber and natural fibers.
nevertheless, a level of 0.3% thc in the flowering parts of the  plant is reflective of material that is too low in intoxicant potential to  actually be used practically for illicit production of marijuana or other types  of cannabis drugs.
growing hemp to the stage that mature seeds are present compromises the quality of the fiber, because of lignification.
wild canadian hemp is concentrated along  the st. lawrence and lower great lakes, where considerable cultivation occurred  in the 1800s.
soil characteristics, latitude and climatic stresses have been found to  have significant effects on thc concentrations, and there are seasonal and even  diurnal variations (small 1979; pate 1998b).
as a strategic economic  and political tactic, france has been attempting for several years to have the  european union (eu) adopt legislation forbidding the cultivation of industrial  hemp cultivars with more than 0.1% thc, which would mean that primarily french  varieties would have to be cultivated in europe.
figure 50 presents a comparison of the ecological friendliness of cannabis crops (fiber, oilseed, and narcotics) and 21 of the world’s  major crops, based on 26 criteria used by montford and small (1999a) to compare  the ecological friendliness of crops.
this superb composite plate by artist elmer smith, often reproduced at a very small scale and without explanation in marijuana books, is the best scientific illustration of the hemp plant ever prepared.
meijer, e. de. 1994.
still another consideration is the “green ideal” of producing  locally for local needs; by this credo, hemp is preferable in temperate regions  to the use of tropical fibers, which need to be imported.
other desirable features of hemp fibers are strength and durability (particularly resistance to decay), which made hemp useful in the past for rope, nets, sail-cloth, and oakum for caulking.
most hemp fiber used in textiles today is water retted in china and hungary.
multicellular secretory glands (of phallic  appearance), some broken stalks of these (note cellular appearance), and  unicellular cystolith hairs (claw-like structures) are pictured.
www.agric.gov.ab.ca/crops/special/hemp/hemplowthc.html macloed, i. 1999.
www.nova-institut.de/bioresource-hemp/home.htm (by subscription);  www.hemphasis.com/ (free) thompson, e.c., m.c. berger, and s. allen. 1998.
canada is specialized on oilseed production and processing, so that hemp  oil and grain are much more suitable than fiber.
because of the extensive development of oilseeds in canada, there is extensive capacity to produce high-quality cold-pressed hemp oil.
hemp requires about the same fertility as a high-yielding crop of  wheat.
in a recent editorial, the respected  journal nature (2001) stated: “governments, including the us federal  government, have until recently refused to sanction the medical use of  marijuana, and have also done what they can to prevent its clinical testing.
major uses of industrial hemp.
moreover, the ability to last outdoors for  many years is frequently undesirable in geotextiles.
andapocynum cannabinum l., which was used by north american indians as a fiber plant.
good soil moisture is necessary for seed germination, and plenty of rainfall is needed for good growth, especially during the first 6 weeks.
it is important to understand, therefore, that the quality of modern hemp seed for human consumption far exceeds anything produced historically.
this is primarily because of the legal, ethical and bureaucratic difficulties in conducting trials with patients.
the us drug enforcement administration’s online criminal justice  statistics for 2000 (cscmosaic.albany.edu/sourcebook/1995/pdf/t440.pdf) shows  the following seizures and eradication of plants ofc. sativa: 40,929  outdoor plots (2,597,796 plants), 139,580,728 ditchweed (ruderal plants), 2,361  indoor operations (217,105 plants), for a grand total of 2,814, 903 plants  destroyed.
seeding rate is  specific to each variety, and this information should be sought from the  supplier.
about 25% of north americans are believed to have usedcannabis illegally.
it has been contended that hemp is notably superior to most crops in terms of biomass production, but van der werf (1994b) noted that the annual dry matter yield of hemp (rarely approaching 20 t/ha) is not exceptional compared to maize, beet, or potato.
(courtesy of kenex ltd., pain  court, ontario.)
several factors combined to decrease the popularity of hemp in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
the  level of “hype” associated with industrial hemp is far more than has  been observed before for other new crops (pinfold consulting 1998).
in developing countries where fuelwood is becoming increasingly scarce and food security is a concern, the introduction of a dual-purpose crop such as hemp to meet food, shelter, and fuel needs may contribute significantly to preserving biodiversity.
a usda analysis of hemp, industrial hemp in the united states: status and market potential, was issued in 2000, and is available at www.ers.usda.gov/publications/ages001e/index.htm.
quality is improved by using only the first  pressing, and minimizing the number of green seeds present.
while  hemp has been and still is cultivated in asia and south america, it is  basically in europe that germplasm banks have made efforts to preserve hemp  seeds.
staminate or male plants tend to be 10%15% taller and are less robust than the pistillate or female (note the comparatively frail male in fig. 3).
related to geotextile applications is the possibility of using hemp fiber  as a planting substrate (biodegradable pots and blocks for plants), and as  biodegradable twine to replace plastic ties used to attach plants to supporting  poles.
generally hemp should be planted after danger of hard freezes, and slightly before the planting date of maize.
this paper is principally concerned with the industrial uses  ofcannabis.
(1990) studied the possibility of using hemp for biogas (i.e. methane) production, and concluded that it was unsuitable for this purpose.
hirst r a, d.g. lambert, and w.g. notcutt.
medicinal marijuana marijuana has in fact been grown for medicinal research in north america  by both the canadian (fig. 40) and american governments, and this will likely  continue.
there are very few cultivars dedicated to oilseed production (such as finola and anka) or that at least are known to produce good oilseed crops (such as fasamo and uniko-b).
when grown in north-temperate climates maturation is much-delayed until late fall, or the plants succumb to cold weather before they are able to produce seeds.
even when one has suitably separated long fiber, specialized harvesting, processing, spinning and weaving equipment are required for preparing fine hemp textiles.
until the  early 19th century, hemp, and flax were the chief paper-making materials.
songbirds on hemp  litter.
essential oil essential (volatile) oil in hemp is quite different from hempseed oil.
indeed, most of these are unsuitable or only marginally suitable for canada (small and marcus 2000), and only a very few canadian cultivars to date have been created.
up until the first half of the 20th century, drug preparations ofcannabis were used predominantly as a recreational inebriant in poor countries and the lower socio-economic classes of developed nations.
however, hemp for such biomass purposes is a doubtful venture in north  america.
whereas china used to supply most of the hempseed used for food in north  america, canadian-grown seeds have taken over this market.
hemp seed  was a grain used in ancient china, although there has been only minor direct  use of hemp seed as food by humans.
table 3 shows the economic significance (dollars generated in the black market plus dollar cost of control measures) of the illicit drug industry associated withc. sativa, and contrasts this with the estimated dollar value of major categories of legitimate uses.
until canada  replaced china in 1998 as a source of imported seeds for the us, most seeds  used for various purposes in the us were sterilized and imported from china.
hemp fibers tend to wrap around combine  belts, bearings, indeed any moving part, and have resulted in large costs of  combine repairs (estimated at $10.00/ha).
hemp clothes are resistant to abrasion,  but are typically abrasive.
the oil varies in color from off-yellow to dark green.
in north america the use of nonwood fibers in sheet fiberboard  (“pressboard” or “composite board”) products is relatively  undeveloped.
relatively little  material needs to be cultivated for medicinal purposes (small 1971), although  security considerations considerably inflate costs.
pinfold  consulting (1998) concluded that while there may be some potential for hemp  biomass fuel near areas where hemp is cultivated, “a fuel ethanol industry  is not expected to develop based on hemp.”
the following sketch of hemp cultivation is insufficient to address all of the practical problems that are encountered by hemp growers.
finding cultivars suited to local conditions is a key to success.
the crop was first brought to south america in 1545, in chile, and to north america in port royal, acadia in 1606.
notable are the health-promoting gamma-linolenic acid; improving the amino acid spectrum of the protein; and increasing the antioxidant level, which would not only have health benefits but could increase the shelf life of hemp oil and foods.
female  flower, enclosed by perigonal bract.
the following sketch of hemp cultivation is insufficient to address all of  the practical problems that are encountered by hemp growers.
with respect to wood products, several factors appear to favor increased use of wood substitutes, especially agricultural fibers such as hemp.
fiber strains have been selected for low seed production, so that most hemp germplasm has certainly not been selected for oilseed characteristics.
fiber in retted hemp stem.
canadian experience with growing hemp commercially for the last 4 years has convinced many growers that it is better to use a single-purpose cultivar, seed or fiber, than a dual-purpose cultivar.
the united states national institute  on drug abuse (nida) information web site on marijuana, which reflects a  negative view of cannabis, is at www.nida.nih.gov/drugpages/marijuana.html, and  reflects several basic fears: (1) growingcannabis plants makes law  enforcement more difficult, because of the need to ensure that all plants  cultivated are legitimate; (2) utilization of legitimatecannabis products makes it much more difficult to maintain the image of the illegitimate  products as dangerous; (3) many in the movements backing development of hemp  are doing so as a subterfuge to promote legalization of recreational use of  marijuana; and (4) thc (and perhaps other constituents)
but marketing based on the healthful and tasteful properties of hemp  food products, the durable nature of hemp textiles, and the environmental  advantages of the crop has proven to be widely acceptable, and is likely to  promote the long term development of hemp industries.
medical use declined with the introduction of synthetic analgesics  and sedatives, and there is very limited authorized medical use today, but  considerable unauthorized use, including so-called “compassion clubs”  dispensing marijuana to gravely ill people, which has led to a momentous  societal and scientific debate regarding the wisdom of employing cannabis drugs  medically, given the illicit status.
more importantly, hempseed oil is not competitive, except in the  novelty niche market, with the popular food oils.
dried plant parts and extracts of cannabis have received rather extensive usage for these purposes in the past, raising the possibility that research could produce formulations of commercial value.
detailed information on the majority of hemp accessions  of the vavilov institute can be found in anon.
bócsa and karus (1998) is the best overall presentation of hemp growing available in english.
in practice, however, the illicit drug trade has access to easier methods of synthesizing thc or its analogues than by first extracting cbd from non-drug hemp strains.
advances in hemp research.
hemp food products cannot escape their niche market status until the price of hempseed rivals that of other oilseeds, particularly rapeseed, flax, and sunflower.
in the us, nih (national institute of health) has a program of  research into medicinal marijuana, and has supplied a handful of individuals  for years with maintenance samples for medical usage.
selection for fiber has resulted in strains that have much more bark fiber tissues and much less woody core than encountered in narcotic strains, oilseed strains, and wild plants (fig. 12).
the evolution of  cannabinoid phenotypes incannabis.
development of other natural  fibers as well as synthetic fibers increased competition for hemp’s uses  as a textile fiber and for cordage.
growing hemp to the stage that mature seeds are present compromises  the quality of the fiber, because of lignification.
insofar as hemp reduces the need to harvest trees  for building materials or other products, its use as a wood substitute will  tend to contribute to preserving biodiversity.
nevertheless, the marihuana tax act applied in 1938 essentially ended hemp production in the united states, although a small hemp fiber industry continued in wisconsin until 1958.
these cultivars are “approved” for use in canada not on  agricultural criteria, but merely on the basis that they meet the thc  criterion.
further, chinas supremacy in the production of high-quality hemp textiles at low prices will be very difficult to match, while domestic production of oilseeds can be carried out using technology that is already available.
‘finola,’ the first cultivar of cannabis sativa bred exclusively for grain.
whilec. sativa has been used as a euphoriant in india, the near  east, parts of africa, and other old world areas for thousands of years, such  use simply did not develop in temperate countries where hemp was raised.
provincial agronomists in canada now have  experience with hemp, and can make local recommendations.
cluster of male flowers.
among the problems that canadian farmers have faced are the challenge of government licensing (some delays, and a large learning curve), very expensive and sometime poor seed (farmers are not allowed to generate their own seed), teenagers raiding fields in the mistaken belief that marijuana is being grown, and great difficulties in exportation because of the necessity of convincing authorities that hemp is not a narcotic.
the seed cake is also referred to as seed meal, and has proven to be excellent for animals (mustafa et al. 1999).
kozlowski, r., p. baraniecki, l. grabowska, and j. mankowski.
about two thirds of hempseed protein is edestin.
hemp, especially the hurds, can be burned as is or processed into charcoal, methanol, methane, or gasoline through pyrolysis (destructive distillation).
staminate or  “male” plants tend to be 10%–15% taller and are less robust than  the pistillate or “female” (note the comparatively frail male in fig.
an inquiry  regarding the 56 united states department of agriculture hemp germplasm  collections supplied to and grown by small and beckstead (1973) resulted in the  reply that there are no remaining hemp collections in usda germplasm holdings,  and indeed that were such to be found they would have to be destroyed.
according to the us national institute on drug abuse (www.nida.nih.gov/infofax/marijuana.html), more than 72 million americans (33%) 12 years of age and older have tried marijuana.
a list of the 24 approved  cultivars for the 2001 season in canada is at  www.hc-sc.gc.ca/hpb-dgps/therapeut/htmleng/hemp.html.
hempline in ontario,  the first firm to grow hemp for commercial purposes in north america since the  second word war (starting with experimental cultivation in 1994), is the  exception, and is concerned with production of fiber for upholstery and  carpeting.
for every proposed  use of industrial hemp, there already exists an available product, or raw  material, which is cheaper to manufacture and provides better market  results....
usda farmers’ bul. 1935 (rev. 1952).
switzerland  has permitted strains with higher thc content to be grown than is allowed in  other parts of the world, giving the country an advantage with respect to the  essential oil market.
the cultivation of hemp in the eu is heavily weighted toward fiber  production over oilseed production.
slower operation of conventional combines has been recommended (0.62 ha/hour).
in advance of todays automobile manufacturers, he constructed a car with certain components made of resin stiffened with hemp fiber (fig. 19).
van roeckel, g.j. jr. 1994.
judged on experience in canada to date, the industry is inclined to specialize  on either fiber or grain, but not both.
densities for seed production for tall, european, dual-purpose cultivars are less than for short oilseed cultivars.
both woven and  non-woven fibers can be applied to geotextiles; woven and knitted materials are  stronger and the open structure may be advantageous (e.g. in allowing plants to  grow through), but non-wovens are cheaper and better at suppressing weeds.
the woody core fibers are short—about 0.55 mm—and like  hardwood fibers are cemented together with considerable lignin.
it has been estimated that 5–10 kg of  natural fibers can be used in the molded portions of an average automobile  (excluding upholstery).
fiber cultivars have stems that are  more hollow at the internodes, i.e. less wood, since this allows more energy to  be directed into the production of bark fiber.
accordingly, the chief current fiber usages of  north american, indeed of european hemp, are non-textile.
those involved in value-added processing and  distribution are also faced with legal uncertainties and the regular threat of  idiosyncratic, indeed irrational actions of various governments.
development of other natural fibers as well as synthetic fibers increased competition for hemps uses as a textile fiber and for cordage.
cannabis sativa is a multi-purpose plant that has been domesticated for bast (phloem) fiber in the stem, a multi-purpose fixed oil in the seeds (achenes), and an intoxicating resin secreted by epidermal glands.
using hemp directly for  paper was considered too expensive, and in any event the demand for paper was  far more limited than today.
hemp seed oil: a source of valuable  essential fatty acids.
whereas china used to supply most of the hempseed used for food in north america, canadian-grown seeds have taken over this market.
coco (coir) fiber has been said to be much more suitable, due to higher lignin  content (40%–50%, compared to 2%–5% in bast fibers); these are much  cheaper than flax and hemp fibers (karus et al. 2000).
weaving of hemp fibers into textiles and apparel is  primarily done in china, hungary, romania, russia, and the ukraine.
essential to overcoming governmental reluctance in each country was the presentation of an image that was business-oriented, and conservative.
it is important to note that hemp is the only  current natural food source of gla, i.e. not requiring the consumption of  extracted dietary supplements.
the possibility of marijuana becoming a legal commercial crop in north america is, to say the least, unlikely in the foreseeable future.
hemp as an industrial absorbent has  generated some interest in alberta, for use in land reclamation in the oil and  gas industry.
in the plant the cannabinoids exist  predominantly in the form of carboxylic acids, which decarboxylate with time or  when heated.
this seed meal  should be distinguished from the protein-rich, oil-poor seed cake remaining  after oil has been expressed, that is used for livestock feed.
for edible purposes, hempseed oil is  extracted by cold pressing.
this paper is principally concerned with the industrial uses ofcannabis.
in this section we emphasize why producers should exercise caution before  getting into hemp.
the recent focus of canadian hemp  breeders has been to develop cultivars with high seed yields, low stature (to  avoid channeling the plants’ energy into stalk, as is the case in fiber  cultivars), early maturation (for the short growing seasons of canada), and  desirable fatty acid spectrum (especially gamma-linolenic acid).
most germplasm stocks of hemp are in europe, and the largest and most important collection is the vavilov institute gene bank in leningrad.
based on world production of fibers in 1999, about 54.5% was synthetic (of which 60.3% was polyester), 42.9% was plant fiber (of which 78.5% was cotton), and 2.6% was wool (karus 2000).
very recently, cultivars have been bred specifically for oilseed production.
c-class mercedes-benz automobiles have more than 30 parts made of natural fibers, including hemp.
whereas most drug strains contain primarily thc and little or  no cbd, fiber and oilseed strains primarily contain cbd and very little thc.
the pulp and paper industry based on wood has considered the use of hemp for pulp, but only on an experimental basis.
in: p. ranalli (ed.), advances in hemp research.
modern seed  dehulling using mechanical separation produces a smooth, white, gritless hemp  seed meal that needs no additional treatment before it is consumed.
the demise of the sail diminished the market for canvas.
the evolution of our native fruits.
canned hulled hemp seed.
formation of trans-fatty acids in heated hempseed  oil: a rebuttal.
the cpro cannabis germplasm collection.
a perigonal bract subtends each female flower, and grows to envelop the fruit.
today, it is difficult to reconstruct the  type of plant that was grown there as an oilseed, because such cultivation has  essentially been abandoned.
(frankfurt am main, germany, feb. 27–march 2, 1997).
the body shop has reported  gross sales of about a billion dollars annually, and that about 4% of sales in  2000 were hemp products.
in this section we emphasize why producers should exercise caution before getting into hemp.
wageningen agricultural univ.,  wageningen, the netherlands.
jain and arora (1988) fed narcoticcannabis refuse to cattle,  and found that the animals “suffered variable degrees of depression and  revealed incoordination in movement.”
similarly, limited seed productivity concentrates the plants energy into production of fiber, and fiber cultivars often have low genetic propensity for seed output.
because of the similarities of flax and hemp, the technologies developed for one usually are adaptable to the other.
a thc concentration in marijuana of approximately 0.9% has been suggested as a practical minimum level to achieve the (illegal) intoxicant effect, but cbd (the predominant cannabinoid of fiber and oilseed varieties) antagonizes (i.e. reduces) the effects of thc (grotenhermen and karus 1998).
hempseed oil has been classified as a semi-drying oil, like soybean oil, and is therefore more suited to edible than industrial oil purposes.
those interested in  establishing and developing legitimate industries based on fiber and oilseed  applications have had to struggle against considerable opposition from many in  the political and law enforcement arenas.
however, the short, bulky fibers found in the  inner part of the plant (hurds) can also be used to make cheaper grades of  paper, apparently without greatly affecting quality of the printing surface.
random thoughts and queries on the botany of cannabis.
(courtesy of la  chanvrière de l’aube, bar sur aube, france.)
relatively little material needs to be cultivated for medicinal purposes (small 1971), although security considerations considerably inflate costs.
in addition, various european nations and private firms contributed to the development of hemp technologies.
mölleken et al. (1997) studied effects of high concentration of salts of  copper, chromium, and zinc on hemp, and demonstrated that some hemp cultivars  have potential application to growth in contaminated soils.
federal us programs utilize a thc metabolite level of 50 parts per billion in urine.
a crude comparison of the biodiversity friendliness of  selected major crops and threecannabis sativa crops (fiber, oilseed,  drug) based on 26 criteria (after montford and small 1999a).
breeding for low thc cultivars in europe has been reviewed by bócsa (1998), bócsa and karus (1998), and virovets (1996).
leizer, c., d. ribnicky, a. poulev, s. dushenkov, and i. raskin. 2000.
“ since mid-century, lumber use has tripled, paper use has increased six-fold,  and firewood use has soared as third world populations have multiplied ” (brown et al. 1998).
hemp stalks are very bulky, requiring much handling and storage.
top right: plants grown for oilseed were traditionally  well-spaced, and the plants developed medium height and strong branching.
we have grown chinese  hemp land races, and these were short, branched, adapted to a very long growing  season (i.e. they come into flower very slowly in response to photoperiodic  induction of short days in the fall), and altogether they were rather  reminiscent of dewey’s description of smyrna.
(frankfurt am  main, germany, feb. 27–march 2, 1997).
the merits of environmentalism have acquired some political support, but unless there is a reasonable possibility that hemp cultivation is perceived as potentially economically viable, there is limited prospect of having anti-hemp laws changed.
the american agricultural community has observed this, and has had success at the state level in persuading legislators of the advisability of experimental hemp cultivation as a means of evaluating the wisdom of re-establishing american hemp production.
the objectivity of scientific evaluation of the medicinal value of marijuana to date has been questioned.
in 1999, the year of largest canadian hemp acreage, yields averaged 900 kg/ha.
the hurds are sometimes molded into small pellets for bedding applications (fig. 30).
in this light, subsidy will  be denied producers who are growing grain for use in human nutrition and  cosmetics.”
the value  of hemp oil from the point of view of the primary components is discussed  below.
“bioresource hemp 2000 and other fibre crops.”
leson (2000) found that this level was not exceeded by consuming hemp products, provided that thc levels are maintained below 5 ppm in hemp oil, and below 2 ppm in hulled seeds.
this was a rather courageous and principled move that required  overcoming american legal obstacles related to thc content.
body care products offered by the body shop.
most significantly, modern selection is occurring with regard to  mechanized harvesting, particularly the ability to grow in high density as  single-headed stalks with very short branches bearing considerable seed.
will hemp commercial cultivation resume in the us in the foreseeable future?
except for the troublesome characteristic of dying after anthesis, male traits are favored for fiber production, in contrast to the situation for drug strains noted below.
www.css.orst.edu/hemp/body.html fertig, m. 1996.
an average mature plant was estimated to produce 170 g of marketable substance.
below, the problem of permissible levels of thc in food  products made from hempseed is discussed.
third is breeding for  specific seed components.
gla has been  found to alleviate psoriasis, atopic eczema, and mastalgia, and may also  benefit cardiovascular, psychiatric, and immunological disorders.
the conclusion was that “us markets for hemp fiber (specialty textiles,  paper, and composites) and seed (in food or crushed for oil) are, and will  likely remain, small, thin markets.
analysis of commercial cannabis product potential in  north america in order of decreasing value toward the right and toward the  bottom.
cannabis has long had an image problem, because of the extremely widespread use of narcotic cultivars as illegal intoxicants.
seedbed preparation requires considerable effort.
indeed, the reason hemp cultivation was made illegal in north america was concern that the hemp crop was a drug menace.
however, there is insufficient fiber processing capacity to handle hemp produced in canada.
the cost of  enforcing the laws againstcannabis in north america is in the billions  of dollars annually.
hemp requires about the same fertility as a high-yielding crop of wheat.
in canada, extraordinary yields of 1.5 t/ha have  been realized, at least locally, although in the initial years of hempseed  development in canada yields were often less than 500 kg/ha.
whole houses have been made based on hemp fiber (fig.
(not legal in north america.)
there may not even be extant land races of the kind of hemp oilseed strains that were once grown in russia, so that except for a very few very recent oilseed cultivars, there has been virtually no breeding of oilseed hemp.
the most important specialty pulp products made from hemp are cigarette paper (fig. 16), bank notes, technical filters, and hygiene products.
they have defended their inaction by claiming that either step would signal to  the public a softening of the so-called ‘war on drugs.’...
from 1982 to 2002 the eu provided the equivalent of about 50 million  dollars to develop new flax and hemp harvesting and fiber processing  technologies (karus et al. 2000).
in the mid 1990s, the eu provided subsidization for hemp cultivation of  ca.
until the middle of the 19th century, hemp rivaled flax as the chief textile fiber of vegetable origin, and indeed was described as the king of fiber-bearing plants,the standard by which all other fibers are measured (boyce 1900).
north dakota state univ., fargo.
isolation distances for ensuring that seeds produced are pure are considerable for many plants, and often impractical.
cannabis has long had an image problem, because of the extremely  widespread use of “narcotic” cultivars as illegal intoxicants.
hemp diseases and  pests: management and biological control.
organic certification is much more reliable in north america than in the foreign countries that offer cheap seeds.
according to an ancient legend (abel 1980), buddha, the founder  of buddhism, survived a 6-year interval of asceticism by eating nothing but one  hemp seed daily.
percentage or quality of oil in the seeds does not appear to have been important in the past, although selection for these traits is now being conducted.
scheifle 2000, scheifle and dragla 2000).
ganja (cannabis sativa) refuse as  cattle feed.
growing hemp may require addition of up to 110 kg/ha of nitrogen, and  40–90 kg/ha of potash.
synthetic preparations of  thc—dronabinol (marinol®) and nabilone (cesamet®)—are  permitted in some cases, but are expensive and widely considered to be less  effective than simply smoking preparations of marijuana.
comparative annual world economic significance of categories ofcannabis activity.
moreover, density of cultivation is used to accentuate certain architectural features.
in 1999 over 20,000 t of natural fiber were used for these purposes in europe, including about, 2,000 t of hemp.
a list of the 24 approved cultivars for the 2001 season in canada is at www.hc-sc.gc.ca/hpb-dgps/therapeut/htmleng/hemp.html.
indeed, china remains the largest producer of hempseed.
the four conditions that will need to be met are (after bolton  1995): (1) the material should be produced at a large enough scale; (2) the  price should be low enough; (3) the fiber characteristics should be adequate  for the end use; and (4) proven technology should be available for the  processing of the new raw material.
examples of commercial essential oil product products are shown in fig. 42.
while hemp has been and still is cultivated in asia and south america, it is basically in europe that germplasm banks have made efforts to preserve hemp seeds.
mölleken et al. (1997) studied effects of high concentration of salts of copper, chromium, and zinc on hemp, and demonstrated that some hemp cultivars have potential application to growth in contaminated soils.
concentrations of 0.3% to 0.9% are considered to have only a small drug potential (grotenhermen and karus 1998).
although most of the western hemp-growing world uses 0.3% thc as a maximum concentration for authorized cultivation of hemp plants, regulations in various countries allow only a much lower level of thc in human food products manufactured from the seeds.
the us  drug enforcement administration has the mandate of eliminating illicit and wild  marijuana, which it does very well (fig. 54–56).
www.nova-institut.de/bioresource-hemp/home.htm (by subscription).
there is also considerable potential for other industries using hemp in the manner that the automobile industry has demonstrated is feasible.
about half of the world market for hemp oil is currently used for food and  food supplements (de guzman 2001).
most hemp breeding that has been conducted to date has been for fiber characteristics, so that there should be considerable improvement possible.
fiber strains are typically sown at a minimum rate of 250 seeds per  m2 (approximately 45 kg/ha), and up to three times this density is sometimes  recommended.
linoleic acid and alpha-linolenic acid are the only two fatty acids that  must be ingested and are considered essential to human health (callaway 1998).
antioxidants in hempseed oil are believed to stabilize the highly polyunsaturated oil, tending to keep it from going rancid.
progress in basic research and  medicinal uses ofcannabis and cannabinoids.
10 is commonly accepted.
hemp long fiber is one of the strongest and most durable of natural fibers, with high tensile strength, wet strength, and other characteristics that make it technically suited for various industrial products (karus and leson 1996).
the american drug  enforcement administration is hostile to the medicinal use ofcannabis,  and for decades research on medicinal properties ofcannabis in the us  has been in an extremely inhospitable climate, except for projects and  researchers concerned with curbing drug abuse.
from the point of view of world markets, concentrating on oilseed hemp makes sense, because europe has shown only limited interest to date in developing oilseed hemp, whereas a tradition of concentrating on profitable oilseed products is already well established in the us and canada.
admittedly, such advertising works.
from 1982 to 2002 the eu provided the equivalent of about 50 million dollars to develop new flax and hemp harvesting and fiber processing technologies (karus et al. 2000).
in france, the principal  grower of dual-purpose varieties, the grain is taken off the field first,  leaving most of the stalks for later harvest (fig. 49).
in the us, wild plants are rather contemptuously called ditch weed by law enforcement personnel.
opportunities for german hemp.
low thc hemp ( cannabis sativa l.).
attempting to  export or import hemp products among countries is presently a most uncertain  activity.
raie, m.y., a. ahmad, m. ashraf, and s. hussain.
transportation costs are also very much  higher for hemp stalks than for wood chips.
hemp seeds contain 25%–30% protein, with a reasonably  complete amino acid spectrum.
animal bedding the woody core (hurds, sometimes called shives) of hemp makes remarkably  good animal bedding (fig. 28, 29).
hard lessons for farmers
peanut-butter type preparations have been produced from hemp seed in europe for centuries, but were rather gritty since technology for removing the hulls was rudimentary.
growing hemp unfortunately has a magnetic attraction to many, so there is danger of overproduction.
factors influencing the yield and the  quality of hemp (cannabis sativa l.) essential oil.
flax, jute, kenaf, hemp, and wheat straw can be used to make  composite board.
in north america, such usage has only reached the level of a cottage industry.
two classes of epidermal glands occurstalked and sessile (fig. 8), but in either case the glandular cells are covered by a sheath under which resin is accumulated, until the sheath ruptures, releasing resin on the surface.
several of the cannabinoids are reputed to have medicinal potential: thc for glaucoma, spasticity from spinal injury or multiple sclerosis, pain, inflammation, insomnia, and asthma; cbd for some psychological problems.
for edible purposes, hempseed oil is extracted by cold pressing.
dewey (1914) noted that a turkish narcotic type of land race called smyrna was commonly used in the early 20th century in the us to produce birdseed, because (like most narcotic types of cannabis) it is densely branched, producing many flowers, hence seeds.
small, e. and d. marcus. 2000.
slower operation of conventional  combines has been recommended (0.6–2 ha/hour).
the use of cannabis for seed oil (fig. 36) began at least 3 millennia ago.
industrial fluids the vegetable oils have been classified by “iodine value” as  drying (120–200), semi-drying (100–120), and non-drying  (80–100), which is determined by the degree of saturation of the fatty  acids present (raie et al. 1995).
world health organization.
in general in the eu and canada, fibers are not separated into tow and line fibers, but are left as whole fiber.
(in romanian) bucharest.
industrial plants in clean-up of heavy metal  polluted soils.
an extensive analysis of literature dealing with the toxicity of hemp is in orr and starodub (1999; see geiwitz 2001 for an analysis).
figure 50 presents a comparison of the ecological friendliness of cannabis crops (fiber, oilseed, and narcotics) and 21 of the worlds major crops, based on 26 criteria used by montford and small (1999a) to compare the ecological friendliness of crops.
these  fat-soluble vitamins are essential for human nutrition, especially the  alpha-form, which is commonly called vitamin e. about 80% of the tocopherols of  hempseed oil is the alpha form.
canadian  parliamentary commission of inquiry into the non-medical use of drugs, res.
hemp paper is typically made only from bast fibers, which require separation from the hurds, thereby increasing costs.
the ...status of cannabis has made modern clinical research almost impossible.
essential (volatile) oil in hemp is quite different from hempseed oil.
hemp  prefers warm growing conditions, and the best european fiber strains are  photoperiodically adapted to flowering in southern europe, which provides  seasons of at least 4 months for fiber, and 5.5 months for seed production.
viewed from this perspective, the hemp industry in  north america is still very much in its infancy.
mallik, m.k., u.k. singh, and n. ahmad.
as history has demonstrated, unbridled enthusiasm for largely untested new  crops touted as gold mines sometimes leads to disaster.
hemp seed can be processed using existing equipment, while processing of hemp fiber usually requires new facilities and equipment.
the demand for automobile applications of hemp is  expected to increase considerably, depending on the development of new  technologies (karus et al. 2000).
callaway, j.c. 1998.
cannabis contains a seemingly unique class of chemicals, the  cannabinoids, of which more than 60 have been described, but only a few are  psychoactive.
as much as 15% of the human population may benefit  from addition of gla to their diet.
in ontario it has been recommended that hemp not follow canola, edible beans, soybeans or sunflowers.
essential oil has been produced in canada by gen-x research inc., regina.
these are in  very high demand because of the alarmingly high costs of heating fuels,  ecological concerns about conservation of non-renewable resources, and  political-strategic concerns about dependence on current sources of oil.
in germany, a laundry  detergent manufactured entirely from hemp oil has been marketed.
stalked secretory gland.
this represents less than 50% of the possible fiber yield of the plant, and future technologies that pulp the whole stalks could decrease costs substantially.
incannabis are so harmful that their presence in any amount in any material (food, medicine or even fiber product) represents a health hazard that is best dealt with by a total proscription.
all eight amino acids essential in the human diet are present, as well as others.
the vitamin e content of hempseed is  comparatively high.
this presentation stresses the products that hold the most promise for north america, which also include a considerable range of oilseed applications (table 2; fig. 1).
orange judd company, new york.
hemp: a new crop with new uses for north america.
(frankfurt am  main, germany, feb. 27–march 2, 1997), hürth, germany.
with more than  0.3% thc.
all eight amino acids essential in the human diet are present, as well as  others.
in contrast to shorter-chain and more saturated fatty acids, these essential  fatty acids do not serve as energy sources, but as raw materials for cell  structure and as precursors for biosynthesis for many of the body’s  regulatory biochemicals.
most insects cause only limited damage to hemp, and substantial insect damage is uncommon, so the use of insecticides is very rarely required.
information resources north american industrial hemp council inc.: www.naihc.org hemp industries association: www.thehia.org international hemp association: mojo.calyx.net/~olsen/hemp/iha/ hemp food association: hempfood.com/ international association for cannabis as medicine:  www.acmed.org/english/main.htm web the hemp commerce & farming report: www.hempreport.com industrial hemp information network: www.hemptech.com journals journal of the international hemp association.
the attempt to raise silk in the us is probably the most egregious example.
non-seed use of hemp as livestock feed as noted above, hemp seed cake makes an excellent feed for animals.
however, the range of thc concentrations developed by low-thc cultivars (those typically with £0.3% thc) under different circumstances on the whole is limited, for the most part generally not varying more than 0.2 percentage points when grown in a range of circumstances, and usually less (note information in scheifle et al. 1999;
although the content of gla in the seeds is lower, hemp is far easier to  cultivate and higher-yielding.
the first and foremost breeding goal is to decrease the price of hempseed by creating more productive cultivars.
hemp particularly requires good nitrogen fertilization, more so for seed production than fiber.
hemp paper is useful for specialty applications such as currency and cigarette papers where strength is needed.
(based on a 1996 thesis at the univ.
cannabis as repellent and pesticide.
the attempt to raise  silk in the us is probably the most egregious example.
nevertheless, a level of 0.3% thc in the flowering parts of the plant is reflective of material that is too low in intoxicant potential to actually be used practically for illicit production of marijuana or other types of cannabis drugs.
alcoholic beverages made with hemp  utilize hempseed as a flavorant.
whole houses have been made based on hemp fiber (fig. 24, 25).
in: p. ranalli (ed.), advances in  hemp research.
table 1 presents the principal products for which the species is cultivated in europe, all of which happen to be based on fiber.
the british firm g.w. pharmaceuticals acquired proprietary access to these for medicinal purposes, and is developing medicinal marijuana.
the eu currently dedicates about 30,000 ha to hemp production.
nevertheless hemp oil has found applications in the past in paints, varnishes, sealants, lubricants for machinery, and printing inks.
if not turned, the  stems close to the ground will remain green while the top ones are retted and  turn brown.
harvesting hemp in france.
hemp can also be chemically combined with materials.
those involved in value-added processing and distribution are also faced with legal uncertainties and the regular threat of idiosyncratic, indeed irrational actions of various governments.
the us drug enforcement administration published new regulations on hemp in the federal register on october 9th 2001 that in effect 4 months later would ban the food use of hemp in the us because any amount of thc would be unacceptable in foods (follow links at www.hempreport.com/).
ontario ministry agr food rural affairs.
tall european cultivars (greater than 2 m) have mostly been grown in canada to date, and most of these are photoperiodically adapted to mature late in the season (often too late).
deforestation, particularly the destruction of old growth forests, and  the world’s decreasing supply of wild timber resources are today major  ecological concerns.
by contrast, drug varieties have been selected for very high yield of flowers, and accordingly produce very high yield of seeds.
right, the collection of the vavilov institute,  st. petersburg; of the 278 accessions for which chemical analyses were reported  in anonymous (1975), about 55% had thc levels >0.3%.
1–5 and part of vol. 6 available online at  mojo.calyx.net/~olsen/hemp/iha/).
unfortunately both proponents and opponents  have tended to engage in exaggeration.
cannabis drug preparations have been employed medicinally in folk  medicine since antiquity, and were extensively used in western medicine between  the middle of the 19th century and world war ii, particularly as a substitute  for opiates (mikuriya 1969).
hemp is currently a most uncertain crop, but has such a diversity of possible uses, is being promoted by extremely enthusiastic market developers, and attracts so much attention that it is likely to carve out a much larger share of the north american marketplace than its detractors are willing to concede.
in european manufacturing of cars, natural fibers are used  to reinforce door panels, passenger rear decks, trunk linings, and pillars.
cultivation in europe became widespread after 500 ce.
for example, the widespread current use of plastic netting to reinforce grass sod is quite objectionable, the plastic persisting for many years and interfering with lawn care.
a chief argument that has been advanced in favor of developing hemp as a  paper and pulp source has been that as a non-wood or tree-free fiber source, it  can reduce harvesting of primary forests and the threat to associated  biodiversity.
of  course, all other types of transportation vehicles from bicycles to airplanes  might make use of such technology.
unlike flax, hemp long fiber requires water retting for preparation of high-quality spinnable fibers for production of fine textiles.
this of course lessens the value-added future  of growing hemp for a potential textile industry in north america.
fiber strains are typically sown at a minimum rate of 250 seeds per m2 (approximately 45 kg/ha), and up to three times this density is sometimes recommended.
organic matter is preferably over 3.5%, phosphorus should be medium to high (>40 ppm), potassium should be medium to high (>250 ppm), sulfur good (>5,000 ppm), and calcium not in excess (<6,000 ppm).
processing costs are higher for industrial hemp because the fibers vary from the standard specifications for fiber length and diameter established for the equipment used in most textile and apparel factories, necessitating the use of specialty machines.
results of  the ‘hemp product line project.’
the world market for hemp essential oil is very limited at present, and probably also has limited growth potential.
report to the governor’s hemp and related  fiber crops task force.
because hemp food  products are considered to have great economic potential, there is considerable  pressure on the hemp industry in north america to reduce thc levels.
hemp-based cosmetics and personal care products account for about half of the world market for hemp oil (de guzman 2001).
geotextiles or agricultural textiles include (1) ground-retaining, biodegradable matting designed to prevent soil erosion, especially to stabilize new plantings while they develop root systems along steep highway banks to prevent soil slippage (fig. 32); and (2) ground-covers designed to reduce weeds in planting beds (in the manner of plastic mulch).
those sold in  north america include nutritional (granola-type) or snack bars, “nut  butters” and other spreads, bread, pretzels, cookies, yogurts, pancakes,  porridge, fruit crumble, frozen dessert (“ice cream”), pasta,  burgers, pizza, salt substitute, salad dressings, mayonnaise,  “cheese,” and beverages (“milk,” “lemonade,”  “beer,” “wine,” “coffee nog”).
fiber-reinforced cement boards and fiber-reinforced plaster are other occasionally produced experimental products.
www.commonlink.com/~olsen/hemp/iha/iha02106.html leson, g. 2000.
with more than 0.3% thc.
it is of course impossible to  know exactly how much marijuana is cultivated in the united states, and perhaps  only 10% to 20% of the amount grown is seized.
the  pharmacology of cannabinoids is a valid field of scientific investigation.
the hurds are sometimes molded into small  pellets for bedding applications (fig. 30).
z“the global market for hemp-derived products is valued at between  $100 million and $200 million annually” (pinfold consulting 1998;
linoleic acid and alpha-linolenic acid are the only two fatty acids that must be ingested and are considered essential to human health (callaway 1998).
jain and arora (1988) fed narcoticcannabis refuse to cattle, and found that the animals suffered variable degrees of depression and revealed incoordination in movement.
however, in north america particleboards and fiberboards, which generally contain less than 10% adhesive or matrix, are sometimes referred to as composites.
top left: narcotic plants are generally low, highly branched, and grown well-spaced.
the essential oil is a mixture of volatile compounds, including monoterpenes, sesquiterpenes, and other terpenoid-like compounds that are manufactured in the same epidermal glands in which the resin ofcannabis is synthesized (meier and mediavilla 1998).
in france, a  market for high-quality paper, ironically largely cigarette paper, has  developed (such paper is completely free of the intoxicating resin).
the stems are erect, furrowed, and usually branched, with a woody interior, and may be hollow in the internodes.
moreover, in northern areas fast-growing poplars and willows can be grown, and such agro-forestry can be very productive and environmentally benign.
univ., wageningen, the netherlands.
as detailed below, the development of hemp as a new legal crop in north america must be considered in relation to illicit cultivation, so it is important to appreciate the scope of the drug situation.
recent european commission proposals to change its subsidy regime for hemp  contained the following negative evaluation of hemp seed: “the use of  hemp seed ... would, however, even in the absence of thc, contribute towards  making the narcotic use of cannabis acceptable...
for every proposed use of industrial hemp, there already exists an available product, or raw material, which is cheaper to manufacture and provides better market results....
gamma-linolenic acid or gla is another significant component of hemp oil (1%6%, depending on cultivar).
as with maize, hemp can also be used to create  ethanol.
hemp seed was a grain used in ancient china, although there has been only minor direct use of hemp seed as food by humans.
when commercial hemp  cultivation resumed in canada in 1997, many farmers undertook to grow the crop  without appreciating its suitability for their situation, or for the hazards of  an undeveloped market.
hemp bedding is especially suited to horses allergic to straw.
the seeds (fig. 33) have traditionally been employed as bird and poultry feed, but feeding the entire seeds to livestock has been considered to be a poor investment because of the high cost involved (although subsidization in europe allows such usage, especially in france where hemp seeds are not legally permitted in human food).
the war on drugs: clandestine  indoor marijuana cultivation.
however, the short, bulky fibers found in the inner part of the plant (hurds) can also be used to make cheaper grades of paper, apparently without greatly affecting quality of the printing surface.
the pulp and paper industry based on wood has considered the use of hemp  for pulp, but only on an experimental basis.
hectares licensed for cultivation for 19982001 were respectively, 2,500, 14,200, 5,487, and 1,355, the decreasing trend due to a glut of seed produced in 1999 and pessimism over new potential regulations barring exports to the us.
harvesting and processing machinery for fiber hemp is highly advanced in europe, and some has been imported into canada.
sadly in canada  in 1999 numerous farmers contracted to grow half of canada’s crop area for  hemp for the american-based consolidated growers and processors, and with the  collapse of the firm were left holding very large amounts of unmarketable grain  and baled hemp straw.
it is a combination of  prospective economic benefit coupled with assurance that hemp cultivation will  not detrimentally affect the enforcement of marijuana legislation that has led  most industrially advanced countries to reverse prohibitions against growing  hemp.
at one point in the 1980s, the only permitted use of hemp in germany was as a fence or hedge to prevent plots of beets being used for seed production from being contaminated by pollen from ruderal beets.
additional types of composite using hemp in combination with other natural  fibers, post-industrial plastics or other types of resins, are being used to  produce non-woven matting for padding, sound insulation, and other applications.
the high and rather inpenetrable hedge that hemp can produce was considered unsurpassed by any other species for the purpose.
(courtesy of the breeder, j.c. callaway, univ.
there is also good potential for hemp oil in  cosmetics and skin-care products.
moreover, the ability to last outdoors for many years is frequently undesirable in geotextiles.
flowering branch of  female plant.
meijer, e.p.m. de and l.j.m. van soest. 1992.
tall european cultivars (greater than  2 m) have mostly been grown in canada to date, and most of these are  photoperiodically adapted to mature late in the season (often too late).
limits have been set because of concerns about possible toxicity and interference with drug tests (grotenhermen et al. 1998).
a  principal limitation is climatic—the local environment should be suitably  but not excessively moist at the close of the harvest season.
the more important  cannabinoids are shown in fig.
in thermoset production the natural fibers are soaked with binders such as epoxy resin or polyurethane, placed in the desired form, and allowed to harden through polymerization.
however, hemp for such biomass purposes is a doubtful venture in north america.
naturfasermärkte weltweit.
sandy soils will grow good hemp, provided that adequate  irrigation and fertilization are provided, but doing so generally makes  production uneconomical.
new building in france being constructed entirely of hemp.
the  foundations, walls, floors, and ceilings of houses have been made using hemp  hurds mixed with natural lime and water.
however, various analyses have concluded that the use of hemp for conventional paper pulp is not profitable (fertig 1996).
doubtless in the unlikely event that it became  possible, many would grow hemp as an ornamental.
hemp oil is high in unsaturated fatty acids (of the order of 75%), which can easily oxidize, so it is unsuitable for frying or baking.
accordingly, sterilized or roasted hemp seeds, and products made from hemp seed that have been subjected to cooking, should be fresh.
good coating materials prepared from vegetable oil depend on the nature and number of double bonds present in the fatty acids.
after world war ii, marijuana became associated with the rise of a hedonistic, psychedelic ethos, first in the united states and eventually over much of the world, with the consequent development of a huge international illicit market that exceeds the value of the hemp market during its heyday.
in: j.  janick and j.e. simon (eds.), advances in new crops.
the bast fiber is of greatest interest to the pulp and paper industry because of its superior strength properties compared to wood.
earlier, the limitations of hemp as a pulp substitute were examined.
key analyses of the medicinal use of marijuana are: le dain (1972), health council of the netherlands (1996), american medical association (1997), british medical association (1997), national institutes of health (1997), world health organization (1997), house of lords (1998), and joy et al. (1999).
a  “perigonal bract” subtends each female flower, and grows to envelop  the fruit.
in the us, wild hemp is best established in the american midwest and northeast, where hemp was grown historically in large amounts.
the industry widely recognizes that value added to the crop is the chief potential source of profit, as indeed for most other crops.
left, staminate (“male”) plant  in flower; right, pistillate (“female”) plant in flower.
the primary bast fibers in the bark are 5–40
it was estimated that 8.7 million marijuana plants were harvested in 1997, worth $15.1 billion to growers and $25.2 billion on the retail market (the wholesale value was used to compare marijuana to other cash crops).
geotextiles “geotextiles” or “agricultural textiles” include (1)
medical use declined with the introduction of synthetic analgesics and sedatives, and there is very limited authorized medical use today, but considerable unauthorized use, including so-called compassion clubs dispensing marijuana to gravely ill people, which has led to a momentous societal and scientific debate regarding the wisdom of employing cannabis drugs medically, given the illicit status.
although it might seem that hemp bast fibers are desirable in  composite wood products because of their length and strength, in fact the short  fibers of the hurds have been found to produce a superior product (k. domier,  pers.
ontario ministry agr.
increasing  limitation of cheap labor for traditional production in europe and the new  world led to the creation of some mechanical inventions, but too late to  counter growing interest in competitive crops.
this is anonymously-authored,  therefore presumably represents a corporate or “official” evaluation.
cbd can be converted to thc by acid catalyzed cyclization, and so could serve  as a starting material for manufacturing thc.
cannabis - a report of the commission  of inquiry into the non-medical use of drugs.
development of cannabis-based therapeutics.
food products press (haworth press), london, uk.
oilseed hemp cultivars in the modern sense were not available until very recently, but some land races certainly were grown specifically for seeds in russia.
(courtesy of mark myrowich, erosioncontrolblanket.com) oilseed uses
a comparison of the biodiversity  friendliness of crops with special reference to hemp (cannabis sativa l.).
seed is best planted at 23 cm (twice as deep will be tolerated).
hemp is of high nutritional quality  because it contains high amounts of unsaturated fatty acids, mostly oleic acid  (c18:1, 10%–16%), linoleic acid (c18:2, 50%–60%), alpha-linolenic  acid (c18:3, 20%–25%), and gamma-linolenic acid (c18:3, 2%–5%) (fig.
the current hemp industry is making great efforts to point out that hemp is not marijuana.
of the european dual-usage cultivars, uniko b and fasamo are particularly suited to being grown as oilseeds.
stalks should have less than 15% moisture when baled, and  should be allowed to dry to about 10% in storage.
the pharmacology of cannabinoids is a valid field of scientific investigation.
it is of course impossible to know exactly how much marijuana is cultivated in the united states, and perhaps only 10% to 20% of the amount grown is seized.
in canada, the methodology used for analyses and sample collection for thc analysis of hemp plantings is standardized (at the health canada/therapeutics program/hemp web site at www.hc-sc.gc.ca/hpb-dgps/therapeut/htmleng/hemp.html, see industrial hemp technical manual for procedures on sampling plant materials and chemical procedures for determining thc levels).
left, collection of e. small and d. marcus; of the 167 accessions,  43% had thc levels >0.3%.
bottom center: dual purpose plants are grown at moderate density, tend to be slightly branched and of medium to tall height.
3rd int. symp.,  bioresource hemp, proc.
however, in the last 10 years three key developments occurred: (1) much-publicized recent advances in the legal cultivation of hemp in western europe, especially for new value-added products; (2) enterprising farmers and farm groups became convinced of the agricultural potential of hemp in canada, and obtained permits to conduct experimental cultivation; and (3) lobby groups convinced the government of canada that narcotic forms of the hemp plant are distinct and distinguishable from fiber and oilseed forms.
the present productivity of oilseed hempabout 1 t/ha under good conditions, and occasional reports of 1.5 to 2 t/ha, is not yet sufficient for the crop to become competitive with north americas major oilseeds.
following the french example of raising the cutting blade to harvest the grain is advisable.
$10 billion) exceeds the value of tulips (collins 1999).
the merits of environmentalism have acquired some political  support, but unless there is a reasonable possibility that hemp cultivation is  perceived as potentially economically viable, there is limited prospect of  having anti-hemp laws changed.
increasingly in  north america, plants are being established to provide habitat and food for  wildlife.
the biosynthetic pathways of the cannabinoids are not yet satisfactorily elucidated, although the scheme shown in fig.
while deer, groundhogs, rabbits, and  other mammals will nibble on hemp plants, mammals generally do not choose to  eat hemp.
most hemp oilseed in  europe is currently obtained from so-called “dual usage” plants  (employed for harvest of both stem fiber and seeds, from the same plants).
a tall fiber-type  of hemp plant is shown at left, and a short narcotic variety (identified as  “panama gold”) at right.
foreign sources, china in particular, can produce hemp seed cheaply, but imported seed must be sterilized, and the delays this usually requires are detrimental.
the characteristic odor of the plant is due to the abundant terpenes, which are not psychoactive.
there is great variation in cannabis sativa, because of disruptive  domestication for fiber, oilseed, and narcotic resin, and there are features  that tend to distinguish these three cultigens (cultivated phases) from each  other.
mcpartland (1997) reviewed research on the pesticide and repellent applications ofcannabis.
however, essential oil in the marketplace has often been  produced from low-thccannabis, and the thc content of essential oil  obtained by steam distillation can be quite low, producing a product satisfying  the needs for very low thc levels in food and other commercial goods.
according to a national organization  for the reform of marijuana laws (norml)  (mir.drugtext.org/marijuananews/marijuana_ranks_fourth_largest_c.htm) marijuana  is at least the fourth most valuable crop in america, outranked only by corn,  soybeans, and hay.
study on markets and prices  for natural fibres (germany and eu).
still another consideration is the green ideal of producing locally for local needs; by this credo, hemp is preferable in temperate regions to the use of tropical fibers, which need to be imported.
at present, mainly european  cultivars are available, of which very few are suitable for specialized oilseed  production.
the value  of the canadian crop is uncertain, but has been estimated to be in the billions  of dollars annually (heading 1998;
hemp has at times in the past been grown simply for its ornamental value.
the two portions of stem are  separated in this photograph, and are joined by the tough bark fibers.
the core fibers  are generally considered too short for high grade paper applications (a length  of 3 mm is considered ideal), and too much lignin is present.
about half of the world market for hemp oil is currently used for food and food supplements (de guzman 2001).
in  traditional hemp processing, the long fiber was separated from the internal  woody hurds in two steps, breaking (stalks were crushed under rollers that  broke the woody core into short pieces, some of which were separated) and  scutching (the remaining hurds, short fibers (“tow”) and long fibers  (“line fiber, ” “long-line fiber”) were separated).
natural fibers have considerable advantages  for use in conveyance (karus et al. 2000): low density and weight reduction,  favorable mechanical, acoustical, and processing properties (including low wear  on tools), no splintering in accidents, occupational health benefits (compared  to glass fibers), no off-gassing of toxic compounds, and price advantages.
given the  reputation for rot resistance of hemp canvas and rope, it seems probable that  ground matting is a legitimate use.
photograph taken in 1930 on the central experimental farm, ottawa,  canada.
more than a century ago, an expert on hemp concluded his manual on  hemp-growing in the us by stating “there is no question that when the  inventive genius, comprehension and energies of the american people become  interested, another grand source of profitable employment and prosperity will  be established” (boyce 1900).
in: nova institute, bioresource hemp – proc.
peanut-butter type preparations  have been produced from hemp seed in europe for centuries, but were rather  gritty since technology for removing the hulls was rudimentary.
it is well known in the illicit trade how to screen off the  more potent fractions of the plant in order to increase thc levels in resultant  drug products.
(courtesy of hempflax, oude pekela, the netherlands).
the fact that spinning facilities for natural fibers are so concentrated in china is making it increasingly difficult to competitively produce hemp fabrics elsewhere.
water retting has been largely abandoned in countries where labor is expensive or environmental regulations exist.
other uses include art papers and tea bags.
the level of hype associated with industrial hemp is far more than has been observed before for other new crops (pinfold consulting 1998).
mediavilla, v. and s. steinemann.
superseded by journal of industrial hemp.
photograph ofcannabis sativa.
varieties of hemp specifically suited to given products and regions have only started to be developed in north america.
conversion of hemp biomass into fuel or alcohol is impractical on this continent, where there are abundant supplies of wood, and energy can be produced relatively cheaply from a variety of sources.
hemp is harvested once a year, so that it needs  to be stored to feed mills throughout the year.
this is  considered to be a highly stable, high-priced niche market in europe, where  hemp has an 87% market share of the “specialty pulp” sector (karus et  al. 2000).
decades of  eradication have exterminated many of the naturalized populations in north  america.
frequency histograms of thc concentration in germplasm collections.
hemp hurds are rich in silica (which occurs naturally in sand and flint), and the hurds mixed with lime undergo mineralization, to produce a stone-like material.
in the mid 1990s, the eu provided subsidization for hemp cultivation of ca.
in developing countries where fuelwood is becoming  increasingly scarce and food security is a concern, the introduction of a  dual-purpose crop such as hemp to meet food, shelter, and fuel needs may  contribute significantly to preserving biodiversity.
while crop residues like cereal straw will probably  supply much of the need, specialty fiber plants such as hemp also have  potential.
plastic composites for automobiles are the second most important component  of the hemp industry of the eu.
one of the most curious uses of hemp is as a fence to prevent pollen transfer in commercial production of seeds.
specialty industrial oils
particularly good web documents are: for ontario (omafra hemp series, several documents): www.gov.on.ca/omafra/english/crops/hort/hemp.html); for manitoba (several documents): www.gov.mb.ca/agriculture/crops/hemp/bko01s00.html; for british columbia: (bc ministry of agriculture and foods fact sheet on industrial hemp, prepared by a. oliver and h. joynt): www.agf.gov.bc.ca/croplive/plant/horticult/specialty/specialty.htm in the us, extension publications produced up to the end of world war ii are still useful, albeit outdated (robinson 1935;
a bottle of commercial medicinal extract is shown in fig.
some important cannabinoids of cannabis resin.
an experimental ceramic tile made of hemp has recently been produced (fig. 27).
moreover, summarizing four state analyses of hemp  production (mcnulty 1995, ehrensing 1998, kraenzel et al. 1998, thompson et al.  1998), profitability seemed doubtful.
these proposals are currently being challenged by the hemp industry.
stucco is also of hemp.
plastic composites for the automobile and other manufacturing sectors with respect to fiber, a “composite” is often defined as a  material consisting of 30%–70% fiber and 70%–30% matrix (bolton  1995).
since fiber plants have not generally been selected for narcotic purposes, the level of intoxicating constituents is usually limited.
because c. sativa has been a neglected crop for so long in north america, there are only negligible genetic resources available on this continent.
hemp as an agricultural barrier one of the most curious uses of hemp is as a fence to prevent pollen  transfer in commercial production of seeds.
hemp long fiber is one of the strongest and most durable of  natural fibers, with high tensile strength, wet strength, and other  characteristics that make it technically suited for various industrial products  (karus and leson 1996).
adding nitrogen when it  is not necessary is deleterious to fiber production, so that knowledge of the  fertility of soils being used is very important.
moreover, seed cake left after expressing the oil is an excellent feed.
study of the nova  institute in cooperation with iaf/fh reutlingen and ifeu-institute heidelberg  (germany).
it is clear that there is a culture of idealistic believers in hemp in north america, and that there is great determination to establish the industry.
cabi publ., new york.
kentucky, center for business and economic  research, lexington.
tragically this  includes some legitimate farmers who, faced with financial ruin because of the  unprofitability of crops being grown, converted to growing marijuana.
in north america the use of hemp for production of even crude textiles is marginal.
sadly in canada in 1999 numerous farmers contracted to grow half of canadas crop area for hemp for the american-based consolidated growers and processors, and with the collapse of the firm were left holding very large amounts of unmarketable grain and baled hemp straw.
in europe and asia, hemp farming has been conducted for millennia.
mm long, and are amalgamated  in fiber bundles which can be 1–5 m long (secondary bast fibers are about  2 mm long).
market considerations also heavily determine the wisdom of investing in  hemp.
there is  very little effort in north america to produce such woven products, and  non-woven material (fig. 15) can be more easily produced.
the  use ofc. sativa as a recreational inebriant in sophisticated, largely  urban settings is substantially a 20th century phenomenon.
hemp seeds have an attractive nutty taste, and are now incorporated into many food preparations (fig. 34), often mimicking familiar foods.
uncertainty about longrun demand for hemp  products and the potential for oversupply discounts the prospects for hemp as  an economically viable alternative crop for american farmers.”
a john deere kemper harvester, with circular drums that  cut and chop hemp stalks, shown in operation in southern ontario.
an agricultural perspective of marijuana.
fiber uses based on world production of fibers in 1999, about 54.5% was synthetic (of  which 60.3% was polyester), 42.9% was plant fiber (of which 78.5% was cotton),  and 2.6% was wool (karus 2000).
insect repellant silage animal food (whole seeds for birds, presscake for mammalian livestock)
strong support from business and farm groups is  indispensable; support from pro-marijuana interests and what are perceived of  as fringe groups is generally counterproductive.
(courtesy us drug  enforcement administration.)
in canada, many of the available cultivars flower too late in the season for fiber production, and the same may be predicted for the northern us.
the reader is warned that this book, as well as almost all of the literature on hemp, is very much more concerned with fiber production than oilseed production.
nevertheless the private sector is currently producing medicinal marijuana in europe and canada, so the following orientation to marijuana as a potential authorized crop is not merely academic.
watson, d.p. and r.c. clarke.
given this  distribution, the glands would seem to be protective of young and reproductive  above-ground tissues (the roots lack glands).
small, e. and a. cronquist.
most insects cause only limited damage  to hemp, and substantial insect damage is uncommon, so the use of insecticides  is very rarely required.
published doctoral  thesis.
in the past, hemp seed has generally been a food of the lower classes, or a famine food.
the vitamin e content of hempseed is comparatively high.
on file, health canada, ottawa.] small, e. 1979.
female flower, enclosed by perigonal bract.
hemp processing requires non-wood-based processing facilities.
noting  the oversupply of hempseeds associated with canada’s 12,000 ha in 1999,  the report concluded that the long term demand for hemp products is uncertain,  and predicts that the hemp market in the us will likely remain small and  limited.
hemp does best on a loose, well-aerated loam soil with high fertility and  abundant organic matter.
fiber cultivars have stems that are more hollow at the internodes, i.e. less wood, since this allows more energy to be directed into the production of bark fiber.
these are in very high demand because of the alarmingly high costs of heating fuels, ecological concerns about conservation of non-renewable resources, and political-strategic concerns about dependence on current sources of oil.
highly selected forms of the fiber cultigen possess features maximizing  fiber production.
north american capacity for hemp pulp production and value-added processing is much more limited than that of europe, and this industry is negligible in north america.
ah ha publ., austin, tx.)
analysis of commercial cannabis product potential in north america in order of decreasing value toward the right and toward the bottom.
(from the  collections of henry ford museum & greenfield village.)
the  equipment for this is rare in north america, and consequently use of  domestically-produced fiber for high quality textile applications is extremely  limited.
the resin is a sticky mixture of cannabinoids and a variety of terpenes.
no significant  differences were found between yield of the hemp and of barley/oat silage fed  to heifers, suggesting that fermenting hemp plants reduces possible harmful  constituents.
although the stem is often woody, the species is frequently referred to as a herb or forb.
fleming, m.p. and r.c. clarke. 1998.
in the us, a substantial trade in hemp products has developed, based on imports of hemp fiber, grain, and oil.
mature fruit enclosed in perigonal  bract.
the non-intoxicant cannabichromene (cbc) is typically found in trace amounts in  intoxicant strains.
it is  possible, however, that new technologies could change this situation, and  especially in the eu development is underway to establish a fledgling domestic  hemp textile industry.
wildlife uses hemp is plagued by bird predation, which take a heavy toll on seed  production.
molded fiberboard products.
one of the reasons hemp fiber has been valued is because of its length.
another strategy has been to select stems that  are hollow at the internodes, with limited wood, since this maximizes  production of fiber in relation to supporting woody tissues.
however, the range of thc  concentrations developed by low-thc cultivars (those typically with £0.3%  thc) under different circumstances on the whole is limited, for the most part  generally not varying more than 0.2 percentage points when grown in a range of  circumstances, and usually less (note information in scheifle et al. 1999;  scheifle 2000, scheifle and dragla 2000).
probably  more so than any plant in living memory, hemp attracts people to attempt its  cultivation without first acquiring a realistic appreciation of the possible  pitfalls.
the value of hemp oil from the point of view of the primary components is discussed below.
timber press, portland,  or.
as well, the sticky leaves of hemp were thought to trap pollen.
ashs press, alexandria, va.small, e. and d. marcus.
oilseed hemp cultivars in the modern sense were not  available until very recently, but some land races certainly were grown  specifically for seeds in russia.
hemp food products cannot  escape their niche market status until the price of hempseed rivals that of  other oilseeds, particularly rapeseed, flax, and sunflower.
batch digester studies on  biogas production fromcannabis sativa, water hyacinth and crop wastes  mixed with dung and poultry litter.
importation of experimental hemp lines (i.e. other than the  approved cultivars) requires importation licenses (as well as phytosanitary  clearance of the shipment by the canadian food inspection agency), and the  importation licenses require an indication that the thc contents are low.
at least in some strains, thc is derived from cannabigerol, while in others it may be derived from cbd.
with respect to wood products, several factors appear  to favor increased use of wood substitutes, especially agricultural fibers such  as hemp.
all this  led to the discontinuation of hemp cultivation in the early and middle parts of  the 20th century in much of the world where cheap labor was limited.
although hemp can be successfully grown continuously for several years on the same land, rotation with other crops is desirable.
this apocryphal story holds a germ of truthhemp seed is astonishingly nutritional.
hemp is one of the oldest sources of textile fiber, with extant remains of hempen cloth trailing back 6 millennia.
the lower quality fiber, however, is quite  utilizable for pulp and non-woven usages.
experimental production of hemp fiberboard has produced  extremely strong material (fig. 22).
the technology is most advanced in france (fig. 26).
the seeds are well known to provide extremely nutritious food for  both wild birds and domestic fowl.
the us office of national drug control policy issued a statement on  industrial hemp in 1997 (www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/policy/hemp%5fold.html)  which included the following: “our primary concern about the  legalization of the cultivation of industrial hemp (cannabis sativa) is  the message it would send to the public at large, especially to our youth at a  time when adolescent drug use is rising rapidly...
scanning electron micrographs of the abaxial surface of a perigonal bract  (which envelops the fruit).
breeding hemp for north america
following the french example of raising the  cutting blade to harvest the grain is advisable.
essential to overcoming governmental reluctance  in each country was the presentation of an image that was business-oriented,  and conservative.
‘anka,’ the first registered north  american bred cultivar ofcannabis sativa.
as forests diminish, cultivation of annual plants as fiber sources  is likely to increase.
sterols in  the seeds probably serve the same function, and like the tocopherols are also  desirable from a human health viewpoint.
the economic viability of such remains to  be tested.
the most widespread claim for environmental friendliness of hemp is that  it has the potential to save trees that otherwise would be harvested for  production of lumber and pulp.
the gatersleben gene bank of  germany, the 2nd largest public gene bank in europe, has a much smaller cannabis collection, with less than 40 accessions (detailed information on  the hemp accessions of the gatersleben gene bank are available at  fox-serv.ipk-gatersleben.de/).
impressively, the species was grown in all 50 states (including outdoor seizures in every state except wyoming)!
at present, mainly european cultivars are available, of which very few are suitable for specialized oilseed production.
figure 5 illustrates the divergent appearances of the basic agronomic categories ofcannabis in typical field configurations.
hemp is not competitive for newsprint, books, writing papers, and general paper (grocery bags, coffee cups, napkins), although there is a specialty or novelty market for those specifically wishing to support the hemp industry by purchasing hemp writing or printing paper despite the premium price (fig. 17).
still another important advantage is the precise control over production quantities and schedule that is possible with annual crops.
these bracts are the most intoxicating part of the  plant, and may contain 20% thc, dry weight.
because of the extremely desirable fatty acid constitution of hemp oil, it is now being marketed as a dietary supplement in capsule form (fig. 38).
agroforestry using tree species is one useful response, but nevertheless sacrifices wild lands and biodiversity, and is less preferable than sustainable wildland forestry.
sustainability of energy crops  in europe.
seed, showing narrow face.
there are two widespread  technologies.
technically, the euphoric psychological  effects of thc are best described by the word psychotomimetic.
present cultivation of oilseed hemp  is not competitive with linseed for production of oil for manufacturing, or to  sunflower and canola for edible vegetable oil.
in western  europe, the fiber is often “cottonized,” i.e. chopped into short  segments the size of cotton and flax fiber, so that the fibers can be processed  on flax processing machinery, which is very much better developed than such  machinery is for hemp.
a wide variety of hemp clothing, footwear, and food products are now  available in north america.
hemp prefers warm growing conditions, and the best european fiber strains are photoperiodically adapted to flowering in southern europe, which provides seasons of at least 4 months for fiber, and 5.5 months for seed production.
switzerland has been a center for the production of essential oil for the commercial market.
more than a ton of marijuana was prepared for experimental research (described in small et al. 1975).
american presidents george washington and thomas jefferson encouraged the cultivation of hemp, but both lost money trying to grow it.
marijuana has in fact been grown for medicinal research in north america by both the canadian (fig. 40) and american governments, and this will likely continue.
sativa, with less than  0.3% (dry weight) of thc in the upper (reproductive) part of the plant, and c. sativa subsp.
hemp has also been used in other  types of thermoplastic applications, including injection molding.
retted stalks are loosely held together, and for highest quality fiber  applications need to be decorticated, scutched, hackled, and combed to remove  the remaining pieces of stalks, broken fibers, and extraneous material.
hempseed oil is a drying oil, formerly used in paints and varnishes and in the manufacture of soap.
however, the attempts to destroy the wild populations are short-sighted, because they are a natural genetic reservoir, mostly low in thc.
in general, the novelty of hemp means that many consumers are willing to pay a premium price.
canada in the last 5 years has made great  advances in the growing, harvesting, and processing of hempseed, and indeed has  moved ahead of the eu in the development of raw materials and products for the  natural foods, nutraceuticals, and cosmetics industries.
bottom left: fiber cultivars are grown at high density, and are unbranched and very tall.
this results in small levels of thc appearing in hempseed oil and foods made with the seeds.
long section  of cystolith hair (note calcium carbonate concretion at base).
contrarily, hemp has been selected for fiber to the point that some breeders consider its productivity in this respect has already been maximized.
both in canada and the us, the most critical problem to be addressed for  commercial exploitation ofc. sativa is the possible unauthorized drug  use of the plant.
accordingly, sterilized or roasted hemp seeds, and products made  from hemp seed that have been subjected to cooking, should be fresh.
it should be possible to select thc-free strains, and there has been speculation that genetic engineering could be helpful in this regard.
addition  of anti-oxidants prolongs the longevity of the oil.
related to geotextile applications is the possibility of using hemp fiber as a planting substrate (biodegradable pots and blocks for plants), and as biodegradable twine to replace plastic ties used to attach plants to supporting poles.
in 1999, the eu produced about 27,000 t of  hemp fiber, but only about 6,200 t of hemp seeds, mostly in france, and 90% of  this was used as animal feed (karus et al. 2000).
cannabis sativa is also relatively resistant to weeds, and so usually requires relatively little herbicide.
information on the commercial potential of hemp in canada is in blade (1998), marcus (1998), and pinfold consulting (1998).
the gatersleben gene bank of germany, the 2nd largest public gene bank in europe, has a much smaller cannabis collection, with less than 40 accessions (detailed information on the hemp accessions of the gatersleben gene bank are available at fox-serv.ipk-gatersleben.de/).
bócsa and  karus (1998) is the best overall presentation of hemp growing available in  english.
further,  china’s supremacy in the production of high-quality hemp textiles at low  prices will be very difficult to match, while domestic production of oilseeds  can be carried out using technology that is already available.
during world war i, some hemp cultivation occurred in several states, including kentucky, wisconsin, california, north dakota, south dakota, minnesota, indiana, illinois, ohio, michigan, kansas, and iowa (ehrensing 1998).
some american manufacturers and distributors have chosen to exploit the association of hemp products with marijuana in their advertising.
cannabis: a health perspective  and research agenda.
in many parts of the world, tree crops are simply not a viable  alternative.
however, saeglitz et al. (2000) demonstrated that the spread of beet pollen is not effectively prevented by hemp hedges.
while it is true that foreign imports have been the basis for hemp products in north america for at least a decade, north american production is only 4 years of age in canada, and farming of hemp in the us has not even begun.
there is a general inverse relationship in the resin of cannabis between the amounts of thc present and the amount of the other principal cannabinoid, cbd.
putting tall whole plants through a conventional combine results in the straw winding around moving parts, and the fibers working into bearings, causing breakdown, fires, high maintenance, and frustration.
more than a century ago, an expert on hemp concluded his manual on hemp-growing in the us by stating there is no question that when the inventive genius, comprehension and energies of the american people become interested, another grand source of profitable employment and prosperity will be established (boyce 1900).
the limited branching of fiber cultivars is  often compensated for by possession of large leaves with wide leaflets, which  obviously increase the photosynthetic ability of the plants.
according to a national organization for the reform of marijuana laws (norml) (mir.drugtext.org/marijuananews/marijuana_ranks_fourth_largest_c.htm) marijuana is at least the fourth most valuable crop in america, outranked only by corn, soybeans, and hay.
(courtesy  of kenex ltd., pain court, ontario.)
steam sterilization of the seeds, often required by law, allows air to penetrate and so stimulates rancidity.
thc is the worlds most popular illicit chemical, and indeed the fourth most popular recreational drug, after caffeine, alcohol, and nicotine.
marijuana was judged to be the largest revenue producing crop in alabama, california, colorado, hawaii, kentucky, maine, rhode island, tennessee, virginia, and west virginia, and one of the top five cash crops in 29 other states.
journal of cannabis therapeutics.
de guzman (2001), noting the pessimistic usda report,  observed that “nevertheless, others point to the potential of [the]  market.
baraniecki (1997) found similar results.
the resource list presented below should be consulted by those wishing to learn about hemp production.
fiber production should also be  governed by availability of moisture throughout the season, and the need for  high humidity in the late summer and fall for retting, so that large areas of  the interior and west of north america are not adapted to growing fiber hemp.
nova institute. 1997b.
hemp cigarette paper, the most profitable paper product  currently manufactured from hemp.
still another important advantage is the precise  control over production quantities and schedule that is possible with annual  crops.
fall  plowing is recommended, followed by careful preparation of a seedbed in the  spring.
as noted above, the oilcake remaining after oil is expressed from the seeds is a very nutritious feed supplement for livestock, but it can also be used for production of a high-protein flour.
canada is specialized on oilseed production and processing, so that hemp oil and grain are much more suitable than fiber.
unless the  producer participates in sharing of value-added income, large profits are  unlikely.
hemp products have a growing niche market of their own, and the market  will remain healthy and be well supported with many competing brands.”
and, directly or indirectly, the lumber/paper industry receives subsidies and/or supports, which is most unlikely for hemp.
waste straw is widely available  from cereals and other crops, and although generally not nearly as desirable as  hemp, can produce bulk pulp far more cheaply than can be made from hemp.
of these criteria only point 3 is  adequately met at this time for hemp in north america, but this is to be  expected in a crop that has only begun to be cultivated after an absence of  many years.
uncertainty about longrun demand for hemp products and the potential for oversupply discounts the prospects for hemp as an economically viable alternative crop for american farmers.
commercial hemp cultivation in canada:
as noted above, a level of about 1% thc is considered the  threshold for marijuana to have intoxicating potential, so the 0.3% level is  conservative, and some countries (e.g. parts of australia, switzerland) have  permitted the cultivation of cultivars with higher levels.
(courtesy of m. périer, chènovotte  habitat, france.) fig.
essential oil of different strains  varies considerably in odor, and this may have economic importance in imparting  a scent to cosmetics, shampoos, soaps, creams, oils, perfumes, and foodstuffs.
saeglitz, c., m. pohl, and d. bartsch. 2000.
in the netherlands, the annual value of narcotic hemp  cultivation (ca.
in thermoplastic production, natural fibers are blended with  polypropylene fibers and formed into a mat, which is pressed under heat into  the desired form.
yields are very small—about 10 l/ha  (mediavilla and steinemann 1997), so essential oil ofc. sativa is  expensive, and today is simply a novelty.
hemp is not presently a standard crop, and is likely to continue  experiencing the risks inherent in a small niche market for some time.
the more important cannabinoids are shown in fig.
alpha- beta-, gamma- and delta-tocopherol represent the vitamin e group.
doubtless in the unlikely event that it became possible, many would grow hemp as an ornamental.
table 3 shows the “economic  significance” (dollars generated in the black market plus dollar cost of  control measures) of the illicit drug industry associated withc. sativa,  and contrasts this with the estimated dollar value of major categories of  legitimate uses.
essential oil of different strains varies considerably in odor, and this may have economic importance in imparting a scent to cosmetics, shampoos, soaps, creams, oils, perfumes, and foodstuffs.
the drug enforcement agency and the office of national drug control policy of the us raised concerns over tests conducted from 1995 to 1997 that showed that consumption of hempseed products available during that period led to interference with drug-testing programs for marijuana use.
ehrensing, d.t. 1998.
such appears to be unsurpassed for  horse bedding, and also make an excellent litter for cats and other pets (fig.
montford, s. and e. small.
there is very little effort in north america to produce such woven products, and non-woven material (fig. 15) can be more easily produced.
it often takes 10 to 15 years for the industry associated with a new  agricultural crop to mature.
it was estimated that 8.7 million marijuana plants were  harvested in 1997, worth $15.1 billion to growers and $25.2 billion on the  retail market (the wholesale value was used to compare marijuana to other cash  crops).
small  crops have been harvested with sickle-bar mowers and hay swathers, but plugging  of equipment is a constant problem.
improved microorganisms or enzymes could augment or replace traditional water retting.
when commercial hemp cultivation resumed in canada in 1997, many farmers undertook to grow the crop without appreciating its suitability for their situation, or for the hazards of an undeveloped market.
the second breeding goal is  for larger seeds, as these are more easily shelled.
bottom  right: some recent oilseed cultivars are grown at moderate density and are  short and relatively unbranched.
there is a general inverse relationship in the resin of cannabis between the amounts of thc present and the amount of the other principal  cannabinoid, cbd.
evaluating interference of thc in hemp food produces with  employee drug testing.
in  1999 over 20,000 t of natural fiber were used for these purposes in europe,  including about, 2,000 t of hemp.
transportation costs are also very much higher for hemp stalks than for wood chips.
in many parts of the world, tree crops are simply not a viable alternative.
the high degree of unsaturation is responsible for the extreme sensitivity to oxidative rancidity.
in addition to textiles used in clothing, coarser woven  cloth (canvas) is used for upholstery, bags, sacks, and tarpaulins.
van roekel (1994) has pointed out that egyptian papyrus sheets are not paper, because the fiber strands are woven, not wet-laid; the oldest surviving paper is over 2,000 years of age, from china, and was made from hemp fiber (fleming and clarke 1998).
the equipment for this is rare in north america, and consequently use of domestically-produced fiber for high quality textile applications is extremely limited.
given these current demands for research on medicinal marijuana, it will be necessary to produce crops of drug types ofc. sativa.
(courtesy of m. périer, chènovotte habitat, france.)
hemp is a novelty product with limited  sustainable development value even in a novelty market...
since world war ii, breeding has been concerned most particularly with the development of monoecious varieties.
however, feeding entire plants is another matter, because the leaves are covered with the resin-producing glands.
some cannabinoid races have been described, notably containing  cannabichromene (particularly in high-thc forms) and cannabigerol monomethyl  ether (in some asian strains).
it is well known in the illicit trade how to screen off the more potent fractions of the plant in order to increase thc levels in resultant drug products.
hemp seeds have been used as food since ancient times, but generally the whole seed, including the hull, was eaten.
ageing and pathology (diabetes, hypertension, etc.) may impair gla metabolism, making supplementation desirable.
hemp was often grown on farms with marginal incomes in the hopes that it was a savior from a downward financial spiral.
whilec. sativa has been used as a euphoriant in india, the near east, parts of africa, and other old world areas for thousands of years, such use simply did not develop in temperate countries where hemp was raised.
biewinga, e.e. and g. van der bijl. 1996.
lemeshev et al. 1993, 1994).
catalogue of the global collection of vir.
drug forms have historically been grown in areas south of the north-temperate zone, often close to the equator, and are photoperiodically adapted to a long season.
putting tall whole  plants through a conventional combine results in the straw winding around  moving parts, and the fibers working into bearings, causing breakdown, fires,  high maintenance, and frustration.
spun, loosely compacted hemp insulation.
cultural and production costs of hemp have been said to be comparable to those for corn, and while the truth of this remains to be confirmed, the legislative burden that accompanies hemp puts the crop at a unique disadvantage.
while the narcotics image ofc. sativa is often disadvantageous, advertisers who choose to play up this association do so knowing that it will attract a segment of the consuming population.
additionally, the general attitude towards cannabis, in which it is seen only as a drug of abuse and addiction, has not helped.
there are very few cultivars dedicated to oilseed production (such as  ‘finola’ and ‘anka’) or that at least are known to produce  good oilseed crops (such as ‘fasamo’ and ‘uniko-b’).
mölleken, h. and r.r. theimer. 1997.
the primary bast fibers in the bark are 540 mm long, and are amalgamated in fiber bundles which can be 15 m long (secondary bast fibers are about 2 mm long).
hemp seeds contain 25%30% protein, with a reasonably complete amino acid spectrum.
such forms are typically grown at lower densities than hemp grown only for fiber, as this promotes branching, although it should be understood that the genetic propensity for branching has been selected.
bioregional development group, sutton ecology centre,  carshalton, surrey, uk.
meijer, e.p.m. de. 1998.
hemp is plagued by bird predation, which take a heavy toll on seed production.
as history has demonstrated, unbridled enthusiasm for largely untested new crops touted as gold mines sometimes leads to disaster.
in the early  1980s in minnesota, jerusalem artichoke was touted as a fuel, a feed, a food,  and a sugar crop.
in the 1990s, european firms introduced lines of hemp oil-based personal care products, including soaps, shampoos, bubble baths, and perfumes.
(courtesy of hempflax,  oude pekela, the netherlands.)
cannabinoids are produced in specialized epidermal glands, which differ notably in distribution on different organs of the plant (high concentrations occur on the upper surface of the young leaves and young twigs, on the tepals, stamens, and especially on the perigonal bract).
holland’s half-baked drug experiment.
the us drug  enforcement administration published new regulations on hemp in the federal  register on october 9th 2001 that in effect 4 months later would ban the food  use of hemp in the us because any amount of thc would be unacceptable in
most hemp oilseed in europe is currently obtained from so-called dual usage plants (employed for harvest of both stem fiber and seeds, from the same plants).
mir.drugtext.org/druglibrary/schaffer/library/studies/hlords/15101.htm also www.medmjscience.org/pages/reports/ukhol/15101.html jain, m.c. and n. arora.
the species problem in cannabis, science and  semantics.
the characteristics of hemp fibers have proven to be superior for production of molded composites.
hemp is a bast fiber crop, i.e. the most desirable (long) fibers are found in the phloem-associated tissues external to the phloem, just under the bark.
it should be  appreciated that there is considerable variation in thc content in different  parts of the plant.
pesticide and repellent potential mcpartland (1997) reviewed research on the pesticide and repellent  applications ofcannabis.
the long, lignin-poor bast fibers also  have considerable potential to be used in many non-paper, non-textile  applications, as noted below.
“seeds” (achenes) of hemp, with a match for scale.
and, directly or indirectly, the  lumber/paper industry receives subsidies and/or supports, which is most  unlikely for hemp.
most of these are regulated by the european organization of economic cooperation and development (oecd).
sterols in the seeds probably serve the same function, and like the tocopherols are also desirable from a human health viewpoint.
drug varieties have been observed to produce more than a  kilogram of seed per plant, so that a target yield of several tonnes per  hectare is conceivable (watson and clarke 1997).
non-italicized, cannabis is a generic abstraction, widely used as a noun and adjective, and commonly (often loosely) used both for cannabis plants and/or any or all of the intoxicant preparations made from them.
although always sold at a premium price, hemp clothing has a natural  appeal to a sector of the population.
‘mindboggling’ marijuana crop tops 800  tonnes.
hemp, monographic study.
indeed, the reason hemp cultivation was made illegal in north  america was concern that the hemp crop was a drug menace.
although most of the western hemp-growing world  uses 0.3% thc as a maximum concentration for authorized cultivation of hemp  plants, regulations in various countries allow only a much lower level of thc  in human food products manufactured from the seeds.
this is dioecious, short (about a meter in height), highly branched, with large  leaves (i.e. wide leaflets), and it is slow to mature.
as noted above, a level of about 1% thc is considered the threshold for marijuana to have intoxicating potential, so the 0.3% level is conservative, and some countries (e.g. parts of australia, switzerland) have permitted the cultivation of cultivars with higher levels.
an average mature plant  was estimated to produce 170 g of “marketable substance.”
j. & a. churchill, london, uk. schultes, r.e. and a. hofmann. 1980.
hemp  yields are sometime uncertain, and could be exaggerated by as much as 50% when  moist weights are reported.)
economies of scale are such that the supply of hemp is minute compared to the supply of wood fiber.
as noted  above, the oilcake remaining after oil is expressed from the seeds is a very  nutritious feed supplement for livestock, but it can also be used for  production of a high-protein flour.
hemp paper is useful for specialty applications such as currency and  cigarette papers where strength is needed.
(courtesy of oglala  sioux tribe, slim butte land use association, and s. sauser.)
in europe and asia, there is little concern about wild hemp, which remains a valuable resource.
as well, the sticky leaves of hemp were  thought to trap pollen.
accordingly, europe is far more advanced in  hemp development with respect to all fiber-based applications than other parts  of the world.
it is  important to understand, therefore, that the quality of modern hemp seed for  human consumption far exceeds anything produced historically.
j. janick and a. whipkey (eds.), trends in new crops and new uses.
small, e., h.d. beckstead, and a. chan.
natural fibers in automobile composites are  used primarily in press-molded parts (fig. 18).
the reader is warned that this book, as well as almost all of the  literature on hemp, is very much more concerned with fiber production than  oilseed production.
www.nova-institut.de/bioresource-hemp/home.htm (by subscription) karus, m. and g. leson. 1994.
category world ($) north america ($)  type of investment recreational drugs > 1 trillion 100s of billions law  enforcement, eradication, education industrial hemp 100s of millionsz 10s  of millions production, development, marketing, research therapeutic drugs  100s of millions 10s of millions production, development, marketing, research phytoremediation 10s of thousands nil research ornamental hemp  thousands nil development
the need to produce new industrial markets for farm products led to a broad movement for scientific research in agriculture that came to be labeled farm chemurgy, that today is embodied in chemical applications of crop constituents.
although the protein content is smaller than that of soybean, it is  much higher than in grains like wheat, rye, maize, oat, and barley.
of course, current conditions forbid such usage in north america.
a rather thorough analysis of the scope of the illicit marijuana industry  in canada for 1998 is reported at  www.rcmp-grc.gc.ca/html/drugsituation.htm#marihuana and summarized in macleod  (1999).
noting the oversupply of hempseeds associated with canadas 12,000 ha in 1999, the report concluded that the long term demand for hemp products is uncertain, and predicts that the hemp market in the us will likely remain small and limited.
cement (concrete) and plaster.
top left: close-up of 100% hemp fiber blanket.
hemp germplasm trials in canada.
such marketing is unfortunate, sending the message that some in  the industry are indifferent to the negative image that this generates in the  minds of much of the potential consuming public.
natural fibers in automobile composites are used primarily in press-molded parts (fig. 18).
(ideally, hemp seed yield should be based on air dry weightwith about 12% moisture.
diversity in cannabis.
linseed oil, a drying oil, has a very high percentage of linolenic  acid.
(1990)  studied the possibility of using hemp for “biogas” (i.e. methane)  production, and concluded that it was unsuitable for this purpose.
the seeds are well known to provide extremely nutritious food for both wild birds and domestic fowl.
(majority of  contributions in german.)
(frankfurt am main, germany,  march 2–5, 1995).
good coating materials prepared from  vegetable oil depend on the nature and number of double bonds present in the  fatty acids.
however, as outlined  below, there are now many non-traditional usages for hemp fiber which require  consideration.
in canada, every acquisition of hemp grown at a particular place and time must be tested for thc content by an independent laboratory and, under the industrial hemp regulations, fields of hemp with more than 0.3% thc may require destruction (a slight degree of flexibility is generally exercised).
the economics of new crops.
a principal limitation is climaticthe local environment should be suitably but not excessively moist at the close of the harvest season.
popular mechanics  feb.:238–238, 144a. (reproduced in herrer, j. 1998.
production of  hemp erosion control mats is continuing in both europe and canada.
the composition of hemp seed oil and its potential as an important source of  nutrition.
w.w. norton & co., new york.
there is anecdotal evidence that cannabis drugs are useful for: alleviating nausea, vomiting, and anorexia following radiation therapy and chemotherapy; as an appetite stimulant for aids patients; for relieving the tremors of multiple sclerosis and epilepsy; and for pain relief, glaucoma, asthma, and other ailments [see mechoulam and hanus (1997) for an authoritative medical review, and pate (1995) for a guide to the medical literature].
increasing limitation of cheap labor for traditional production in europe and the new world led to the creation of some mechanical inventions, but too late to counter growing interest in competitive crops.
books blade (1998), bócsa and karus (1998), ceapoiu (1958), clarke  (1977, 1998a), joyce and curry (1970), mcpartland et al. (2000), de meijer  (1994), nova institute (1995, 1997a, 1997b, 2000), ranalli (1998), riddlestone  et al. 1994, small (1979), van der werf (1994a).
because of the extremely desirable fatty acid constitution of  hemp oil, it is now being marketed as a dietary supplement in capsule form  (fig. 38).
cannabinoids are produced in specialized epidermal glands, which  differ notably in distribution on different organs of the plant (high  concentrations occur on the upper surface of the young leaves and young twigs,  on the tepals, stamens, and especially on the perigonal bract).
hemp seeds contain virtually no thc, but thc contamination results from  contact of the seeds with the resin secreted by the epidermal glands on the  leaves and floral parts, and also by the failure to sift away all of the bracts  (which have the highest concentration of thc of any parts of the plant) that  cover the seeds.
(courtesy of dr. j. berenji, institute of field  and vegetable crops, novi sad.) fig. 14.
fiber production should also be governed by availability of moisture throughout the season, and the need for high humidity in the late summer and fall for retting, so that large areas of the interior and west of north america are not adapted to growing fiber hemp.
(courtesy of t. schloesser, daimler-chrysler.)
to date, governmental authorities in the us, on the advice of  medical experts, have consistently rejected the authorization of medical use of  marijuana except in a handful of cases.
flax held 2.7% of the  world plant fiber market in 1999, while hemp had only 0.3% (karus 2000).
selection for fiber has resulted in strains that have much more bark fiber  tissues and much less woody core than encountered in narcotic strains, oilseed  strains, and wild plants (fig. 12).
analysis of the profitability of hemp cultivation for  paper.
at least 800 tonnes (t) of marijuana were grown in canada in 1998,  representing a harvest of 4.7 million flowering plants.
the composition of extracted essential oil is quite different from the volatiles released around the fresh plant (particularly limonene and alpha-pinene), so that a pleasant odor of the living plant is not necessarily indicative of a pleasant-smelling essential oil.
in the eu and canada, hemp has often been grown as a dual-purpose crop, i.e. for both fiber and oilseed.
popular mechanics magazine (1938) touted hemp as the new billion dollar crop, stating that it can be used to produce more than 25,000 products, ranging from dynamite to cellophane.
this classification has since been adopted in the european community, canada, and parts of australia as a dividing line between cultivars that can be legally cultivated under license and forms that are considered to have too high a drug potential.
the high absorbency of hemp hurds has led to their occasional use as an  absorbent for oil and waste spill cleanup.
global biodiversity  8:2–13.
cannabidiol (cbd) is the chief non-psychotomimetic cannabinoid.
with the exception of alcohol, it is the most widely used recreational euphoric drug.
(ideally, hemp  seed yield should be based on air dry weight—with about 12% moisture.
american medical association, chicago.
cannabis drug preparations have been employed medicinally in folk medicine since antiquity, and were extensively used in western medicine between the middle of the 19th century and world war ii, particularly as a substitute for opiates (mikuriya 1969).
after world war ii, marijuana  became associated with the rise of a hedonistic, psychedelic ethos, first in  the united states and eventually over much of the world, with the consequent  development of a huge international illicit market that exceeds the value of  the hemp market during its heyday.
there is anecdotal evidence that cannabis  drugs are useful for: alleviating nausea, vomiting, and anorexia following  radiation therapy and chemotherapy; as an appetite stimulant for aids patients;  for relieving the tremors of multiple sclerosis and epilepsy; and for pain  relief, glaucoma, asthma, and other ailments [see mechoulam and hanus (1997)
in western europe, seeding rates range from 6070 kg/ha for fiber cultivars.
“specialty pulp” is the most important component of the hemp  industry of the eu, and is expected to remain its core market for the  foreseeable future.
by contrast, drug varieties have been  selected for very high yield of flowers, and accordingly produce very high  yield of seeds.
the resulting material can be poured like  concrete, but has a texture vaguely reminiscent of cork—much lighter than  cement, and with better heat and sound-insulating properties.
of course, current conditions forbid such usage  in north america.
however, this analysis does not do justice to the developing hemp geotextile market.
most of these are  regulated by the european organization of economic cooperation and development  (oecd).
this approach is currently dominant in western europe  and canada, and commences with field dew retting (typically 2–3 weeks).
(courtesy of la chanvrière de  l’aube, bar sur aube, france.) fig. 31.
the second major concern is that legalizing hemp production may mean the de facto legalization of marijuana cultivation.
nova institute, hürth, germany.
more than a ton of marijuana was prepared for  experimental research (described in small et al. 1975).
hemp seed is often  found canned or vacuum-packed (fig. 35).
hemp  fiber can potentially replace other biological fibers in many applications, but  also, as noted below, can sometimes compete with minerals such as glass fiber  and steel.
“bioresource  hemp 2000 and other fibre crops.”
because of the similarities of flax and hemp,  the technologies developed for one usually are adaptable to the other.
because hemp hurds are a costly product, it is likely that animal bedding will remain the most important application.
both in canada and the us, the most critical problem to be addressed for commercial exploitation ofc. sativa is the possible unauthorized drug use of the plant.
state of the  world, 1998, worldwatch institute report on progress toward a sustainable  society.
wood-based paper came into use when mechanical and chemical pulping was developed in the mid 1800s in germany and england.
growing short varieties  dedicated to grain production eliminates many of the above problems, and since  the profitability of hemp straw is limited at present, seems preferable.
99-10028-r11999 - hemaruka, alberta.
(courtesy of m.  périer, chènovotte habitat, france.)
incannabis are  so harmful that their presence in any amount in any material (food, medicine or  even fiber product) represents a health hazard that is best dealt with by a  total proscription.
in advance of  today’s automobile manufacturers, he constructed a car with certain  components made of resin stiffened with hemp fiber (fig. 19).
kozlowski et al. (1995) observed that  hemp grew very well on copper-contaminated soil in poland (although seeds  absorbed high levels of copper).
cross sections of stems at internodes of a fiber plant  (left) and of a narcotic plant (right).
steam sterilization of the  seeds, often required by law, allows air to penetrate and so stimulates  rancidity.
riddlestone, s., p. desai, m. evans, and a. skyring. 1994.
several of these  applications take advantage of hemp’s high tear and wet strength.
both woven and non-woven fibers can be applied to geotextiles; woven and knitted materials are stronger and the open structure may be advantageous (e.g. in allowing plants to grow through), but non-wovens are cheaper and better at suppressing weeds.
henry ford recognized the utility of hemp in early times.
in addition, it has been suggested that other components, including  trace amounts of terpenes and cannabinoids, could have health benefits (leizer  et al. 2000).
textiles hemp is a bast fiber crop, i.e. the most desirable (“long”)
very recently, cultivars  have been bred specifically for oilseed production.
the drug potential  is, for practical purposes, measured by the presence of thc.
in: paolo ranalli, (ed.), advances in hemp research.
cannabidiol  (cbd) is the chief non-psychotomimetic cannabinoid.
hemp is not an aggressive weed, and certainly has great potential for being used as a wildlife plant.
the  composition of extracted essential oil is quite different from the volatiles  released around the fresh plant (particularly limonene and alpha-pinene), so  that a pleasant odor of the living plant is not necessarily indicative of a  pleasant-smelling essential oil.
thermal insulation products (fig. 20, 21) are the third most important sector of the hemp industry of the eu.
10 is  commonly accepted.
hemp particularly requires good nitrogen  fertilization, more so for seed production than fiber.
however, as described above relatively crude fiber preparations also  have applications.
the profitability of the illegal crop is indicated by a comparison of the cost of a bushel of corn (roughly $2.50) and a bushel of manicured marijuana (about $70,000; it has been suggested that prices range from $500 a pound, for low-quality marijuana, to more than $5,000 a pound for boutique strains like northern lights and afghan kush).
american presidents george washington and thomas jefferson encouraged  the cultivation of hemp, but both lost money trying to grow it.
although it might seem that hemp bast fibers are desirable in composite wood products because of their length and strength, in fact the short fibers of the hurds have been found to produce a superior product (k. domier, pers.
the high and  rather inpenetrable hedge that hemp can produce was considered unsurpassed by  any other species for the purpose.
retting in tanks rather than in open bodies of water is a way of controlling the effluents while taking advantage of the high-quality fiber that is produced.
in 1999, the eu produced about 27,000 t of hemp fiber, but only about 6,200 t of hemp seeds, mostly in france, and 90% of this was used as animal feed (karus et al. 2000).
the world market for hemp essential oil is very  limited at present, and probably also has limited growth potential.
the characteristic odor of the plant is  due to the abundant terpenes, which are not psychoactive.
the most important specialty pulp products made from hemp  are cigarette paper (fig. 16), bank notes, technical filters, and hygiene  products.
indeed, most of these are unsuitable or only marginally suitable for  canada (small and marcus 2000), and only a very few canadian cultivars to date  have been created.
this has represented a most untimely setback for a  fledgling industry, but at least has had a sobering effect on investing in  hemp.
in europe, decortication/refining machines are available that can produce 10 t/hour of hemp fiber suitable for such pulp use.
male plants in general are taller, albeit  slimmer, less robust, and less productive.
a crude comparison of the biodiversity friendliness of selected major crops and threecannabis sativa crops (fiber, oilseed, drug) based on 26 criteria (after montford and small 1999a).
decades of eradication have exterminated many of the naturalized populations in north america.
the most valid claims to environmental friendliness of hemp are with  respect to agricultural biocides (pesticides, fungicides, herbicides).
degree of branching and height are determined  both by the density of the plants and their genetic background.
bioregional  fibers, the potential for a sustainable regional paper and textile industry  based on flax and hemp.
without arguing the merits of the above contentions, we point out that the legitimate use of hemp for non-intoxicant purposes has been inhibited by the continuing ferocious war against drug abuse.
karus, j. and g. leson.
switzerland has been a center for the production of essential oil for the  commercial market.
in thermoplastic production, natural fibers are blended with polypropylene fibers and formed into a mat, which is pressed under heat into the desired form.
the above uses are based on hemp as a mechanical strengthener of materials.
quality is improved by using only the first pressing, and minimizing the number of green seeds present.
windrowed fiber hemp in process of  dew retting.
the shocks shed water like  pup-tents, providing more even retting than windrows.
the essential fatty acids are available in other oils, particularly fish and flaxseed, but these tend to have unpleasant flavors compared to the mellow, slightly nutty flavor of hempseed oil.
the dutch company hempflax has developed or adapted several kinds of specialized harvesting equipment (fig. 44, 45).
hemp has also been used in other types of thermoplastic applications, including injection molding.
top left: narcotic plants are generally low, highly branched, and  grown well-spaced.
italicized,cannabis refers to the biological name of the plant (only one species of this genus is commonly recognized,c. sativa l.).
euphytica 62:201–211.
hemp was harvested by the chinese 8500 years ago (schultes and hofmann 1980).
mcpartland et al. (2000) is the best presentation available  on diseases and pests, which fortunately under most circumstances do limited  damage.
the resulting material can be poured like concrete, but has a texture vaguely reminiscent of corkmuch lighter than cement, and with better heat and sound-insulating properties.
bottles of hemp fragrance (left) and essential oil  (center), and pastilles flavored with hemp essential oil (right).
in  addition to agricultural wastes, there are vast quantities of scrub trees,  especially poplar, in northern areas, that can supply large amounts of  low-quality wood fiber extremely cheaply.
key analyses of the medicinal use of marijuana are: le dain (1972), health  council of the netherlands (1996), american medical association (1997), british  medical association (1997), national institutes of health (1997), world health  organization (1997), house of lords (1998), and joy et al. (1999).
it is a combination of prospective economic benefit coupled with assurance that hemp cultivation will not detrimentally affect the enforcement of marijuana legislation that has led most industrially advanced countries to reverse prohibitions against growing hemp.
cbn andd8-thc are considered to be degradation products or analytical artifacts (pate 1998a).
it might also be said that those who have entered the hemp industry have tended to be very highly motivated, resourceful, and industrious, qualities that have been needed in the face of rather formidable obstacles to progress.
another chief advantage of several annual fiber crops over forestry crops is relative productivity, annual fiber crops sometimes producing of the order of four times as much per unit of land.
(frankfurt am main,  germany, march 2–5, 1995).
hemptech, sebastopol, ca.
deferne, j.-l. and d.w. pate.
in non-fiber strains ofcannabis,  bark can be less than one quarter of the stem tissues (i.e. more than three
at least in some strains, thc is derived from cannabigerol,  while in others it may be derived from cbd.
typical architecture of categories of cultivated cannabis sativa.
until the beginning of the 19th century, hemp was the leading cordage fiber.
mcpartland, j.m., r.c. clarke, and d.p. watson. 2000.
it should be appreciated that there is considerable variation in thc content in different parts of the plant.
(courtesy of la chanvrière de l’aube,  bar sur aube, france.)
however, as noted below, there are remarkable dietary advantages to hempseed oil, which accordingly has good potential for penetrating the salad oil market, and for use in a very wide variety of food products.
ernest small and david
nova institute. 2000.
at least some production of hemp for fiber still occurs in russia, china, the ukraine, poland, hungary, the countries of the former yugoslavia, romania, korea, chile, and peru.
(courtesy of kenex ltd., pain court,  ontario.)
(www.hemphasis.com) mcnulty, s. (ed.).
this is anonymously-authored, therefore presumably represents a corporate or official evaluation.
given the reputation for rot resistance of hemp canvas and rope, it seems probable that ground matting is a legitimate use.
fiber-reinforced cement boards and fiber-reinforced plaster are other  occasionally produced experimental products.
pods press,  ben lomond, ca.
although the protein content is smaller than that of soybean, it is much higher than in grains like wheat, rye, maize, oat, and barley.
the industry widely recognizes that value added to the crop is the  chief potential source of profit, as indeed for most other crops.
in the us, wild hemp is best established in the american midwest  and northeast, where hemp was grown historically in large amounts.
the refinement of equipment and new technologies are viewed as offering the possibility of making fine textile production practical in western europe and north america, but at present china controls this market, and probably will remain dominant for the foreseeable future.
small crops have been harvested with sickle-bar mowers and hay swathers, but plugging of equipment is a constant problem.
nevertheless the private sector is currently producing medicinal marijuana in  europe and canada, so the following orientation to marijuana as a potential  authorized crop is not merely academic.
hemp food products currently have a niche market, based particularly on natural food and specialty food outlets.
journal of industrial hemp.
earliest reference to euphoric use of c. sativa appears to date to  china of 5 millennia ago, but it was in india over the last millennium that  drug consumption became more firmly entrenched than anywhere else in the world.
this support was instrumental in developing a hemp industry in  western europe.
world health organization, geneva.
dehulled (i.e. hulled) hemp seed is a very recent phenomenon, first produced in quantity in europe.
lemeshev, n., l., rumyantseva, and r.c. clarke. 1993.
several of these applications take advantage of hemps high tear and wet strength.
without arguing the merits of the above contentions, we point out that the  legitimate use of hemp for non-intoxicant purposes has been inhibited by the  continuing ferocious war against drug abuse.
mikuriya, t.h. 1969.
hemp seeds contain virtually no thc, but thc contamination results from contact of the seeds with the resin secreted by the epidermal glands on the leaves and floral parts, and also by the failure to sift away all of the bracts (which have the highest concentration of thc of any parts of the plant) that cover the seeds.
at present, losses of 30% of the seed yields are not uncommon, so that improvements in harvesting technology should also contribute to higher yields.
the  netherlands firm hortapharm developed strains ofcannabis rich in  particular cannabinoids.
male plants in general are taller, albeit slimmer, less robust, and less productive.
bottom: demonstration of installation of blanket, near la rivière, manitoba.
it would seem  unwise to grow hemp as an oilseed on contaminated soils, but such a habitat  might be suitable for a fiber or biomass crop.
the us corn belt has traditionally been considered to be best for fiber hemp.
some cannabinoid races have been described, notably containing cannabichromene (particularly in high-thc forms) and cannabigerol monomethyl ether (in some asian strains).
detailed information on the majority of hemp accessions of the vavilov institute can be found in anon.
because hemp is regaining its ancient status as  an important crop, a number of private germplasm collections have been  assembled for the breeding of cultivars as commercial ventures (de meijer and  van soest 1992; de meijer 1998), and of course these are available only on a  restricted basis, if at all.
however, appropriate processing and blending with other natural fibers has significantly improved the feel of the product, and in china hemp textiles indistinguishable from fine linens in texture are available.
(from the collections of henry ford museum & greenfield village.)
ageing and  pathology (diabetes, hypertension, etc.) may impair gla metabolism, making  supplementation desirable.
in europe, it has been predicted that tens of thousands of tonnes will be sold by 2005, shared between hemp and flax (karus et al. 2000).
hemp refers primarily to cannabis sativa l. (cannabaceae), although the term has been applied to dozens of species representing at least 22 genera, often prominent fiber crops.
marihuana as medicine.
in north america, oilseed hemp has several advantages over fiber hemp.
(courtesy of t. schloesser,  daimler-chrysler.)
wild north american plants have undergone many generations of natural adaptation to local conditions of climate, soil and pests, and accordingly it is safe to conclude that they harbor genes that are invaluable for the improvement of hemp cultivars.
hemp in our opinion is particularly  suited to be developed as an oilseed crop in north america.
increasingly in north america, plants are being established to provide habitat and food for wildlife.
in this atmosphere, objective analysis has often been lacking.
natural fibers have considerable advantages for use in conveyance (karus et al. 2000): low density and weight reduction, favorable mechanical, acoustical, and processing properties (including low wear on tools), no splintering in accidents, occupational health benefits (compared to glass fibers), no off-gassing of toxic compounds, and price advantages.
however, the added-value potential in the form of proprietary drug derivatives  and drug-delivery systems is huge.
the body shop has reported gross sales of about a billion dollars annually, and that about 4% of sales in 2000 were hemp products.
a thc concentration in  marijuana of approximately 0.9% has been suggested as a practical minimum level  to achieve the (illegal) intoxicant effect, but cbd (the predominant  cannabinoid of fiber and oilseed varieties) antagonizes (i.e. reduces) the  effects of thc (grotenhermen and karus 1998).
in the eu and canada, hemp has often been grown as a dual-purpose crop,  i.e. for both fiber and oilseed.
modern  plant breeding in europe has produced several dozen hemp strains, although by  comparison with other fiber crops there are relatively few described varieties  of hemp.
the north american hemp apparel industry today is based on fiber, yarn, and fabrics imported from eastern europe and china.
by the turn of the century 3 billion people may live in areas where wood is cut faster than it grows or where fuelwood is extremely scarce (world commission on environment and development 1987).
the bast fiber is of greatest  interest to the pulp and paper industry because of its superior strength  properties compared to wood.
supporters of the hemp legalization effort claim hemp cultivation could be profitable for us farmers.
information on the commercial potential of hemp in the us is presented in the following.
agriculture and agri-food  canada, indian head, sk. geiwitz, j. (and the ad hoc committee on hemp risks).
in this atmosphere, objective  analysis has often been lacking.
plants vary enormously in height depending on  genetic constitution and environment (fig. 4), but are typically 1–5 m  (heights of 12 m or more in cultivation have been claimed).
the quality of an oil or fat is most importantly determined by its fatty acid composition.
large crops may require european specialized equipment, but experience in north america with crops grown mainly for fiber is limited.
the  technology is most advanced in france (fig. 26).
hempseed oil is a drying oil, formerly used in paints and  varnishes and in the manufacture of soap.
so prolific is pollen production that an isolation distance of about 5 km  is usually recommended for generating pure-bred foundation seed.
but marketing based on the healthful and tasteful properties of hemp food products, the durable nature of hemp textiles, and the environmental advantages of the crop has proven to be widely acceptable, and is likely to promote the long term development of hemp industries.
practically, this has meant in canadian experience that a few cultivars have been eliminated from further commercial cultivation because they sometimes exceed the 0.3% level (fedora 19 and futura, authorized in 2000, have now been removed because some test results in several years exceeded 0.3%; finola and uniko b are under probation because of elevated levels), but on the whole most of the permitted cultivars have maintained highly consistent development of quite low levels of thc.
in canada, extraordinary yields of 1.5 t/ha have been realized, at least locally, although in the initial years of hempseed development in canada yields were often less than 500 kg/ha.
as detailed below, the development of hemp as a new legal crop in north  america must be considered in relation to illicit cultivation, so it is  important to appreciate the scope of the drug situation.
however, in the uk medicinal marijuana  is presently being produced sufficient to supply thousands of patients, and  canada recently authorized the cultivation of medicinal marijuana for  compassionate dispensation, as well as for a renewed effort at medical  evaluation.
bottles of hemp fragrance (left) and essential oil (center), and pastilles flavored with hemp essential oil (right).
(manufactured by la chanvrière de l’aube, france.)
however, essential oil in the marketplace has often been produced from low-thccannabis, and the thc content of essential oil obtained by steam distillation can be quite low, producing a product satisfying the needs for very low thc levels in food and other commercial goods.
the high degree of unsaturation is responsible for the extreme  sensitivity to oxidative rancidity.
in the  19th century softer fabrics took over the clothing market, and today, hemp  constitutes only about 1% of the natural fiber market.
edible oil the use of cannabis for seed oil (fig. 36) began at least 3  millennia ago.
well-drained clay soils can be used, but  poorly-drained clay soils are very inappropriate because of their  susceptibility to compaction, which is not tolerated.
(courtesy of professor bócsa.)
the result is to slough off the outer parts of the stem and to loosen the inner woody core (the hurds) from the phloem fibers (fig. 14).
meijer, e.p.m. de. 1995.
tocopherols are major antioxidants in human serum.
maintenance and  seed generation issues for the vavilov hemp germplasm collection are discussed  in a number of articles in the journal of the international hemp association  (clarke 1998b;
however, wong (1998) notes evidence that in the southern us hemp would produce only twice as much pulp as does a pine plantation (but see discussion below on suitability of hemp as a potential lumber substitute in areas lacking trees).
for examples, manila hemp (abaca) ismusa textilis née, sisal hemp is agave sisalina perrine, and sunn hemp is crotolaria juncea l. especially confusing is the phrase indian hemp, which has been used both for narcotic asian land races ofc. sativa (so-called c. indica lamarck of india)
thomas, springfield, il. small, e. 1971.
in: nova  institute, bioresource hemp.
hemp food products currently have a niche  market, based particularly on natural food and specialty food outlets.
(courtesy of la chanvrière de l’aube, bar sur aube, france.)
oilseed production was a specialty of the ussr, and there is some likelihood  that northern regions of north america may find short-season, short-stature  oilseed cultivars ideal.
a wide variety of hemp clothing, footwear, and food products are now available in north america.
california medicine jan.:34–40.
www.gov.on.ca/omafra/english/crops/hort/hemp/info_thcsummary1999.htm scheifele, g.l. and p.p. dragla.
‘panorama,’ the world’s only ornamental  cultivar, with the breeder, ivan bócsa.
with respect to hemp oil, the report noted that hemp oil in food markets is limited by its short shelf life, the fact that it can not be used for frying, and the lack of us food and drug administration approval as gras (generally recognized as safe).
kozlowski et al. (1995) observed that hemp grew very well on copper-contaminated soil in poland (although seeds absorbed high levels of copper).
however, because of opposition by the federal government, to date there has only been a small experimental plot in hawaii.
by contrast, letniak et al.  (2000) conducted an experimental trial of hemp as silage.
accordingly, the chief current fiber usages of north american, indeed of european hemp, are non-textile.
de guzman (2001), noting the pessimistic usda report, observed that nevertheless, others point to the potential of [the] market.
however, the attempts to destroy the  wild populations are short-sighted, because they are a natural genetic  reservoir, mostly low in thc.
in historical times, hemp rag was processed into paper.
shocked fiber hemp in process of dew retting.
while the long  bast fibers have been used to make paper almost for 2 millennia, the woody core  fibers have rarely been so used.
common cannabinoid phenotypes in 350  stocks ofcannabis.
dewey (1914) gave the following information: the short oil-seed hemp with slender stems, about 30 inches high, bearing compact clusters of seeds and maturing in 60 to 90 days, is of little value for fiber production, but the experimental plants, grown from seed imported from russia, indicate that it may be valuable as an oil-seed crop to be harvested and threshed in the same manner as oil-seed flax.
there  has been renewed interest in england, australia, and south africa in  cultivating fiber hemp.
controlling the drug abuse potential of hemp
callaway, j.c., t. tennilä, and d.w. pate. 1996.
from the individual producers perspective, the old adage find your market before you plant your seed remains sound advice.
wild female hemp plant collected oct. 17, 2000 near ottawa, canada.
narcotic strains tend to be more attractive in odor than fiber strains, and because they produce much higher numbers of flowers than fiber strains, and the (female) floral parts provide most of the essential oil, narcotic strains are naturally adapted to essential oil production.
in western europe, seeding rates range from 60–70 kg/ha for  fiber cultivars.
while small, secretory, resin-producing glands occur on the epidermis of most of the above-ground parts of the plant, the glands are very dense and productive on the perigonal bracts, which are accordingly of central interest in marijuana varieties.
fuel ody care "cosmetics construction fiberboard  construction (fiberboard, plaster board, etc.)
there are practical, if cruder alternatives to separate the long fiber for  high-quality textile production, but in fact such techniques are used mostly  for non-textile applications.
it was pre-adapted to thrive in the manured soils around mans early settlements, which quickly led to its domestication (schultes 1970).
simply  displaying ac. sativa leaf on advertising has led to the threat of  criminal charges in the last decade in several g8 countries.
canada in the last 5 years has made great advances in the growing, harvesting, and processing of hempseed, and indeed has moved ahead of the eu in the development of raw materials and products for the natural foods, nutraceuticals, and cosmetics industries.
symp., bioresource hemp, proc.
in hempseed, linoleic and alpha-linolenic  occur in a ratio of about 3:1, considered optimal in healthy human adipose  tissue, and apparently unique among common plant oils (deferne and pate 1996).
a disturbingly high percentage of the collections have thc levels higher than 0.3%, making it difficult to incorporate these into breeding programs.
(g. pinfold consulting economists ltd. and j.  white, inforesults ltd.).
(a  summary in english of nova inst. 1997).
as pointed out later, higher yield and better harvesting practices may make whole hempseed an economical livestock feed.
hemp products are an  advertiser’s dream, lending themselves to hyperbole (“healthiest  salad oil in the world,” “toughest jeans on the market”).
since mid-century, lumber use has tripled, paper use has increased six-fold, and firewood use has soared as third world populations have multiplied (brown et al. 1998).
while it is true that foreign imports have been  the basis for hemp products in north america for at least a decade, north  american production is only 4 years of age in canada, and farming of hemp in  the us has not even begun.
growing hemp may require addition of up to 110 kg/ha of nitrogen, and 4090 kg/ha of potash.
hemp is a novelty product with limited sustainable development value even in a novelty market...
baling can be done with any kind  of baler (fig. 48).
industrial hemp and marijuana are the product of the same plant, cannabis sativa...
in non-fiber strains ofcannabis, bark can be less than one quarter of the stem tissues (i.e. more than three quarters can be woody core).
a 3- or preferably  4-year rotation may involve cereals, clover or alfalfa for green manure, maize,  and hemp.
american medical association.
hemp is not an aggressive weed, and certainly has great potential for  being used as a wildlife plant.
other thc isomers also occur, particularlyd8 -thc, which is also psychoactive.
market development individual entrepreneurs, and indeed whole industries, as a matter of  economic survival need to adopt a clear investment policy with respect to  whether their market is to be output-driven or demand-led.
growing hemp unfortunately has a magnetic attraction to many, so there is  danger of overproduction.
comparative annual world economic significance of  categories ofcannabis activity.
however, the canadian  government has found that some french material has proven to be excessively  high in thc.
because hemp hurds are a costly product, it is likely that animal  bedding will remain the most important application.
the foundations, walls, floors, and ceilings of houses have been made using hemp hurds mixed with natural lime and water.
plenum  press, new york.
brown, l.r., c. flavin, h. french, and ten others.
multi-purpose matting, fabricated from hemp.
an economic  justification.
given the uncertainties and handicaps associated with hemp, it is fortunate that there are compensating factors.
the limited branching of fiber cultivars is often compensated for by possession of large leaves with wide leaflets, which obviously increase the photosynthetic ability of the plants.
several of the cannabinoids are reputed to have medicinal potential: thc  for glaucoma, spasticity from spinal injury or multiple sclerosis, pain,  inflammation, insomnia, and asthma; cbd for some psychological problems.
figure 11 shows thc concentrations in the vavilov collection, as well as in our  own collection, largely of european germplasm.
most hemp fiber used in textiles today is water retted in china and  hungary.
cannabis germplasm resources.
an experimental  “ceramic tile” made of hemp has recently been produced (fig. 27).
in the early 1980s in minnesota, jerusalem artichoke was touted as a fuel, a feed, a food, and a sugar crop.
it is clear that there is a culture of idealistic believers in hemp in  north america, and that there is great determination to establish the industry.
retting is generally done in the field (fig. 46, 47).
the  “hemp house” under construction on the oglala lakota nation (pine  ridge reservation), south dakota.
hemp insulation is used throughout.
two classes of epidermal glands  occur—stalked and sessile (fig.
figure 2 presents the basic morphology of the  species.
this seed meal should be distinguished from the protein-rich, oil-poor seed cake remaining after oil has been expressed, that is used for livestock feed.
strong support from business and farm groups is indispensable; support from pro-marijuana interests and what are perceived of as fringe groups is generally counterproductive.
we have encountered exceptionally vigorous wild canadian plants (fig. 52), and grown wild plants from europe (fig. 53) which could prove valuable.
thc content has proven to  be more easily reduced in monoecious than in dioecious varieties.
thc content has proven to be more easily reduced in monoecious than in dioecious varieties.
there has been renewed interest in england, australia, and south africa in cultivating fiber hemp.
as noted above, unwise investment in  canada produced a glut of seeds that resulted in price dumping and unprofitable  levels for the majority.
subject: medical marijuana.
hemp fibers are produced at much more cost than wood chips and straw from many other crops, so high-end applications requiring high strength seem most appropriate.
pharmacologists have the tools and the methodologies to realize its considerable potential, provided the political climate permits them to do so .
a 3- or preferably 4-year rotation may involve cereals, clover or alfalfa for green manure, maize, and hemp.
the medicinal efficacy ofcannabis is  extremely controversial, and regrettably is often confounded with the issue of  balancing harm and liberty concerning the proscriptions against recreational  use of marijuana.
hemp was often grown on farms with marginal incomes in  the hopes that it was a savior from a downward financial spiral.
the british firm g.w. pharmaceuticals acquired  proprietary access to these for medicinal purposes, and is developing medicinal  marijuana.
flowering branch of female plant.
this section addresses plastic-type composites.
several factors combined to decrease  the popularity of hemp in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
however, wild  plants ofc. sativa have naturally undergone selection for high seed  productivity, and are a particularly important potential source of breeding  germplasm.
in  former, labor-intensive times, the male plants were harvested earlier than the  females, to produce superior fiber.
it has had limited success, of course, because there are very few circumstances that permit private gardeners can grow cannabis as an ornamental today.
earlier, the limitations of hemp as a pulp  substitute were examined.
a usda analysis of hemp, “industrial hemp in the united states:  status and market potential,” was issued in 2000, and is available at  www.ers.usda.gov/publications/ages001e/index.htm.
retting in tanks rather than in open bodies of water is a way of  controlling the effluents while taking advantage of the high-quality fiber that  is produced.
bioresource hemp 2000 and other fibre crops.
in this context, the chief significance of medicinal cannabis is that, like the issue of recreational use, it has made it very  difficult to rationally consider the development of industrial hemp in north  america for purposes that everyone should agree are not harmful.
the common names hemp and marijuana (much less frequently spelled marihuana)
wild north american hemp is derived mostly from escaped european  cultivated hemp imported in past centuries, perhaps especially from a revival  of cultivation during world war ii.
www.gov.on.ca/omafra/english/crops/hort/hemp/info_hempeffect.htm scheifele, g.l., h. hinz, k. davies, k.-j. b. calder, m. bowman, and l.  guillemette.
it is important to note that hemp is the only current natural food source of gla, i.e. not requiring the consumption of extracted dietary supplements.
in the eu, a yield of  1 t/ha is considered good.
a practical and natural taxonomy for cannabis.
therapeutic uses of cannabis.
there are other fatty acids in small  concentrations in hemp seed that have some dietary significance, including  stearidonic acid (callaway et al. 1996) and eicosenoic acid (mölleken and  theimer 1997).
until recent times, the cultivation of hemp primarily as an oilseed was  largely unknown, except in russia.
essential oil of cannabis  sativa l. strains.
in: nova institute, bioresource hemp.
category world ($) north america ($) type of investment zthe global market for hemp-derived products is valued at between $100 million and $200 million annually (pinfold consulting 1998; de guzman 2001).
although most countries ceased growing hemp after the second word war, some didnt, including france, china, russia, and hungary, so that essential knowledge of how to grow and process hemp was maintained.
medical use of cannabis.
the second world war led to a brief revival of hemp cultivation in the midwest, as well as in canada, because the war cut off supplies of fiber (substantial renewed cultivation also occurred in germany for the same reason).
these include finola, formerly known as fin-314 (fig. 6) and anka (fig. 7), which are relatively short, little-branched, mature early in north-temperate regions, and are ideal for high-density planting and harvest with conventional equipment.
today, it is difficult to reconstruct the type of plant that was grown there as an oilseed, because such cultivation has essentially been abandoned.
impressively, the species was grown in all 50 states (including  outdoor seizures in every state except wyoming)!
baling can be done with any kind of baler (fig. 48).
we suggest that an  average productivity of 2 t/ha will be necessary to transform hempseed into a  major oilseed, and that this breeding goal is achievable.
in the us, nih (national institute of health) has a program of research into medicinal marijuana, and has supplied a handful of individuals for years with maintenance samples for medical usage.
those interested in establishing and developing legitimate industries based on fiber and oilseed applications have had to struggle against considerable opposition from many in the political and law enforcement arenas.
(courtesy us drug enforcement administration.)
harwood academic publ., uk.
percentage or quality of oil in the seeds does not appear to have been  important in the past, although selection for these traits is now being  conducted.
generally hemp should be planted after  danger of hard freezes, and slightly before the planting date of maize.
in general, the novelty of hemp means that  many consumers are willing to pay a premium price.
economies of scale are such  that the supply of hemp is minute compared to the supply of wood fiber.
canadian experience with growing hemp commercially for the last 4 years  has convinced many growers that it is better to use a single-purpose cultivar,  seed or fiber, than a dual-purpose cultivar.
the traditional and still major first step in fiber  extraction is to ret (“rot”) away the softer parts of the plant, by  exposing the cut stems to microbial decay in the field (“dew  retting,” shown in figs. 46 and 47) or submerged in water (“water  retting, ” shown in fig. 13).
because hemp food products are considered to have great economic potential, there is considerable pressure on the hemp industry in north america to reduce thc levels.
in germany, more stringent limits were set for food in 2000: 5 ppm in food oil, 0.005 ppm in beverages, and 0.15 ppm in all other foods.
department of crop and soil science, oregon  state univ.
the botany and ecology of cannabis.
www.nap.edu/books/0309071550/html/ joyce, c.r.b. and s.h. curry.
alcoholic beverages made with hemp utilize hempseed as a flavorant.
1999 report on environment and  latitude effect on thc levels of industrial hemp varieties grown in ontario.
in france, dual purpose hemp is typically harvested twiceinitially the upper seed-bearing part of the stems is cut and threshed with a combine, and subsequently the remaining stems are harvested.
they have defended their inaction by claiming that either step would signal to the public a softening of the so-called war on drugs....
however, various analyses have concluded that the use of hemp for  conventional paper pulp is not profitable (fertig 1996).
by contrast, beautiful ornamental  cultivars of opium poppy are widely cultivated in home gardens across north  america, despite their absolute illegality and the potentially draconian  penalties that could be imposed.
marijuana in the illicit  market typically has a thc content of 5% to 10% (levels as high as 25% have  been reported), and as a point of interest, a current canadian government  experimental medicinal marijuana production contract calls for the production  of 6% marijuana.
flax  and hemp fibers exposed to water and soil have been claimed to disintegrate  rapidly over the course of a few months, which would make them unacceptable for  products that need to have long-term stability when exposed to water and oil.
minor uses biomass it has been contended that hemp is notably superior to most crops in terms  of biomass production, but van der werf (1994b) noted that the annual dry  matter yield of hemp (rarely approaching 20 t/ha) is not exceptional compared  to maize, beet, or potato.
below, the problem of permissible levels of thc in food products made from hempseed is discussed.
efforts are underway in europe to add  value in the form of processed products for hemp, especially cosmetics and food  but, as noted below, the north american market is already quite advanced in  oilseed applications.
at present, gla is available in health food  shops and pharmacies primarily as soft gelatin capsules of borage or evening  primrose oil, but hemp is almost certainly a much more economic source.
modern seed dehulling using mechanical separation produces a smooth, white, gritless hemp seed meal that needs no additional treatment before it is consumed.
in the past, hemp seed has generally been a  food of the lower classes, or a famine food.
experimental production of hemp fiberboard has produced extremely strong material (fig. 22).
this is difficult to judge, but the following considerations suggest this might occur: (1) increasing awareness of the differences between industrial hemp and marijuana; (2) growing appreciation of the environmental benefits of hemp cultivation; (3) continuing demonstration of successful hemp cultivation and development in most of the remaining western world; all the g8 countries, except the us, produce and export industrial hemp; and (4) increasing pressure on state and federal governments to permit hemp cultivation by farmers, particularly wheat, corn, and tobacco farmers in desperate need of substitute crops, but also for rotation crops to break pest and disease cycles.
in a recent editorial, the respected journal nature (2001) stated: governments, including the us federal government, have until recently refused to sanction the medical use of marijuana, and have also done what they can to prevent its clinical testing.
drug varieties have been observed to produce more than a kilogram of seed per plant, so that a target yield of several tonnes per hectare is conceivable (watson and clarke 1997).
such highly-branched plants can  produce very large quantities of seeds, and may be useful for breeding.
although hemp plants can lodge, on the whole very tall hemp is remarkably resistant against wind.
france is the leading country in hemp cultivation in the eu, and 95% of the  non-seed production is used for “specialty pulp” as described below.
organic certification is much  more reliable in north america than in the foreign countries that offer cheap  seeds.
growing short varieties dedicated to grain production eliminates many of the above problems, and since the profitability of hemp straw is limited at present, seems preferable.
specialty pulp (cigarette paper, bank notes,  technical filters, and hygiene products) 24,882 87 composites for autos  1,770 6 construction & thermal insulation materials 1,095 4 geotextiles 234 0.8 other 650 2.2 total 26,821 100 table 2.
there is great variation in cannabis sativa, because of disruptive domestication for fiber, oilseed, and narcotic resin, and there are features that tend to distinguish these three cultigens (cultivated phases) from each other.
health council of the netherlands.
mcpartland et al. (2000) is the best presentation available on diseases and pests, which fortunately under most circumstances do limited damage.
hemp, an illinois war crop.
this is primarily because of the legal, ethical and bureaucratic  difficulties in conducting trials with patients.
it might also be said that  those who have entered the hemp industry have tended to be very highly  motivated, resourceful, and industrious, qualities that have been needed in the  face of rather formidable obstacles to progress.
this apocryphal story holds a germ of truth—hemp seed is  astonishingly nutritional.
deforestation, particularly the destruction of old growth forests, and the worlds decreasing supply of wild timber resources are today major ecological concerns.
(courtesy of professor  bócsa.)
www.nova-institut.de/bioresource-hemp/home.htm (by subscription) letniak, r., c. weeks, s. blade, and a. whiting. 2000.
although the environmental and biodiversity benefits of growing hemp have  been greatly exaggerated in the popular press,c. sativa is nevertheless  exceptionally suitable for organic agriculture, and is remarkably less  “ecotoxic” in comparison to most other crops (montford and small  1999b).
hemp-based  cosmetics and personal care products account for about half of the world market  for hemp oil (de guzman 2001).
genetic improvement: conventional approaches.
in hempseed, linoleic and alpha-linolenic occur in a ratio of about 3:1, considered optimal in healthy human adipose tissue, and apparently unique among common plant oils (deferne and pate 1996).
as argued above, to be competitive, hemp should produce approximately 2 t/ha; at present 1 t/ha is considered average to good production.
in europe, the animal bedding market is not considered important (karus et al. 2000), but in north america there are insufficient hemp hurds available to meet market demand.
the refinement of equipment and new technologies are viewed as offering the  possibility of making fine textile production practical in western europe and  north america, but at present china controls this market, and probably will  remain dominant for the foreseeable future.
contrarily, hemp has been  selected for fiber to the point that some breeders consider its productivity in  this respect has already been maximized.
the us drug enforcement administration has the mandate of eliminating illicit and wild marijuana, which it does very well (fig. 5456).
macmillan,  harrisburg, pa. baraniecki, p. 1997.
j. & a. churchill, london, uk. karus, m. 2000.
as a strategic economic and political tactic, france has been attempting for several years to have the european union (eu) adopt legislation forbidding the cultivation of industrial hemp cultivars with more than 0.1% thc, which would mean that primarily french varieties would have to be cultivated in europe.
22.experimental fiberboard made with hemp.
efforts are underway in europe to add value in the form of processed products for hemp, especially cosmetics and food but, as noted below, the north american market is already quite advanced in oilseed applications.
hemp oil is high in unsaturated fatty acids (of the  order of 75%), which can easily oxidize, so it is unsuitable for frying or  baking.
tragically this includes some legitimate farmers who, faced with financial ruin because of the unprofitability of crops being grown, converted to growing marijuana.
in addition to agricultural wastes, there are vast quantities of scrub trees, especially poplar, in northern areas, that can supply large amounts of low-quality wood fiber extremely cheaply.
although most countries ceased growing hemp after the second word war, some  didn’t, including france, china, russia, and hungary, so that essential  knowledge of how to grow and process hemp was maintained.
hemp and lime mixtures make a high quality plaster.
flax and hemp fibers exposed to water and soil have been claimed to disintegrate rapidly over the course of a few months, which would make them unacceptable for products that need to have long-term stability when exposed to water and oil.
top of sessile secretory gland.
for a period, 0.3% was also the allowable thc content limit  for cultivation of hemp in the soviet union.
photograph taken in 1931, near ottawa, canada.
recent european commission proposals to change its subsidy regime for hemp contained the following negative evaluation of hemp seed: the use of hemp seed ... would, however, even in the absence of thc, contribute towards making the narcotic use of cannabis acceptable...
extensive root systems are key to the ability of hemp crops to exploit deep supplies of nutrients and water.
moreover, in northern areas  fast-growing poplars and willows can be grown, and such agro-forestry can be  very productive and environmentally benign.
there are other fatty acids in small concentrations in hemp seed that have some dietary significance, including stearidonic acid (callaway et al. 1996) and eicosenoic acid (mölleken and theimer 1997).
we have encountered  exceptionally vigorous wild canadian plants (fig. 52), and grown wild plants  from europe (fig. 53) which could prove valuable.
hemp oil shows huge gains in food and personal care.
in theory, therefore, low-thc cultivars do not completely solve the problem of drug abuse potential.
small and cronquist (1976) splitc. sativa into two subspecies: c. sativa subsp.
the stems are  erect, furrowed, and usually branched, with a woody interior, and may be hollow  in the internodes.
this has represented a most untimely setback for a fledgling industry, but at least has had a sobering effect on investing in hemp.
in march 1998, new regulations (under the controlled drugs and substances act) were provided to allow the commercial development of a hemp industry in canada, and since then more than a thousand licenses have been issued.
recommendations for seeding rates for grain production vary widely, from 1045 kg/ha.
monitoring gene flow from  transgenic sugar beet using cytoplasmic male-sterile bait plants.
north american  capacity for hemp pulp production and value-added processing is much more  limited than that of europe, and this industry is negligible in north america.
since fiber plants  have not generally been selected for narcotic purposes, the level of  intoxicating constituents is usually limited.
attempting to export or import hemp products among countries is presently a most uncertain activity.
marijuana  and medicine: assessing the science base.
the taste is pleasantly nutty, sometimes with a touch of bitterness.
importation of experimental hemp lines (i.e. other than the approved cultivars) requires importation licenses (as well as phytosanitary clearance of the shipment by the canadian food inspection agency), and the importation licenses require an indication that the thc contents are low.
however, saeglitz et al. (2000) demonstrated that the  spread of beet pollen is not effectively prevented by hemp hedges.
when grown in north-temperate climates maturation is much-delayed until  late fall, or the plants succumb to cold weather before they are able to  produce seeds.
nevertheless hemp oil has found applications in the past in paints, varnishes,  sealants, lubricants for machinery, and printing inks.
mature fruit enclosed in perigonal bract.
report 10 of the council on  scientific affairs (i-97) to the american medical association house of  delegates.
nova institute,  hürth, germany.
shingles are 60% hemp  in a synthetic polymer.
an additional extremely significant advantage that domestic producers have over foreign sources is organic production, which is important for the image desired by the hemp food market.
the united states national institute on drug abuse (nida) information web site on marijuana, which reflects a negative view of cannabis, is at www.nida.nih.gov/drugpages/marijuana.html, and reflects several basic fears: (1) growingcannabis plants makes law enforcement more difficult, because of the need to ensure that all plants cultivated are legitimate; (2) utilization of legitimatecannabis products makes it much more difficult to maintain the image of the illegitimate products as dangerous; (3) many in the movements backing development of hemp are doing so as a subterfuge to promote legalization of recreational use of marijuana; and (4) thc (and perhaps other constituents)
the potential as a new crop for medicinal cannabinoid uses is therefore limited.
from the point of view of world markets, concentrating on oilseed  hemp makes sense, because europe has shown only limited interest to date in  developing oilseed hemp, whereas a tradition of concentrating on profitable  oilseed products is already well established in the us and canada.
cannabis sativa is extremely unusual in the diversity of products for which it is or can be cultivated.
figure 2 presents the basic morphology of the species.
fiber (i.e. tall) cultivars of hemp were also once used in europe as wind-breaks, protecting vulnerable crops against wind damage.
of course, the high thc in drug cultivars makes these a difficult source of germplasm.
while deer, groundhogs, rabbits, and other mammals will nibble on hemp plants, mammals generally do not choose to eat hemp.
hemp does best on a loose, well-aerated loam soil with high fertility and abundant organic matter.
hemp research and market development in  germany.
plants vary enormously in height depending on genetic constitution and environment (fig. 4), but are typically 15 m (heights of 12 m or more in cultivation have been claimed).
steam explosion is another potential technology that has been experimentally applied to hemp (garcia-jaldon et al. 1998).
cannabis sativa is known to be exceptionally resistant to pests (fig. 51), although, the degree of immunity to attacking organisms has been greatly exaggerated, with several insects and fungi specializing on hemp.
wood-based paper came into use when mechanical and  chemical pulping was developed in the mid 1800s in germany and england.
cbd can be converted to thc by acid catalyzed cyclization, and so could serve as a starting material for manufacturing thc.
extensive root systems are key to the ability  of hemp crops to exploit deep supplies of nutrients and water.
in 1999, the year  of largest canadian hemp acreage, yields averaged 900 kg/ha.
hemp rag had been much used for paper, but  the 19th century introduction of the chemical woodpulping process considerably  lowered demand for hemp.
increasingly, however, the world is testing the potential of hemp in the field and marketplace, which surely must be the ultimate arbiters.
thermal insulation products (fig. 20, 21) are  the third most important sector of the hemp industry of the eu.
rather ironically in view of todays parallel situation, henry fords hemp innovations in the 1920s occurred at a time of crisis for american farms, later to intensify with the depression.
in theory, therefore, low-thc  cultivars do not completely solve the problem of drug abuse potential.
editura academiei republicii populare rominae, bucharest, romania.
although similar in appearance to narcotic strains ofc. sativa, the chinese land races we grew were in fact low in intoxicating constituents, and it may well be that what dewey thought was a narcotic strain was not.
at one point in the 1980s, the only permitted use of hemp in  germany was as a fence or hedge to prevent plots of beets being used for seed  production from being contaminated by pollen from ruderal beets.
the vavilov institute of plant research in st. petersburg, russia has by  far the largest germplasm collection of hemp of any public gene bank, with  about 500 collections.
however, as noted below, there  are remarkable dietary advantages to hempseed oil, which accordingly has good  potential for penetrating the salad oil market, and for use in a very wide  variety of food products.
an extensive analysis of literature dealing with the toxicity of hemp is in orr  and starodub (1999; see geiwitz 2001 for an analysis).
in thermoset production the natural fibers are soaked with  binders such as epoxy resin or polyurethane, placed in the desired form, and  allowed to harden through polymerization.
food  products press (of haworth press), london, uk. bócsa, i. and m. karus.
vavilov institute, leningrad, ussr.
judged on experience in canada to date, the industry is inclined to specialize on either fiber or grain, but not both.
in traditional hemp processing, the long fiber was separated from the internal woody hurds in two steps, breaking (stalks were crushed under rollers that broke the woody core into short pieces, some of which were separated) and scutching (the remaining hurds, short fibers (tow) and long fibers (line fiber, long-line fiber) were separated).
the most pressing need of the hemp industry in north america is for the breeding of more productive oilseed cultivars.
united states national institute of health, university of mississippi  marijuana plantation site, showing variation in plant size.
hemp (cannabis sativa).
the north american hemp apparel industry today is based on fiber,  yarn, and fabrics imported from eastern europe and china.
bottom:  demonstration of installation of blanket, near la rivière, manitoba.
hemp paper products (writing paper, notebook, envelopes).
yields are very smallabout 10 l/ha (mediavilla and steinemann 1997), so essential oil ofc. sativa is expensive, and today is simply a novelty.
wild canadian hemp is concentrated along the st. lawrence and lower great lakes, where considerable cultivation occurred in the 1800s.
for most of its history,c. sativa was most valued as a fiber source, considerably less so as an intoxicant, and only to a limited extent as an oilseed crop.
decorticated  material (i.e. separated at least into crude fiber) is the raw material, and  this is subjected to steam under pressure and increased temperature which  “explodes” (separates)
gamma-linolenic acid or gla is another significant component of hemp oil  (1%–6%, depending on cultivar).
meier, c. and v. mediavilla. 1998.
maintenance of cannabis germplasm in the vavilov research institute gene bank - 1993.
more than 50% of the  marijuana available in canada is grown domestically.
in france, a market for high-quality paper, ironically largely cigarette paper, has developed (such paper is completely free of the intoxicating resin).
it often takes 10 to 15 years for the industry associated with a new agricultural crop to mature.
however, as outlined below, there are now many non-traditional usages for hemp fiber which require consideration.
the most valid claims to environmental friendliness of hemp are with respect to agricultural biocides (pesticides, fungicides, herbicides).
leson (2000)  found that this level was not exceeded by consuming hemp products, provided  that thc levels are maintained below 5 ppm in hemp oil, and below 2 ppm in  hulled seeds.
stalks should have less than 15% moisture when baled, and should be allowed to dry to about 10% in storage.
www.commonlink.com/~olsen/hemp/iha/iha01101.html lemeshev, n., l., rumyantseva, and r.c. clarke. 1994.
however, as described above relatively crude fiber preparations also have applications.
however, according to bócsa and karus (1998), it matters little what crops are grown prior to hemp .
using hemp directly for paper was considered too expensive, and in any event the demand for paper was far more limited than today.
the high absorbency of hemp hurds has led to their occasional use as an absorbent for oil and waste spill cleanup.
in the netherlands, the annual value of narcotic hemp cultivation (ca.
sativa, with less than 0.3% (dry weight) of thc in the upper (reproductive) part of the plant, and c. sativa subsp.
as noted, as a crop hemp offers some real environmental advantages, particularly with regard to the limited needs for herbicides and pesticides.
(courtesy us  drug enforcement administration.)
hemp clothes are resistant to abrasion, but are typically abrasive.
“bioresource hemp 2000 and other fibre  crops.”
although hemp can be successfully grown continuously for several years on  the same land, rotation with other crops is desirable.
dewey (1914) noted that a turkish narcotic  type of land race called “smyrna” was commonly used in the early 20th  century in the us to produce birdseed, because (like most narcotic types of cannabis) it is densely branched, producing many flowers, hence seeds.
some special hybrids, obtained by pollinating females of dioecious lines with pollen from monoecious plants, are predominantly female (so-called all-female, these generally also produce some hermaphrodites and occasional males).
hemp products have a growing niche market of their own, and the market will remain healthy and be well supported with many competing brands.
while the long bast fibers have been used to make paper almost for 2 millennia, the woody core fibers have rarely been so used.
large crops may require  european specialized equipment, but experience in north america with crops  grown mainly for fiber is limited.
issue 162, fiber  crops.
in plastics, fibers are introduced to improve physical properties such as stiffness, impact resistance, bending and tensile strength.
however, this analysis  does not do justice to the developing hemp geotextile market.
however, feeding entire plants is another matter, because the leaves are  covered with the resin-producing glands.
although always sold at a premium price, hemp clothing has a natural appeal to a sector of the population.
symposium  (frankfurt am main, germany, march 2–5, 1995).
this support was instrumental in developing a hemp industry in western europe.
british medical association.
hemp is  currently a most uncertain crop, but has such a diversity of possible uses, is  being promoted by extremely enthusiastic market developers, and attracts so  much attention that it is likely to carve out a much larger share of the north  american marketplace than its detractors are willing to concede.
modern plant breeding in europe has produced several dozen hemp strains, although by comparison with other fiber crops there are relatively few described varieties of hemp.
the seedbed should be fine, level, and firm.
the possibility of using hemp  for bioremediation deserves additional study.
earliest reference to euphoric use of c. sativa appears to date to china of 5 millennia ago, but it was in india over the last millennium that drug consumption became more firmly entrenched than anywhere else in the world.
hemp fibers tend to wrap around combine belts, bearings, indeed any moving part, and have resulted in large costs of combine repairs (estimated at $10.00/ha).
until recent times, the cultivation of hemp primarily as an oilseed was largely unknown, except in russia.
of  the european dual-usage cultivars, ‘uniko b’ and ‘fasamo’  are particularly suited to being grown as oilseeds.
the body shop now  markets an impressive array of hemp nutraceutical cosmetics (fig. 39), and this  has given the industry considerable credibility.
improved microorganisms or enzymes could augment or replace traditional water  retting.
wheat straw is the dominant nonwood fiber in such  applications.
cannabis contains a seemingly unique class of chemicals, the cannabinoids, of which more than 60 have been described, but only a few are psychoactive.
23), but their potential in north america remains to be determined.
hemp rag had been much used for paper, but the 19th century introduction of the chemical woodpulping process considerably lowered demand for hemp.
cbd (cannabidiol) is the chief non-intoxicant chemical, and  predominates in non-intoxicant strains; it has sedative effects.
today,  at least 95% of paper is made from wood pulp.
according to an ancient legend (abel 1980), buddha, the founder of buddhism, survived a 6-year interval of asceticism by eating nothing but one hemp seed daily.
the potential of plant fibres as crops for industrial  use.
flowering branch of male plant.
the cost of enforcing the laws againstcannabis in north america is in the billions of dollars annually.
however, in the uk medicinal marijuana is presently being produced sufficient to supply thousands of patients, and canada recently authorized the cultivation of medicinal marijuana for compassionate dispensation, as well as for a renewed effort at medical evaluation.
the appearance is rather  like a short, conical christmas tree.
countries with low labor costs such as the philippines and china have a competitive advantage over any us hemp producer.
in general in the eu and canada, fibers are not separated into  tow and line fibers, but are left as “whole fiber.”
a methodology developed and applied.
as forests diminish, cultivation of annual plants as fiber sources is likely to increase.
hemp fibers added to concrete increase tensile strength while reducing  shrinkage and cracking.
foundation blocks for the house are made with  hemp fiber as a binder in cement.
hunters and birdwatchers who discover wild patches of hemp often keep this information secret, knowing that the area will be a magnet for birds in the fall when seed maturation occurs.
a hemp harvester operated  by hempflax (netherlands), with a wide mowing head capable of cutting 3 m long  stems into 0.6 m pieces, at a capacity of 3 ha/hour.
in the us, wild plants are rather contemptuously called “ditch  weed” by law enforcement personnel.
seeds (achenes) long ("bark) fiber woody stem core female floral (perigonal) bract whole plant fig. 1.
fiber strains have been selected for  low seed production, so that most hemp germplasm has certainly not been  selected for oilseed characteristics.
additional types of composite using hemp in combination with other natural fibers, post-industrial plastics or other types of resins, are being used to produce non-woven matting for padding, sound insulation, and other applications.
pharmacologists have the tools and the methodologies to realize its  considerable potential, provided the political climate permits them to do so .”
the use of agricultural residues (e.g.  straw bales in house construction) is an especially environmentally friendly  solution to sparing trees, but material limitations restrict use.
seeds (achenes) long ("bark) fiber woody stem core female  floral (perigonal) bract whole plant confectionary, baked goods  plastic-molded products animal bedding medicinal cannabinoids alcohol salad oil specialty papers thermal insulation essential oil (for flavor &  perfume)
good  soil moisture is necessary for seed germination, and plenty of rainfall is  needed for good growth, especially during the first 6 weeks.
water retting, typically by soaking the stalks in ditches, can lead to a high level of pollution.
house of lords. 1998.
this involves production of “whole  fibers” (i.e. harvesting both the long fibers from the cortex and the  shorter fibers from throughout the stem), and technologies that utilize  shortened hemp fibers.
in the words of hirst et al. (1998):  “the ...status of cannabis has made modern clinical research almost  impossible.
medicinal tincture of cannabis sativa.
insofar as hemp reduces the need to harvest trees for building materials or other products, its use as a wood substitute will tend to contribute to preserving biodiversity.
addition of anti-oxidants prolongs the longevity of the oil.
as well, the hurds become  more difficult to separate.
utilizing the ancient technique of  reinforcing clay with straw to produce reinforced bricks for constructing  domiciles, plant fibers have found a number of comparable uses in modern times.
thc is the  world’s most popular illicit chemical, and indeed the fourth most popular  recreational drug, after caffeine, alcohol, and nicotine.
because c. sativa has been a neglected crop for so long in north  america, there are only negligible genetic resources available on this  continent.
panorama, the worlds only ornamental cultivar, with the breeder, ivan bócsa.
these include  ‘finola,’ formerly known as ‘fin-314’ (fig. 6) and  ‘anka’ (fig. 7), which are relatively short, little-branched, mature  early in north-temperate regions, and are ideal for high-density planting and  harvest with conventional equipment.
frequency histograms of thc concentration in germplasm  collections.
in: r.b. joyce and s.h. curry (eds.), the botany  and chemistry ofcannabis.
the vegetable oils have been classified by iodine value as drying (120200), semi-drying (100120), and non-drying (80100), which is determined by the degree of saturation of the fatty acids present (raie et al. 1995).
world commission on environment and development.
gehl (1995) reviewed fiber hemp  development in canada in the early 20th century, and concluded that the  prospects for a traditional fiber industry were poor.
by contrast, in fiber strains half of the stem tissues can be bark, and more than half of this can be the desirable long primary fibers (de meijer 1995).
however, no comparable support is available in north america,  and indeed those contemplating entering into hemp cultivation are faced with  extraordinary costs and/or requirements in connection with licensing, security,  thc analysis, and record keeping.
while  the narcotics image ofc. sativa is often disadvantageous, advertisers  who choose to play up this association do so knowing that it will attract a  segment of the consuming population.
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (d9-thc, or simply thc) is the predominant psychoactive component.
until very recently the prohibition against drug forms of the plant prevented consideration of cultivation of fiber and oilseed cultivars in canada.
all this led to the discontinuation of hemp cultivation in the early and middle parts of the 20th century in much of the world where cheap labor was limited.
hackleman, j.c. and w.e. domingo.
nevertheless the presence of even minute trace amounts of thc in foods remains a tool that can be used by those wishing to prevent the hemp oilseed industry from developing.
maintenance and seed generation issues for the vavilov hemp germplasm collection are discussed in a number of articles in the journal of the international hemp association (clarke 1998b;
hemp paper is high-priced for several reasons.
man-made fibers of glass, kevlar and carbon are most commonly used today, but plant fibers offer considerable cost savings along with comparable strength properties.
with respect to fiber, a composite is often defined as a material consisting of 30%70% fiber and 70%30% matrix (bolton 1995).