in fact, ruthimex has customers such as suzuki, sanyo, sony, isuzu, water supply, etc. and have exported to the following oversea markets: australia, new zealand, japan, usa, england, malaysia, france and thailand.
we look forward to your co-operation for export market development as well as technology transfer.
we also have a mold testing center and clean rooms for packing.
beside the main facility based in hoi an hamlet with 250 employees and total working area of 2000m2, quang nam silk has got another factory based in tan binh district ho chi minh city with 50 employees.
the factory is located in phu ly in the north of vietnam with an area of 15 hectares. hanatex has developed trends in the garment industry of vietnam.
the products are sold in 30 provinces and cities throughout 172  stores.
world vina has already exported  products to many countries such as germany, france, america, japan, taiwan,  korea, canada…thanks to reliable, high standard products.
established in 2005 with 30 professional  craftsmen, all products are 100% handmade.
the most outstanding feature of our product line is quality.
customers should allow up to two months for delivery upon confirmation of the  order.
our products are: - natural mineral water without co2: 350ml, 600ml, 1.5liter, 20liter plastic bottle.
high quality and reasonable prices enable our products to be sold widely at home.
our production capacity is 10 million different products per year.
we always improve the products' quality and customize the products by changing flavors, packaging styles, etc.
our products are: - natural rubber: svr cv 60, svr cv 50, svr 10, svr 20.
our main markets include asia, america and europe.
mechanical factory 83click on company name above for more detailed information!
- assembly lines (vietnam honda, shihlin electric).
dai hong phat  also sells globally from america to australia.
hiep tien company specializes in  manufacturing households (table, chair, wardrobe, bed...), the indoor and  outdoor decorative items made from bamboo, pressed, rolling bamboo, rattan,  iron decor, water hyacinth, fern, banana leaf and wire...
in order to raise the quality and design of the product further, thuan phat cooperative built a food processing and export factory located in le minh xuan industrial park which has working area of 5,287 square meters.
by providing  competitive price together with good quality products, we sincerely hope to  develop trade and economic cooperation together with customers all over the  world for great progress.
our products have been exported to usa, uk, holland, new  zealand, mexico, south africa, australia, denmark and some asia countries.
mechanical factory 83
our goal is 7000 tons in 2007, and 15,000  tons in 2010.
our products are produced under the  combination of advanced machinery and skillful craftsmanship.
we  welcome all customers worldwide as well as foreign partners who are interested  in joint venture with us to take the advantage of our resource over here.
being effort in providing high quality  products, excellent service, competitive prices and prompt delivery, we are now  looking forward to even greater cooperation with overseas customers based on  mutual benefits.
high quality and reasonable prices  enable our products to be sold widely at home.
export company click on company name above for  more detailed information!
- vee sendy: the viet tien trademark with the letter s inside the viet tien  triangle-shaped logo is used for developing sport products like jeans for both  men and women.
phong phu corporation is a state-owned company, member of viet nam national textile & garment corporation.
in 2003, minh hung plastics was awarded the certification of international quality management system iso 9001-2000 by quacert.
our products are kinds of  pangasius fish (pangasius hypophthalmus), shrimps, cephalopod and sea fish.
t-up is the trademark mainly for the  international market with italian and japanese quality standard viet tien.
secoin offices and factories are compliant with the international quality management system iso 9001:2000.
we approached europe market and america in 2005, after registered the ce for  our products.
hanatextile companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
in addition, the products have also created special impressions for customers  own designs and shape.
utxi aquatic products processing co.
vinh  hao exports to laos, cambodia, usa, australia and the eu.
hoatho textile and garment company click on company name above for  more detailed information!
in addition, we are continuously improving our quality management system and after-sale service to for efficiency in production and business.
viet tien has contributed considerably in  developing the operation of viet nam garment industry.
vinh tien paper co-operative is one of the  largest manufactures of high quality student's notebooks and paper stationeries  in viet nam.
vinataba imex now has 20 affiliate companies in the whole vietnam; we are a member of vietnam national tobacco corporation.
sd wooden toys enterprise was formed in 1989 by  a group of high school teachers in my tho city.
founded in 1999, thanh binh co., ltd. specializes in high  quality frozen and dried seafood for domestic and export.
our products have  been exported to international market such as japan, korea, china, taiwan, etc.
legamex is one of the largest garment manufacturers in vietnam.
the company now has  more than 673 employees including skilled workers, officers and managers and is  applying the quality control system according to iso 9001:2000 which was  certificated by organizations such as jas-anz and quacert.
their products have been exported to more than 40 countries in europe, america, asia and australia.
by supplying various kinds or processed sea products to meet satisfactorily requirements of customers, so far, the products under "sotico" trademark have been presented in large markets such as: japan, korea, u.s.a, netherlands belgium, switzerland, italy, belgium, etc. with output over 5,000 mt per year.
we have been designing, manufacturing millions of products which are consumed both domestic and world wide.
with the active and well-trained staff and line-up of skilful workers, we are ready prepared to co-operation with the foreign and vietnam partners to broaden production and business scale.
beside advanced equipment, being a young company, son ha group has strong labor  force of 700 employees including well trained engineers and workers.
aiming to  ensure sufficiency of raw materials for production, we have applied the  strategy of employing local people, growing fruit trees in the localities and  carrying out production right on the spot.
secoin is the member of vietnam association for information  processing, vietnam association for building materials, vietnam association for  construction ceramics, vietnam chamber of commerce and industry and vietnam  association for economic sciences.
coloured rubber companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
through implementing cad patterning systems, we have improved  design accuracy, competitiveness and promptness of delivery that makes it  possible to enhance production control and communicate specifications with  customers directly.
established in 2003, huong dang artistic  handicrafts & lacquerwares co., ltd has been a well-known supplier of  typical handicrafts for oversea wholesalers and retailers thanks to its  creative, qualified and experienced technician and designer teams who are able  to design all the models as to the client's requirements.
our factory has more than 200 workers  with workshops from tailoring department, sewing department, printing  department and high frequency department to packing department.
thirsting to bring the natural, popular beauty but never less particular, romantic of the bamboo trunk, leaf, root, etc to the rooms of the modern houses, we have chosen bamboo, rattan for the main source of material.
humoco, acronym for huong moi export garment company, was established and has started garment production since 1986.
having grown into the leading crystal manufacturers in vietnam, we now employ more than 400 persons including highly skilled craftsmen.
north asian material trading company specializes in trading wood material; 4.
80% of tan phu furniture's production is exported to united states, canada, japan, taiwan, korea, singapore and malaysia.
establishment in 2003, thai duong rubber joint stock company is one of the best technical rubber manufacturers in vietnam by using all of resources to maintain and innovate permanently quality system which is complied with requirements of iso 9001:2000 and pcp.
we have  exported 90% of our output.
with huge production potential and rich natural resources, baruco commits  to meeting all orders, and requirements of produced-by-order products at any  volume.
one  of our goals in the near future is to open another manufacturing plant in cu  chi.
we always care about education.
tuong an vegetable oil jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
the most outstanding feature of our product  is quality which comes from using the best clay media available.
we have established a distribution system  covering all bookstores in vietnam.
our products have not only been covering the domestic market by distributing in all supermarket nationwide, and we have already exported to china, taiwan, hong kong, south korea, singapore, malaysia, indonesia, japan, australia.
we continuously rank the first in contributing to the national budget with its budget contribution increasing every year which makes up more than 1/3 of the budget of khanh hoa province, vietnam.
established in 2004, truong vui handbags  making co., ltd is a professional manufacturer of various handbags.
the company is applying iso 9001:2000 for production management.
our products have been exported to  many countries in the world.
hiep phu tho company has got clients' belief to produce products under specific orders and exported to united states, japan, korea and some countries in europe.
- supplying sport equipment for training and top match such as speed-box balls, nets, goals, rackets and mechanical instruments.
our products are fish fillet(frozen fish fillet, segment, steak, rolls, skewer, breaded, fried breaded), shrimp(hoso, hlso, pto, pud, sushi, nobashi, cooked breaded, skewer), and other aquatic products such as cuttlefish, pine apple cut, octopus, frog legs and other kinds of saltwater fish.
in particular, we have exported terrazzo floor tiles, artistic tiles, agar wood oils & revitalizing oils, agar wood incenses & agar wood candles for aromatherapy, etc to countries in the world such as japan, korea, australia, italy, portugal, iran, india, usa, france, greece, etc.
the company has also promoted its products to other countries such as united states, eu and other competitive countries such as china.
nn plastic bag production & trade co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
to improve efficiency for our customers, dai hong phat only produces on a yearly contractual basis.
over 100,000 products as a monthly production capacity together with experiences gained over the past years in handbag fabrication, we have got the strong advantage in design and new product development.
minh phuc now is the leading supplier of packaging products, labels  and high quality envelopes, with a revenue of $ 13 million usd in 2007 and a  team of nearly 300 employees.
the company has 350 employees, and our key export  markets are usa, canada, denmark, australia, malaysia, singapore, taiwan,  japan, etc. with annual capacity of 5000 tones in which 60% are for export and  the rest 40% are for local market.
your  satisfaction is our number one priority.
we are willing to cooperate with other partners for overseas'  requirements.
due to our consistent quality standards and competitive prices, we have now established business relations and exported mechanical products, export of outdoor steel tables, chairs to england, spare parts for oil and gas industries to united states.
we welcome you to visit our factory and wish to  form business relationship with valued customers.
in vietnam, we supply all kinds of rubber spare parts for: - the petroleum and gas industries (vietsopetro).
tan bien rubber companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
delivery will be made only if the products have passed strict quality control.
nn plastic bag production & trade co., ltd.
dong phuong knitting company is a state owned company founded in 1972.
our factory is located in bien hoa industrial zone no.1 specializing in shoes, slippers, handbags, rucksacks and rubber.
sao mai technology & technical ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
in  order to raise the quality and design of the product further, thuan phat  cooperative built a food processing and export factory located in le minh xuan  industrial park which has working area of 5,287 square meters.
- tennis (tennis pole, tennis chair,  water remover, single stick, etc) - badminton (badminton post, score board,  etc) - athletic (competition starting blocks, parallel bars, etc) -  handball (water goal, handball goal, multi-function goal) son ha group click on company name above for more detailed information!
secoin has been  granted iso 9001:2000 certificated by bvqi (great britain).
our main export markets are singapore, cambodia, taiwan, eu and our target markets are north america khoi nguyen limited companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
established in 2001 and over seven year operation, we are very proud of gaining confidence from customers and partners in domestic and international market under vietlamps brand name.
adopting new machinery for garment manufacturing, mtb company has invested to build up 6 modern production lines with total capital of $ 1 million usd to meet increasing demands of vietnam garment.
ordesco is currently  calling for more investments and co-operations from foreign and domestic  investors and/or partners in the field of import-export distribution and  leasing.
the company now has more than 400 full time employees and two factories of 202,000 m2 processing dragon fruit for export.
thu ha coffee is one of the leading coffee brands in vietnam.
vinh hao mineral water was officially appeared  in vietnam market in october 1930.
thien long artex jsc click on company name above for more detailed  information!
we have also exported to  foreign countries such as usa, australia, russia, hong kong, singapore,  belgium, canada, denmark, norway, poland, china, cambodia, ect.
it is located in hung yen province  convenient for shipments arranged by air, sea.
in addition, sadakim also manufactures other spare parts in accordance with customers' requirements.
established in 1999, vietnam chian shyang enterprise co., ltd is a foreign direct investment taiwanese manufacturer of screws and wires in vietnam.
products meet tcvn3769-2001 standard verified by vietnam general department of quality and measurement.
dai hong phat private enterprise click on company name above for more  detailed information!
our products have been exported to some countries such as united states, japan, france, germany and other asia countries with an annual turn-over of $100,000 usd.
our products have been exported to  russia, france, germany and australia.
tan tan peanuts co., ltd.
kinh do corporation click on company name above for more detailed  information!
in farming we have programs to watch  strictly and control the growth of pangasius fish during all the  growing-stages, from the fingerling, growing and to the processing factory.
- soft drink based on mineral water with co2: lemon, orange, sarsi flavor in plastic bottle.
khanh viet corporationclick on company name above for more detailed information!
our average annual sale is $ 30  million usd.
the aloe vera planting in our farms is controlled  carefully from the seeding to maintenance and harvesting in organic farming  standards by experienced experts.
especially, we can fabricate equipment as per customer's  idea such as customers from the republic of ghana, a country in west africa and  united states.
in 1992 an lac footwear factory was transferred into an lac footwear company belonging to the ministry of industry.
in farming we have programs to watch strictly and control the growth of pangasius fish during all the growing-stages, from the fingerling, growing and to the processing factory.
at thu ha coffee we are with decades of experience in the coffee trade, we understand that there are different tastes and budgets when it comes to coffee.
established in  2003 with initial capital of $ 320,000 usd, we have head office in ho chi minh  city and two factories, one in traditional trade village in northern of vietnam  with 150 skilled workers to produce raw products, one in hcmc with an area of  1500m2 with 70 workers to finalize products as well as to check quality before  shipment.
our products have been known under famous names such as pt 2000 fashion, ninomax fashion, b&o-blue, hoang phuc fashion in vietnam and exported to some countries such as united states, canada, australia, european countries, japan, taiwan, korea, etc.
we are willing to do business with domestic and oversea customers.
siam brothers vietnam co., ltd.
it is a labor of love, something of which we are extremely proud; for honesty, purity, and producing great tasting coffee remain at the center of our core company values.
middle area alphanam joint stock company is one of a member company of  the alphanam group specializing in producing, installing, trading and  technology transferring for such industrial fields as electric equipment,  elevator, painting, composite and packaging.
huong nam production - trading import export enterprise specializes in manufacturing, blending and distributing premium vietnamese gourmet coffee and tea under s-fla brand.
pd/pud, hoso/hlso black-tiger, white,  pink, cat-tiger, yellow - dried product: shrimp, anchovy, roud scad,  leather jacket, rice paper
vietlamps is the interior decoration product that is invested, designed and produced by ourselves.
with monthly production capacity of 5000 bags, we have been evaluated as a reliable, responsible and punctual partner.
most of those products are made  for export.
phuc son viet international company limited  has an affiliated unit named p.s.v in't handicraft specialize in producing all  kinds of handicraft products such as wooden military models (ship, boat models;  airplane models, aircraft carrier, submarine, motorbike & vehicles, etc)  and other gift products.
in particular, our product have been available in many countries such as japan, korea, taiwan, china, hong kong, the philippines, singapore, malaysia, france, germany, italy, switzerland, spain, portugal, usa, canada, etc.
the company has established a distribution system covering provinces and major cities in vietnam.
+ modern lacquer: with special know-how, lacquer ware has 12 layers of paint so  it is water proof, temperature proof and unbreakable.
application of advanced technology, modern machinery together with experienced and professional cadres, sadakim produces high quality products to contribute to your success as well as the development of mechanical engineering.
you are  welcomed to contact us for more information and further cooperation.
established in 1995, tuan hien button company  specializes in manufacturing all kinds of button such as polyester buttons,  shell buttons, coconut buttons and wooden buttons for garment companies in  vietnam and clients in overseas as garment accessories.
your  co-operation is of great support for us, and our company proves to be a  credible business which you will be fully satisfied with.
agrimexcoclick on company name above for more detailed information!
- rubber parts for oil, heat resistance... - components for: ctv, washing machine, refrigerator, motorcycles... - rubber products for medical and food contact applications.
long dai forestry industry co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
our creative expert team is responsible for plentiful and sophisticated products, which have been accepted by the international market and its customers.
the company has 2700 employees and is  equipped with advanced technology such as compression moulding, transfer  moulding, injection moulding, extrusion and continuous vulcanization system.
our products are for both domestic and overseas markets, however, our strategy is mainly for export.
we have10 affiliate units, including7 plantations and 3 factories specializing in producing gum rosin, gum turpentine, turpentine oil, developing forestry resources and gold mining.
coverings, gardening covers, pool covers, etc.
hung phat co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
we have gained the belief and good reputation from worldwide clients  such as tomo coporation in japan, akasha sarl in france, oa textile sa rte  englisberg in switzerland, thai fashions and vosh international corp in united  states, etc.
viet tiep lock co., ltd.
through the hands of our artisans, each piece is carefully hand-carved and hand-painted for hours to provide the desired finish.
our products, at present, are displayed at all main  distribution systems such as metro cash & carry supermarkets, coop mart,  maximart, bookstores, and over provinces cities of the whole country.
thuan hai trading and produce co., ltd is a  young handicraft company in binh thuan province, central vietnam.
we have gradually exported products to middle east, africa, asia, european countries through co-operative partnership with such leading tobacco merchant companies as dimon, intabex, universal with a average annual turn-over of $ 40 million usd.
in order to meet increasing demand in the market, we have invested in building 3 processing factories in nha trang, phu yen and danang with the total working area of more than 10,000 m 2 .
global safewear co., ltd manufactures and exports high  quality apparel in the safety and work wear sector.
mechanical industry is subject to a high growth trend in vietnam with the growth of many factories.
we wish to co-operate or do joint-venture with all partners to take advantage of our strength, expanding export market to other countries as well as north american marketplace.
over many  years in the market, phuong dong seafood has gained a good reputation and  wishes to expand export market more.
truc lam  specializes in manufacturing and trading products from iron, interior and  household equipment, machinery for food industry, etc.
our export markets are sweden, united states of america, australia and other asia countries.
established in 1966, bich chi specializes in producing husked rice flour and various kinds of bean flour for domestic market.
in addition to products under our  trademark, we have also produced oem products for clients from different  countries all over the world.
chian shyang enterprise  is striving to be a prestige screws supplier worldwide.
with the purpose of strengthening the leader's position in the  domestic confectionery market, kinh do developed a professional distribution  system covering all of cities and provinces in vietnam, wherever at city or  countryside - delta or mountainous areas, to secure that the consumers can find  kinh do's products at any time and any place.
all factories are applying iso 9001:2000 in product quality management.
we  have more than 100 unique designs for your choice.
our products have been exported to some countries such as united states,  japan, france, germany and other asia countries with an annual turn-over of  $100,000 usd.
hanatex's mission is to provide high quality products creating lasting value for their customers and shareholders and to translate their successful growth strategy into high profitability for the development of our business, we look forward to entering into business co-operation agreements with all trading partners for penetrating such large markets as eu and north america.
our products are produced by closed production technology according  to iso 9001:2000 standard.
this will be a very important fundamental platform to help company develop in future.
the company also obtained a certificate of quality issued by metro cash & carry vietnam.
they got certificate iso 9001: 2000  granted by bvqi and quacert in 2001.
our products are presently exported to many parts of the world including the united states, japan, australia and other asian countries.
phuongdong seafood co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
(bmplasco)click on company name above for more detailed information!
we are striving to expand our position as an innovative, customer-oriented technology company.
through the steps of processing line cutting, boiling, drying, rolling, polishing... with the skillful hands of the professional workers combined with the creative ideas of the designers, the common day-use instruments such as table, chair, cupboard, vase, basket, landscape pictures, candle holder and even the curtains become alive and more beautiful, we bring you a fantastic beauty.
our customers diversely present from  domestic to major international market regions such as eu, u.s, and japan with  an annual sales turnover of nearly 80 million usd.
the company has expanded production by building up a new workshop in  danang city, central of vietnam.
we warmly welcome clients and trading partners from all over the world to communicate and negotiate, and wish friendly long-term business relationship with you in the near future.
we are striving for the lasting value to our customers at best quality, competitive price, and good service.
our products have been exported to many countries in the world such as japan, middle east, hongkong, the philippines, taiwain, etc.
our products are presently exported to many parts of the world  including the united states, japan, australia and other asian countries.
vina tarpaulin inc is the leading pe tarpaulin  manufacturer in viet nam producing both rolled goods and ready made tarps with  side-sealing and grommets of various sizes.
at present, our main products include all kinds of chest lock, door knob, padlock, motorbike lock, hinges, square, boor bolt, door hook, wardrobe lock, etc.
san hoang looks forwards to establish business relationships with all customers all over the world.
the company's revenue has seen continuous growth,  reaching 46 million usd by the end of 2005.
our products  are: - natural mineral water without co2: 350ml, 600ml, 1.5liter, 20liter  plastic bottle.
located in the granary of the mekong delta, bich chi food company has inherited the favorable conditions from sadec craft village, dong thap province, which is famous for the finest flour.
sodextoseco is a joint venture enterprise  between vietnam and the french producing sports equipment with its factory  located in the central of vietnam.
scopes of business: - manufacturer & trader of  various kinds of footwear products.
our products are for domestic market and have been exported to cuba, australia and japan.
lien anh production rubber co., ltd.
our product lines are  aloe vera juice, diced aloe vera gel, aloe vera for manufactured process.
tuong an always achieves high growth rate and stability with average  growth of 25% yearly.
ffc's annual output is over 3,000 tons of shrimp.
our annual sales to united states is $5 million usd.
located in tay ninh province, the factory is close to the material source and 150km far from ho chi minh sea port.
annual average revenue reaches  $ 25000 usd.
with 15 dependent units and 6 independent units  operating in different fields of business, khatoco has the total annual  turnover of about vnd 4000 - 5000 billions.
yet, because we are a local brand, many are unaware of our long  history, and far too few have had the unique experience of enjoying a freshly  brewed cup of thu ha coffee amongst the beauty of the central highlands of viet  nam.
over many years, viet -tiep lock company has gained a good reputation evaluated by end-users.
our products  are aimed at both the domestic vietnamese and export markets in australia,  japan, the united states and european countries.
established in 2004, thien long facility  initially was a small workshop with a total employee of 20 people.
over many years in business together with a small managing board and professional staff, agrimexco is developing more and more in the market.
our scope of business is producing and exporting wooden & rattan products for wholesale & retail orders, designing & manufacturing furniture according to customized orders.
the quality of material is strictly tested and the company  has become a reliable supplier.
we have steadily built our business over the years to the point that we will  reach the target of $1.5 million us dollars in 2005.
with a monthly production capacity of 600,000 different product units, san hoang can make the sample within 7 days.
head office located  in ho chi minh city with an area of 1,420 m2 and a branch in long an province  with an area of 30,000 m2.
we specialize in manufacturing all kinds of plastic pipes, fitting,  sprayer, helmet, etc.
the company has kept on  investing new technology for better and stable quality to maximize end-users  benefits.
established in 2003, asia canned food  import export company has become a prestige company in the vietnam food  processing industry, specializing in producing a variety of different canned  seafood products.
approval number dl205.
setting up a perfect quality control system  and carrying out effective management in the fields of raw material purchasing,  manufacturing and logistics, we have a qc department on-site at our factory.
secoin goes on striving more for the lasting value for end-users and their clients all over the world and wishes to build up new business relationships.
products of legamex are for local market and export.
our goods reach the highest of standards.
thanks to the increasing demand  of the market, san hoang has expanded production with two factories covering a  total area of 502,000 square meters with 600 employees.
especially, we also supply welding cables with rubber insulation for industrial use, rubber wires, cables with high heat resistance for house hold appliances and tools.
at the two factories, we are applying product quality management according iso 9001:2000 approved by nqa.
tan long huy mechanical co., ltd. specializes in manufacturing in manufacturing machinery and conveyor belts.
products meet tcvn3769-2001 standard verified by vietnam general  department of quality and measurement.
we are always in effort to supply products with "competitive prices, excellent quality and quick shipment", and provide perfect services to clients in whole process.
this allows the natural beauty  and warmth of the woods to create a beautiful and unique item, which you will  enjoy for years and unique work of art.
through surveying foreign markets and participating into the international exhibitions in singapore, thailand, south africa, etc.
perubcoclick on company name above for more detailed information!
with the purpose of strengthening the leader's position in the domestic confectionery market, kinh do developed a professional distribution system covering all of cities and provinces in vietnam, wherever at city or countryside - delta or mountainous areas, to secure that the consumers can find kinh do's products at any time and any place.
truc lam processing and trading co., ltd. is a professional manufacturer of various metal products.
the next are stages including extraction of the gel, stabilization and pasteurization with the highest levels of care to bottling or canning.
with an annual production capacity of 3,500 tons of final products, our output scale and technology provide up with the highest market competitiveness, we wish to form business relationship with clients all over the world who are interested in our products.
in 2008, our sales  turn-over reaches $7 million usd.
in future, vinamit is set to further boost business development, quality and packaging improvement, thus continuing to affirm its position as a popular vietnamese brand.
our head office and factory are located in long an province on an area of 20,000 square meters.
we have been farming about over 80,000 tons of pangasius fish in the mekong river at the area located in an giang province, mekong delta, south of vietnam.
legamex is one of the largest garment manufacturers in  vietnam.
over 25 year experience in sea  products farming, we are the famous farmer and a leader of farming basa  pangasius fishes in vietnam.
hanatex's services both domestic and oversea  markets with an annual capacity up to 12,000 tons and an annual revenue of $40  million usd.
for over the past 10 years, the trademark 'sotico' has affirmed its prestige and repute to foreign markets, especially japan and in the recent 2 year:
our products  are mainly for export to turkey, taiwan, korea, hong kong, italy and india with  80% of output, and the company has gained a good prestige in the market over  the decade.
hong hanh's fish  sauce products are made from anchovy of phu quoc island processed under  traditional method without any chemical for food safety, compliance with haccp  standard.
they are not affected by the environment and can be exported to any country in the world.
it is a fact that we gain a very strong brand for "sa giang prawn crackers" in the eu.
established in1993, thanh cong paper and stationary company specializes in manufacturing all kinds of file folder, pen holder for office, shelves which are useful, beautiful and notebooks.
vinh hao is very  proud of being the first mineral water trade name that is exported to  fastidious markets like usa, australia, canada, taiwan.
thus, we are granted 02 eu codes (i. e. hk129 and hk328) which is a passport for our products to enter the us and eu countries successfully.
our 2 factories are able to produce up to 12 containers per month of indoor and outdoor furniture.
some of their key customers are samsonite, lufthansa, and  trunk & co.
we built up a factory of 9,039m2 with warehouse of 2,160 m2  and 200 workers.
while, western preferences run to  a more plain tasting coffee that is pure and mild.
(drc is known one of the top 100 companies in vietnam.
with good prestige in the market and monthly production capacity of 1000 tons, we wish to form business with all trading partners all over the world to expand export market for vietnam dragon fruit.
viet tre bamboo handicraft co., ltd is  well-known as a manufacturer of handicrafts, diversified in design and good  quality.
sd wooden toy enterprise has been expanding market to malaysia, japan, taiwan, korea by establishing distributors in these countries.
in particular, our products are  kinds of oolong tea, japanese green, taiwanese green, green mixed with jasmine  (jasmine tea), roasted coffee, etc. head-quarter is located in lam  dong province, the center of tea plantations in the south of vietnam, with a  total area of 3200 m2 including main offices, a modern tea and coffee showroom,  and an elegant 600-seat restaurant.
our products are currently  presented in usa, eu, australia, hong kong, india.
established in 1977, we specialize in producing and supplying pet,  pehd, pvc, pp plastic products applied for food, agricultural chemicals,  mineral water and beverage industries: - hollow containers: can, drum,  vessel, bottle for lubricant.
simultaneously, the export quantity gained about 20% in total.
established in 2004, truong vui handbags making co., ltd is a professional manufacturer of various handbags.
presently, baruco has exported natural rubber to germany, japan, singapore, korea, taiwan, india and the united states.
we won the golden  medal prize at vietnam industrial goods exhibition and have been listing at the  directory of vietnam prestige manufacturers in 2005 and in 2006.
established in 2004, thien long facility initially was a small workshop with a total employee of 20 people.
after one year operating in the domestic marketplace, the number of employees has been increased to 100 people who are carefully trained before becoming the company member.
an lac footwear joint stock company specializes in  manufacturing & exporting kinds of products such as canvas shoes, safety  footwear lady shoes.
striving for better value for our clients and market  expansion, mechanical factory 83 continues to invest for the advanced machinery  such as cnc machine, vertical machining center, line cutting machine, etc for  high quality products as well as welcome all clients to our products or  production ability for oem products building the relationship via business  opportunities.
news 2008-06-01 north america vietnam trading agency (navta) hosting more vietnam sourcing trade missions in 2008 navta conducted vietnam sourcing trade missions in ho chi minh city in early 2008 for the “international housewares association” and “global sales and event management” and many other worldwide companies resulting in over 100 vietnam factory visitations.
tam chau co., ltd. specializing in producing and trading tea and coffee products for domestic and foreign consumption is one of the fastest-growing tea corporations in vietnam.
the factory is equipped with the advanced equipment and put it into operation in 2000.
recently, we have exported to usa on an initial order valued at  $120,000 usd.
- t-up: the brand of double t (taken from viet tien) is created by dcs, a  newly born division of viet tien.
established in 1990, nastoma stone vietnam specializes in marbles, made by machine pebble, river pebble, chips marble stone, laterite stone.
based in ha tay  province, vietnam, the company now has two factories covering a total area of  1200 square meters in the north of vietnam.
our product is  in increasing demand throughout the world as we use an exclusive process  yielding the best tasting, purest and most effective noni fruit available  anywhere in vietnam.
as a leading manufacturer, our goal is to offer high quality products at the most competitive prices for residential, commercial and industrial lightings.
we are capable of designing and developing various locks and hardware with high quality.
the company has employed 5 korean managers and 366  vietnamese employees.
your orders to us will specially be cared  under our professional working flow chart.
we are steadily progressing into  new and important foreign markets such as china, usa.
thuan hai's main products are rattan, bamboo handicrafts, roofs, umbrellas, tents from camo-grass, natural material serving for tourism field and buyers from america for halloween holiday, and camping.
- coseafex's quality management system meets international standards and is willing to manage processing under customers' specifications.
over many years in material rubber industry, we have gained a good reputation  for good quality products, competitive prices and on-time delivery, we are  looking forwards to building business relationships with all partners locally  and worldwide.
our main  markets are domestic and oversea.
click on  company name above for more detailed information!
to create the wooden models, our artists expertly blend several wood art forms, including wood sculpting, carving, inlay & wood joining.
we have been farming about over 80,000 tons of  pangasius fish in the mekong river at the area located in an giang province,  mekong delta, south of vietnam.
- coseafex's experience and professionalism and reliability will take specialty to you.
it exports to european, north american, asian countries and the local market with sales over $10 million usd at the end of 2005.
hong nhung's noni juice is manufactured according to hawaii traditional  know-how.
originally from a french owned rubber tree plantation named michelin founded in 1927, dong phu rubber company (doruco) now is one of the leading companies specializing in natural rubber supplier in vietnam.
secoin currently operates in fields such as burnt less building material production, abrasives production for tiles and stones, technology transfer and equipment supply, trading in household appliances.
one of its products, which is oriental  bar soap, is exported to middle-east countries.
the company was founded in 2005 and now employs 15 full time workers and 300 part-time workers.
beside the main facility based in hoi an hamlet with 250  employees and total working area of 2000m2, quang nam silk has got another  factory based in tan binh district ho chi minh city with 50 employees.
baruco now is a member of vietnam general rubber  corporation and the vietnam rubber association.
presently, baruco has exported natural rubber  to germany, japan, singapore, korea, taiwan, india and the united states.
the company has a strong labor force including more than  4,200 employees, and human resource development is always company's priority.
located 20 km southwards from hanoi, viet hung lacquer workshop was established in hathai traditional lacquer village, where we are surrounded by other traditional handicraft villages as chuong my bamboo, ha dong silk, co chat embroidery, thi ung horn & mother pearl, dong van rattan.
in order to maintain and continuously improve the quality of products, we have applied a japanese management system and achieved iso 9001 in 2000, certified by bvqi pham nguyen confectionery & foods processing co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
penro's products has been used widely in large fields such as fishing, shipping, transportation, packaging, agriculture, toys... others.
our products are for both  domestic and overseas markets, however, our strategy is mainly for export.
- components used for electric companies we prefer partner of a lot of companies of automobile, motorcycle, electronic devices industries in vietnam.
our products  will be for domestic and export.
donagamex specializes in manufacturing and supplying apparels;  trading machineries, equipment and square parts of textile-garment industry.
we are enjoying convenient transportation, which has  brought us more opportunities and prompt delivery.
an giang fisheries import-export joint  stock company (agifish jsc.) was established in 2001 and was listed on  vietnam's stock exchange on march 8, 2002.
as a result, it has brought us an enviable competitive edge.
our products are applied for industries such as drainage, water supply, electricity, postal service and civil engineering.
we specialize in manufacturing machines, equipment and spare parts for such industries as petroleum, mining, battery, cement, agricultural product processing, paper, etc.
nguyen hoang exim company is striving  to become an end-users oriented and prestige garment manufacturer.
located in dong anh town, our factory is covering an area of 20,000 square meters with more than 1000 skilled workers and professional technicians and engineers.
- plastic crates for beer and soft-drink  bottles.
we commit the highest standards of products and services to our partners.
apart from supplying for domestic  market, we also export our products to some countries such as india, singapore,  cambodia, dubai, japan, united states.
our primary products serve the electric power, installation, civil construction and automobile industries.
established in 1995, n&n has become a professional manufacturer of plastic bags in vietnam.
annual average revenue reaches $10,000,000.
we exported 80%  of our production capacity to foreign countries in europe, america and japan  which are considered our traditional markets.
we can accept orders of your own designs and are able to reproduce products based on photographs or pictures provided by customers.
- natural mineral water with co2: 500ml plastic bottle.
we are honor to be the main  supplier of texttyle international, s4 fashion partner gmbh, jao, winrise,  pacific dunlop, itochu, nogi, royne, k&s planning, pacific trail.
with an excellent reputation and prestige gained over many years in the market and an extremely big annual production capacity of more than 130,000 water tanks, 180,000 sinks and 3,600 tons of stainless steel pipes, son ha group is expanding their position as an innovative, customer-oriented technology group as well as developing export market.
with an excellent  reputation and prestige gained over many years in the market and an extremely  big annual production capacity of more than 130,000 water tanks, 180,000 sinks  and 3,600 tons of stainless steel pipes, son ha group is expanding their  position as an innovative, customer-oriented technology group as well as  developing export market.
the  materials and designs are appropriate for wet places and in rain.
the company also has an sgs certificate from shanghai,  china for its products.
dai  hong phat increased sales by 30% from 2007 to 2008.
the company's revenue has seen continuous growth, reaching 46 million usd by the end of 2005.
our advantages: - we can produce the mould, so we can meet all specific orders - automatic production line, labor force is plenty, thus we can meet large orders from north america - taking advantage of the cheap labor cost in vietnam, thus we can offer very good prices which can compete against china products
60%  of our total output has been exported to many large markets such as american,  singapore, korea, japan, sweden, etc.
our products have been exported to countries in eu, asia with annual revenue of $ 5 million usd under hoang hau trademark.
our products are aimed at both the domestic vietnamese and export markets in australia, japan, the united states and european countries.
+ modern lacquer: with special know-how, lacquer ware has 12 layers of paint so it is water proof, temperature proof and unbreakable.
duc thanh is very committed to operational excellence and maintains strong control over the manufacturing process.
vietnam chian shyang enterprise co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
with long term development strategy as high quality,  competitive price and respecting customer's ideas, our products are accepted  and satisfy all strict clients in the markets.
we look forwards to business expansion by cooperation with local and  oversea customers based on mutual benefits.
sourcing granite directly from quarries of the company and the factories are equipped with the modern advantage technologies from italy allow us to offer our customers the best products and unbelievably low prices.
as a result, vinamit's products quickly win customers at home and abroad, with a growth rate of 30-50% year on year.
we provide our customers with superior service and high quality customized products at a most economical and efficient pattern from design, molding to production.
our main export markets are uk, france, the netherlands, germany, czech republic, sweden, usa and some asian countries.
minh le van co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
our original ideas, advanced technology, good services and high quality products ensure our customers' continuing support.
our products are designed according to american, european styles.
in addition, we have exported bean coffee, tea  to some countries such as united states, canada, britain, france, singapore,  australia, etc.
currently, we have a factory in ho chi minh  city which covers an area of 1,500 m2.
material option includes pla, pet, ps, pp, bops, pe and pvc.
in a bid to retain the specific flavor of fresh fruit in the  dried chips, the company bravely invested in production lines including an  evaporation drying system with the modern sublimation technology from germany,  japan and taiwan.
based in ha tay province, vietnam, the company now has two factories covering a total area of 1200 square meters in the north of vietnam.
savicorp's products have been accepted and exported to united states, britain, taiwan, germany, france.
distributor of gourmet coffee and tea, bringing the flavor of success to the  people, delighting them with their own unique styles.
at present, the company is applying iso/iec 17025:2005.
with a remarkable production capacity of over 150 million of cigarettes boxes, we are focusing our efforts in developing further co-operative relationships in the region and around the world.
we are enjoying convenient transportation, which has brought us more opportunities and prompt delivery.
the company has invested in modern technology machinery from united states, germany, japan.
in fact, now they have more than 600 skillful workers with two factories (slipper factory and handbag factory) located in ho chi minh city.
sd wooden toys won the design award "golden - v" in design competition hold by viet nam chamber of commerce and industry in 2004 and the good design award (gmark) in asian design selection 2005 hold in japan by japan industrial design promotion organization in 2005.
de  phat is able to produce all your specific orders at very competitive prices.
the company has employed total 90 persons, and we can ship out 4 containers every month.
over the past 15 years in wood processing industry, tan phu furniture has a good reputation for stable quality products, competitive prices, and ability to handle all big orders.
the  company has a processing factory with working area of 2000 m2 and 2000 workers.
click on company name above for more detailed  information!
da nang rubber jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
passionately in studying to produce health juice for commodity and taking  advantage of rich natural resource of vietnam, we look forward to co-operation  with all clients for bringing vietnam noni juice products to end-users in  vietnam and in other countries in the world.
orient manufacture & trading joint stock company (ordesco), also known as vietnam savon factory (truong van ben & his children factory) has been established since the 1930s specializing in producing bar soap from coconut and pressed oil.
it is a fact that we gain a  very strong brand for "sa giang prawn crackers" in the eu.
with their skillful hands and creative minds, phong chau have generated individual products on colors and styles and satisfied more and more customers' demands in the nation and foreign countries.
we always welcome new partners in order to further explore export potential for vietnam tobacco.
hiep phu tho woodhandicraft and furniture co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
fine foods joint stock companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
the company has expanded production capacity with 3 factories with advanced technology machinery systems.
in addition, we also do import and export business for agricultural products such as tapioca, starch, and mechanical equipment for rubber processing industry.
the company now has more than 400 full time employees and two factories  of 202,000 m2 processing dragon fruit for export.
the company has nearly 400 people including masters, bachelors and skillful workers.
at thu ha coffee we are with decades of  experience in the coffee trade, we understand that there are different tastes  and budgets when it comes to coffee.
ta shun corporation is one of the most famous processors in viet nam in processing dried and dried seasoned seafood.
through implementing cad patterning systems, we have improved design accuracy, competitiveness and promptness of delivery that makes it possible to enhance production control and communicate specifications with customers directly.
pham nguyen has 3 factories with total area of 43,200 m2.
owning approximate 200,000 hectares of forest, including 10,000 hectares of pine-plantation for gum rosin, gum turpentine, turpentine oil production, together with factories equipped with japan technology machinery, our supply capacity is ranged from 3,500,000 tons to 4,000,000 tons per year.
our inspection will be taken from  well - selected processing factories to final loading of delivery.
products specifications: - leaf umbrella: h 2.8m x w 1.2 m - leaf tent: h 1.4 m x w 1.2m x l 2.4m - roof sheet : w 1.2m x l 1.2m and w 1.2m x l 2.4m - other products.
established in vietnam in 1995 with office and factories in ho chi minh city where we have been part of an exciting period of progress and development, we offer a full design service from the client brief, through to quoting, production and delivery.
tuong an always achieves high growth rate and stability with average growth of 25% yearly.
early 2006, an lac footwear company was equitized to an lac footwear joint-stock company.
the company's goal is to become the leading manufacturer of rubber tires, rubber tubes not only in vietnam but in east asia.
viet tre bamboo handicraft co., ltd is well-known as a manufacturer of handicrafts, diversified in design and good quality.
due to our business specialty focusing on supplying high-end products, the company has invested for modern machinery and equipment of japan technology.
to meet those needs we have developed 12  different coffees; ten for vietnamese preferences and five for our foreign  customers.
our products have been exported to korea,  china, malaysia, germany, france, spain, italy, etc with sales revenue of $ 8  million usd.
ba ria rubber company is a supplier of natural  rubbers in vietnam.
over many years in the market, we have  gained a good reputation thanks to our quality policy as "customer's  satisfaction through quality, delivery and hygiene".
the company presently carries out business transactions with  more than 60 customers in 20 countries over the world: asia, europe, usa,  australia and north america.
ta shun corporation click on company name above for more detailed  information!
the company has a processing factory with working area of 2000 m2 and 2000 workers.
at present, our main products include all kinds of  chest lock, door knob, padlock, motorbike lock, hinges, square, boor bolt, door  hook, wardrobe lock, etc.
the company has built up a professional workforce and applied new machinery which will help us meet the growth trend of furniture in the market and uniformed quality products output.
- pp non woven  products: labor coats, surgical masks, shoes covers, wheel covers. .
diversified in different product kinds, best in quality and reasonable in prices, we have gained the trust of the traditional customers and their records of faith in business.
bac son wood company produces wooden  flooring, engineered flooring, plywood, tabletop, finger joint panel, plata; 2.
we look forward to cooperating with you.
we can produce many kinds of pp woven sacks in various sizes, weights and thickness.
founded in 1999, thanh binh co., ltd. specializes in high quality frozen and dried seafood for domestic and export.
we look forward to  opportunities cooperating with new business partners from all over the world  based on the principle of integrity and mutual benefits.
mechanical  engineering & metallurgy factory (sadakim) is one of alliances of south  steel corporation under vietnam steel corporation belonged to ministry of  industry.
in addition, we have also  exported to korea, australia, and united states with annual revenue of $ 50,000  usd.
taplast, acronym for tan phu plastic joint stock company is one of the leading and prestigious manufacturers in plastic industry in vietnam.
- satisfy all food hygiene and safety requirements in accordance with us.
minh phuc now is the leading supplier of packaging products, labels and high quality envelopes, with a revenue of $ 13 million usd in 2007 and a team of nearly 300 employees.
thu ha coffee is one of the leading coffee  brands in vietnam.
middle area alphanam joint stock companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
our products are crystal vases, glass vase, crystal ware, and crystal handicrafts.
established in 1998, son ha group has grown up  with 3 mechanical factories equipped with modern technology machiner for  punching, bending and cutting covering a total area of 59,000 square meters,  two factories in the north of vietnam and 1 factory in the south of vietnam.
our main products: + furniture: our products are made of natural wood and industrial wood having good shape and with western designs available.
global safewear takes  pride in being your partner in quality.
materials are imported from foreign countries  as well as from domestic market.
head office located in ho chi minh city with an area of 1,420 m2 and a branch in long an province with an area of 30,000 m2.
our production capacity is thousands of pure gac oil capsules which are applied  for pharmaceutical, food, cosmetic industry.
our key customers are: - usa: apparel essential (target corp), kavio, apex globle - germany:  karsadt quelle gmbh, fashy, alberta, firma, vianatrade, moded martk.
founded in 1987, minh hung plastics co., ltd is  a manufacturer of household plastic products and pvc pipes.
established in 1993, dan phuong bags co.,ltd.
with monthly production capacity of 5000 bags, we have  been evaluated as a reliable, responsible and punctual partner.
hong hanh has two factories for fish sauce processing in ho  chi minh city and phu quoc island covering a total area of 10,000 square  meters.
in 2008, our sales turn-over reaches $7 million usd.
taking advantage of our strength in vietnam, we wish to expand our export market to many other countries all over the world more under oem products or any form which helps tan dat viet build up the business relationship with you.
founded in the early of 1960s, our products have been taken a stable position with a big market share in viet nam, affirming the superiority on quality and being in harmony with national and the international standards.
we have steadily built our business over the years to the point that we will reach the target of $1.5 million us dollars in 2005.
thanks to the potential of professional human  resources as well as advanced equipment and facilities used for research and  development, we always aim to the target "satisfying and meeting more than  the customers' expectations", which is to our customers' benefit and also  the foundation for the existence and development of thong nhat rubber company.
- volleyball (volleyball posts, movable  base, post padding, training apparatus, etc) - basketball (goal, score  board, backboard, ring, net, etc.)
almost 60% of these machineries were imported by vinataba imex.
all products are hand made.
with the principle of super quality, honest first and mutual benefit, we devote to develop long-term business relationships and warmly welcome domestic and abroad customers to inquiry.
chian shyang enterprise's products have been export  to asian and european countries with various kinds of crews, shafts applied for  motorcycle, automobile, furniture, and other applications.
founded in 1982, thuan phat has produced delicious,  top-quality sauces and condiments for generations: - products make from  soya bean such as soya sauce, tofu, etc.
truc lam processing and trading co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
mef's investment was used to finance new machineries and equipments to complete post-printing processing, as well as to finance the company's working capital.
is it different from other industrial wood processing manufacturers, products produced by hiep phu tho company request skillful work that it can not be done by the others with industrial production lines.
our products are children wear, women wear, jackets, trousers, t-shirts and other related products which are export oriented.
located in the granary of the mekong delta, bich chi food company has inherited  the favorable conditions from sadec craft village, dong thap province, which is  famous for the finest flour.
the company has employed  total 90 persons, and we can ship out 4 containers every month.
it exports to european, north american, asian countries  and the local market with sales over $10 million usd at the end of 2005.
over 25 year experience in sea products farming, we are the famous farmer and a leader of farming basa pangasius fishes in vietnam.
currently, we have  7 factories equipped with modern production lines covering a total area of  150,000 square meters with more than 5000 workers.
the company has close business relation with foreign  partners (hong kong, taiwan, uk'); it has a steady output for its foreign  joint-venture companies about materials like interlining, padding, buttons'.
the company employs 550 workers and officers and has invested capital up to $35 million usd.
with the said efforts, we have been accessed and found  to be in accordance with the requirements of the quality standards: haccp  quality control system.
established in 1993, da nang rubber jsc.
experienced and well trained, our quality team inspects every detail in production right through to the testing of every seam.
established in 2000, quyet mai plastic enterprise has been in operation for six years mainly manufacturing plastic products and manually installing household electric products.
the fishery in vietnam, especially in an giang,  is a cradle of pangasius bocourti and hypophthalmus and rapidly developing with  more and more farmers and better quality.
hiep tien handicraft co., ltd.
thien long artex jscclick on company name above for more detailed information!
with tam chau, we will get great mutual benefit from being faithful business partners.
for over the past 10 years, the trademark 'sotico' has affirmed its  prestige and repute to foreign markets, especially japan and in the recent 2  year:
chotro's market is mainly domestic through distribution at many supermarkets in vietnam and with famous national distributors.
our products are for agriculture and construction including greenhouse covers, temporary shelters, scaffolding, canopies, hunting and camping leisure sheets, truck and boat covers.
each kind of product can be printed with up to 3 to 5 colors or at customized demands.
in addition, we have many distributors in many  provinces nationwide.
our products are vases, trays, tea-sets, bowls, mugs diversified not only in materials such as ceramic, rattan, neohouzeaua and bamboo but also in kinds of enamel.
in addition, we also do import and export  business for agricultural products such as tapioca, starch, and mechanical  equipment for rubber processing industry.
orient manufacture  & trading joint stock company (ordesco), also known as vietnam savon
we always welcome new partners in order to further  explore export potential for vietnam tobacco.
thanh binh co., ltd.
we are expanding our market  into europe and america with the main products being sport nets and material  sport accessories.
aiming to ensure sufficiency of raw materials for production, we have applied the strategy of employing local people, growing fruit trees in the localities and carrying out production right on the spot.
duyen hai foodstuffs processing factoryclick on company name above for more detailed information!
the company is  applying iso 9001:2000 in production.
over  100,000 products as a monthly production capacity together with experiences  gained over the past years in handbag fabrication, we have got the strong  advantage in design and new product development.
our products meet all the strictest requirements for hygiene & food safety by european authorities, and the company was granted the halal approval certificate for our production lines that satisfy the halal requirements by the islamic communities in the world.
truc lam processing and trading co., ltd.
company has a factory of 3000 m2 in binh chanh district, suburb of ho chi minh city equipped with production lines imported from france.
- agricultural products: rolled kelp, dried sliced ginger, and papaya with a food processing factory of 80,000 square meters equipped with machinery imported from japan and western countries, cte has oriented to produce for export to take advantage of vietnam advantages.
a delight to the senses  and never a disappointment!
hoa tho textile and garment company (hotexco) is a member of vietnam national textile and garment corporation (vinatex) belonging to the ministry of industry.
truc lam specializes in manufacturing and trading products from iron, interior and household equipment, machinery for food industry, etc.
with the principle of super quality, honest first and mutual benefit,  we devote to develop long-term business relationships and warmly welcome  domestic and abroad customers to inquiry.
global  safewear offers a wide range of services which we can tailor to your special  requirements.
established in 2002, minh le van company specializes in manufacturing all kinds of mattresses made of 100% natural latex rubber.
80% of tan phu furniture's production is  exported to united states, canada, japan, taiwan, korea, singapore and  malaysia.
sao mai company is a private company  specializing in manufacturing folding chairs, tables, furniture for schools,  hospitals and offices in the north of vietnam.
tuong an products have been presented widely in vietnam through a distribution network including over 200 distributors and agents, 100 industrial customers and 400 supermarkets, restaurants, kiosks, schools and nursery schools, etc., all over 64 cities and provinces nationwide.
in addition, sadakim also manufactures other spare parts in  accordance with customers' requirements.
- multi-layer bottles and pet plastic bottles for drink, food,  health and pesticide, etc. - plastic products with high industry: tv  cabinet, plastic components for air-conditioned, fridge, paint bucket and spare  parts for construction.
we have a staff of nearly 400 employees, including 25 engineers, inspectors, and office staffs.
our  biggest customers are williams sonoma inc, clay metal & stone in usa, euro  decor in holland, voodoo in new zealand, areca galleria in mexico, 18 karat in  canada, falabella in argentina.
through over 20 years of experience in the  fields of rattan, bamboo and iron.
sodex toseco' s typical products are equipments for: - football (football goal, team vest, player's carbin, traffic cones, stadium seats, field markers, etc.)
the processing  plants have more than 1500 workers and are equipped with the most advanced  technology and most modern processing assembly to satisfy the day-by-day higher  requirement of customers.
the company has a strong labor force of more than 100 well-trained workers working in a new factory covering an area of 20,000 square meters, equipped with new technology machinery and production lines imported from japan, korea, and taiwan.
we welcome clients all over the world to contact us for business development, and we look forwards to working together.
established in  1993, da nang rubber js... click for more info is supported by the following international  organizations vietnam chamber of commerce and industry (vcci) north america -  vietnam trading agency north america-vietnam trading agency, inc., (navta) click for more info
anti-skeleton key locks manufacturing co., ltd. (chotro)click on company name above for more detailed information!
east, africa, asia, european countries through co-operative partnership with  such leading tobacco merchant companies as dimon, intabex, universal with a  average annual turn-over of $ 40 million usd.
high quality envelopes, especially self-stick envelopes manufactured by an automatic production line to service domestic demand are the products that help establish the minh phuc brand in the market.
board of management is compact but efficient including  bachelors with many specialists who have master degree in food industry and  chemistry in additions with all well-trained workers.
with more than 15 years experience in wood processing industry, savicorp is  able to satisfy all your requirements, providing you with high quality products  at competitive prices.
our products have been sold widely in vietnam and  exported to countries in eu, north america, asia and africa.
we have a factory with more than 200 workers and equipped with modern apparatus production lines for monthly production capacity of 5,000,000 products.
taking advantage of vietnam's natural resource, agrimex wishes to expand its export business via valued trade co-operation with clients all over the world who are interested in our products.
with its rather modern and completion equipment together with the  force of over 1,000 skilled workers who are regular trained and instructed, we  are able to meet and satisfy any strict requirement on quality, quantity and  delivery time .
phu quoc is a famous place in vietnam where is rich of fish and famous for fish sauce processing as a traditional business.
thanh binh has developed into a sizable company with 2 factories in the central of vietnam, and 1 factory in the south of vietnam.
to take advantage of huge potential of vietnam natural rubber industry, koruco is going to develop consuming market to overseas and looking forwards to business co-operation with foreign partners worldwide.
if you are interested  in any of our products, please feel free to contact us directly for more  information.
we have launched various strategies for distribution development in provinces and cities across the country in a bid to satisfy highly increasing demands.
they are not affected by  the environment and can be exported to any country in the world.
over 25 year  experience in production, we now have nearly 100 product items including door  knob-lock, wardrobe lock, padlock, hanging lock, cremone lock, safe lock,  container seal lock, electricity seal lock, etc.
when you buy thu ha brand coffee you can be confident that it will contain only our pure coffee, with its signature bitter sweet taste.
we warmly welcome all clients all over the world
all orders from customers are ensured to be highly considered by this reliable producer providing low prices with the highest quality.
is an expert in producing, processing and trading clothes, backpacks, hats, t-shirts, raincoats and advertising products.
taking advantage of plenty of raw materials available in vietnam and skilled handiwork of our professional craftsmen, thuan hai continues to create unique products and diversifying designs to make products appealing in such target markets as eu and america.
company's quality control department has been recognized to comply with iso/iec guide 25 since 1999.
the company's long termed strategy for development is to supply high quality product at competitive price, respect and learn from customers' idea, we are looking for developing distributors through out the world.
established in 1992, minh chau co, ltd. has provided more  than 100 high-ranking fashionable products branded emsi to customers.
by supplying various kinds or processed sea products to meet  satisfactorily requirements of customers, so far, the products under  "sotico" trademark have been presented in large markets such as:  japan, korea, u.s.a, netherlands belgium, switzerland, italy, belgium, etc.
truong vui hand bag making company click on company name above for  more detailed information!
with a  remarkable production capacity of over 150 million of cigarettes boxes, we are  focusing our efforts in developing further co-operative relationships in the  region and around the world.
the  whole process is managed closely by our staff of chemistry food processing  engineers for the best quality.
our annual revenue is more than $5 million usd.
vietnam plant oil and food  processing co., ltd (vn pofood), specializes in researching and developing  products extracted from "gac" fruit (momordica cochinchinensis) in  vietnam.
our key clients are companies in the center of vietnam and oversea countries such as sweden, spain, cuba ...
high quality, fashionable designs,  punctual deliveries and prompt commitment as well as excellent sales service  have made it possible for their products to be increasingly exported to the  world market.
adopting new machinery for garment  manufacturing, mtb company has invested to build up 6 modern production lines  with total capital of $ 1 million usd to meet increasing demands of vietnam  garment.
our products are made from original plastic seed.
the company's long termed strategy for development is to  supply high quality product at competitive price, respect and learn from  customers' idea, we are looking for developing distributors through out the  world.
secoin  goes on striving more for the lasting value for end-users and their clients all  over the world and wishes to build up new business relationships.
setting up a perfect quality control system and carrying out effective management in the fields of raw material purchasing, manufacturing and logistics, we have a qc department on-site at our factory.
the company has researched and invented multiform and diversified products concentrated in high-grade goods consuming demand of society in the new era, then, was the pioneer in launching unique products into vietnam market our product families have been repeatedly awarded top ten of "the high - quality vietnamese goods" from 1997 to 2006.
in 2006, son ha group  achieved a total sales of $ 27 million usd.
founded in 1989, secoin is one of the first liability limited companies in viet nam.
thus, a thorough knowledge of regional tastes is  essential to please people's varied preferences.
de phat focuses on doing oem products for oversea clients from europe countries, australia and some asian countries.
established in 1962, hotexco specialize in manufacturing and processing, trading, exporting variety of yarns and garment products such as jackets, shirts, working wear, trousers, sportswear, children' uniform for domestic and overseas markets, importing the essential materials (cotton fiber, polyester fiber, kinds of fabrics, accessory) and equipment.
with an annual production capacity of 3,500 tons of final products, our  output scale and technology provide up with the highest market competitiveness,  we wish to form business relationship with clients all over the world who are  interested in our products.
the company has a tea processing factory of  55,000 m2 equipped with modern machinery from usa, japan, taiwan and vietnam.
we commit the highest  standards of products and services to our partners.
in order to maintain and strengthen such repute and meet strict requirements of markets, we have boldly invested not only in synchronous equipments and most modern technologies; but also in upgrading, building new premises and paying attention to environmental hygiene issue as well.
the company has operated in the fishery industry for over 20 years.
at present, vinh tien occupies nearly 50% market share for  filtered bag tea in viet nam and 20% tea bag export trade.
world vina co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
in addition to products under our trademark, we have also produced oem products for clients from different countries all over the world.
the company now has a factory in ho  chi minh city of 3000m 2 equipped with 200 sewing machines, 60 special machines  and 12 systems of steam irons imported from japan, 300 employees to catch  monthly capacity of 200,000 - 300,000 product units.
sodex toseco' s typical products are equipments for: - football (football goal, team vest, player's carbin, traffic cones,  stadium seats, field markers, etc.)
the quality management system under  iso 9001: 2000 standards has been applied to production and trade for years in  order to effectively carry out market development policies at home and abroad.
with output over 5,000 mt per year.
established in 2003 with initial capital of $ 320,000 usd, we have head office in ho chi minh city and two factories, one in traditional trade village in northern of vietnam with 150 skilled workers to produce raw products, one in hcmc with an area of 1500m2 with 70 workers to finalize products as well as to check quality before shipment.
the company goal is to break into  north america and some other asian countries with target sales turn-over of $  3.7 million usd in 2010.
board of management is compact but efficient including bachelors with many specialists who have master degree in food industry and chemistry in additions with all well-trained workers.
we have already exported to  united states, japan, germany, canada, france, swiss, etc. with daily  production capacity is 45,000 meters of silk and 9000 product units of handbag,  towel, pillow slip, shirts, etc.
all production processes are  well-equipped with modern tools and produced by qualified and skillful  craftsmen.
cuong phat's commitment to satisfying its customers involves offering a complete in-house service from initial design to finished product.
- direct export of materials for manufacturing today, in addition to its original primary product, the coba bar soap, ordesco  also produces many others such as: perfumes, shampoo, body cream, timmi bar  soap, detergents, and detergent liquids.
since the innovation of the country, agifish have become one of the leaders of vietnam sea products industry: export turn-over and income have been increasing by years; the output has been beyond 8,000 tons of finished products for export.
our products are for domestic and oversea markets.
established in 1994 as a joint venture between daewoo corporation and korea tarpaulin inc, the tarpaulin manufacturer in korea with invested capital of $ 3 million usd.
bmplasco is striving to become the leader of  plastic pipes and fittings producer in viet nam by defining a firm development  strategy, unceasingly improving the management system in accordance with iso  9001:2000 standard, investing on persons, modernizing machinery and equipment  and improving quality products.
with tam chau, we  will get great mutual benefit from being faithful business partners.
over tens years of penetrating into this field, phong chau are now proud of bringing from vietnam to the world the unique and art handicraft products with mainly natural materials and skill of vietnamese handicraftsmen.
over 1,000 contemporary designs in all sizes, shapes, and finishes together with the factory of 7000 square meters and hundreds of skilled workers.
in  particular, we have exported 90% of our production capacity to the united  states and other countries under oem products.
our products are produced under the combination of advanced machinery and skillful craftsmanship.
- plastic crates for beer and soft-drink bottles.
in 1990, we associated with  laiyih footwear company (taiwan) to establish a joint-venture company  specializing in manufacturing vulcanized sports shoes with capacity of over 4  million products per year.
drc also has distributors in laos, cambodia, singapore and italy.
the materials and designs are appropriate for wet places and in rain.
besides, khoi nguyen is also a distributor for cosmetics, fish sauce seasoning, fuel combustor additive, and handicraft in vietnam.
kontum rubber companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
thriving up together with the  country development, secoin now boasts a grand office in hanoi, two factories  in ha tay and hung yen, branches in saigon and other provinces, 63,000 m2 of  factories and 250,000m2 of farms and gardens.
world  vina does its best to attain the customer's highest satisfaction using our wide  experience in various designs, delivering the best quality products at a  reasonable price.
- processed wood -  wooden products from rubber tree.
- vee sendy: the viet tien trademark with the letter s inside the viet tien triangle-shaped logo is used for developing sport products like jeans for both men and women.
quang nam silk is looking forwards to expanding export market more and committed to providing our clients with competitively priced, high quality products with the most up to date styles.
in the meantime, we welcome you to visit and negotiate business with us.
in  order to maintain and continuously improve the quality of products, we have  applied a japanese management system and achieved iso 9001 in 2000, certified  by bvqi pham nguyen confectionery & foods processing co., ltd click on  company name above for more detailed information!
in  addition, our products have also been presented in japan, australia, norway,  russia, korea, etc.
our production capacity is 10  million different products per year.
with over 700 professional craftsmen, fuhaco  has gained a good reputation in the market thanks to unique products and good  prices.
along with the excellent and highly efficient management system by controlling the production costs, ensuring the product quality stability and conducting the philosophy of exploring the boundless markets at the most competitive prices, we have achieved remarkable development in both production and annual turn-over of $200 million usd.
they got certificate iso 9001: 2000 granted by bvqi and quacert in 2001.
we are the  one of the biggest gum rosin producers in viet nam.
in future, vinamit is set to further boost business  development, quality and packaging improvement, thus continuing to affirm its  position as a popular vietnamese brand.
we have more than 1,000 experienced staffs and skillful handicraftsmen who have creative dynamic and enthusiasm in working in provinces in vietnam.
that makes the products really suitable with the consumers' need of each market.
turn into handicraft abundance in both model and color such as the following: - housewares: bowl, plate, vase, dish - desk-top ware: name card  holder, pen holder, document tray; souvenir picture frame, photo album, and
the company has invested in advanced equipment of the latest technologies to ensure product quality meeting international standard.
established in 1996, can tho import export joint stock company (caseamex) is a manufacturer of processed aquatic-seafood products for export.
the company continues to expand the trademark and product of the company, actively research and develop product to new markets for export like japan, korea, china, eu, south america and middle east in order to satisfy the growing demand of our consumers, as well as integrating into the common trend of development.
+  handbag: being made with natural material, our bags are environmentally  friendly and comfortable.
kontum rubber company click on company name above for more detailed  information!
our production is compliant with iso 9001:2000 to ensure the stable and high quality for our final products.
thong nhat rubber company (ruthimex) is one  of the leading state manufacturers of rubber products in vietnam.
de phat trading & manufacturing co.,ltd click on company name  above for more detailed information!
over many years in business, we have obtained valued experiences to innovate,  catching up with our mission.
our products are big bags, pp box bags, pp woven bags, leno bags, raschel bags and shopping bags which are for local and export markets.
sai gon viet nam corporation (savicorp) is a  manufacturer of furniture in vietnam.
we promise to deliver value and satisfaction to our customer, securing the  greatest benefits for customer, end-users and our company under our company  motto in business, "the trust and the success of our customers are the  prestige and success of our company".
they serve both domestic and oversea markets.
in addition, we provide fabrics for garment.
penro industries (vietnam) co., ltd is malaysian own company in vietnam specializing in manufacturing various kind of polypropylene and polyethylene rope, twine and yarn with desire diameter, color, specification and uv resistance under the whole of technologies legally transferred by malaysian rope manufacturer since1969.
as well as tarpaulin related  bags: such as shopping bags, agricultural and construction equipments' carrying  bags.
the quality of material is strictly tested and the company has become a reliable supplier.
the company  is applying iso 9001:2000 for production management.
dai hong phat's ceramic products have also been displayed in  domestic and international exhibitions and have gained prestige and respect  from customers around the world.
our products are manufactured by modern technology  meeting ansi bifma standards (usa).
we are committed to providing you with a cost effective product made with quality workmanship.
we welcome  your visit to our factory and your valuable comments, in the hope that together  we can co-operate to develop of a high quality market for the future.
established in 2003, appc co., ltd specializes in manufacturing various kinds of plastic products such as plastic containers for medicine caps, medical instruments, cosmetics, stationary products, food and other relevant products.
navta conducted vietnam sourcing trade  missions in ho chi minh city in early 2008 for the “international  housewares association” and “global sales and event  management” and many other worldwide companies resulting in over 100  vietnam factory visitations.
duc thanh is the leading professional manufacturer of household products made of rubber wood and acacia wood in vietnam.
we are confident to meet all specific needs for both domestic marketplace and oversea.
- t-up: the brand of double t (taken from viet tien) is created by dcs, a newly born division of viet tien.
we can produce many  kinds of pp woven sacks in various sizes, weights and thickness.
in the period of 2005-2010, the company has prepared to grow 300 ha of organic dragon fruit more according to the process of agriculture producing with europe standard "eurepgap" in order to serve the high-class domestic market and the prissy oversea markets.
duc thanh exports 95% capacity to japan, eu, america, and  others with more than 1000 different kinds of products.
khoi nguyen is striving to become one of the leading  vietnam suppliers of various kinds edible and medical mushroom, processed food  and herbal tea for domestic and oversea markets.
annually, we are able to produce 12,000mtof films, 500,000,000  bags for food and 2 billion of label sheets.
we look forwards to your gain sharing for  co-development and wish to form any business relationship with partners all  over the world.
to guarantee quality, appc appoints professional and management experts in product design and management.
established in 2003, the head office and work-shop with over 1000 m2 are in ho chi minh city and have more than 50 employees.
we are pleased serving all your specific  requirements under our general principle: quality-
located in tay ninh province  where is a rich source of rubber tree with our monthly production capacity of  over 15,000 tons, our products have been supplied to companies in many  industrial zones locally, and we have already exported products to such oversea  markets as united states, korea, taiwan, china, brazil, italia, rumania, spain,  holland.
contact  dinhtran@vietnam-source.com click for more info new members da nang rubber jsc.
their products have been exported to more than 40 countries in  europe, america, asia and australia.
song tien trading co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
established in 1996, can tho import export joint  stock company (caseamex) is a manufacturer of processed aquatic-seafood  products for export.
we specialize in producing cotton socks, sport socks,  children socks and skinned stockings.
our  original ideas, advanced technology, good services and high quality products  ensure our customers' continuing support.
in the period of 2005-2010, the company has  prepared to grow 300 ha of organic dragon fruit more according to the process  of agriculture producing with europe standard "eurepgap" in order to  serve the high-class domestic market and the prissy oversea markets.
dieu thuong co. ltd has a factory in dong nai province vietnam, producing all kinds of plastic packaging products and other plastic related products as listed below: - pe (polyethylene, hdpe, ldpe and lldpe) plastic products such as: shopping bags (t-shirt bag, rigid handle bags), garbage bags, disposable pe raincoat, shoe covers, sandwich bags, hand gloves, table covers, durable food bags, shower caps, wheel covers and pe aprons, zip-lock bags, industrial bags, suit covers etc.
over many years in business together with a small managing  board and professional staff, agrimexco is developing more and more in the  market.
main markets : 80% eu, 10 % usa and other, 10% japan cuulong fish co.,ltd click on company name above for more detailed  information!
vietnam plant oil and food processing co., ltd (vn pofood), specializes in researching and developing products extracted from "gac" fruit (momordica cochinchinensis) in vietnam.
product quality and business activities are managed by  the haccp management plan and iso9001-200 certified by tuv.
our factory is located in bien hoa  industrial zone no.1 specializing in shoes, slippers, handbags, rucksacks and  rubber.
in an giang there are over 13,000 family farmers producing more than 50 percent of the total yield of the mekong delta and the processing capacity is also growing fast.
we are sure that any your orders to be made with the well quality and on time delivery.
established in 1996, vinh tien now has produced 25 different kinds of herbal tea, fruit juices and wine.
our products have been exported to france, holland, uk, slovakia, belgium, spain, korea, taiwan, china, new zealand, canada, united states.
over many years in the market, we have gained a good reputation thanks to our quality policy as "customer's satisfaction through quality, delivery and hygiene".
bich chi food companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
middle area alphanam joint stock  company was established in 2003 in da nang, central vietnam with a total area  of 68,000m2.
established in 2002, delta sport now has more than 1000 employees with the  manufacturing factory of 10,054m 2 in thanh hoa province.
over the past decades bmplasco has gained an excellent  prestige in plastics industry and become a high top ranking of plastic  manufacturer in vietnam.
besides sea products processing and exporting, we also deal with importing essential items for industrial manufacturing factories such as stainless steel, machinery, spare parts, chemicals... and goods for consumption.
huong nam enterprise is breaking into coffee and tea industry by the development of distribution system nation-wide.
every year, we attend trade shows in  japan, singapore to display our new products and design to clients as well as  investigate the market needs.
with monthly output of 50 containers (40') of finished frozen pagasius fillets and facilities, laboratory and equipment installed in the hygienic standard and good quality with haccp-gmp-ssop, iso-9001:2000 bvqi no. 1976898, fda no.13799569826, halal, we provide the safe and hygienic frozen products and welcome your co-operation to expand our export market more.
over many years in manufacturing and exporting garment product to international market together with prestige we have gained, legamex desires to establish good business relationship with customers who are interested in our varieties of high quality garments and footwear or who are seeking a reliable partner for a long-term cooperation and investment project for expanding export market more to take advantage of our current capability.
vinh tien paper co-operative click on company name above for more  detailed information!
in addition to meeting specific customer requirements they produce customized orders.
you can find our products in the  world's best known retail and department stores.
we reached an average annual sales of $25 million usd and have formed business relationships with nearly 800 companies in 50 different countries world-wide.
we have more than 100 unique designs for your choice.
delivery will be made only if the  products have passed strict quality control.
binh minh platics jsc.
established in 1963 as a state-owner company of vietnam ministry of construction with more than 860 employees, dong anh mechanical company is working on the following main fields: - producing: casting alloy, space frame, aluminum profile, mould.
vinh hao mineral water corporationclick on company name above for more detailed information!
passionately in studying to produce health juice for commodity and taking advantage of rich natural resource of vietnam, we look forward to co-operation with all clients for bringing vietnam noni juice products to end-users in vietnam and in other countries in the world.
experienced and well trained, our quality  team inspects every detail in production right through to the testing of every  seam.
quang nam silk applies the traditional mulberry cultivation and silkworm  raising techniques of the quang nam province.
we look  forwards to build up business relationships with clients, trading partners all  over the world.
we are producing the following products: - glazed pots for outdoors and indoors, interior and exterior -  hand-painting, hand-finishing for outdoors and indoors, interior and exterior - terracotta pots for outdoor, indoors and garden use - terrazzo pots  for outdoor, indoors and garden use we are trading the following  products: - zinc pots for outdoor, indoors and garden use - garden  furniture quang nam silk co., ltd.
our products are tobacco leaf, cut rag tobacco,  cigarettes.
our  main markets include asia, america and europe.
we have exported to the us, eu, australia, japan, korea markets with an average turn-over of $ 10million usd.
with monthly output of 50 containers (40') of  finished frozen pagasius fillets and facilities, laboratory and equipment  installed in the hygienic standard and good quality with haccp-gmp-ssop,  iso-9001:2000 bvqi no. 1976898, fda no.13799569826, halal, we provide the safe  and hygienic frozen products and welcome your co-operation to expand our export  market more.
every year, we attend trade shows in japan, singapore to display our new products and design to clients as well as investigate the market needs.
our products are mainly for export to turkey, taiwan, korea, hong kong, italy and india with 80% of output, and the company has gained a good prestige in the market over the decade.
minh phuc manufacturing and trading jsc.
we look forwards to develop  our market more to north america as well as other countries.
established in 1963 as a state-owner company of  vietnam ministry of construction with more than 860 employees, dong anh  mechanical company is working on the following main fields: -  producing: casting alloy, space frame, aluminum profile, mould.
our goal is to deliver a wide variety of product lines, continuously improve the quality as well as designs of the products to meet customer's needs.
we can insure the fastest production lead time according to your schedule, extruders to provide with variety of materials and specifications, a complete production line of molds manufacturing to meet any specific requirement in different product design, and skilled workers with up-to-date full auto vacuum forming machineries; large sized oil pressure cutters; auto edge folder to making products cope with strictly request of customer.
we are now looking forward to even greater cooperation with overseas customers based on mutual benefits.
secoin offices and factories are compliant  with the international quality management system iso 9001:2000.
over many years in business, we have obtained valued experiences to innovate, catching up with our mission.
in addition, our products have also been presented in japan, australia, norway, russia, korea, etc.
established in 1995, siam brothers vietnam, an  affiliate of siam brothers thailand who is a leading manufacturer of fishing  net and equipment in thailand, is a limited corporation with 100% investment  capital of thailand manufacturing rope and net from poly propylene and poly  ethylene to serve in fields of catching aqua - sea products, and overseas  transportation.
established in 1996, viet tiep crystal co., ltd.  is the leading manufacturer and exporter of high-end crystal products in  vietnam.
we have been manufacturing many kinds of commodities such  as: pe packages, raincoats, pvc bags with high quality.
for overseas, we are exporter of t-shirts, polo-shirts, underwear, and we supply knitted fabric, especially of 100% cotton materials for garment manufactures.
we look forwards to develop our market more to north america as well as other countries.
our products have been also been exported to usa.
phuc son viet international co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
our facilities are equipped with  machines and production lines of czechoslovakia's advanced technology.
sadakim's products are  produced in compliance with vietnam, russia, japan standards.
the company has invested  in modern technology machinery from united states, germany, japan.
established in 1995, tuan hien button company specializes in manufacturing all kinds of button such as polyester buttons, shell buttons, coconut buttons and wooden buttons for garment companies in vietnam and clients in overseas as garment accessories.
we have been manufacturing many kinds of commodities such as: pe packages, raincoats, pvc bags with high quality.
they look  forward to co-operating with all trading partners for product development in  eu, north america, and other continents.
our factory covers an area of 4,500m2 equipped with all machinery imported from japan with invested capital of $ 100,000 usd.
- supplying sport equipment for training and top match such as  speed-box balls, nets, goals, rackets and mechanical instruments.
our production  capacity is 45 containers 40' per month.
coloured rubber company click on company name above for more detailed  information!
we specialize in manufacturing all kinds of plastic pipes, fitting, sprayer, helmet, etc.
tuong an products have been presented widely in vietnam through a distribution  network including over 200 distributors and agents, 100 industrial customers  and 400 supermarkets, restaurants, kiosks, schools and nursery schools, etc.,  all over 64 cities and provinces nationwide.
all products carry the "tt-saigon cable" brand.
vina tarpaulin inc. click on company name above for more detailed  information!
our daily output ranges from 5 tons to 10 tons.
click on company name above for more detailed information!
our marketing  team can provide assistance in designs, packaging and merchandising to suit the  customer's specific needs.
we are always in effort to  supply products with "competitive prices, excellent quality and quick  shipment", and provide perfect services to clients in whole process.
we have more than 1,000 experienced staffs and  skillful handicraftsmen who have creative dynamic and enthusiasm in working in  provinces in vietnam.
in addition, kinh do products have been  directly delivered to customers throughout a network consisting of 12 kinh do  bakeries, 1 shopping mall in ho chi minh city and 3 bakeries in ha noi city.
we are sure that you will be quite satisfied with our services and the excellent quality of our goods tan dat viet co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
with the testing equipment of japan, taiwan, the product  quality is controlled from yarns to ropes.
-  coseafex's quality management system meets international standards and is  willing to manage processing under customers' specifications.
founded in 1993, kinh do specializes in producing cookies, snacks, crackers, chocolate, candies, pie, cake, puff, bread, cream cake and moon cake.
thus, we are granted 02 eu  codes (i. e. hk129 and hk328) which is a passport for our products to enter the  us and eu countries successfully.
viet nam plant oil and food processing co., ltd.
the company also has a strong labor force including well educated and the ardent persons which is becoming binh minh's advantages in competition on the market.
our products have been exported to france, holland, uk, slovakia, belgium,  spain, korea, taiwan, china, new zealand, canada, united states.
apart from our products, we are able to tailor our service to customized orders  with a trading division dealing with a variety of patio, garden and zinc  furniture products.
located 20 km southwards  from hanoi, viet hung lacquer workshop was established in hathai traditional  lacquer village, where we are surrounded by other traditional handicraft  villages as chuong my bamboo, ha dong silk, co chat embroidery, thi ung horn  & mother pearl, dong van rattan.
we make every effort to establish a distribution system both in nationwide and in some countries in the area such as singapore, malaysia, thailand, etc.
at global safewear, we aim to excel in all aspects of quality, service and value to meet the different needs of each client.
middle area alphanam joint stock company is one of a member company of the alphanam group specializing in producing, installing, trading and technology transferring for such industrial fields as electric equipment, elevator, painting, composite and packaging.
with high commitment to product quality and on time delivery, minh phuc's production and quality control systems are professionally managed in compliance with iso9001:2000.
founded in 1964, we now  are one of the most successful and biggest textile companies in textile the  industry.
song tien trading company limited (sotico) was  established in 1994 is located at tien giang province, which is considered as  the cradle of seafood raw material.
dien quang is currently one of the nation's largest and most respected names in the compact fluorescent lighting industry, with more than 65% domestic market share.
in 2006, our sales turn-over  is $300,000 usd.
bich chi foodstuff consists of over 50 different products servicing the taste and eating demand of customers, among which are the traditional well-known products such as unpolished rice powder, nutritious cereal powder, chinese fine vermicelli, various kinds of bean flour.
with 24 years of experience in processing rubber technology using compression and injection methods, we deliver quality, cost effective products to meet our customers' specifications and requirements.
we have 2 frozen seafood processing plants located in mekong delta, the heart of low cost but good quality source of raw material with the total capacity of 14,000 mt/year.
contact dinhtran@vietnam-source.com click for more info new members da nang rubber jsc.
- capital : $1 million usd - current main markets : eu, america, asia - target markets : eu,  north america its main products are for home and outdoor use.
over 90% of dieu thuong  company's products are for export.
for repeated orders, we can make delivery within 45days.
establishment in 2003, thai duong rubber joint stock  company is one of the best technical rubber manufacturers in vietnam by using  all of resources to maintain and innovate permanently quality system which is  complied with requirements of iso 9001:2000 and pcp.
taking advantage of plenty of  raw materials available in vietnam and skilled handiwork of our professional  craftsmen, thuan hai continues to create unique products and diversifying  designs to make products appealing in such target markets as eu and america.
the factory has  employed 250 workers and is equipped with modern machinery.
hanatextile company click on company name above for more detailed  information!
we welcome clients both at home and abroad  to come here and make cooperation with sincere, passionate and good services.
to date, viet furniture has built up a good work-force consisting of more than 150 skilled workers.
our main market is domestic.
- office tower, tourism investor.
by providing competitive price together with good quality products, we sincerely hope to develop trade and economic cooperation together with customers all over the world for great progress.
established in 1980, khoi nguyen co., ltd specializes in producing and trading for export of various kinds edible and medical mushroom, processed food and herbal tea.
san hoang jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
prices range from low to high, but the quality is always excellent,  and we know that you will find a type that suits you.
the factories are equipped with the most advanced technology and ventilation systems from korea with the capacity of over 10 tons/day.
we look forwards to your gain sharing for co-development and wish to form any business relationship with partners all over the world.
the products are divided into 3 groups depending on the mineral content: one of low mineral, of medium mineral and high mineral.
our products are subjected to apply for companies of electronics, ink and  paint.
we have  implemented haccp, gmp and ssop programs since 1996.
our  products are designed according to american, european styles.
we commit to provide our customers with safety and well-being products at the most competitive prices.
khatoco has property of more than vnd 900 billion in which its own capital is vnd 430 million.
the factory has employed 250 workers and is equipped with modern machinery.
we  supply all kinds of natural rubber such as svr3l, svr5, svr10, svr20, svr cv50,  svr cv60, latex.
viet tre bamboo handicraft co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
viet tien has contributed considerably in developing the operation of viet nam garment industry.
hotexco is applying quality  management system iso 9001 version 2000 was certificated by sgs.
with our slogan: "prestige, quality, all for customer's sake" and by enthusiasm and unstopping effort, we hope we can satisfy customer's higher and higher demands in both processing and mechanical manufacturing field.
baruco is eager to cooperate for export market development.
besides, khoi nguyen is also a  distributor for cosmetics, fish sauce seasoning, fuel combustor additive, and  handicraft in vietnam.
thanks to this new enhanced product, big companies such as hudsand lock and imc have visited the company and started to secure orders for its us market.
tuan hien button co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
we hope  to establish cooperative relationships with customers from all over the world.
the company has researched and invented multiform and  diversified products concentrated in high-grade goods consuming demand of  society in the new era, then, was the pioneer in launching unique products into  vietnam market our product families have been repeatedly awarded top ten of  "the high - quality vietnamese goods" from 1997 to 2006.
we have gained excellent reputation for high quality products, competitive prices, and fast delivery in domestic and oversea markets.
moreover, we have also expanded market to laos, cambodia, myanmar, taiwan, etc.
our catalogs consist of over 200 contemporary  pottery designs in all sizes, shapes and finishes.
the company now has a factory in ho chi minh city of 3000m 2 equipped with 200 sewing machines, 60 special machines and 12 systems of steam irons imported from japan, 300 employees to catch monthly capacity of 200,000 - 300,000 product units.
each year, we send many of our people abroad for technological training and updates.
with monthly production capacity of 15 containers together with gaining initiative in material supply with 20 hectares plantation and processing factory of 3.050 m 2, vinh tien is in effort to expand export market more to other countries, especially north american marketplace to take advantage of advantages from vietnam.
the processing plants have more than 1500 workers and are equipped with the most advanced technology and most modern processing assembly to satisfy the day-by-day higher requirement of customers.
import enterpriseclick on company name above for more detailed information!
all orders from customers are  ensured to be highly considered by this reliable producer providing low prices  with the highest quality.
huy hoang lock was awarded gold  medal in international industry vietnam expo fair and voted as 'vietnam high  quality goods' for several years in vietnam.
minh le van wishes to form business relationships with customers all over the world through lee wan brand products as well as oem products to expand the export market more to european, north american countries, and the company also looks forwards to be co-operated for better technology transfer.
kinh do corporationclick on company name above for more detailed information!
beside the products named ronal, we have also been receiving lots of  process contracts for oem products from other trading companies as well as  contracts to produce promotion goods from customers.
furthermore, we  are able to expand production more to meet any customer order at big volume.
producing that memorable cup of coffee is a complex process, with  no two tastes being the same.
in 2006, our sales turn-over is $300,000 usd.
the company has well-trained and skillful experts supporting partner farmers.
established in 2001, the company has employed more than 40 employees working and our products have been exported to united states, some of european countries and japan with total annual revenue of $ 2.5 million usd.
in addition, we have also appeared in the usa,  canada, united kingdom, france, germany, eastern europe and middle east.
viettien garment import & export company (vtec) click on company  name above for more detailed information!
we have a staff of nearly 400 employees, including 25 engineers, inspectors,  and office staffs.
over many years, viet -tiep lock company has gained a good  reputation evaluated by end-users.
one of the advantages of chotro is the technology, the exclusive functionalities of resist skeleton key, the stainless steel material and the flexibilities of the company's strategy.
thai duong rubber company is striving to expand their export market more to  china, euro, and north america with targeted sales turn-over of $ 6 million usd  in 2009.
we hope to establish cooperative relationships with customers from all over the world.
high  quality envelopes, especially self-stick envelopes manufactured by an automatic  production line to service domestic demand are the products that help establish  the minh phuc brand in the market.
thanh binh has  developed into a sizable company with 2 factories in the central of vietnam,  and 1 factory in the south of vietnam.
- silicon rubber products.
in addition, our  products have been exported under dien quang brand name to over 20 countries,  mainly in asia, korea, middle east and africa.
click on company name above  for more detailed information!
adhering to the company principle of "quality first,  service up most", we look forwards to establish business relationship with  traders, companies all over the world.
in addition, our products  have been exported to overseas such as australia, usa, germany, taiwan.
we strive hard to maintain our position as a specialized  supplier of kinds of cuttlefish, squid, octopus, fish, clam, shrimp and other  processed food.
established in 2001, vietnam united states australia  biotech company limited (v.u.a biotech co., ltd) is the first company to  manufacture aloe vera products in vietnam.
the creation and the  skillful hands of skilled artisans coming from traditional trade villages  throughout vietnam, the images of vietnam's village such as bamboo, wood etc.
we manufacture all kinds of garment such as polo shirt, t-shirt, pant, sport wear, jacket and polar fleece which have been exported to united states, japan, taiwan, germany and korea.
their main scope  of business is manufacturing all kinds of shoes, clogs, slippers, sandals and  handbags for export.
established in 1990, sodextoseco has more than 15 years of activities in the field of manufacturing, supplying and installing sport professional equipment, a profound possession of experiences and know how, a transfer of technology by our french partners (filma sport s.a / sarl sodex international) as well as taking care of after-sales services for sport equipments.
phuongsummer pottery co., ltd vietnamclick on company name above for more detailed information!
especially, khoi nguyen was successful with growing of coriolus versicolor (polyporus versicolor), a treasured traditional medicine with polysaccharid againsts maligmant tumour effectively and it is evaluated by eastern medicine as one of the patent medicines.
adhering to the  business guideline of "high quality - reasonable pricing - prestige  ", our sales & marketing persons work closely with customers to  investigate customers' needs for and their specific requirements with high  quality products at reasonable prices and good services.
especially, shrimp chips, the specialty of sadec, have been studied and successfully produced by bich chi foodstuff company with various kinds such as: prawn crackers - premium quality, special shrimp chips, special seafood chips, basa fish chips, crab chips, cuttlefish chips, vegetable chips ...
delta has  made its effort for high quality products, obtaining the respect of domestic  and international customers.
cl-fish, acronym for cuu long fish company is the official member of the vietnam association of seafood exporters and producers (vasep) specializing in farming and processing pangasius fishes (basa bocourti and tra pangasius hypophthalmus fish).
(drc is known  one of the top 100 companies in vietnam.
we  specialize in manufacturing, trading, importing and exporting products  processed from vegetable and animal oils, fats, oilseeds; spices used for food  processing industry, sauces and instant food products nearly 30  consecutive years of building and development, till now with the advanced  machinery system and processing technology, tuong an has total capacity of  350,000 tons per year, including 03 factories equipped with advanced technology  imported from japan, the united states of america and eu countries.
established in 1999, sapaco, acronym for saigon packaging joint stock company, specializes in manufacturing all kinds of packaging.
with our slogan: "prestige, quality,  all for customer's sake" and by enthusiasm and unstopping effort, we hope  we can satisfy customer's higher and higher demands in both processing and  mechanical manufacturing field.
to create the wooden models, our  artists expertly blend several wood art forms, including wood sculpting,  carving, inlay & wood joining.
north asia companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
we also wish to form business relationships with new partners worldwide.
established in 1975, dien quang has been continuously investing to gain a competitive advantage by the very latest electronic technology.
duc thanh is very committed to operational excellence and maintains  strong control over the manufacturing process.
established in 1992, ta shun has built internationally standard workshops, refrigerated warehouse and advanced processing equipment.
artistic handicrafts & lacquerwares co., ltd is committed to diversifying product design, co-operation with any trading partner for market and product development.
tin thanh co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
click on company name  above for more detailed information!
consequently, duc thanh has a strong track record of producing high-quality products and delivering on time to exceed customer's expectations.
our products are equipment and machinery for plastic, cosmetic chemistry & food industry, all kinds of conveyor system, automation equipment.
afa joint stock company (afasco) specializes in importing and exporting aquatic products and was founded by an giang fishery association (afa) in 2004 with an initial investment of $ 1.4 million usd from farmer-shareholders.
middle area alphanam joint stock company was established in 2003 in da nang, central vietnam with a total area of 68,000m2.
fax: +1-416-533-8216 e-mail: dinhtran@vietnam-source.com 1160 college street toronto, ontario, canada m6h 1b6 - home - about - about vietnam - about the founders - member search - news - support - contact us - faq member search are you sourcing a commodity or product: --select one -- commodity commoditized product products built to specifications select an item from the list: --select one -- agriculture products anti-skeleton key locks aquatic products backpacks badminton equipment bags bamboo basket balls basketball equipment blanket bags body cream books bottle spray nozzles bowls brick calcium carbonate candles candy boxes canned seafood products cd covers ceramic chairs clogs coffee coffee extracts cosmetics cosmetics cups
our advantages: - we can produce the mould, so we  can meet all specific orders - automatic production line, labor force is  plenty, thus we can meet large orders from north america - taking advantage  of the cheap labor cost in vietnam, thus we can offer very good prices which  can compete against china products
our products meet all the strictest  requirements for hygiene & food safety by european authorities, and the  company was granted the halal approval certificate for our production lines  that satisfy the halal requirements by the islamic communities in the world.
they have been successful in penetrating  other countries such as korea, taiwan, new zealand, mexico, portugal, hungary,  etc.
our export key markets are japan,  korea, china, eu, south america and middle east.
in addition, we are continuously improving our quality management system and  after-sale service to for efficiency in production and business.
for domestic market, we provide high quality products such as t-shirts, polo-shirts, sweat-shirts, dresses, pajama, children-wear... from 100% cotton fabrics, cvc, tc, polyester for fashion shops as per the latest catalogues.
we can accept orders of your own designs and are  able to reproduce products based on photographs or pictures provided by  customers.
bich chi foodstuff consists of over 50  different products servicing the taste and eating demand of customers, among  which are the traditional well-known products such as unpolished rice powder,  nutritious cereal powder, chinese fine vermicelli, various kinds of bean flour.
our key customers are: - usa: apparel essential (target corp), kavio, apex globle - germany: karsadt quelle gmbh, fashy, alberta, firma, vianatrade, moded martk.
furthermore, we have been exported to eu, usa, hong kong, korea, japan, dubai, australia with $500000 usd turnover per year.
we are producing the following products: - glazed pots for outdoors and indoors, interior and exterior - hand-painting, hand-finishing for outdoors and indoors, interior and exterior - terracotta pots for outdoor, indoors and garden use - terrazzo pots for outdoor, indoors and garden use we are trading the following products: - zinc pots for outdoor, indoors and garden use - garden furniture quang nam silk co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
our products are now being exported to taiwan, japan and france, which  are the markets that require the highest standards in food quality.
our products are for agriculture  and construction including greenhouse covers, temporary shelters, scaffolding,  canopies, hunting and camping leisure sheets, truck and boat covers.
with a view to bring vinh tiens tea to every end-user, the company has established a wide distribution system and representatives covering most of big cities in vietnam such as ha noi, hai phong, quang ninh, thanh hoa, vinh , hue, da nang, quang ngai, quy nhon, nha trang to ho chi minh city, vinh long, soc trang, etc, and we also have 14 agencies in oversea, particularly in korea, america, canada, france and in germany.
koruco has more than 10,000 hectares of rubber tree in which 7000 hectares are ready for harvest.
the key to the development and success of thu ha coffee has  been the incredible quality, wonderful taste, and reasonable prices of our  products, and thu ha coffee brand has been accepted in eu, usa, japan, korea,  taiwan.
we have exported to united states, japan, russia,  germany, taiwan, singapore, malaysia, cambodia, laos, thailand, etc.
our products have  been exported to eu, canada, singapore, malaysia, hongkong, korea, japan,  middle east, russia, the usa.
moreover, we have also expanded market to laos, cambodia, myanmar,  taiwan, etc.
founded in 1990,  pham nguyen confectionery & foods processing company has been known as one  of the leading confectionery manufacturers in vietnam under phaner brand name.
we provide  our customers with superior service and high quality customized products at a  most economical and efficient pattern from design, molding to production.
the company received an investment from mekong enterprise fund (mef), a private equity fund known for its demanding requirements regarding the management capabilities and track records of achievements of the companies in which the fund invests.
our facility is fda registered and complies with haccp  standards.
dai hong phat's tableware, plant pots, vases,  promotional items, cups, teapots, and kitchenware are a few examples of the  products that are primarily consumed in the european markets.
the factory is located in phu ly in the north of vietnam with  an area of 15 hectares. hanatex has developed trends in the garment industry of  vietnam.
agifish products have met the demand of consumers in many places around the world, from europe, america and australia to asian markets including hong kong, singapore, malaysia, china and taiwan.
its output capacity was 3000 liters an hour.
established in 1988 by farm model, hoang  hau dragon fruit farm co., ltd has been the leading business in producing and  trading dragon fruit for export and we proudly say that we are one of the  biggest dragon fruit exporters in vietnam hoang hau has now owned more  than100 hectares of land by 2003 in which 70 hectares are used to plant dragon  fruit.
moreover, service is our main business.
main markets : 80% eu, 10 % usa and other, 10% japan cuulong fish co.,ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
our company has invested heavily in staff training  and new technology to ensure the perfection of our products and efficiency in  customer service.
our production capacity is 45 containers 40' per month.
our products have been known under famous names such as  pt 2000 fashion, ninomax fashion, b&o-blue, hoang phuc fashion in vietnam  and exported to some countries such as united states, canada, australia,  european countries, japan, taiwan, korea, etc.
dong nai garment jsc was  established in 1975.
established in 1995, tan dat viet co., ltd. is a  professional manufacturer that is concerned with the production of a large  range of high quality plastic vacuum formed packaging such as food containers,  clamshell, cups, lids and trays applied for foodstuffs, electronics and other  industries.
being in effort  to be a reputable garment manufacturer in the domestic and international  markets, we are continually seeking trade opportunities all over the world.
established in 2002, minh le van company specializes in  manufacturing all kinds of mattresses made of 100% natural latex rubber.
thuan hai's key customers are supermarkets and wholesalers in  vietnam.
the sales volume of every period is almost twice higher than the last one.
the company, founded in 2002,  currently employs 80 people.
paper-based packaging, aluminum foil and labels manufactured by minh phuc are high quality and supplied for various industries such as pharmaceutical, tobacco, wine and beer, confectionery, processing agricultural and seafood products, and others.
over 1,000 contemporary designs in  all sizes, shapes, and finishes together with the factory of 7000 square meters  and hundreds of skilled workers.
we have exported products to countries in asia, eu, u.s with average annual output of 15,000 tons.
thong nhat rubber company (ruthimex) is one of the leading state manufacturers of rubber products in vietnam.
our products have been exported to usa, uk, holland, new zealand, mexico, south africa, australia, denmark and some asia countries.
moreover, vinataba imex  is also a pioneer in marketing vietnam tobacco products to world markets and an  importer consuming goods, material and machinery supporting tobacco production  for many manufacturers in vietnam.
established in 1995, nacowood now has 4  member companies as follows: 1.
- office tower, tourism  investor.
we wish to expand our export  market and form business relationship with customers all over the world.
we  specialized in manufacturing handicrafts, creative designers and talented  workers, our products have been exported to asian and european countries such  as japan, denmark, germany, and spain obtaining annual sales revenue of  $200,000 usd.
over 20 years in operation, nam a footwear js company has been striving to meet all domestic and international markets with high quality products.
in 2006, we have a sales turn-over of $4million usd.
our  company asset is a group of professional technicians and product development  personnel who possess strong product designing and innovation capabilities.
cau tre enterprise (cte) click on company name above for more detailed  information!
news 2008-06-01 north america vietnam trading agency (navta) hosting more vietnam  sourcing trade missions in 2008
established in 1978, ruthimex has over 25 years experience producing rubber  products for industrial application.
we have designed and given birth hundreds of crystal vase design, glass vase, crystal ware and thousands of crystal handicraft.
hoa tho textile and garment company  (hotexco) is a member of vietnam national textile and garment corporation  (vinatex) belonging to the ministry of industry.
established in 2001, vietnam united states australia biotech company limited (v.u.a biotech co., ltd) is the first company to manufacture aloe vera products in vietnam.
vietnam chian shyang enterprise co., ltd click on company name above  for more detailed information!
our average growing  speed is 15-20%/year.
sourcing granite directly from quarries of the company and the factories  are equipped with the modern advantage technologies from italy allow us to  offer our customers the best products and unbelievably low prices.
our quality control department and modern machinery ensures  production to the highest standard.
please visit www.vietfurniture.com
thuan hai's key customers are supermarkets and wholesalers in vietnam.
70% of our products are for export most of de phat's products are  requested to be done by hands to keep nature beauty.
the company has invested  in advanced equipment of the latest technologies to ensure product quality  meeting international standard.
huong dang artistic handicrafts & lacquerwares co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
casum, coloured rubber company, is a manufacturer of footwear for export established in 1990.
we always improve the products'  quality and customize the products by changing flavors, packaging styles, etc.
at the two factories, we are applying product quality management according  iso 9001:2000 approved by nqa.
established in 2003, asia canned food import export company has become a prestige company in the vietnam food processing industry, specializing in producing a variety of different canned seafood products.
- phu quoc fish sauce,  anchovy-paste fish sauce, ready-prepared "mam nem", pickled chilies,  pickled shrimp of hue, salted shrimp paste hue, pickled papaya with shrimp, etc - hot spices such as chili sauce, satay, thai sauce, etc. with  constant improvements in quality and design, thuan phat's products have been  presented widely in most of supermarkets in vietnam.
applying and maintaining efficiency of iso 9001:2000 quality management system is our commitment to meet the increasingly demands of customers and bring the most satisfaction to them.
our products are tobacco leaf, cut rag tobacco, cigarettes.
tan dai hung plastic co., ltd click on company name above for more  detailed information!
with high commitment to product quality  and on time delivery, minh phuc's production and quality control systems are  professionally managed in compliance with iso9001:2000.
quyet mai plastic enterprise click on company name above for more  detailed information!
we are  able to cast steel parts up to 500 kilos and pig-iron parts which are over  1.000 kg.
v.u.a biotech co., ltd click on company name above for more detailed  information!
processed by ourselves, all our products come from the western area of vietnam with stable quality.
established in 1990, perubco is expert in manufacturing technical rubber  products.
global safewear co., ltd manufactures and exports high quality apparel in the safety and work wear sector.
is an  expert in producing, processing and trading clothes, backpacks, hats, t-shirts,  raincoats and advertising products.
strictly in quality management, the product quality is examined from raw  material purchasing to warehousing and delivery.
our products have been consumed widely in domestic market and  exported to some oversea countries with annual sales of $ 10 million usd.
established in 1980, khoi nguyen co., ltd  specializes in producing and trading for export of various kinds edible and  medical mushroom, processed food and herbal tea.
the company has also aimed to boost exports to potential markets like mexico and south africa.
- produce all kinds of products at customer request.
quyet mai plastic enterpriseclick on company name above for more detailed information!
minh le van wishes to form business relationships  with customers all over the world through lee wan brand products as well as oem  products to expand the export market more to european, north american  countries, and the company also looks forwards to be co-operated for better  technology transfer.
thanh hai fish co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
nguyen hoang exim co., ltd.
the company has a tea processing factory of 55,000 m2 equipped with modern machinery from usa, japan, taiwan and vietnam.
moreover, we try to replace the old sewing machines into the newest ones to meet customers' requirements.
over many years in material rubber industry, we have gained a good reputation for good quality products, competitive prices and on-time delivery, we are looking forwards to building business relationships with all partners locally and worldwide.
casum, coloured rubber company, is a manufacturer of  footwear for export established in 1990.
currently, we have blow molding machines, injection molding machines, printing machines, label-sticking machines etc... we also have a mold testing center and clean rooms for packing.
fda, haccp regulations and eu.
tan tan has exported  to worldwide such as united states, sweden, russia, the philippines, poland,  japan, china, taiwan, hong kong, korea, thailand, singapore, cambodia, south  africa, nigeria, etc.
baria rubber company (baruco) click on company name above for more  detailed information!
we approached europe market and america in 2005, after registered the ce for our products.
founded in 1995, phuong summer has brought more than 10 years of experience in producing glazed pots, vases, figurines, plant stands and other fine hand-made pottery to make its products distinguished and multi-purpose compatible with indoor and outdoor arrangements.
at present, appc has not only been authorized as a  major supplier for other companies in vietnam but also exported and made oem  products for many clients in overseas such as japan, taiwan and singapore with  average annual sale revenue of $ 2 million usd.
we are always towards the perfection in all aspects in order to be your reliable partners song trang co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
established in 1999, we are recognized as one of the leading companies in this industry in vietnam market.
our scope of business: - making many kinds of balls such as soccer-balls, volleyballs, handballs, medicine balls, etc from original and synthetic leather by hand-sewn technology.
vinh hao is very proud of being the first mineral water trade name that is exported to fastidious markets like usa, australia, canada, taiwan.
our products are equipment and machinery for plastic,  cosmetic chemistry & food industry, all kinds of conveyor system,  automation equipment.
- fish: spanish mackerel, big eye scad, round scad, red-snapper, leather jacket, ect.
our main products are  indoor and outdoor furniture, wooden floorings for export.
with our experiences and abilities, we believe that our customers will be  more satisfying by enjoying our high quality products at an affordable price.
in vietnam, we are able to produce  special wires that have been imported from overseas over the past years.
vinh hao trade name is familiar with vietnamese consumers.
other products such as diamond tools, concrete blocks are  mainly for domestic market.
our main export markets are germany, italy, france, uk,  usa, australia, korea, japan and south east asia with export turn-over annually  of $500,000 usd.
in particular, bmplasco has won many vietnamese as well as international awards, and our products have been selected as "vietnam's high quality products" in continuous eleven years evaluated by customers.
over many years of prestige in the market with yearly production capacity  of 8 million product sets, we wish to establish business relationships with  customers all over the world.
we work with our clients in  product development, manufacture and comply with en471: 2003 and en340: 2003  standards.
we have designed and  given birth hundreds of crystal vase design, glass vase, crystal ware and  thousands of crystal handicraft.
in addition, we have co-operated with many trading partners for  exporting vietnam crystal products to czechoslovakia, japan, singapore,  australia, korea, etc.
we have exported to united states, japan, russia, germany, taiwan, singapore, malaysia, cambodia, laos, thailand, etc.
we also wish to form business relationships with new  partners worldwide.
with an american automatic production line installed in 1988, its output  capacity was 30 million liters in a shift per year.
v.u.a biotech co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
we are sure that you will be quite satisfied with  our services and the excellent quality of our goods tan dat viet co., ltd.
ordesco is currently calling for more investments and co-operations from foreign and domestic investors and/or partners in the field of import-export distribution and leasing.
we produce ceramics products such as terracotta, outdoor glazed, pots,  outdoor ironstone pots; wooden furniture such as tables, chairs and zinc such  as steel color, bubble design, etc. the categories of these products  are special in designs, plentiful in colors, good in quality and reasonable in  price.
vietnamese, for instance, favor a bitter sweet taste which is not sour.
established in 2002, utxi aquatic products processing company is the first company in soc trang province which is operating the round-circle-on business consisting of various investments such as trading, processing, and exporting of seafood as well as farming.
our production capacity is 10,000 products per year.
with our experiences and abilities, we believe that our customers will be more satisfying by enjoying our high quality products at an affordable price.
no matter what the size of your project, global safewear are  committed to delivering a dedicated response every time hai hiep phong co., ltd click on company name above for more detailed  information!
we wish to establish business relationship with all trading partners for products under our brand or oem products.
sd wooden toy enterprise has been expanding market to  malaysia, japan, taiwan, korea by establishing distributors in these countries.
- pp non woven products: labor coats, surgical masks, shoes covers, wheel covers. . .
the company has  gained export revenue of $ 43 million usd in 2005 and $ 45 million usd in 2006.
our core business is supplying high quality aquatic products.
our main export markets are england, germany, france, holland,  belgium, switzerland, greece, chile, norway, canada, libya, and korea with  annual production capacity is 3 million pairs.
thienlong artex, a newly-established company, specializes  in manufacturing and exporting ceramic and handicraft items.
our main products are kinds of coconut flavor  roasted peanuts, coffee flavor roasted peanuts, etc.
good quality products, diversified designs, together with competitive pricing, are what we believe that our products will be a good choice for your market.
- frozen seafood  produced from clam, octopus, sole fish, blue swimming crab... -  processed food processed from materials of seafood, animal, agricultural such  as spring rolls of all kinds, hacao, shaomai, shrimp paste on sugarcane,  breaded shrimp, port, etc. - kinds of tea scented naturally such as  jasmine tea, lotus tea, black tea, oolong tea, puerh, gohyah tea (bitter  gourd)...
thuan phat co-operative click on company name above for more detailed  information!
kinds of silk woven by quang nam silk are supplied to both local and export markets.
established in 2002, mtb garment import export co., ltd has been following the principle of "prestige, quality, and effective", developing into one of the prestige garment manufacturers in domestic and oversea markets.
we are looking forwards to form business  relationships with all partners all over the world.
we commit to provide our customers with safety  and well-being products at the most competitive prices.
global safewear co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
delta sport co., ltd. is a non state enterprise which specializes in manufacturing sport equipment in the north of vietnam.
we produce yarns, towels, denim fabrics, garments and sewing thread  of all kinds.
for domestic market, we  provide high quality products such as t-shirts, polo-shirts, sweat-shirts,  dresses, pajama, children-wear... from 100% cotton fabrics, cvc, tc, polyester  for fashion shops as per the latest catalogues.
with good prestige in the market and monthly production capacity of 1000 tons,  we wish to form business with all trading partners all over the world to expand  export market for vietnam dragon fruit.
you will derive great satisfaction in service and guaranteed  quality.
exporting artichoke tea and polygonum multi-forum tea with a small quantity to taiwan, japan, france, and america initially, vinh tien has nowadays exported artichoke tea and herbal tea such as bitter gourd tea, noni tea, refreshing tea, lingzhi tea, etc to those countries, and the company has also penetrated into canada and australia.
they serve  both domestic and oversea markets.
to improve efficiency for our  customers, dai hong phat only produces on a yearly contractual basis.
duc nhan enterprise can provide customers  with high quality products at reasonable pricing.
in vietnam, we supply all  kinds of rubber spare parts for: - the petroleum and gas industries  (vietsopetro).
dieu thuong co., ltd (detoco)
established in  2001 and over seven year operation, we are very proud of gaining confidence  from customers and partners in domestic and international market under  vietlamps brand name.
the whole process is managed closely by our staff of chemistry food processing engineers for the best quality.
with the brand of ronal, we have been aiming the domestic market as our rival target.
every year perubco has training programmers for engineers and workers to study at our customers' factories in australia and japan, or to participate in specialized courses.
our products have been supplied for many factories locally and exported to some countries such as australia, taiwan.
owning  approximate 200,000 hectares of forest, including 10,000 hectares of  pine-plantation for gum rosin, gum turpentine, turpentine oil production,  together with factories equipped with japan technology machinery, our supply  capacity is ranged from 3,500,000 tons to 4,000,000 tons per year.
our products are believed not only good design but good quality as well.
sai gon vietnam corporation click on company name above for more  detailed information!
our average annual export sale achieves $ 400,000 usd.
moreover, vinataba imex is also a pioneer in marketing vietnam tobacco products to world markets and an importer consuming goods, material and machinery supporting tobacco production for many manufacturers in vietnam.
we offer you competitive prices,  superior quality control and flexible minimums.
- tennis (tennis pole, tennis chair, water remover, single stick, etc) - badminton (badminton post, score board, etc) - athletic (competition starting blocks, parallel bars, etc) - handball (water goal, handball goal, multi-function goal) son ha groupclick on company name above for more detailed information!
established in 1993, da nang rubber js... click for more info vietnam-source is supported by the following international organizations vietnam chamber of commerce and industry (vcci) north america - vietnam trading agency north america-vietnam trading agency, inc., (navta) click for more info - © copyright 2008 vietnam-source - privacy policy - site map - toronto web design by treefrog interactive inc.
established in 2002, utxi aquatic products  processing company is the first company in soc trang province which is  operating the round-circle-on business consisting of various investments such  as trading, processing, and exporting of seafood as well as farming.
established in 1993, minh phuc is the  leading private company in viet nam specializing in printing paper-based  packaging, aluminum foil, labels and envelopes.
founded in 1990, pham nguyen confectionery & foods processing company has been known as one of the leading confectionery manufacturers in vietnam under phaner brand name.
our products  are made from original plastic seed.
applying iso 9001:2000 quality management system, we commit bringing customers high-quality products which meets vietnamese and international standard such as iec, astm, bs, ul, as, jis.
to satisfy customers with high quality products, we are using a laboratory equipped with accurate inspection and testing equipment imported from japan.
adhering to the company principle of "quality first, service up most", we look forwards to establish business relationship with traders, companies all over the world.
mechanical engineering & metallurgy factory (sadakim)click on company name above for more detailed information!
- garments: disposable  underpants, ball-shirts and jackets, safety working clothing… dong anh mechanical company click on company name above for more  detailed information!
the company has employed 500 people working at the two factories.
viet furniture co., ltd. is a company working in the wood processing field.
sao mai key export markets are european countries, the usa and taiwan with a wide range of high quality products.
at present, the  company is applying iso/iec 17025:2005.
mechanical industry is subject to a high growth trend  in vietnam with the growth of many factories.
established in 1996, ha nam textile & garment company (hanatex) produces yarns for weaving and knitting, fabric for garments, and all kinds of towels.
long dai forestry industry (filoco), a  state owned company, was established in 1982 in quang binh province.
huong nam  enterprise is breaking into coffee and tea industry by the development of  distribution system nation-wide.
currently, we have 7 factories equipped with modern production lines covering a total area of 150,000 square meters with more than 5000 workers.
products manufactured by mechanical factory 83 are strictly  controlled for good quality, and they have been substitutes for many companies,  factories in vietnam in stead of importing from overseas.
nam a footwear company has been one of the leading companies in vietnam producing foot-wear since 1984.
after one  year operating in the domestic marketplace, the number of employees has been  increased to 100 people who are carefully trained before becoming the company  member.
in order to meet increasing demands from international  markets such as eu, north america etc., nam a footwear became a joint-stock  company in 2004 attracting young talented personnel for company development.
in order to promote and bring marvelous herbal remedies to all end-users in vietnam and world-wide, khoi nguyen made medical mushrooms products diversified under dried products for long time keeping and under kinds of straining bag tea such as lingzhi tea and houtougu tea.
in addition, we  have also conducted oem products for specific requirements.
we look forward to opportunities cooperating with new business partners from all over the world based on the principle of integrity and mutual benefits.
we cover a wide range of products and synchronous services of  packaging such as multilayered films, mulching and aquaculture films,  greenhouse films, pe laminating films, plastic bags for domestic and export  market, offset printing labels and boxes, etc. sapaco's factory is  located in tan binh industrial park in ho chi minh city.
in particular, our product have been available in  many countries such as japan, korea, taiwan, china, hong kong, the philippines,  singapore, malaysia, france, germany, italy, switzerland, spain, portugal, usa,  canada, etc.
in 2006, our sales revenue  reached $ 3million usd.
cuong phat's commitment to satisfying its  customers involves offering a complete in-house service from initial design to  finished product.
phuong dong seafood has passed haccp, gmp,  halal authentication and registration of e.u. successively.
long dai forestry industry co., ltd click on company name above for  more detailed information!
located in tay ninh province where is a rich source of rubber tree with our monthly production capacity of over 15,000 tons, our products have been supplied to companies in many industrial zones locally, and we have already exported products to such oversea markets as united states, korea, taiwan, china, brazil, italia, rumania, spain, holland.
, we sincerely wish to form business relationship with traders and sourcing companies in vietnam and abroad.
dongnai garment joint stock company (donagamex)click on company name above for more detailed information!
delta sport co., ltd. is a non state enterprise which  specializes in manufacturing sport equipment in the north of vietnam.
vietnam tobacco import export company  (vinataba imex) has been the leading company in tobacco industry since 1986  with head office located in ho chi minh city.
it is located in hung yen province convenient for shipments arranged by air, sea.
- with a skilled workforce and professional, official,  regularly trained to force their individual skills and expertise.
at present, delta sport has exported products to  hungary, sweden, denmark, mexico, and we are now penetrating north american  countries as usa, canada.
pham nguyen company was awarded the certification of international quality  management system iso 9001-2000 by bvqi of the united kingdom.
thanks to this, we can test the  physical properties of rubber parts with a high degree of accuracy.
huong dang artistic handicrafts & lacquerwares co., ltd click on  company name above for more detailed information!
bitis is a private company specializing in  assorted eva slippers, fashion slippers, beach sandals, leather & sport  sandals and sport shoes.
hiep tien handicraft co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
our products are kinds of pangasius fish (pangasius hypophthalmus), shrimps, cephalopod and sea fish.
the company has 2700 employees and is equipped with advanced technology such as compression moulding, transfer moulding, injection moulding, extrusion and continuous vulcanization system.
we welcome clients all over the world  to contact us for business development, and we look forwards to working  together.
established in 2003, the head office and  work-shop with over 1000 m2 are in ho chi minh city and have more than 50  employees.
we are steadily progressing into new and important foreign markets such as china, usa.
asia canned food import export co., ltd click on company name above  for more detailed information!
with today achievement, hung phat has invested in forming a  strong personnel team including high skilled workers and well-educated  professional management team, investing in study for various high quality  products which meet standards of food hygiene and safety.
scores of new machinery and equipment have been imported and put to  use in many factories.
with factories and workshops  occupying over 7,000 m2 land as well as modern facilities and equipment,  vinamit is currently the largest company in terms of size in binh duong  province.
in addition, images and characters of the item are made from 10 different wood families such as rosewood, teak, fruitwood kingwood, ebony to achieve the desired effect.
hong hanh has two factories for fish sauce processing in ho chi minh city and phu quoc island covering a total area of 10,000 square meters.
in addition, we have also exported to korea, australia, and united states with annual revenue of $ 50,000 usd.
the company has over 1,000  employees now.
we cover a wide range of products and synchronous services of packaging such as multilayered films, mulching and aquaculture films, greenhouse films, pe laminating films, plastic bags for domestic and export market, offset printing labels and boxes, etc. sapaco's factory is located in tan binh industrial park in ho chi minh city.
in particular, we specialize in manufacturing kinds of stainless steel water tank, sink which are for industrial application and household application.
our average annual sale is $ 30 million usd.
striving for high quality products and  diversified designs is our company's development policy.
phong phu has gradually  transferred the main business and production structure from textile and garment  to other various ones such as finance, real estate business, infrastructure of  industrial zones, trading centers, services, hotels, etc.
those are instant, cheap,  convenient, nutritious food with original vietnamese flavor.
and w 1.2m x l 2.4m -  other products.
this allows the natural beauty and warmth of the woods to create a beautiful and unique item, which you will enjoy for years and unique work of art.
due to our  consistent quality standards and competitive prices, we have now established  business relations and exported mechanical products, export of outdoor steel  tables, chairs to england, spare parts for oil and gas industries to united  states.
in 2006, son ha group achieved a total sales of $ 27 million usd.
the creation and the skillful hands of skilled artisans coming from traditional trade villages throughout vietnam, the images of vietnam's village such as bamboo, wood etc. turn into handicraft abundance in both model and color such as the following: - housewares: bowl, plate, vase, dish - desk-top ware: name card holder, pen holder, document tray; souvenir picture frame, photo album, and paintings...
our products have been exported to japan, united  states, eu, korea, north africa, australia, hong kong, etc. with an average  annual sale of $ 60 million usd.
we have also exported to foreign countries such as usa, australia, russia, hong kong, singapore, belgium, canada, denmark, norway, poland, china, cambodia, ect.
establishment since 1994 with group of workshops in vietnam, phong chau is to serve all clients in the producing and sourcing of high quality and sharply priced handicrafts for world consumption.
khoi nguyen has been exporting its products to some countries such as laos, cambodia, thailand, united states with 30% of production capacity at revenue of usd 300,000.
- rubber products for medical and food contact  applications.
after 9 years' operation and  development, beside the financial achievement of increasing the capital from  usd 125,000 to $ 10 million usd one of the more important achievement and pride  that kinh do has gained is to gather a high professional management team and a  skillful staffs and workers team who have been trained in vietnam and foreign  countries.
tan phu plastic jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
with our nearly 30-year experience in producing and exporting, cte is able to meet every market requirement.
the company also has a strong labor force including  well educated and the ardent persons which is becoming binh minh's advantages  in competition on the market.
folding  tables football equipment footwear products forestry products garbage bags  garments garments glazed pots granite hand balls handbags handball equipment  handicrafts hats helmets herbal tea household products hyacinth industrial  articles instant rice noodle interior furniture jacket, coats kitchen ware  products lacquer lacquer ware ladies' suit lamps locks marble medical mushrooms  medicine balls minerals natural mineral water nets pe products pe woven sack  perfume plant stands plastic pipes plastic products plastics pots pottery pp  non-woven products pp products pp woven sack printing proccessed wood purses  pvc bags rackets raincoats rattan rice paper rubber sala balls sandals seafood  seafood noodle soup shampoo shirt & pants shoes shrimp shrimp chips silk  slippers soap soccer balls soft drink sports equipment sports nets sportswear  sprayers staplers stone powder tables tables tableware tableware tarpaulin tarps teapots technical rubber spare parts tennis equipment textiles-pants  textiles-shirts timber tires towels tubes umbrella stands umbrellas vases  volley balls volleyball equipment wallets wood wooden articles wooden products  wooden ware working wear yarn type the name of an item here: afa joint stock company click on company name above for more detailed  information!
especially, khoi nguyen was successful with  growing of coriolus versicolor (polyporus versicolor), a treasured traditional  medicine with polysaccharid againsts maligmant tumour effectively and it is  evaluated by eastern medicine as one of the patent medicines.
- cuttlefish: fillet,  whole cleaned cuttlefish.
(sapaco)click on company name above for more detailed information!
apart from supplying for domestic market, we also export our products to some countries such as india, singapore, cambodia, dubai, japan, united states.
at  humoco, we are able to meet all your specific requirements suitable with your  country culture and fashion via our expertise such as designing, pattern  making, sewing, embroidery, printing and finishing.
our products are: - natural rubber: svr cv 60, svr cv 50, svr 10,  svr 20.
lycopene, alphatocopherol of 12mg%, a lot of vegetable lipid and micro-dose elements that are very necessary to the body.
in vietnam, our products have been presented over 23  provinces and cities, distributed through agents, shops, river transportation  and sea transportation companies throughout the whole country.
along with the excellent and highly  efficient management system by controlling the production costs, ensuring the  product quality stability and conducting the philosophy of exploring the  boundless markets at the most competitive prices, we have achieved remarkable  development in both production and annual turn-over of $200 million usd.
in order to meet increasing demand for furniture products  and to take advantage of their strength in wood processing industry, duc nhan  enterprise will cooperate with all trading partners to develop products more in  europe and america.
our main products are kinds of coconut flavor roasted peanuts, coffee flavor roasted peanuts, etc.
vinamit is very proud of its highly qualified people working in different divisions currently, export represents our key business operation.
the company has a strong labor force including more than 4,200 employees, and human resource development is always company's priority.
yet, because we are a local brand, many are unaware of our long history, and far too few have had the unique experience of enjoying a freshly brewed cup of thu ha coffee amongst the beauty of the central highlands of viet nam.
we specialize  in producing kinds of natural rubber such as svr3l, svr 5, svr 10, svr 20,  cv60, cv50 and latex ha/la.
if you take interest in our products, please contact for any of your specific requirement or specifications.
minh hung plastics co., ltd.
+ handbag: being made with natural material, our bags are environmentally friendly and comfortable.
chian shyang enterprise is striving to be a prestige screws supplier worldwide.
we are determined to further boost export and seek for new markets.
vinh tien paper co-operativeclick on company name above for more detailed information!
this is indicated through activities of personnel training,  quality control, updating new regulations, standards of all important markets,  satisfying all food hygiene and safety requirement in accordance with gmp,  ssop, haccp & iso 9001:2000sqf 2000 simultaneously.
our products are high quality soft bags which are applied for sea food, agricultural, confectionery, foodstuffs, garment industries, etc. besides supplying all kinds of customized plastic bags for many local manufacturers, we have been expanded our market to international markets such as united states, germany, holland, france, japan, korea, hong kong, australia, peru and africa, etc under customized orders.
established in 1999, viet hung handicraft ltd specializes in producing lacquer ware, furniture, arts, lamps and other accessories.
an giang fisheries import-export joint stock company (agifish jsc.) was established in 2001 and was listed on vietnam's stock exchange on march 8, 2002.
our production capacity is thousands of pure gac oil capsules which are applied for pharmaceutical, food, cosmetic industry.
in addition, we provide fabrics  for garment.
they have exported to such eu countries as france, italy, germany, spain, etc.
baruco is striving to become a prestige natural rubber supplier not only in east asia but also in the world, taking advantage of rich natural resources of vietnam.
the company now has 850 workers and officers, and our current export markets are japan, usa, sweden and the eu.
the current distribution system consists of more than 150 official distributors and more than 40,000 retailed stores in the nationwide.
we sincerely welcome any interested companies to  contact us for more details.
with our nearly  30-year experience in producing and exporting, cte is able to meet every market  requirement.
the company has nearly 400 people  including masters, bachelors and skillful workers.
labor force : more than 9000 workers can tho import export jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
vinataba imex is now playing a leading role in vietnam tobacco industry.
head office located in nha trang city in central vietnam.
we can provide the finest quality  premium grade product at low prices, making our 100% pure traditional noni  juice the best value on the market.
customers should allow up to two months for delivery upon confirmation of the order.
over many years in the market, phuong dong seafood has gained a good reputation and wishes to expand export market more.
phuong summer company is a manufacturer of  pottery products with the factory located in binh duong province of vietnam.
the company is applying iso 9001:2000 in production, and our products are in compliance with japan standard (jis).
established in 1987, we manufacture kinds of  leather uppers and other leather items.
our products are: - clam:
beside of export products under legamex brand, legamex also produces oem  products for customers all over the world with particular volume.
dai hong phat private enterpriseclick on company name above for more detailed information!
our products have been exported to international market such as japan, korea, china, taiwan, etc.
khatoco has property of more than vnd 900 billion in which its  own capital is vnd 430 million.
established in 1999, sapaco, acronym for saigon  packaging joint stock company, specializes in manufacturing all kinds of  packaging.
afasco, a company of fish farmers, with more than 30,000 tons of fish production a year, keeps its quality products available for domestic and foreign markets.
the company employs 550 workers and officers and has invested capital  up to $35 million usd.
phuong hanh co., ltd (fuhaco) click on company name above for more  detailed information!
we can either deliver the container to the  retailer's distribution center or we can bring the container into our  warehouse, packed the products on pallet then drop ship the pallets to  individual stores.
our production structure of export is 45% for  usa, 45% for eu and 10% for asia.
folding tables football equipment footwear products forestry products garbage bags garments garments glazed pots granite hand balls handbags handball equipment handicrafts hats helmets herbal tea household products hyacinth industrial articles instant rice noodle interior furniture jacket, coats kitchen ware products lacquer lacquer ware ladies' suit lamps locks marble medical mushrooms medicine balls minerals natural mineral water nets pe products pe woven sack perfume plant stands plastic pipes plastic products plastics pots pottery pp non-woven products pp products pp woven sack printing proccessed wood purses pvc bags rackets raincoats rattan rice paper rubber sala balls sandals seafood seafood noodle soup shampoo shirt & pants shoes shrimp shrimp chips silk slippers soap soccer balls soft drink sports equipment sports nets sportswear sprayers staplers stone powder tables tables tableware tableware tarpaulin tarps teapots technical rubber spare parts tennis equipment textiles-pants textiles-shirts timber tires towels tubes umbrella stands umbrellas vases volley balls volleyball equipment wallets wood wooden articles wooden products
ordesco's scope of business is as follows : - producing detergents  (soap, shampoo, body shower, washing fluid for dishes, perfume, cosmetics) - business services (detergents, beverages, consumer and household goods,  industry and domestic use chemicals, cosmetics, foodstuffs, tobacco beer and  wine, paper and packing)
established in 1992, head office in ho  chi minh city, savicorp produces mainly indoor furniture, outdoor furniture and  other wooden articles made of domestic materials from various natural materials  such as natural wood, ebony, red wood, etc.
establishment in 2004, huong nam enterprise has a processing factory of 5000m2 in dong nai province which is equipped with machines of germany technology.
- cuttlefish: fillet, whole cleaned cuttlefish.
our core business is supplying high quality  aquatic products.
as a leading manufacturer, our goal is to offer high  quality products at the most competitive prices for residential, commercial and  industrial lightings.
located in tay ninh province, the factory is close  to the material source and 150km far from ho chi minh sea port.
board of management consists of 1 director, 3 deputy directors, and the company has 2500 employees with 4500 farmers.
with the achievements obtained, we have had the honor to receive bvqi, gmp certificates as well as various awards like golden star award, brand golden cup 2005, etc.
in addition, we have also appeared in the usa, canada, united kingdom, france, germany, eastern europe and middle east.
we specialize in manufacturing  machines, equipment and spare parts for such industries as petroleum, mining,  battery, cement, agricultural product processing, paper, etc.
thai duong rubber company is striving to expand their export market more to china, euro, and north america with targeted sales turn-over of $ 6 million usd in 2009.
we welcome customers both at home and abroad to make cooperation with us  for the development and prosperity of aquatic product processing industry and  create a brilliant future together.
with the testing equipment of japan, taiwan, the product quality is controlled from yarns to ropes.
at humoco, we are able to meet all your specific requirements suitable with your country culture and fashion via our expertise such as designing, pattern making, sewing, embroidery, printing and finishing.
established in 2005, de phat trading & manufacturing company specializes in producing all kinds of craft candle.
you are welcomed to contact us for more information and further cooperation.
at present, appc has not only been authorized as a major supplier for other companies in vietnam but also exported and made oem products for many clients in overseas such as japan, taiwan and singapore with average annual sale revenue of $ 2 million usd.
we can either deliver the container to the retailer's distribution center or we can bring the container into our warehouse, packed the products on pallet then drop ship the pallets to individual stores.
the company has  expanded production capacity with 3 factories with advanced technology  machinery systems.
our main products are indoor and outdoor furniture, wooden floorings for export.
from synchronously investing about the processing technology as well as the quality control system, product of caseamex have been exported to the markets: usa, eu, canada, australia, hong kong, korea, singapore, malaysia, china, thailand, middle east, russia with average annual turn-over of $ 38 million usd.
in addition, the company has also built a new factory of 3000 m2 at phu quoc island for fish sauce manufacturing in order to raise the fish sauce output up to 1,000,000 liters per year.
product quality and business activities are managed by the haccp management plan and iso9001-200 certified by tuv.
export market development is our goal in the forthcoming time.
- coseafex's  experience and professionalism and reliability will take specialty to you.
v.u.a biotech co., ltd has  invested in hundreds of hectares of farms in middle and southern center to  support manufacturing needs.
khoi nguyen also successfully grew houtougu mushroom, a delicious mushroom containing 18 kinds of amino acids, vitamins, ge metal for anti-cancer, and distributed it over the supermarkets and retail systems in vietnam.
all necessary inspections will be strictly carried out by our professional  quality controllers in order to get the right quality and quantity you expect.
ruthimex became  the first rubber company in vietnam to be granted the certification of the  quality management system iso 9002:2004 in march, 1999 and then iso 9001:2000
established in 2000, hong nhung has facility in  ho chi minh covering an area of 250m2 with 20 workers.
with a monthly production capacity of 30 containers, we are very pleased to welcome and serve all distinguished customers in the process of opening new markets.
tan phu furniture co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
if you are interested in any of our products, please feel free to contact us directly for more information.
established in 1992, nguyen hoang exim co., ltd.  is believed one of the leading companies specialized in producing garments of  kid' fashion, ladies' fashion and work-wear in the north of vietnam.
nguyen hoang exim co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
de phat is able to produce all your specific orders at very competitive prices.
with over 700 professional craftsmen, fuhaco has gained a good reputation in the market thanks to unique products and good prices.
having grown into the leading crystal manufacturers in vietnam, we now employ  more than 400 persons including highly skilled craftsmen.
anti-skeleton key locks manufacturing co., ltd.
we have gained an excellent reputation for high quality  products, competitive prices, on time delivery.
as a result, we are able to assure the freshness  of both farmed and natural sea-caught shrimps.
the reason all of these companies choose to source through out the world is that we deliver high quality manufactured handicrafts at very competitive price points.
60% of our total output has been exported to many large markets such as american, singapore, korea, japan, sweden, etc.
we are striving for the lasting value to our customers at  best quality, competitive price, and good service.
- satisfy all food hygiene and safety  requirements in accordance with us.
established in1993, thanh cong paper  and stationary company specializes in manufacturing all kinds of file folder,  pen holder for office, shelves which are useful, beautiful and notebooks.
- direct export of materials for manufacturing today, in addition to its original primary product, the coba bar soap, ordesco also produces many others such as: perfumes, shampoo, body cream, timmi bar soap, detergents, and detergent liquids.
our peanuts are always  fresh, flavorful and delicious.
- trader, sales agent, consignment  dealer of production materials, consumer goods.
- production weight of tarpaulin : 67g/sqm to 260g/sqm - construction: 7x7/sq.inch to 16x16/sq.inch - denier: 650 denier to 1200 denier - color: as per customer's request vinamit trading co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
hiep phu tho company has got clients' belief to produce  products under specific orders and exported to united states, japan, korea and  some countries in europe.
most of our natural stone products are only for export to some oversea markets such as europe, usa, japan, taiwan, india and south-east asia with annual export turn-over of $ 1.5 million usd.
established in 2000 and officially put into  production 2001, lien anh production rubber company specializes in producing  all kind of natural rubber such as : rss 1, svr 3l, svr 5, svr 10, svr 20, svr  low grade, compound rubber, etc.
son ha group is the leading manufacturer of stainless steel products in vietnam.
to satisfy customers with high  quality products, we are using a laboratory equipped with accurate inspection  and testing equipment imported from japan.
sadakim's products are produced in compliance with vietnam, russia, japan standards.
our products include baby bags, briefcases, lady bags, travel bags, luggage, travel rucksacks, hats and wallets.
to join in the global trade, thanh cong has invested in a paper that covers an area of 3000 m2 with 100 persons manufacturing all kinds of high quality photocopy paper in accordance with taiwanese technology.
viet tien manufactures many types of products such as: sport wear in micro fiber, casual wear in cotton polyester, city wear in lain, jogging, anorak, ski-wears, pu, nylon, linen kaki, parkas, bermuda shorts, lady blouse, denim, oxford, taffeta, viscose polyester, kaki, jeans, parkas, shirt, men and women suit, trousers, skirt viet tien has 3 brands: - viet tien: the viet tien trademark with logo of triangle shape is created from two letters vt.
our biggest customers are williams sonoma inc, clay metal & stone in usa, euro decor in holland, voodoo in new zealand, areca galleria in mexico, 18 karat in canada, falabella in argentina.
we  specializes on children wear (size from 2 years to 14 years old), ladies  fashion, uniforms, outwear...
duyen hai foodstuffs processing factory click on company name above  for more detailed information!
we specialize in bamboo household, bamboo furniture, water hyacinth handicraft, sea-grass handicraft and wooden handicraft.
at present, our monthly production capacity is 12 teus, and we are able to expand production more up to 15 teus to meet the increasing demand.
our main export markets are england, germany, france, holland, belgium, switzerland, greece, chile, norway, canada, libya, and korea with annual production capacity is 3 million pairs.
founded in 1994, hung phat has progressed and become one  of the leading manufacturers of herbal tea, instant tea and coffee in vietnam  nowadays.
in addition to meeting specific customer requirements they produce  customized orders.
our export key markets are japan, korea, china, eu, south america and middle east.
dan phuong co., ltd.
if you are interested in any of our products, please don't hesitate to contact us for more information.
currently, we have a factory in ho chi minh city which covers an area of 1,500 m2.
we can insure the fastest production lead time according to your schedule,  extruders to provide with variety of materials and specifications, a complete  production line of molds manufacturing to meet any specific requirement in  different product design, and skilled workers with up-to-date full auto vacuum  forming machineries; large sized oil pressure cutters; auto edge folder to  making products cope with strictly request of customer.
we wish to establish business relationship with  all trading partners for products under our brand or oem products.
tam chau co., ltd. specializing in producing and trading  tea and coffee products for domestic and foreign consumption is one of the  fastest-growing tea corporations in vietnam.
at present, our key export markets are united states,  japan and european countries, and we have gained good reputations from the  customers both at home and abroad for the quality products and better  credit-worthy.
binh minh plastics joint stock company (bmplasco) is a state owned enterprise directly belongs to vietnam ministry of industry.
it is formed by using the best clay materials available.
penro industries (vietnam) co., ltd is  malaysian own company in vietnam specializing in manufacturing various kind of  polypropylene and polyethylene rope, twine and yarn with desire diameter,  color, specification and uv resistance under the whole of technologies legally  transferred by malaysian rope manufacturer since1969.
duc thanh wood processing jsc click on company name above for more  detailed information!
viet tre bamboo handicraft
artistic handicrafts & lacquerwares co, ltd. specializes in production and trade of vietnam traditional handicraft and lacquer ware made of natural materials such as bamboo, wood etc.
on the other hand, we are also interested in technology transfer contracts in the field of rough draft making with domestic and overseas researching centers and institutes to update the lasting technology.
our products are  children wear, women wear, jackets, trousers, t-shirts and other related  products which are export oriented.
we  warmly welcome all clients all over the world come to us for long-term and  stable business cooperation relationships.
the products have been shipped to singapore,  japan, taiwan, spain, brazil, australia, france and germany…with annual  sales revenue of $1.5 million usd.
owning two factories with a total area about 60,000m2, bmplasco has invested in the most modern equipment from germany, italy, australia, canada.
our comparative advantages: - an  experienced and professional team of quality-controllers assures best products  from standard to high quality - an efficient system of cost control offers  best prices - high productivity and capacity to guarantee on-time delivery - good services and prompt actions as to your requirements - customer  designs and tailor-made solutions according to your specifications sd wooden toys enterprise click on company name above for more  detailed information!
our products have been awarded "golden prize for viet nam high quality product" by ministry of science technology and environment for many years, hanoi golden cup and more than 70 golden medals from nationwide exhibition fairs.
therefore, we can assure a constant supply of fresh black tiger shrimps throughout the year while maintaining with competitive price.
additionally, our hr department maintains frequent personnel training programs.
early 2006, an lac footwear company was equitized to an lac footwear  joint-stock company.
our factory has more than 200 workers with workshops from tailoring department, sewing department, printing department and high frequency department to packing department.
as a result, we are able to assure the freshness of both farmed and natural sea-caught shrimps.
artistic  handicrafts & lacquerwares co., ltd is committed to diversifying product  design, co-operation with any trading partner for market and product  development.
drc company, head office in da nang  city, manufactures all kinds of rubber tires, rubber tubes, and technical  rubber products.
vietnam tobacco industry has over the years made intensive investments in modernizing technology and enhancing our capacities in all fields of production with a view to improving product quality.
the quality of our leaf tobacco products has been highly appreciated by our customers.
quang nam silk co., ltd is a company specializing in  producing hand sewn embroideries on silk and taffeta, knitted dresses, pants,  shirts and t-shirts.
we are confident to meet all specific needs for both domestic  marketplace and oversea.
de phat focuses on doing oem products  for oversea clients from europe countries, australia and some asian countries.
we have a garment production workshop of 800m2 in ho chi minh city with 100 people.
duc thanh wood processing jscclick on company name above for more detailed information!
hoatho textile and garment company click on company name above for more detailed information!
tin thanh manufacturing and trading company limited was established in 2000.
the company has close business relation with foreign partners (hong kong, taiwan, uk'); it has a steady output for its foreign joint-venture companies about materials like interlining, padding, buttons'.
the products  have been distributed via our traditional customers such as smpt (michelin),  saficalcan (france), tae young (korea), etc.
the company temporarily has more than 100 workers working in a factory equipped with automatic production lines and machinery of taiwanese technology.
our products are for domestic and oversea market.
"gac" fruit is understood as a heaven fruit in asia thanks to its unique characteristic which is very good for human being.
founded in 1994, hung phat has progressed and become one of the leading manufacturers of herbal tea, instant tea and coffee in vietnam nowadays.
thirsting to  bring the natural, popular beauty but never less particular, romantic of the  bamboo trunk, leaf, root, etc to the rooms of the modern houses, we have chosen  bamboo, rattan for the main source of material.
our products are  for domestic and oversea markets.
over the past years, with our quality policy statement focusing on "quality - price - service" which is the most three issues that customers are paying much attention to, minh hung plastics has built up a prestige trademark as well as obtained enthusiastically support from consumers and business partners.
established in 2005, de phat  trading & manufacturing company specializes in producing all kinds of craft  candle.
with the advanced technology in food  processing, thuan phat company always offers consumers high-quality products.
we are a member of vietnam national textile & garment corp. (vinatex).
the company has a  factory of 10,100m2 equipped with modern, synchronous, automatic and  multi-purposed machinery imported from japan, especially with the support of  hanging transport system in the production.
thu ha coffee private enterpriseclick on company name above for more detailed information!
adhering to the business guideline of "high quality - reasonable pricing - prestige ", our sales & marketing persons work closely with customers to investigate customers' needs for and their specific requirements with high quality products at reasonable prices and good services.
hong nhung co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
cuong phat ceramics company ltd click on company name above for more  detailed information!
our products  are mainly for domestic market.
at present, our products have located a firm position in the domestic market and are highly appreciated by customers both at home and abroad.
our products are manufactured by modern technology meeting ansi bifma standards (usa).
factory (truong van ben & his children factory) has been established since  the 1930s specializing in producing bar soap from coconut and pressed oil.
our main markets are european countries, united states, australia, middle east and asian countries with annual sales revenue of $ 10 million usd.
our goal is 7000 tons in 2007, and 15,000 tons in 2010.
established in 1993, minh phuc is the leading private company in viet nam specializing in printing paper-based packaging, aluminum foil, labels and envelopes.
hotexco is applying quality management system iso 9001 version 2000 was certificated by sgs.
established in 1994 by the ministry of agriculture and food industry, baruco initially began with 4 plantations with a total area of 13,594 hectares and 5,500 persons including workers and officers.
established in the highland province of kon tum, vietnam in 1995, duc nhan enterprise now owns three factories located in the so-called cradle of wood processing industry areas in vietnam: kon tum province, binh dinh province and binh duong province.
we are tradition customers of such well-known stainless steel  firms as arcelor group, sumitomo, nippon steel, yusco, jindal, posco, tai han,  tan eng, tung mung.
kim viet company limited is one of the most reputable  manufacturers, suppliers and exporters of handicrafts in vietnam.
song tien trading company limited (sotico) was established in 1994 is located at tien giang province, which is considered as the cradle of seafood raw material.
moreover, we have  established complete control systems, thereby ensuring stabilized quality of  our products.
some of their key customers are samsonite, lufthansa, and trunk & co.
company has a factory  of 3000 m2 in binh chanh district, suburb of ho chi minh city equipped with  production lines imported from france.
as a professional button manufacturer, tuan hien button company is  committed to serving as the best cooperative partner of the garment  manufacturers, and sincerely welcomes the presence of clients all over the  world for business relationship.
we are always towards the perfection in all  aspects in order to be your reliable partners song trang co., ltd.
tan phu plastic jsc.
establishing lac cuong joint-venture company which specializes in manufacturing  injected sports shoes with capacity of over 3 million pairs per year.
established in 2001, phuong dong seafood co.,  ltd is a young, but professional, dynamic manufacturer, packer and exporter of  fisheries products.
penro first criterion is quality  & service.
we welcome customers both at home and abroad to make cooperation with us for the development and prosperity of aquatic product processing industry and create a brilliant future together.
we have exported 90% of our output.
the factory is equipped with  advanced equipment and sophisticated technique imported from japan and slovakia  and is applying iso 9001:2000 standard in quality management.
we specialize in doing oem for foreign clients.
at global safewear, we aim  to excel in all aspects of quality, service and value to meet the different  needs of each client.
kim viet company limited click on company name above for more detailed  information!
our products are for local and oversea markets.
wooden ware working wear yarn type the name of an item here: afa joint stock companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
bmplasco is striving to become the leader of plastic pipes and fittings producer in viet nam by defining a firm development strategy, unceasingly improving the management system in accordance with iso 9001:2000 standard, investing on persons, modernizing machinery and equipment and improving quality products.
dong phu rubber co., ltd.
caseamex is  always ready to co-operate and associate with the domestic and foreign  businesses in raising, processing and exporting seafood.
penro first criterion is quality & service.
our export markets are sweden, united states of  america, australia and other asia countries.
thai duong rubber jsc.
established in 2005 with 30 professional craftsmen, all products are 100% handmade.
established in vietnam in 1995 with office and  factories in ho chi minh city where we have been part of an exciting period of  progress and development, we offer a full design service from the client brief,  through to quoting, production and delivery.
this will be a very important fundamental platform to help company  develop in future.
thanh hai fish co., ltd.
hong nhung co., ltd is the manufacturer of the finest 100% pure noni juice under "saigon noni juice" brand.
tuong an is granted quality certificate of iso 9001, latest version 2000 by british bvqi.
application of  advanced technology, modern machinery together with experienced and  professional cadres, sadakim produces high quality products to contribute to  your success as well as the development of mechanical engineering.
with huge production potential and rich natural resources, baruco commits to meeting all orders, and requirements of produced-by-order products at any volume.
we hope to have the opportunities of cooperating with friends around the world.
minh le van co., ltd.
on achieving  the iso 9000 standard, we are taking the initiative in breaking into asean  market and international market as well.
with a monthly production capacity of 30 containers, we are very pleased to  welcome and serve all distinguished customers in the process of opening new  markets.
cuong phat ceramics company ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
in addition, the products have also created special impressions for customers own designs and shape.
kim viet company limited is one of the most reputable manufacturers, suppliers and exporters of handicrafts in vietnam.
our current key export markets are australia, germany, and holland.
distributor of gourmet coffee and tea, bringing the flavor of success to the people, delighting them with their own unique styles.
apart from our products, we are able to tailor our service to customized orders with a trading division dealing with a variety of patio, garden and zinc furniture products.
the company is organized with three main departments:  accounting, production and sales departments.
raw material, production lines, machinery imported from japan together with team of professional employees, our products under trade name ueda is not only proud of the top listed trade name about quality but creates new fashion line for consumers as well.
once harvested, the leaves are quickly  delivered to our facility to guarantee the freshness and nutrients.
processed by ourselves, all our products come from  the western area of vietnam with stable quality.
the products are sold in 30 provinces and cities throughout 172 stores.
moreover, we try to replace  the old sewing machines into the newest ones to meet customers' requirements.
our target sales are usd $ 21 million usd in 2007 and $25 million usd in 2009.
our 2 factories are  able to produce up to 12 containers per month of indoor and outdoor furniture.
over many years of prestige in the market with yearly production capacity of 8 million product sets, we wish to establish business relationships with customers all over the world.
quang nam silk applies the traditional mulberry cultivation and silkworm raising techniques of the quang nam province.
our yearly production capacity is over 6,000 tons of finished products.
other vietnam factory trade missions for both  private companies and groups are scheduled for the balance of 2008.
we supply all kinds of natural rubber such as svr3l, svr5, svr10, svr20, svr cv50, svr cv60, latex.
export companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
quality and food-safety are our primary concerns; therefore, our  processing procedures are strictly monitored with "traceability  program" to meet the high requirements of europe, japan, united states and  other countries.
savicorp's products have been  accepted and exported to united states, britain, taiwan, germany, france.
once harvested, the leaves are quickly delivered to our facility to guarantee the freshness and nutrients.
truc lam processing and trading co.,  ltd. is a professional manufacturer of various metal products.
pham nguyen has 3 factories with total area of  43,200 m2.
khoi  nguyen has been exporting its products to some countries such as laos,  cambodia, thailand, united states with 30% of production capacity at revenue of  usd 300,000.
quang nam silk is looking forwards to  expanding export market more and committed to providing our clients with  competitively priced, high quality products with the most up to date styles.
above for more detailed information!
ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
our key customers : - vietnam posts  and telecommunications group - hanoi audio - ben thanh audio in ho chi  minh city - trang an confectionery ltd - hai ha confectionery ltd - especially, thanks to navta's support, we have just delivered to us the first  2 container shipment of trash bags sa giang import export corporation click on company name above for  more detailed information!
in the changing trend of the marketable mechanism, many new products have been made satisfying the demands of industrious meals for workers such as rice noodles, vermicelli, chinese noodles, porridge, winged yam soup, rice paper.
over 90% of dieu thuong company's products are for export.
the  manufacturing factory is located in dong nai province in the south of vietnam  with over 1000 workers.
established in 1975, dien quang has been continuously investing to gain a  competitive advantage by the very latest electronic technology.
phong phu has gradually transferred the main business and production structure from textile and garment to other various ones such as finance, real estate business, infrastructure of industrial zones, trading centers, services, hotels, etc.
mechanical engineering & metallurgy factory (sadakim) is one of alliances of south steel corporation under vietnam steel corporation belonged to ministry of industry.
vinataba imex now has 20  affiliate companies in the whole vietnam; we are a member of vietnam national  tobacco corporation.
the quality of our leaf tobacco products has been highly  appreciated by our customers.
establishment since 1994 with group of workshops in vietnam, phong chau is to  serve all clients in the producing and sourcing of high quality and sharply  priced handicrafts for world consumption.
in addition, we have exported our products to more than 10 countries in 04 continents such as australia, france, norway, great britain, sudan, japan, singapore, malaysia and cambodia.
our average growing speed is 15-20%/year.
boiled baby white clam, yellow clam.
the company is applying iso 9001:2000 in production for stable quality products and providing the lasting value to end-users.
in addition to production technology, we have also paid attention to human resources development.
we are very pleased to have a chance to co-operate and set up joint-ventures with any partners.
our products will be for domestic and export.
our products have been awarded "golden  prize for viet nam high quality product" by ministry of science technology  and environment for many years, hanoi golden cup and more than 70 golden medals  from nationwide exhibition fairs.
the  reason all of these companies choose to source through out the world is that we  deliver high quality manufactured handicrafts at very competitive price points.
world vina co. ltd is a korean fdi company in the plastic industry in vietnam.
we specialize in doing oem for  foreign clients.
secoin currently operates in fields such as  burnt less building material production, abrasives production for tiles and  stones, technology transfer and equipment supply, trading in household  appliances.
our quality control system is  adequate and exact.
strictly in quality management, the product quality is examined from raw material purchasing to warehousing and delivery.
- vina tarpaulin has been producing p.e tarpaulin related products such as: p.e roll goods (1.83mx200m, 2.00mx100m,etc as per customers request) and tarpaulin products being ideal for construction material coverings, agricultural products coverings, automotive coverings, outdoor furniture
viet tien garment company  (vtec), established in 1976, is presently a production and trade company  belonging to vinatex, specializing in garment manufacture, trade equipment,  materials & accessories for the garment industry, household electric  appliances & undertaking all services for delivering, receiving imported -  exported commodities.
our products have been exported to oversea markets such as japan,  australia, united kingdom, china, etc with annual sales revenue of $15 million  usd.
only the finest natural products are used in our noni health supplements.
the most outstanding feature of our product is quality which comes from using the best clay media available.
sadakim specializes in producing products made of steel and cast iron with the weight from 1kg up to 7000kg, mechanical fabrication, forging, heat treatment.
- volleyball (volleyball posts, movable base, post padding, training apparatus, etc) - basketball (goal, score board, backboard, ring, net, etc.)
your satisfaction is our number one priority.
saigon noni juice product has been distributed in all supermarkets nationwide, and exported to some countries in eu, america and east asia.
we produce the technical rubber spare parts used in the following industries: water supply, drainage, power transmission, automotive, construction, mineral exploitation, foodstuff, medicine, both for the local market and for export.
over the past decades bmplasco has gained an excellent prestige in plastics industry and become a high top ranking of plastic manufacturer in vietnam.
the company has also aimed to boost exports to potential markets  like mexico and south africa.
facility integration enables us to offer different groups of  textile with consistent quality and competitive price and be our key strength  in penetrating new markets.
nastoma stone vietnam is very happy and ready to form business relationship with you.
with international quality standard and capacity of  15,000 tons/ year, we are proud of being one of the leading manufacturers and  supplier in vietnam when keeping 85% the total domestic market and exporting  over 1,000 tons per year.
orient manufacture and trading joint stock company (ordesco)click on company name above for more detailed information!
in particular, 50% of our output  is for united states and the rest will be for asia and eu.
with an annual production capacity of 2,000,000 liters, we look forwards to expanding our export market more to eu and north america as well as wish to form the business relationship with clients all over the world who are interested in vietnamese specialties.
click on company name above for  more detailed information!
of particular note is the fact that vinataba imex has imported  the first tobacco threshing plant into vietnam since the early 90's.
our products are crystal vases, glass vase, crystal ware, and crystal  handicrafts.
production samples and quality approval will take 30 days.
rubber milk output has increased from 2,200 tons in 2004 to 5,680 tons in 2006.
ffc now has become one of the most prestigious suppliers of high  quality seafood products.
these  companies are divided into 2 main groups: the first group consists of about 20  factories that are 100% directly dependent on viet tien and the second group  consists of venetian's child companies (more than 50% of capital belongs to  viet tien), which are: dong tien, tay do, tien tien, viet ha and the rest part  of this second group are companies that have considerable shares occupied by  viet tien.
established in 2003, hai hiep phong co., ltd is a manufacturer of all kinds of bags, rucksacks, schoolbags, etc.
after months of preparing the machines and product testing, the company has since cooperated with many government offices such as: ministry of industry, ministry of science technology against counterfeiting ministry of market control.
in vietnam, our products have been presented over 23 provinces and cities, distributed through agents, shops, river transportation and sea transportation companies throughout the whole country.
we are striving to expand our export market more to other countries.
- with a skilled workforce and professional, official, regularly trained to force their individual skills and expertise.
thanks to the increasing demand of the market, san hoang has expanded production with two factories covering a total area of 502,000 square meters with 600 employees.
mef's  investment was used to finance new machineries and equipments to complete  post-printing processing, as well as to finance the company's working capital.
with a view to bring vinh tiens tea to every  end-user, the company has established a wide distribution system and  representatives covering most of big cities in vietnam such as ha noi, hai  phong, quang ninh, thanh hoa, vinh , hue, da nang, quang ngai, quy nhon, nha  trang to ho chi minh city, vinh long, soc trang, etc, and we also have 14  agencies in oversea, particularly in korea, america, canada, france and in  germany.
the furniture  made in our factories is predominantly the classical european-style furniture  collections such as ashton, buckingham, coopers creek, diamond, hamilton, park  more, portugal, penrose and scotland.
hong nhung co., ltd is the manufacturer of the finest  100% pure noni juice under "saigon noni juice" brand.
in 2007,  the company has achieved $ 4.7 million usd as the total export turn-over.
we warmly welcome all clients all  over the world come to us for long-term and stable business cooperation  relationships.
on the other hand, we are also interested in technology transfer  contracts in the field of rough draft making with domestic and overseas  researching centers and institutes to update the lasting technology.
we produce  the technical rubber spare parts used in the following industries: water  supply, drainage, power transmission, automotive, construction, mineral  exploitation, foodstuff, medicine, both for the local market and for export.
established in 1995, siam brothers vietnam, an affiliate of siam brothers thailand who is a leading manufacturer of fishing net and equipment in thailand, is a limited corporation with 100% investment capital of thailand manufacturing rope and net from poly propylene and poly ethylene to serve in fields of catching aqua - sea products, and overseas transportation.
moreover, our non-processing  unit, utxi ecological shrimp enterprise, is responsible for shrimp culturing in  our own farms and sharing culture areas.
viettien garment import & export company (vtec)click on company name above for more detailed information!
the turnover is more than usd $100 million in the year 2005.
we are pleased serving all your specific requirements under our general principle: quality-
chotro co., ltd.  specializes in manufacturing anti-skeleton key locks that is positioned as  "the product against thief".
our key clients are from singapore, france, america, italia, australia, hong kong and india.
our main export markets are germany, italy, france, uk, usa, australia, korea, japan and south east asia with export turn-over annually of $500,000 usd.
hiep tien  handicraft was authorized to be the supplier for ikea and many clients in  germany, brazil, japan, australia, and sweden.
a pure gac oil tablet contains b-carotene of 190mg% (15,1 and 68 times higher than this in carrot and tomato respectively, etc),
huy hoang lock was awarded gold medal in international industry vietnam expo fair and voted as 'vietnam high quality goods' for several years in vietnam.
we are in honor to be authorized as main provider of all kinds of electric wires for not only such reputed companies as power company of ho chi minh city, power company ii, power company iii, and other power companies in provinces in vietnam to server works electrifying all provinces and remote areas but foreign and local companies in industrial parks in vietnam.
we have gradually exported products to middle
striving for high quality products and diversified designs is our company's development policy.
with the advanced technology in food processing, thuan phat company always offers consumers high-quality products.
world vina co. ltd is a korean fdi company in the plastic  industry in vietnam.
moreover, we not only serve local market but also have relation of export  business granite and marble's products to america, australia, taiwan, japan,  china, laos, cambodia … company's products meet the international  standard, classification and various models, plentiful colours which used for  varied purposes such as interior, exterior decoration, civil architectural  project, handicraft wares.
phuong summer has expanded its market to  overseas and its products have been exported to united states, canada, europe,  taiwan, and australia.
v.u.a biotech co., ltd has invested in hundreds of hectares of farms in middle and southern center to support manufacturing needs.
nguyen hoang exim company is striving to become an end-users oriented and prestige garment manufacturer.
our main products are: - joint, gaskets for water industrial.
after 9 years' operation and development, beside the financial achievement of increasing the capital from usd 125,000 to $ 10 million usd one of the more important achievement and pride that kinh do has gained is to gather a high professional management team and a skillful staffs and workers team who have been trained in vietnam and foreign countries.
- plastic products for advertising.
the manufacturing factory is located in dong nai province in the south of vietnam with over 1000 workers.
ba ria rubber company is a supplier of natural rubbers in vietnam.
established in 1974, viet - tiep lock company is the most  modern and biggest enterprise manufacturing various kinds of high quality locks  and decoration hardware.
the company changed the  brass material into stainless steel sus 303, sus 304 which provides high  stability, absolute safety, and high aesthetic characters that bring to the  customers the feeling of safety.
at present, we have a professional and  efficient management team with more than 150 skilled employees.
with a wealth of experience in this field, our products have been  well received in variety of markets worldwide.
established in 1992, ta shun has built internationally standard workshops,  refrigerated warehouse and advanced processing equipment.
our scope of  business: - making many kinds of balls such as soccer-balls, volleyballs,  handballs, medicine balls, etc from original and synthetic leather by hand-sewn  technology.
the company goal is to break into north america and some other asian countries with target sales turn-over of $ 3.7 million usd in 2010.
this is indicated through activities of personnel training, quality control, updating new regulations, standards of all important markets, satisfying all food hygiene and safety requirement in accordance with gmp, ssop, haccp & iso 9001:2000sqf 2000 simultaneously.
we have exported to some oversea markets such as india, pakistan, the philippines, japan with average yearly sales revenue of $1.5 million usd, and every year we contribute over $ 80,000 to local state budget.
with a remarkable monthly production capacity of 20 containers and the company's precept as "customer first, quality foremost, competitive price, satisfied service", coseafex looks forwards to your cooperation and developing with all customers.
moreover, we not only serve local market but also have relation of export business granite and marble's products to america, australia, taiwan, japan, china, laos, cambodia company's products meet the international standard, classification and various models, plentiful colours which used for varied purposes such as interior, exterior decoration, civil architectural project, handicraft wares.
we are now looking forward to even greater  cooperation with overseas customers based on mutual benefits.
the area gathers most talented art craftsmen and skillful labour source as well as being the centre of material provision.
dien quang lamp jsc.
we regularly review our production and quality management system to ensure a high level of customer's satisfaction mtb garment import- export co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
in addition, dien quang continues to expand its product  offering with many kinds of fluorescent lamp, incandescent lamp, ballast and  electrical accessories.
established in the highland province of kon tum, vietnam in 1995, duc nhan  enterprise now owns three factories located in the so-called cradle of wood  processing industry areas in vietnam: kon tum province, binh dinh province and  binh duong province.
striving to provide customers with the best quality is caseamex's mission.
- components used for electric  companies we prefer partner of a lot of companies of automobile,  motorcycle, electronic devices industries in vietnam.
with the said efforts, we have been accessed and found to be in accordance with the requirements of the quality standards: haccp quality control system.
we are able to manufacture the product exactly according your  customized specifications.
we have gained a certain market share in europe, asia domestic apparel market.
the company is to make every effort to keep clients at the head of the field in their production line by studying and supplying high quality products.
its annual revenue is nearly $1 million usd.
in order to promote and  bring marvelous herbal remedies to all end-users in vietnam and world-wide,  khoi nguyen made medical mushrooms products diversified under dried products  for long time keeping and under kinds of straining bag tea such as lingzhi tea  and houtougu tea.
rubber milk output has increased from 2,200  tons in 2004 to 5,680 tons in 2006.
it is a  labor of love, something of which we are extremely proud; for honesty, purity,  and producing great tasting coffee remain at the center of our core company
established in 1994, san hoang joint stock company has become the leading manufacturer of stockings under ueda brand which is very famous in vietnam.
company's quality control department has  been recognized to comply with iso/iec guide 25 since 1999.
good quality products, diversified  designs, together with competitive pricing, are what we believe that our  products will be a good choice for your market.
we have total three factories here with more than 160 employees.
to date, viet furniture has built up a good  work-force consisting of more than 150 skilled workers.
founded in 1964, we now are one of the most successful and biggest textile companies in textile the industry.
vinh tien paper co-operative is one of the largest manufactures of high quality student's notebooks and paper stationeries in viet nam.
recently, we have exported to usa on an initial order valued at $120,000 usd.
de phat trading & manufacturing co.,ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
our company's products are of high standard and quality.
an giang fisheries import export jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
at present, vinh tien occupies nearly 50% market share for filtered bag tea in viet nam and 20% tea bag export trade.
in  fact, now they have more than 600 skillful workers with two factories (slipper  factory and handbag factory) located in ho chi minh city.
our production is totally  lead-free and safe for daily use respecting the present rules in europe and in  the u.s.a.currently, we can service any retailer who is able to purchase a  minimum of one 20' container.
chotro's market is mainly domestic  through distribution at many supermarkets in vietnam and with famous national  distributors.
our new seafood factories and cold  storage are equipped with advanced processing and freezing systems with big  capacity.
on achieving the iso 9000 standard, we are taking the initiative in breaking into asean market and international market as well.
our catalogs consist of over 200 contemporary pottery designs in all sizes, shapes and finishes.
especially, we can engrave your logo, trade mark, and any shape swiftly and  precisely on products.
agifish products have met  the demand of consumers in many places around the world, from europe, america  and australia to asian markets including hong kong, singapore, malaysia, china  and taiwan.
the company has gained export revenue of $ 43 million usd in 2005 and $ 45 million usd in 2006.
we specialize  in manufacturing tube fluorescent lamps, energy saving compact, hid lamps,  incandescent lamps and electronics accessories.
we are the one of the biggest gum rosin producers in viet nam.
hong nhung co., ltd click on company name above for more detailed  information!
high quality, fashionable designs, punctual deliveries and prompt commitment as well as excellent sales service have made it possible for their products to be increasingly exported to the world market.
with long term development strategy as high quality, competitive price and respecting customer's ideas, our products are accepted and satisfy all strict clients in the markets.
tan long huy mechanical co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
a pure gac oil tablet contains  b-carotene of 190mg% (15,1 and 68 times higher than this in carrot and tomato  respectively, etc), lycopene, alphatocopherol of 12mg%, a lot of vegetable  lipid and micro-dose elements that are very necessary to the body.
nowadays, duc thanh  brand is represented in over 40 countries world-wide.
we have exported to japan, usa, europe, canada, hong kong, taiwan, korea,  australia & russia...
for repeated  orders, we can make delivery within 45days.
thai duong rubber jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
the company  has employed 500 people working at the two factories.
our products are produced by closed production technology according to iso 9001:2000 standard.
khanh viet corporation click on company name above for more detailed  information!
humoco, acronym for huong moi export  garment company, was established and has started garment production since 1986.
ruthimex became the first rubber company in vietnam to be granted the certification of the quality management system iso 9002:2004 in march, 1999 and then iso 9001:2000 in march, 2002.
the company also has an sgs certificate from shanghai, china for its products.
koruco specializes in producing natural rubber kinds such as rss rubber, svr rubber.
one of its products, which is oriental bar soap, is exported to middle-east countries.
we have exported to japan, usa, europe, canada, hong kong, taiwan, korea, australia & russia...
we guarantee a firm place in the international market by asserting that "quality is first".
in 2006, our export revenue reached $ 10million usd.
taking advantage of our strength in vietnam, we wish to expand our export  market to many other countries all over the world more under oem products or  any form which helps tan dat viet build up the business relationship with you.
the company has 50 employees with wood processing factory of 3000 m2 located near the sea port where brings us convenience for shipment arrangement.
over  the past 15 years in wood processing industry, tan phu furniture has a good  reputation for stable quality products, competitive prices, and ability to  handle all big orders.
our quality control division oversees the start of the processes of manufacturing until the loading into containers for exporting.
utxi aquatic products processing co.click on company name above for more detailed information!
phong phu corporation is a state-owned company, member of  viet nam national textile & garment corporation.
phong chau co., ltd specializes in producing and  supplying all kind of art, household articles and gardening items.
we have presented and sold in diamond plaza shopping center, super markets and many shops under brand name label registered 'emsi'.
dong phuong knitting company specializes in manufacturing, trading fabrics and garment products, and we are a member of vietnam national textile and garment group (vinatex) under the ministry of industry.
established in 2000, hong nhung has facility in ho chi minh covering an area of 250m2 with 20 workers.
the company is organized with three main departments: accounting, production and sales departments.
established in 1986, tan tan is the privately owned coated peanuts manufacturer in vietnam with around 700 employees.
our products are now being exported to taiwan, japan and france, which are the markets that require the highest standards in food quality.
our main  products: + furniture: our products are made of natural wood and  industrial wood having good shape and with western designs available.
our products have been displayed  at more than 50 stores and agents nationwide and exported to various markets  such as denmark, german, norway, sweden, finland, united states, russia,  ukraine, etc. kico and kid's collection trade mark are registered and  granted by "2003 golden star award ", "fashion award" given  kico at the 2004 fashion fain.
founded in 1999, legamex now has 9 factories with total area of more than 34,000 m2 equipped with modern production lines.
come to us for long-term and stable business cooperation relationships.
so we could produce a higher product volume.
in addition, we have built 3 cold  storages to receive raw materials in buon me thuot, tay ninh and dong nai.
sodextoseco is a joint venture enterprise between vietnam and the french producing sports equipment with its factory located in the central of vietnam.
thus, a thorough knowledge of regional tastes is essential to please people's varied preferences.
the factories apply new production lines for processing  various dried and dried seasoned seafood products that we can supply  approximately of 35 tons of products per day.
established in 1995, tan dat viet co., ltd. is a professional manufacturer that is concerned with the production of a large range of high quality plastic vacuum formed packaging such as food containers, clamshell, cups, lids and trays applied for foodstuffs, electronics and other industries.
our company mission is to  promote environmental enlightenment and conservation through the production  & distribution of ecologically conscious products, and by contributing to  the alleviation of poverty in vietnam by providing year round employment for  seasonal workers.
in addition, dien quang continues to expand its product offering with many kinds of fluorescent lamp, incandescent lamp, ballast and electrical accessories.
established in 2001, phuong dong seafood co., ltd is a young, but professional, dynamic manufacturer, packer and exporter of fisheries products.
in addition,  we have exported our products to more than 10 countries in 04 continents such  as australia, france, norway, great britain, sudan, japan, singapore, malaysia  and cambodia.
tuan hien button co., ltd.
we launch 4 new models of bag every month.
viet nam plant oil and food processing co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
- production weight of tarpaulin : 67g/sqm to 260g/sqm -  construction: 7x7/sq.inch to 16x16/sq.inch - denier: 650 denier to 1200  denier - color: as per customer's request vinamit trading co., ltd.
at present, we have a professional and efficient management team with more than 150 skilled employees.
established in 1990, perubco is expert in manufacturing technical rubber products.
with our professional experience in this field we ensure that we can  supply you the best quality products with most competitive price of all kinds  of seafood from vietnam.
phong chau co.,ltd click on company name above for more detailed  information!
established in 1980, the company has invested in modern technology equipments to apply automation in production for high quality products.
establishment in 2004, huong nam enterprise has a processing factory of  5000m2 in dong nai province which is equipped with machines of germany  technology.
producing that memorable cup of coffee is a complex process, with no two tastes being the same.
hong hanh fish sauce enterprise click on company name above for more  detailed information!
in particular, our products are backpacks,  carpet-bags, school bags, girl bags, wallets, purses, hats, etc. with  more than ten years of experience, modern machines and over 300 high  performance workers, dan phuong's products satisfy totally customer' needs.
over the past years, hung phat has built up  a wide distribution system consisting of over 100 distributors and 10,000  retailers throughout vietnam, and our products have been exported to america,  australia, and canada, german, france and asian markets as korea, japan, hong  kong.
established in  1999, we are recognized as one of the leading companies in this industry in  vietnam market.
- garments: disposable underpants, ball-shirts and jackets, safety working clothing dong anh mechanical companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
phong phu corporation click on company name above for more detailed  information!
established in 1995, nacowood now has 4 member companies as follows: 1.
hung dai duong established in 1993, hung ocean co., ltd. is the  biggest supplier and manufacturer products made from granite and marble in viet  nam.
hand crafted work accounts for up to 50% of the production  cost of each item.
agifish is a strong trademark of one of the leading companies of vietnam producing seafood for export.
the company has 50 employees with wood processing  factory of 3000 m2 located near the sea port where brings us convenience for  shipment arrangement.
the company is applying iso 9001:2000 in  production, and our products are in compliance with japan standard (jis).
established in 2003, hai hiep phong co., ltd is a  manufacturer of all kinds of bags, rucksacks, schoolbags, etc. with  the brand of ronal, we have been aiming the domestic market as our rival  target.
established in 1999, vietnam chian  shyang enterprise co., ltd is a foreign direct investment taiwanese  manufacturer of screws and wires in vietnam.
located in quang minh  industry zone covering an area of 15,000 square meters, our factory is equipped  with modern technology production lines imported from united states, japan,  italy, and germany and more than 300 workers.
established in 1990 in ho chi minh city, tan phu  furniture is a premier wood processing company.
our quality control system is adequate and exact.
-  handicraft trading.
- vina tarpaulin has been producing p.e tarpaulin related products such as:  p.e roll goods (1.83mx200m, 2.00mx100m,etc as per customers request) and  tarpaulin products being ideal for construction material coverings,  agricultural products coverings, automotive coverings, outdoor furniture  coverings, gardening covers, pool covers, etc.
our product lines are aloe vera juice, diced aloe vera gel, aloe vera for manufactured process.
- trader, sales agent, consignment dealer of production materials, consumer goods.
please feel free to contact us for more information.
kim viet company limitedclick on company name above for more detailed information!
our production is totally lead-free and safe for daily use respecting the present rules in europe and in the u.s.a.currently, we can service any retailer who is able to purchase a minimum of one 20' container.
viet tien manufactures many types of products such as: sport wear in micro  fiber, casual wear in cotton polyester, city wear in lain, jogging, anorak,  ski-wears, pu, nylon, linen kaki, parkas, bermuda shorts, lady blouse, denim,  oxford, taffeta, viscose polyester, kaki, jeans, parkas, shirt, men and women  suit, trousers, skirt viet tien has 3 brands: - viet tien: the  viet tien trademark with logo of triangle shape is created from two letters vt.
- france: melcosa - japanese: gunze, sumitomo, shinko, three bambi, shikosen cara - korea: apex global, korviet, comars, cachee vina with annual production capacity of 5,000,000 products and good reputation in garment industry
cau tre enterprise (cte)click on company name above for more detailed information!
- materials: all above products made from camo-grass (la  buong).
with yearly production capacity of 5,000 jackets, humoco wishes cooperation opportunities with customers worldwide.
the company temporarily has more than 100 workers working in a factory  equipped with automatic production lines and machinery of taiwanese technology.
established in 2003 by mr.  luong truong tho, a famous artist painter of vietnam, hiep phu tho company is a  manufacturer of wooden handicraft products.
we specializes on children wear (size from 2 years to 14 years old), ladies fashion, uniforms, outwear...
vinamit has built distribution networks in many countries like china, taiwan, malaysia, singapore, hong kong, thailand, the philippines, japan, the united states, ukraine, france and some european countries.
firing at high temperatures, our products  can be used both indoor and outdoor.
we specialize in manufacturing, trading, importing and exporting products processed from vegetable and animal oils, fats, oilseeds; spices used for food processing industry, sauces and instant food products nearly 30 consecutive years of building and development, till now with the advanced machinery system and processing technology, tuong an has total capacity of 350,000 tons per year, including 03 factories equipped with advanced technology imported from japan, the united states of america and eu countries.
our yearly  production capacity is over 6,000 tons of finished products.
thanks to this new enhanced product,  big companies such as hudsand lock and imc have visited the company and started  to secure orders for its us market.
these achievements are owing to the  dynamic and creative management, courage in thinking and doing, combination of  intelligence, capacity and consensus union of whole personal of the company.
in order that our products be accepted and  gain prestige in such a hard market as united states, we are aggressively  implementing hacpp management in production to meet standards of food safety  and hygiene, and have fda approval from the u.s. with monthly capacity  of 20 teus and an excellent reputation obtained over the past years in the food  processing industry, we wish to develop a prosperous business along with  customers worldwide.
is it different from other industrial wood  processing manufacturers, products produced by hiep phu tho company request  skillful work that it can not be done by the others with industrial production  lines.
established in 2004, ca mau foods & fishery  export joint stock company (ffc) specializes in frozen shrimp processing for  export.
established in 1999, viet hung handicraft ltd  specializes in producing lacquer ware, furniture, arts, lamps and other  accessories.
koruco products are mainly for domestic market; the  gross profit growths from $ 2.2 million usd to $ 4.13 million in 2006.
dong phu rubber co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
our  main markets are european countries, united states, australia, middle east and  asian countries with annual sales revenue of $ 10 million usd.
products  specifications: - leaf umbrella: h 2.8m x w 1.2 m - leaf tent: h 1.4 m  x w 1.2m x l 2.4m - roof sheet : w 1.2m x l 1.2m
moreover, we  also have three workshops in ho chi minh for the introduction of products to  the market as well as build up the opportunity to introduce our products to  foreign clients who want to find any business with our product.
saigon packaging jsc. (sapaco) click on company name above for more  detailed information!
board of  management consists of 1 director, 3 deputy directors, and the company has 2500  employees with 4500 farmers.
our goal is to  develop our export markets focusing on countries in europe and north america.
binh minh plastics joint stock company  (bmplasco) is a state owned enterprise directly belongs to vietnam ministry of  industry.
according to experts in  this field, vinh hao mineral water is to be in no way inferior to other famous  products over the world such as evian (french), san.
established in 1984, tan dai hung plastic co.,  ltd is one of the leading manufacturers of polypropylene woven bags in vietnam.
we strive hard to maintain our position as a specialized supplier of kinds of cuttlefish, squid, octopus, fish, clam, shrimp and other processed food.
diversified in different product kinds, best in quality and reasonable in  prices, we have gained the trust of the traditional customers and their records  of faith in business.
minh chau co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
established in  october 2003, viet furniture has steadily expanded its operations with a  primary focus on indoor furniture.
established in 1978, ruthimex has over 25 years experience producing rubber products for industrial application.
other products such as diamond tools, concrete blocks are mainly for domestic market.
we are in honor to be authorized as main  provider of all kinds of electric wires for not only such reputed companies as  power company of ho chi minh city, power company ii, power company iii, and  other power companies in provinces in vietnam to server works electrifying all  provinces and remote areas but foreign and local companies in industrial parks  in vietnam.
established in 1992, minh chau co, ltd. has provided more than 100 high-ranking fashionable products branded emsi to customers.
we have exported products to countries in asia, eu, u.s with average annual  output of 15,000 tons.
- soft drink based on mineral water with co2: lemon, orange, sarsi flavor  in plastic bottle.
as a result, vinamit's products quickly win customers at home  and abroad, with a growth rate of 30-50% year on year.
with an american automatic production line installed in 1988, its output capacity was 30 million liters in a shift per year.
phuong dong seafood has passed haccp, gmp, halal authentication and registration of e.u. successively.
quality is the foundation of our business.
established in 1990, sodextoseco  has more than 15 years of activities in the field of manufacturing, supplying  and installing sport professional equipment, a profound possession of  experiences and know how, a transfer of technology by our french partners  (filma sport s.a / sarl sodex international) as well as taking care of  after-sales services for sport equipments.
the company has well-trained  and skillful experts supporting partner farmers.
whole cleaned baby octopus, cutting octopus.
when you buy thu ha brand coffee you can be confident that it will contain only  our pure coffee, with its signature bitter sweet taste.
all  products are completely handmade thanks to the skilled hands of our  professional craftsmen.
your co-operation is of great support for us, and our company proves to be a credible business which you will be fully satisfied with.
duc thanh exports 95% capacity to japan, eu, america, and others with more than 1000 different kinds of products.
nam a footwear company has been one of the  leading companies in vietnam producing foot-wear since 1984.
boiled baby white clam, yellow  clam.
the company's goal is to become the leading  manufacturer of rubber tires, rubber tubes not only in vietnam but in east  asia.
at thu ha coffee we strive to produce coffee that will give you that perfect cup of java.
hanatex's services both domestic and oversea markets with an annual capacity up to 12,000 tons and an annual revenue of $40 million usd.
north asian distribution produces wooden flooring and door and window frame.
they are used for household utilization and also for decoration as well.
vinamit trading co., ltd. was established in  1991 and specializes in production and trade of dried fruits such as jackfruit,  banana, sweet potato, taro, mango, pineapple, etc.
the furniture made in our factories is predominantly the classical european-style furniture collections such as ashton, buckingham, coopers creek, diamond, hamilton, park more, portugal, penrose and scotland.
- handicraft trading.
dong anh mechnical company has  been the main supplier for cement, electric factories in vietnam, and they have  already exported and produced oem products for clients in canada, usa, italy,  japan, korea, thailand, ghana with company total annual sales turn over of $  16.5 million usd.
we hope to have the opportunities of cooperating  with friends around the world.
with modern technology, our company has introduced to the market several products including nutritious natural refreshments, aloe vera for dessert, for preparing foods and diet refreshment for diabetes.
our  products include baby bags, briefcases, lady bags, travel bags, luggage, travel  rucksacks, hats and wallets.
established in 1986, tan tan is the privately  owned coated peanuts manufacturer in vietnam with around 700 employees.
those are instant, cheap, convenient, nutritious food with original vietnamese flavor.
hand crafted work accounts for up to 50% of the production cost of each item.
vina tarpaulin inc continues developing various tarpaulin  applications for your convenience and to help your successful business,  striving to be the biggest tarpaulin manufacturer in the south east asia.
sadakim specializes in producing products made of steel and cast iron  with the weight from 1kg up to 7000kg, mechanical fabrication, forging, heat  treatment.
the factories apply new production lines for processing various dried and dried seasoned seafood products that we can supply approximately of 35 tons of products per day.
to meet those needs we have developed 12 different coffees; ten for vietnamese preferences and five for our foreign customers.
in addition, we have many distributors in many provinces nationwide.
kim viet company limited won the v-golden prize and has  been proud to be designated as a good key handicraft supplier to north america  by the vietnam chamber of commerce and industry (vcci).
with international quality standard and capacity of 15,000 tons/ year, we are proud of being one of the leading manufacturers and supplier in vietnam when keeping 85% the total domestic market and exporting over 1,000 tons per year.
hong nhung's noni juice is manufactured according to hawaii traditional know-how.
as a professional button manufacturer, tuan hien button company is committed to serving as the best cooperative partner of the garment manufacturers, and sincerely welcomes the presence of clients all over the world for business relationship.
to guarantee  quality, appc appoints professional and management experts in product design  and management.
our mission is to bring children useful lessons and creativeness through playing the educational wooden toys contributing ourselves into the country education.
we're looking forward to furthering our  future cooperation for years to come with more partners.
quang nam silk co., ltd is a company specializing in producing hand sewn embroideries on silk and taffeta, knitted dresses, pants, shirts and t-shirts.
we built up a factory of 9,039m2 with warehouse of 2,160 m2 and 200 workers.
the rest 40% of our products are sold in domestic market and have obtained many awards.
established in 1996, vinh tien now has produced 25  different kinds of herbal tea, fruit juices and wine.
the company has employed more than 200 persons for each factory.
thanks to this, we can test the physical properties of rubber parts with a high degree of accuracy.
delta sport co. ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
quality and food-safety are our primary concerns; therefore, our processing procedures are strictly monitored with "traceability program" to meet the high requirements of europe, japan, united states and other countries.
while, western preferences run to a more plain tasting coffee that is pure and mild.
vinh tien co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
we are a group of many well known  silk manufacturers from the quang nam province in cooperation with hand  embroiderers around ho chi minh city.
each year, we send many of our people abroad for  technological training and updates.
other vietnam factory trade missions for both private companies and groups are scheduled for the balance of 2008.
tan bien rubber company is one of the manufacturers of  natural rubber in vietnam.
khanh viet corporation (khatoco) specializes in producing  cigarettes, tobacco materials; filter rolls; packaging papers, envelopes,  notebooks; processing ready-garments; manufacturing machineries, equipment,  machine parts; supplying breeding ostriches, crocodiles, processing ostrich and  crocodile products; hotels, restaurants, tourist and entertainment services;  specializing in product fabric of high quality; corrugated cartons; paper for  packaging industry; football.
this one kind of plant only grows in binh thuan province which has  plentiful quantity to satisfy for big orders .
with annual output of more than 14,000 tons of natural rubber, we are looking forward to establishing friendly business relations with customers all over the world.
vinh hao products are consumed mainly inside vietnam the most strongly at central south vietnam, west mountain and south vietnam.
every year perubco has training programmers for engineers  and workers to study at our customers' factories in australia and japan, or to  participate in specialized courses.
khoi nguyen is striving to become one of the leading vietnam suppliers of various kinds edible and medical mushroom, processed food and herbal tea for domestic and oversea markets.
vinamit trading co., ltd. was established in 1991 and specializes in production and trade of dried fruits such as jackfruit, banana, sweet potato, taro, mango, pineapple, etc.
our products have  been exported to countries in eu, asia with annual revenue of $ 5 million usd  under hoang hau trademark.
sa giang import export corporation specializes in making various kinds of white prawn crackers, crab crackers, cuttlefish crackers, seafood crackers, fish crackers, high energy prawn crackers, vegetable crackers, etc.
our annual production capacity is 200 tons for japanese green tea, 1000 tons for vietnamese green and scented tea and 1000 tons for roasted coffee.
furthermore, we are able to expand production more to meet any customer order at big volume.
thuan hai trading and produce co., ltd is a young handicraft company in binh thuan province, central vietnam.
with annual production capacity of 1,000,000 units, our output scale and  technology provide up with the high market competitiveness.
in particular, our  products are aluminum cables, copper cables, steel-reinforced aluminum  conductors, non-corrosive aluminum cables (ackp), abc cable, underground  cables, solid wires, flexible wires, control cables.
agifish is a strong  trademark of one of the leading companies of vietnam producing seafood for  export.
dong phu rubber company was successfully granted the  international iso9001:2000 quality management certification approved by qms  (australia) and quacert (vietnam); therefore, our products are reliable.
export market  development is our goal in the forthcoming time.
with yearly production  capacity of 5,000 jackets, humoco wishes cooperation opportunities with  customers worldwide.
secoin co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
the key to the development and success of thu ha coffee has been the incredible quality, wonderful taste, and reasonable prices of our products, and thu ha coffee brand has been accepted in eu, usa, japan, korea, taiwan.
societe civile detudes des eaux mineral de  vinh hao company appreciated that the quality of vinh hao mineral spring was as  good as that of the famous french vichy mineral spring and thus started to  commercialize in 1928.
we have 2 frozen seafood processing  plants located in mekong delta, the heart of low cost but good quality source  of raw material with the total capacity of 14,000 mt/year.
tin thanh manufacturing and trading company limited was  established in 2000.
with factories and workshops occupying over 7,000 m2 land as well as modern facilities and equipment, vinamit is currently the largest company in terms of size in binh duong province.
we specialize in manufacturing tube fluorescent lamps, energy saving compact, hid lamps, incandescent lamps and electronics accessories.
vietnam tobacco industry has over the years  made intensive investments in modernizing technology and enhancing our  capacities in all fields of production with a view to improving product  quality.
in 2006, our export turn-over has reached $ 1million usd.
in 2006, our export turn-over has reached $ 700,000 usd.
koruco products are mainly for domestic market; the gross profit growths from $ 2.2 million usd to $ 4.13 million in 2006.
khoi nguyen also  successfully grew houtougu mushroom, a delicious mushroom containing 18 kinds  of amino acids, vitamins, ge metal for anti-cancer, and distributed it over the  supermarkets and retail systems in vietnam.
- many kinds of battery's  covers.
at the moment, our company expects  expanding our market to america & canada.
we are willing to do business with domestic  and oversea customers.
dieu thuong co.  ltd has a factory in dong nai province vietnam, producing all kinds of plastic  packaging products and other plastic related products as listed below: - pe (polyethylene, hdpe, ldpe and lldpe) plastic products such as: shopping  bags (t-shirt bag, rigid handle bags), garbage bags, disposable pe raincoat,  shoe covers, sandwich bags, hand gloves, table covers, durable food bags,  shower caps, wheel covers and pe aprons, zip-lock bags, industrial bags, suit  covers etc.
they have exported to such eu countries as  france, italy, germany, spain, etc.
in fact, khoi nguyen has been applying quality control strictly according to iso 9001:2000, haccp, and its products won golden v prize 2003 and they are considered one of lam dong province's specialities.
sadakim has been accredited with iso 9001:2000 by quacert and afaq.
founded in 1989, secoin is one of the first liability  limited companies in viet nam.
global safewear offers a wide range of services which we can tailor to your special requirements.
through over 20 years of experience in the fields of rattan, bamboo and iron.
viet tien garment company (vtec), established in 1976, is presently a production and trade company belonging to vinatex, specializing in garment manufacture, trade equipment, materials & accessories for the garment industry, household electric appliances & undertaking all services for delivering, receiving imported - exported commodities.
our products are currently presented in usa, eu, australia, hong kong, india.
at  tam chau, we commit to offer high quality products with excellent traditional  flavors and taste, as well as unsurpassed support services.
viet hung handicraft ltd.
benedetto and pellegrino (  italian).
in order to meet business scale, koruco now has 15 affiliated companies.
with 24 years of experience in processing rubber technology using  compression and injection methods, we deliver quality, cost effective products  to meet our customers' specifications and requirements.
song tien trading co., ltd.
our new seafood factories and cold storage are equipped with advanced processing and freezing systems with big capacity.
currently, we have blow molding machines,  injection molding machines, printing machines, label-sticking machines etc...
especially, we also supply  welding cables with rubber insulation for industrial use, rubber wires, cables  with high heat resistance for house hold appliances and tools.
established in 1980, the company has invested in modern  technology equipments to apply automation in production for high quality  products.
over 20 years in operation, nam a footwear js company  has been striving to meet all domestic and international markets with high  quality products.
- multi-layer bottles and pet plastic bottles for drink, food, health and pesticide, etc. - plastic products with high industry: tv cabinet, plastic components for air-conditioned, fridge, paint bucket and spare parts for construction.
vinh hao products are consumed mainly inside vietnam … the  most strongly at central south vietnam, west mountain and south vietnam.
besides sea products processing and exporting,  we also deal with importing essential items for industrial manufacturing  factories such as stainless steel, machinery, spare parts, chemicals... and  goods for consumption.
with more than 15 years experience in wood processing industry, savicorp is able to satisfy all your requirements, providing you with high quality products at competitive prices.
at the moment, our company expects expanding our market to america & canada.
prices range from low to high, but the quality is always excellent, and we know that you will find a type that suits you.
our products have been exported to oversea markets such as japan, australia, united kingdom, china, etc with annual sales revenue of $15 million usd.
world vina co., ltd.
our product is in increasing demand throughout the world as we use an exclusive process yielding the best tasting, purest and most effective noni fruit available anywhere in vietnam.
sai gon viet nam corporation (savicorp) is a manufacturer of furniture in vietnam.
the u.s.a and eu where quality and trademark prestige are always required strictly.
this system always increases yearly from 15%  to 20% in number of units.
- rubber parts  for oil, heat resistance... - components for: ctv, washing machine,  refrigerator, motorcycles...
our products have been sold widely in vietnam and exported to countries in eu, north america, asia and africa.
taking advantage of vietnam's natural resource, agrimex  wishes to expand its export business via valued trade co-operation with clients  all over the world who are interested in our products.
we will be  stationing at the processing plants that process your orders.
duc thanh has a labour force of  about 950 skilled workers, modern production equipment, and commitment to  continuously improving the quality of our products and increasing our variety  of models.
we have exported to the us, eu,  australia, japan, korea markets with an average turn-over of $ 10million usd.
phuong hanh co., ltd (fuhaco)click on company name above for more detailed information!
in particular, we specialize in manufacturing kinds of stainless  steel water tank, sink which are for industrial application and household  application.
dongnai garment joint stock company (donagamex)
founded  in 1999, legamex now has 9 factories with total area of more than 34,000 m2  equipped with modern production lines.
thanh cong paper and stationery co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
ring squid, fillet squid, squid tube.
duc nhan's main export markets are european and north american countries with export turnover that reached $ 7 million usd in year 2005.
working with coseafex, we bring our clients the following advantages.
we exported 80% of our production capacity to foreign countries in europe, america and japan which are considered our traditional markets.
huong moi export garment co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
applying and maintaining  efficiency of iso 9001:2000 quality management system is our commitment to meet  the increasingly demands of customers and bring the most satisfaction to them.
of particular note is the fact that vinataba imex has imported the first tobacco threshing plant into vietnam since the early 90's.
world vina has already exported products to many countries such as germany, france, america, japan, taiwan, korea, canada thanks to reliable, high standard products.
our products are believed not only good design  but good quality as well.
with the achievements obtained, we have had the honor to receive bvqi, gmp  certificates as well as various awards like golden star award, brand golden cup  2005, etc.
the company has annual sales revenue of $100,000 usd.
in addition, images and characters of the  item are made from 10 different wood families such as rosewood, teak, fruitwood  kingwood, ebony to achieve the desired effect.
the company now has 3 factories which are covering a total area of 3000 square meters with more than 100 workers for each factory and equipped with the most modern laser machinery imported from italy for an average monthly production capacity of 20 million products.
for overseas, we are exporter of t-shirts, polo-shirts, underwear,  and we supply knitted fabric, especially of 100% cotton materials for garment  manufactures.
viet-lao forestry company, specializes in wood material purchasing,  afforestment, preliminary treatment in laos; 3.
the company is stable and regularly profitable.
only the finest natural products are used in our noni health  supplements.
the three factories are all equipped  with modern technology machinery, cold storage and other related facilities  imported from japan.
the company  has established a distribution system covering provinces and major cities in  vietnam.
asia canned food import export co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
vinamit is very proud of its highly  qualified people working in different divisions currently, export  represents our key business operation.
mechanical engineering & metallurgy factory (sadakim) click on  company name above for more detailed information!
we server our customers with our best commitment, meeting delivery date as well as excellent sale services.
, we sincerely wish to form business relationship with traders and  sourcing companies in vietnam and abroad.
in 2003, minh hung plastics was awarded  the certification of international quality management system iso 9001-2000 by  quacert.
we have  gained excellent reputation for high quality products, competitive prices, and  fast delivery in domestic and oversea markets.
founded in 1993, kinh do specializes in producing  cookies, snacks, crackers, chocolate, candies, pie, cake, puff, bread, cream  cake and moon cake.
established in 1992, nguyen hoang exim co., ltd. is believed one of the leading companies specialized in producing garments of kid' fashion, ladies' fashion and work-wear in the north of vietnam.
established in 1988 by farm model, hoang hau dragon fruit farm co., ltd has been the leading business in producing and trading dragon fruit for export and we proudly say that we are one of the biggest dragon fruit exporters in vietnam hoang hau has now owned more than100 hectares of land by 2003 in which 70 hectares are used to plant dragon fruit.
minh phuc manufacturing and trading jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
chian shyang enterprise's products have been export to asian and european countries with various kinds of crews, shafts applied for motorcycle, automobile, furniture, and other applications.
our products have been exported to russia, france, germany and australia.
economical-on time, perfect  service.
these products still keep their original vitamin content after being processed to meet the consumers' nutritious demands.
with its rather modern and completion equipment together with the force of over 1,000 skilled workers who are regular trained and instructed, we are able to meet and satisfy any strict requirement on quality, quantity and delivery time .
we have gained an excellent reputation for high quality products, competitive prices, on time delivery.
our company asset is a group of professional technicians and product development personnel who possess strong product designing and innovation capabilities.
long dai forestry industry (filoco), a state owned company, was established in 1982 in quang binh province.
almost 60% of these machineries were imported by  vinataba imex.
through  surveying foreign markets and participating into the international exhibitions  in singapore, thailand, south africa, etc.
our goal is to develop our export markets focusing on countries in europe and north america.
the company also obtained a certificate of  quality issued by metro cash & carry vietnam.
established in 1984, tan dai hung plastic co., ltd is one of the leading manufacturers of polypropylene woven bags in vietnam.
in addition, we have also conducted oem products for specific requirements.
( nacowood co.,ltd.) is one of the top leading companies specializing in wooden flooring and some other related forest products in vietnam.
the company has kept on investing new technology for better and stable quality to maximize end-users benefits.
we are a member of vietnam general rubber corporation.
in addition, we are also able to repair and produce machine parts  which have a diameter up to 1,100mm and the length up to 3,000mm, spur  gearwheel with ~ 800mm in diameter, module 10, complicated parts with high  accuracy.
therefore, we can assure a  constant supply of fresh black tiger shrimps throughout the year while  maintaining with competitive price.
huong nam production -trading - export/import enterprise click on  company name above for more detailed information!
huy hoang co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
pham nguyen's products have been awarded "vietnam product of high quality" for many successive years by end-users and are presented at most of the cities and provinces nationwide.
in 2006, our export revenue is $ 2million usd.
huong nam production  - trading import export enterprise specializes in manufacturing, blending and  distributing premium vietnamese gourmet coffee and tea under s-fla brand.
phuong summer has expanded its market to overseas and its products have been exported to united states, canada, europe, taiwan, and australia.
we know that we've been successful when all our customers feel they were satisfied with our products and services.
thanh binh co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
paper-based packaging,  aluminum foil and labels manufactured by minh phuc are high quality and  supplied for various industries such as pharmaceutical, tobacco, wine and beer,  confectionery, processing agricultural and seafood products, and others.
thong nhat rubber company (ruthimex)click on company name above for more detailed information!
the factory is  equipped with the advanced equipment and put it into operation in 2000.
our products have been exported to many countries in the world.
north asian material  trading company specializes in trading wood material; 4.
baruco is striving to become a  prestige natural rubber supplier not only in east asia but also in the world,  taking advantage of rich natural resources of vietnam.
nowadays, duc thanh brand is represented in over 40 countries world-wide.
please visit  www.vietfurniture.com
in fact,  ruthimex has customers such as suzuki, sanyo, sony, isuzu, water supply, etc.  and have exported to the following oversea markets: australia, new zealand,  japan, usa, england, malaysia, france and thailand.
if you take interest in our  products, please contact for any of your specific requirement or  specifications.
to take advantage of huge potential of  vietnam natural rubber industry, koruco is going to develop consuming market to  overseas and looking forwards to business co-operation with foreign partners  worldwide.
especially, we can engrave your logo, trade mark, and any shape swiftly and precisely on products.
at present, delta sport has exported products to hungary, sweden, denmark, mexico, and we are now penetrating north american countries as usa, canada.
we control the entire process from growing to bottling according to iso 9001:2000.
being effort in providing high quality products, excellent service, competitive prices and prompt delivery, we are now looking forward to even greater cooperation with overseas customers based on mutual benefits.
we specialize in manufacturing different kinds of garment product, label, footwear designed for export and local market.
taplast, acronym for tan phu plastic joint stock company  is one of the leading and prestigious manufacturers in plastic industry in  vietnam.
duc nhan enterprise click on company name above for more detailed  information!
from synchronously investing about the processing technology as  well as the quality control system, product of caseamex have been exported to  the markets: usa, eu, canada, australia, hong kong, korea, singapore, malaysia,  china, thailand, middle east, russia with average annual turn-over of $ 38  million usd.
founded in 1995, phuong summer has brought more than 10 years of experience in  producing glazed pots, vases, figurines, plant stands and other fine hand-made  pottery to make its products distinguished and multi-purpose compatible with  indoor and outdoor arrangements.
dai hong phat ceramics, a private company, was established in 1998.
our comparative advantages: - an experienced and professional team of quality-controllers assures best products from standard to high quality - an efficient system of cost control offers best prices - high productivity and capacity to guarantee on-time delivery - good services and prompt actions as to your requirements - customer designs and tailor-made solutions according to your specifications sd wooden toys enterpriseclick on company name above for more detailed information!
it also includes hundreds of  designs for vases, figurines, stands, stonewares and tablewares.
one  of the advantages of chotro is the technology, the exclusive functionalities of  resist skeleton key, the stainless steel material and the flexibilities of the  company's strategy.
ta shun corporation is one of the most famous processors  in viet nam in processing dried and dried seasoned seafood.
north asia company click on company name above for more detailed  information!
in addition, we are also able to repair and produce machine parts which have a diameter up to 1,100mm and the length up to 3,000mm, spur gearwheel with ~ 800mm in diameter, module 10, complicated parts with high accuracy.
agifish products, especially pangasius (basa) fish, have been exported to many countries around the world.
established in 1992, head office in ho chi minh city, savicorp produces mainly indoor furniture, outdoor furniture and other wooden articles made of domestic materials from various natural materials such as natural wood, ebony, red wood, etc.
the current distribution  system consists of more than 150 official distributors and more than 40,000  retailed stores in the nationwide.
in addition, we have exported bean coffee, tea to some countries such as united states, canada, britain, france, singapore, australia, etc.
an lac footwear joint stock company specializes in manufacturing & exporting kinds of products such as canvas shoes, safety footwear lady shoes.
we manufacture all kinds of garment such as polo shirt, t-shirt, pant,  sport wear, jacket and polar fleece which have been exported to united states,  japan, taiwan, germany and korea.
we have established a distribution system covering all bookstores in vietnam.
as well as tarpaulin related bags: such as shopping bags, agricultural and construction equipments' carrying bags.
baruco now is a member of vietnam general rubber corporation and the vietnam rubber association.
in order to meet  increasing demand in the market, we have invested in building 3 processing  factories in nha trang, phu yen and danang with the total working area of more  than 10,000 m 2 .
we reached an average annual sales of $25 million usd and have formed  business relationships with nearly 800 companies in 50 different countries  world-wide.
all production processes are well-equipped with modern tools and produced by qualified and skillful craftsmen.
sao mai technology & technical ltd click on company name above for  more detailed information!
sa giang import export corporation  specializes in making various kinds of white prawn crackers, crab crackers,  cuttlefish crackers, seafood crackers, fish crackers, high energy prawn  crackers, vegetable crackers, etc.
they are processed strictly and perfectly by modern production lines  imported from foreign companies.
tuong an vegetable oil jsc.
we produce ceramics products such as terracotta, outdoor glazed, pots, outdoor ironstone pots; wooden furniture such as tables, chairs and zinc such as steel color, bubble design, etc. the categories of these products are special in designs, plentiful in colors, good in quality and reasonable in price.
tan tan has exported to worldwide such as united states, sweden, russia, the philippines, poland, japan, china, taiwan, hong kong, korea, thailand, singapore, cambodia, south africa, nigeria, etc.
"gac" fruit is understood as a heaven fruit in asia thanks  to its unique characteristic which is very good for human being.
our products  have been supplied for many factories locally and exported to some countries  such as australia, taiwan.
with monthly  production capacity of 15 containers together with gaining initiative in  material supply with 20 hectares plantation and processing factory of 3.050 m  2, vinh tien is in effort to expand export market more to other countries,  especially north american marketplace to take advantage of advantages from  vietnam.
detergent dishes dress, skirt edible mushrooms electronics accessories elevators exterior furniture eyeglasses fabric fabric figurines fish fillet fishery products fittings flower pots flower vases folding chairs folding furniture
the company has  annual sales revenue of $100,000 usd.
drc also has distributors in laos, cambodia,  singapore and italy.
70% of our products are for export most of de phat's products are requested to be done by hands to keep nature beauty.
vinh hao mineral water corporation was established with 3 major shareholders such as the people's committee of binh thuan province, saigon financial joint stock company (viet a bank) and tribeco company.
hiep tien company specializes in manufacturing households (table, chair, wardrobe, bed...), the indoor and outdoor decorative items made from bamboo, pressed, rolling bamboo, rattan, iron decor, water hyacinth, fern, banana leaf and wire...
in  addition, the company has also built a new factory of 3000 m2 at phu quoc  island for fish sauce manufacturing in order to raise the fish sauce output up  to 1,000,000 liters per year.
we are very pleased to have a chance to  co-operate and set up joint-ventures with any partners.
our products are subjected to apply for companies of electronics, ink and paint.
our products are  high quality soft bags which are applied for sea food, agricultural,  confectionery, foodstuffs, garment industries, etc. besides supplying  all kinds of customized plastic bags for many local manufacturers, we have been  expanded our market to international markets such as united states, germany,  holland, france, japan, korea, hong kong, australia, peru and africa, etc under  customized orders.
along with export activities, vinamit considers the local market as of great potential for doing business.
baria rubber company (baruco)click on company name above for more detailed information!
humoco specializes in manufacturing high quality garment.
eva (ethylene vinyl acetate resin) sandals, slippers, wooden slippers various in color and designs, raffia slippers, cork sandal, beach sandal, handbag, case please visit their website for further information : www.namafootwear.com.vn nastoma natural stone manufactoryclick on company name above for more detailed information!
we won the golden medal prize at vietnam industrial goods exhibition and have been listing at the directory of vietnam prestige manufacturers in 2005 and in 2006.
the primary goal of viet furniture is to introduce to the marketplace high quality furniture made in vietnam from recycled wood, plantation grown timbers & rattan.
tam chau co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
in order to meet increasing demand for furniture products and to take advantage of their strength in wood processing industry, duc nhan enterprise will cooperate with all trading partners to develop products more in europe and america.
the sales volume of  every period is almost twice higher than the last one.
we can provide the finest quality premium grade product at low prices, making our 100% pure traditional noni juice the best value on the market.
our annual is approximately 7 million different products.
established in 2001, the company has employed more than 40 employees working  and our products have been exported to united states, some of european  countries and japan with total annual revenue of $ 2.5 million usd.
in addition to production technology, we have also paid attention to human  resources development.
north asian  distribution produces wooden flooring and door and window frame.
song trang seafood company has been doing business in seafood industry for more than 10 years in vietnam.
established in 1983, cuong phat ceramics  specializes in providing retailers with a full-line of ceramic decorative  products at exceptional values.
in 2006, our sales revenue reached $ 3million usd.
our annual sales to united  states is $5 million usd.
approval  number dl205.
( nacowood co.,ltd.) is one  of the top leading companies specializing in wooden flooring and some other  related forest products in vietnam.
we are looking forwards to form business relationships with all partners all over the world.
striving for better value for our clients and market expansion, mechanical factory 83 continues to invest for the advanced machinery such as cnc machine, vertical machining center, line cutting machine, etc for high quality products as well as welcome all clients to our products or production ability for oem products building the relationship via business opportunities.
we welcome your visit to our factory and your valuable comments, in the hope that together we can co-operate to develop of a high quality market for the future.
vietnam tobacco import export company (vinataba imex) has been the leading company in tobacco industry since 1986 with head office located in ho chi minh city.
annual average revenue reaches $ 25000 usd.
they are processed strictly and perfectly by modern production lines imported from foreign companies.
phuong summer's mission is always in innovation for new designs, better quality and market development introducing vietnam's products world-wide.
founded in 1982, thuan phat has produced delicious, top-quality sauces and condiments for generations: - products make from soya bean such as soya sauce, tofu, etc. - phu quoc fish sauce, anchovy-paste fish sauce, ready-prepared "mam nem", pickled chilies, pickled shrimp of hue, salted shrimp paste hue, pickled papaya with shrimp, etc - hot spices such as chili sauce, satay, thai sauce, etc.
established in 1982, bitis has now evolved into a  group of 3 companies, central highland plaza, china business center, 11  branches, 4500 shops and agencies in viet nam and 20 offices in china, laos,  cambodia.
a delight to the senses and never a disappointment!
kon tum rubber company (koruco) is a state company established in 1984 with invested capital of $ 33 million usd.
established in 1983, agrimexco, acronym for agricultural forestry & fishery import - export company, specializes in supplying agricultural products, wooden products, fishery products and industrial articles.
we specialize in indoor and  outdoor dining sets mainly made from rubber wood and other import wood such as  oak, beech and maple.
phong phu corporationclick on company name above for more detailed information!
hong hanh's fish sauce products are made from anchovy of phu quoc island processed under traditional method without any chemical for food safety, compliance with haccp standard.
at present, our products have  located a firm position in the domestic market and are highly appreciated by  customers both at home and abroad.
mechanical factory 83, established in 1981, is a business  belonged to vietnam ministry of defense.
established in 1994, san hoang joint stock company has  become the leading manufacturer of stockings under ueda brand which is very  famous in vietnam.
at the same time, we continued to associate with sport gear company (taiwan) establishing lac cuong joint-venture company which specializes in manufacturing injected sports shoes with capacity of over 3 million pairs per year.
huy hoang production, commerce and service company (huy hoang lock) is one of the largest lock manufacturers in vietnam specializing in manufacturing all kinds of lock under elephan lock brand.
our factories are located in the center of the biggest black tiger shrimp  culturing area and are only 26km from tran de seaport - the biggest port for  fishing vessels in the region.
tan bien rubber company is one of the manufacturers of natural rubber in vietnam.
we are specialized in processing and exporting various kinds of frozen and canned sea products and aquatic products.
our mechanical department with competent engineers and skilled technicians manufactures the machine components and plastic moulds that helps us meet any specific order from clients at economical cost.
our annual  production capacity is 200 tons for japanese green tea, 1000 tons for  vietnamese green and scented tea and 1000 tons for roasted coffee.
dien quang lamp jsc. is one of the leading manufacturers in lighting industry with headquarter located in ho chi minh city.
co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
our key clients  are companies in the center of vietnam and oversea countries such as sweden,  spain, cuba ...
tan phu furniture co., ltd.
vietnam source canadian officesphone: +1-416-414-1908
mechanical factory 83, established in 1981, is a business belonged to vietnam ministry of defense.
our key export markets are united states, canada, european countries and asian  countries.
we will be stationing at the processing plants that process your orders.
lien anh production rubber co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
dong phuong knitting company specializes in manufacturing,  trading fabrics and garment products, and we are a member of vietnam national  textile and garment group (vinatex) under the ministry of industry.
duc thanh has a labour force of about 950 skilled workers, modern production equipment, and commitment to continuously improving the quality of our products and increasing our variety of models.
our products are big bags, pp box bags, pp woven bags, leno bags, raschel bags  and shopping bags which are for local and export markets.
we specialize in manufacturing different kinds of garment  product, label, footwear designed for export and local market.
we look forwards to build up business relationships with clients, trading partners all over the world.
our mechanical department with competent  engineers and skilled technicians manufactures the machine components and  plastic moulds that helps us meet any specific order from clients at economical  cost.
viet tien's production activities are diversified and arranged in specific companies.
we  warmly welcome clients and trading partners from all over the world to  communicate and negotiate, and wish friendly long-term business relationship  with you in the near future.
our products are  applied for industries such as drainage, water supply, electricity, postal  service and civil engineering.
a footwear js company click on company name above for more  detailed information!
phuc son viet international co., ltd.
our mission is to bring  children useful lessons and creativeness through playing the educational wooden  toys contributing ourselves into the country education.
we specialize in producing mineral water and soft drink; cultivating and producing spirulina algae in the form of drink and tablets and with having mud, mineral bath service in vinh hao, tuy phong district, binh thuan province, vietnam.
established in 1992, cau tre enterprise (cte) specializes in producing various kinds of seafood, processed products (value added products), tea and agricultural products as follows.
phuongdong seafood co., ltd.
thriving up together with the country development, secoin now boasts a grand office in hanoi, two factories in ha tay and hung yen, branches in saigon and other provinces, 63,000 m2 of factories and 250,000m2 of farms and gardens.
in 2007, the company has achieved $ 4.7 million usd as the total export turn-over.
we have already exported to united states, japan, germany, canada, france, swiss, etc. with daily production capacity is 45,000 meters of silk and 9000 product units of handbag, towel, pillow slip, shirts, etc.
we are specialized in processing and  exporting various kinds of frozen and canned sea products and aquatic products.
established in 1995, dieu thuong co., ltd is one of the leading manufacturers in vietnam, specializing in producing plastic products as well as garment processing.
we have a garment production  workshop of 800m2 in ho chi minh city with 100 people.
it also includes hundreds of designs for vases, figurines, stands, stonewares and tablewares.
in order to maintain and  strengthen such repute and meet strict requirements of markets, we have boldly  invested not only in synchronous equipments and most modern technologies; but  also in upgrading, building new premises and paying attention to environmental  hygiene issue as well.
thong nhat rubber company (ruthimex) click on company name above for  more detailed information!
beside the  current exported markets, kinh do is focusing to some new and large markets  such as china, africa, middle east, etc.
in particular, our products are backpacks, carpet-bags, school bags, girl bags, wallets, purses, hats, etc.
labor force : more than 9000 workers can tho import export jsc.
truong vui hand bag making companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
thanks to the potential of professional human resources as well as advanced equipment and facilities used for research and development, we always aim to the target "satisfying and meeting more than the customers' expectations", which is to our customers' benefit and also the foundation for the existence and development of thong nhat rubber company.
the quality management system under iso 9001: 2000 standards has been applied to production and trade for years in order to effectively carry out market development policies at home and abroad.
viet furniture co. ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
established in 1962,  hotexco specialize in manufacturing and processing, trading, exporting variety  of yarns and garment products such as jackets, shirts, working wear, trousers,  sportswear, children' uniform for domestic and overseas markets, importing the  essential materials (cotton fiber, polyester fiber, kinds of fabrics,  accessory) and equipment.
hanatex's mission is to provide high quality products  creating lasting value for their customers and shareholders and to translate  their successful growth strategy into high profitability for the  development of our business, we look forward to entering into business  co-operation agreements with all trading partners for penetrating such large  markets as eu and north america.
in addition, kinh do products have been directly delivered to customers throughout a network consisting of 12 kinh do bakeries, 1 shopping mall in ho chi minh city and 3 bakeries in ha noi city.
in the changing trend of the  marketable mechanism, many new products have been made satisfying the demands  of industrious meals for workers such as rice noodles, vermicelli, chinese  noodles, porridge, winged yam soup, rice paper.
exporting  artichoke tea and polygonum multi-forum tea with a small quantity to taiwan,  japan, france, and america initially, vinh tien has nowadays exported artichoke  tea and herbal tea such as bitter gourd tea, noni tea, refreshing tea, lingzhi  tea, etc to those countries, and the company has also penetrated into canada  and australia.
we warmly welcome all clients all over the world come to us for long-term and stable business cooperation relationships.
established in 1992, cau tre enterprise (cte) specializes  in producing various kinds of seafood, processed products (value added  products), tea and agricultural products as follows.
our products have been consumed widely in domestic market and exported to some oversea countries with annual sales of $ 10 million usd.
our primary products serve the electric power,  installation, civil construction and automobile industries.
agrimexco click on company name above for more detailed information!
established in 2003 by mr. luong truong tho, a famous artist painter of vietnam, hiep phu tho company is a manufacturer of wooden handicraft products.
these companies are divided into 2 main groups: the first group consists of about 20 factories that are 100% directly dependent on viet tien and the second group consists of venetian's child companies (more than 50% of capital belongs to viet tien), which are: dong tien, tay do, tien tien, viet ha and the rest part of this second group are companies that have considerable shares occupied by viet tien.
with an annual production  capacity of 10 million products, viet-tiep company continuously invests in  renovating equipment and technology for optimized products, production  expansion in order to meet the increasing demand of customers.
secoin has been granted iso 9001:2000 certificated by bvqi (great britain).
we have gained the belief and good reputation from worldwide clients such as tomo coporation in japan, akasha sarl in france, oa textile sa rte englisberg in switzerland, thai fashions and vosh international corp in united states, etc.
phong chau co.,ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
with modern technology, our company  has introduced to the market several products including nutritious natural  refreshments, aloe vera for dessert, for preparing foods and diet refreshment  for diabetes.
in the meantime, we welcome you to visit and negotiate  business with us.
with a wealth of experience in this field, our products have been well received in variety of markets worldwide.
viet tiep lock co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
all products are completely handmade thanks to the skilled hands of our professional craftsmen.
having strong labor force of 2600 workers together with  3000 tons output as yearly production capacity, tan bien rubber company is  striving for the expansion of export market to other countries, especially to  north american countries.
our main products are pe  & pp woven sack (laminated or non-laminated) used in dry food and  containers for products such as sugar, flour, starch tapioca, fertilizer, rice,  popcorn flour or shopping bags which meet export standards.
established in 1990, nastoma stone vietnam  specializes in marbles, made by machine pebble, river pebble, chips marble  stone, laterite stone.
vietlamps is the interior decoration product that is  invested, designed and produced by ourselves.
established in 1967, sa giang corporation now has two factories covering a total area of 20,000 m 2 equipped with semi-automatic machinery together with traditional devices.
duc nhan enterprise is one of the leading manufacturers of furniture products in the highlands of vietnam where they can take advantage of huge supply of good raw materials.
saigon packaging jsc.
duc thanh is the leading professional  manufacturer of household products made of rubber wood and acacia wood in  vietnam.
founded in 1986, bay hong hanh produce - commercial - service co., ltd. has become one of the leading fish sauce manufacturers in vietnam today under "phu quoc hong hanh fish sauce" trademark.
our company mission is to promote environmental enlightenment and conservation through the production & distribution of ecologically conscious products, and by contributing to the alleviation of poverty in vietnam by providing year round employment for seasonal workers.
- the factory is favorably situated near fish port and aquaculture areas in mekong delta therefore the quality and quantity of the raw materials for producing always meet market needs.
penro's products  has been used widely in large fields such as fishing, shipping, transportation,  packaging, agriculture, toys... others.
son ha group is the leading manufacturer of stainless steel products  in vietnam.
the company is applying iso 9001:2000 in production for stable quality products  and providing the lasting value to end-users.
the primary goal of viet furniture is to introduce  to the marketplace high quality furniture made in vietnam from recycled wood,  plantation grown timbers & rattan.
head office located in nha trang city in  central vietnam.
our company's products are of high standard and  quality.
in order  to meet business scale, koruco now has 15 affiliated companies.
our head office and factory are located in  long an province on an area of 20,000 square meters.
thuan hai trading and produce co.
vina tarpaulin inc is the leading pe tarpaulin manufacturer in viet nam producing both rolled goods and ready made tarps with side-sealing and grommets of various sizes.
in fact, khoi nguyen has been applying quality control  strictly according to iso 9001:2000, haccp, and its products won golden v prize  2003 and they are considered one of lam dong province's specialities.
based on the principles of credibility, equity and mutual-benefit, casum wishes to form business relationship with all clients all over the world.
the aloe vera planting in our farms is controlled carefully from the seeding to maintenance and harvesting in organic farming standards by experienced experts.
established in 1983, agrimexco, acronym for agricultural forestry  & fishery import - export company, specializes in supplying agricultural  products, wooden products, fishery products and industrial articles.
to meet any of your specific needs, we also produce products under customized designs.
at the first stage, we set up a factory manufacturing pp & pe packaging bags with an area of 38,000m2.
our products are  vases, trays, tea-sets, bowls, mugs diversified not only in materials such as  ceramic, rattan, neohouzeaua and bamboo but also in kinds of enamel.
with its tooling center, ruthimex has met all the customers' demands in  designing, making tooling and producing rubber products as required.
dai hong phat also sells globally from america to australia.
in particular, our products are aluminum cables, copper cables, steel-reinforced aluminum conductors, non-corrosive aluminum cables (ackp), abc cable, underground cables, solid wires, flexible wires, control cables.
benedetto and pellegrino ( italian).
we welcome all customers worldwide as well as foreign partners who are interested in joint venture with us to take the advantage of our resource over here.
dong phuong knitting company is a state owned company  founded in 1972.
we commit providing products at high quality, multiform design, reasonable price and considerate after-sale service.
dong nai garment jsc was established in 1975.
most of those products are made for export.
we work with our clients in product development, manufacture and comply with en471: 2003 and en340: 2003 standards.
scores of new machinery and equipment have been imported and put to use in many factories.
tuong an is granted quality certificate of  iso 9001, latest version 2000 by british bvqi.
faq member search are you sourcing a commodity or product: --select one -- commodity commoditized product products built to specifications select an item  from the list: --select one -- agriculture products anti-skeleton key locks  aquatic products backpacks badminton equipment bags bamboo basket balls  basketball equipment blanket bags body cream books bottle spray nozzles bowls  brick calcium carbonate candles candy boxes canned seafood products cd covers  ceramic chairs clogs coffee coffee extracts cosmetics cosmetics cups detergent  dishes dress, skirt edible mushrooms electronics accessories elevators exterior  furniture eyeglasses fabric fabric figurines fish fillet fishery products  fittings flower pots flower vases folding chairs folding furniture
at the same time, we continued to associate with sport gear company (taiwan)
originally from a french owned rubber tree  plantation named michelin founded in 1927, dong phu rubber company (doruco) now  is one of the leading companies specializing in natural rubber supplier in  vietnam.
legamex is a state owned company, and we are a member of vietnam garment association.
we wish to expand our export market and form business relationship with customers all over the world.
annually, we are able to produce 12,000mtof films, 500,000,000 bags for food and 2 billion of label sheets.
ffc's annual output is over 3,000 tons of  shrimp.
t-up is the trademark mainly for the international market with italian and japanese quality standard viet tien.
at the first stage, we set up a factory manufacturing pp & pe  packaging bags with an area of 38,000m2.
our goal is to deliver a wide variety of product lines,  continuously improve the quality as well as designs of the products to meet  customer's needs.
dai hong phat's tableware, plant pots, vases, promotional items, cups, teapots, and kitchenware are a few examples of the products that are primarily consumed in the european markets.
our company mission is to bring end-users high quality products, meet all domestic market needs.
we specialized in manufacturing handicrafts, creative designers and talented workers, our products have been exported to asian and european countries such as japan, denmark, germany, and spain obtaining annual sales revenue of $200,000 usd.
duyen hai foodstuffs processing factory  (coseafex) specializes in processing and trading high-quality shrimps, fish and  frozen seafood products for export.
through the  hands of our artisans, each piece is carefully hand-carved and hand-painted for  hours to provide the desired finish.
our creative expert team is responsible for plentiful and  sophisticated products, which have been accepted by the international market  and its customers.
dai hong phat increased sales by 30% from 2007 to 2008.
tan long huy mechanical co., ltd.
tan bien rubber company click on company name above for more detailed  information!
beside of export products under legamex brand, legamex also produces oem products for customers all over the world with particular volume.
we always care about  education.
caseamex is always ready to co-operate and associate with the domestic and foreign businesses in raising, processing and exporting seafood.
we have exported to some oversea markets such as india, pakistan, the  philippines, japan with average yearly sales revenue of $1.5 million usd, and  every year we contribute over $ 80,000 to local state budget.
world vina does its best to attain the customer's highest satisfaction using our wide experience in various designs, delivering the best quality products at a reasonable price.
especially, our goal is to break  into other markets such as south america, middle east, africa and russia beside  our traditional markets.
we have  total three factories here with more than 160 employees.
our goal is to be a global manufacturer and
appc co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
duc nhan's main export markets are european and  north american countries with export turnover that reached $ 7 million usd in  year 2005.
our production is  compliant with iso 9001:2000 to ensure the stable and high quality for our  final products.
our markets are both domestic and foreign.
established in 1999 with advanced  technology and modern machine imported from japan, denmark, and germany that  ensure the stability of products quality and meet international standard for  export by bqvi for iso 9001, penro's product brands such as 'king elephant',  'good catch' are registered and are well-known not only in vietnam but in  overseas as well.
tan tan peanuts co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
these achievements are owing to the dynamic and creative management, courage in thinking and doing, combination of intelligence, capacity and consensus union of whole personal of the company.
huong moi export garment co., ltd.
this one kind of plant only grows in binh thuan province which has plentiful quantity to satisfy for big orders .
our products have been exported to taiwan, china, korea, japan and canada with haccp authentication passed successfully.
we have gained a certain market share in europe,  asia domestic apparel market.
- capital : $1 million usd - current main markets : eu, america, asia - target markets : eu, north america its main products are for home and outdoor use.
global safewear co., ltd click on company name above for more detailed  information!
viet-lao forestry company, specializes in wood material purchasing, afforestment, preliminary treatment in laos; 3.
-  produce all kinds of products at customer request.
phu quoc is a famous place in vietnam where is rich of fish and famous  for fish sauce processing as a traditional business.
moreover, we have established complete control systems, thereby ensuring stabilized quality of our products.
- processed wood - wooden products from rubber tree.
located in dong anh town, our factory is  covering an area of 20,000 square meters with more than 1000 skilled workers  and professional technicians and engineers.
- construction companies (for almost all bridges from south to mid vietnam) - foodstuff companies (saigon beer, vedan, sugar and milk manufacturers).
the company has 350 employees, and our key export markets are usa, canada, denmark, australia, malaysia, singapore, taiwan, japan, etc. with annual capacity of 5000 tones in which 60% are for export and the rest 40% are for local market.
the company has a strong labor force of more than 100  well-trained workers working in a new factory covering an area of 20,000 square  meters, equipped with new technology machinery and production lines imported  from japan, korea, and taiwan.
please feel free to contact us for more details.
we are tradition customers of such well-known stainless steel firms as arcelor group, sumitomo, nippon steel, yusco, jindal, posco, tai han, tan eng, tung mung.
sadakim has been  accredited with iso 9001:2000 by quacert and afaq.
vinh hao mineral water corporation click on company name above for  more detailed information!
in particular, 50% of our output is for united states and the rest will be for asia and eu.
vina tarpaulin inc continues developing various tarpaulin applications for your convenience and to help your successful business, striving to be the biggest tarpaulin manufacturer in the south east asia.
- many kinds of battery's covers.
our main markets are domestic and oversea.
- trading and services: warranty services for all kinds of construction machine, repair vehicle machine, import special products for cement industry, old, etc. - joint-venture: joint-venture with sumitomo corp to be the owner of thang long industrial park.
established in 1977, we specialize in producing and supplying pet, pehd, pvc, pp plastic products applied for food, agricultural chemicals, mineral water and beverage industries: - hollow containers: can, drum, vessel, bottle for lubricant.
this system always increases yearly from 15% to 20% in number of units.
sao mai key export markets are  european countries, the usa and taiwan with a wide range of high quality  products.
we can assist in overall product design or revamp an existing product.
in particular, bmplasco has won many vietnamese as  well as international awards, and our products have been selected as  "vietnam's high quality products" in continuous eleven years  evaluated by customers.
societe civile detudes des eaux mineral de vinh hao company appreciated that the quality of vinh hao mineral spring was as good as that of the famous french vichy mineral spring and thus started to commercialize in 1928.
in fact, we are certified  by sam sung electronics and panasonic corporation.
we are striving to expand our position as an  innovative, customer-oriented technology company.
our quality  control division oversees the start of the processes of manufacturing until the  loading into containers for exporting.
duyen hai foodstuffs processing factory (coseafex) specializes in processing and trading high-quality shrimps, fish and frozen seafood products for export.
through the steps of  processing line cutting, boiling, drying, rolling, polishing... with the  skillful hands of the professional workers combined with the creative ideas of  the designers, the common day-use instruments such as table, chair, cupboard,  vase, basket, landscape pictures, candle holder and even the curtains become  alive and more beautiful, we bring you a fantastic beauty.
we  guarantee a firm place in the international market by asserting that  "quality is first".
raw material,  production lines, machinery imported from japan together with team of  professional employees, our products under trade name ueda is not only proud of  the top listed trade name about quality but creates new fashion line for  consumers as well.
with annual output of  more than 14,000 tons of natural rubber, we are looking forward to establishing  friendly business relations with customers all over the world.
hiep tien handicraft was authorized to be the supplier for ikea and many clients in germany, brazil, japan, australia, and sweden.
no matter what the size of your project, global safewear are committed to delivering a dedicated response every time hai hiep phong co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
sd wooden toys won the design award "golden -  v" in design competition hold by viet nam chamber of commerce and industry  in 2004 and the good design award (gmark) in asian design selection 2005 hold  in japan by japan industrial design promotion organization in 2005.
sodex toseco joint venture co.ltd click on company name above for more  detailed information!
in 2006, we have exported to taiwan and korea with sales revenue of $ 382,000 usd.
these products still keep their original vitamin content after being processed  to meet the consumers' nutritious demands.
donagamex specializes in manufacturing and supplying apparels; trading machineries, equipment and square parts of textile-garment industry.
our facility is fda registered and complies with haccp standards.
penro industries (vietnam)
we have launched various strategies for  distribution development in provinces and cities across the country in a bid to  satisfy highly increasing demands.
in addition, our products have been exported to overseas such as australia, usa, germany, taiwan.
we are able to manufacture the product exactly according your customized specifications.
hung dai duongestablished in 1993, hung ocean co., ltd. is the biggest supplier and manufacturer products made from granite and marble in viet nam.
click on company name above for more  detailed information!
- materials: all above products made from camo-grass (la buong).
we welcome clients both at home and abroad to come here and make cooperation with sincere, passionate and good services.
the company has employed more than 200 persons for each  factory.
dong anh mechnical company has been the main supplier for cement, electric factories in vietnam, and they have already exported and produced oem products for clients in canada, usa, italy, japan, korea, thailand, ghana with company total annual sales turn over of $ 16.5 million usd.
-  france: melcosa - japanese: gunze, sumitomo, shinko, three bambi, shikosen  cara - korea: apex global, korviet, comars, cachee vina with  annual production capacity of 5,000,000 products and good reputation in garment  industry
our products have been exported to eu, canada, singapore, malaysia, hongkong, korea, japan, middle east, russia, the usa.
perubco click on company name above for more detailed information!
siam brothers vietnam co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
phong chau co., ltd specializes in producing and supplying all kind of art, household articles and gardening items.
in 1990, we associated with laiyih footwear company (taiwan) to establish a joint-venture company specializing in manufacturing vulcanized sports shoes with capacity of over 4 million products per year.
- the factory is favorably situated near fish port and aquaculture areas in  mekong delta therefore the quality and quantity of the raw materials for  producing always meet market needs.
pd/pud, hoso/hlso black-tiger, white, pink, cat-tiger, yellow - dried product: shrimp, anchovy, roud scad, leather jacket, rice paper
our inspection will be taken from well - selected processing factories to final loading of delivery.
the peanuts from tan tan offer high quality protein and generous amounts of phosphorous, potassium, niacin, thiamine and iron.
moreover, our non-processing unit, utxi ecological shrimp enterprise, is responsible for shrimp culturing in our own farms and sharing culture areas.
phuong summer's mission is always in  innovation for new designs, better quality and market development introducing  vietnam's products world-wide.
we has serviced for many world class companies, and our products present everywhere in vietnam.
we are in the top  lists of our clients such as supermarkets, chain stores, and big brand-names  who need reliable suppliers with high and stable quality levels.
the company, founded in 2002, currently employs 80 people.
the rest 40% of our products are sold in  domestic market and have obtained many awards.
our customers diversely present from domestic to major international market regions such as eu, u.s, and japan with an annual sales turnover of nearly 80 million usd.
thu ha coffee private enterprise click on company name above for more  detailed information!
in particular, our products are kinds of oolong tea, japanese green, taiwanese green, green mixed with jasmine (jasmine tea), roasted coffee, etc. head-quarter is located in lam dong province, the center of tea plantations in the south of vietnam, with a total area of 3200 m2 including main offices, a modern tea and coffee showroom, and an elegant 600-seat restaurant.
our key customers : - vietnam posts and telecommunications group - hanoi audio - ben thanh audio in ho chi minh city - trang an confectionery ltd - hai ha confectionery ltd - especially, thanks to navta's support, we have just delivered to us the first 2 container shipment of trash bags sa giang import export corporationclick on company name above for more detailed information!
the company is applying iso 9001:2000 in production.
the company now has 3 factories which are covering a total  area of 3000 square meters with more than 100 workers for each factory and  equipped with the most modern laser machinery imported from italy for an  average monthly production capacity of 20 million products.
we are pleased to welcome both  domestic and foreign companies to co-operate with utxi aquatic products  processing company in farm raising, investing, processing, and exporting of our  products.
vietnamese, for instance,  favor a bitter sweet taste which is not sour.
thuan hai's main products are rattan, bamboo handicrafts, roofs, umbrellas,  tents from camo-grass, natural material serving for tourism field and buyers  from america for halloween holiday, and camping.
vinh hao mineral water corporation was established with 3 major shareholders  such as the people's committee of binh thuan province, saigon financial joint  stock company (viet a bank) and tribeco company.
tuong an vegetable oil joint stock company is  one of the leading companies in food and foodstuff industry in vietnam.
song trang seafood company has been doing business in  seafood industry for more than 10 years in vietnam.
our main products are pe & pp woven sack (laminated or non-laminated) used in dry food and containers for products such as sugar, flour, starch tapioca, fertilizer, rice, popcorn flour or shopping bags which meet export standards.
pham nguyen's products have been awarded "vietnam product of high  quality" for many successive years by end-users and are presented at most  of the cities and provinces nationwide.
at thu ha coffee we  strive to produce coffee that will give you that perfect cup of java.
in vietnam, we are able to produce special wires that have been imported from overseas over the past years.
you can find our products in the world's best known retail and department stores.
established in 1995, dieu thuong co., ltd is one  of the leading manufacturers in vietnam, specializing in producing plastic  products as well as garment processing.
established in 2004, ca mau foods & fishery export joint stock company (ffc) specializes in frozen shrimp processing for export.
we have exported products to countries in eu,  america and asia.
we  look forward to your co-operation for export market development as well as  technology transfer.
with constant improvements in quality and design, thuan phat's products have been presented widely in most of supermarkets in vietnam.
averagely, our annual sales growth is 50%.
our scope of business is producing and exporting wooden &  rattan products for wholesale & retail orders, designing &  manufacturing furniture according to customized orders.
at present, with a total capital of  21 billion vnd, we are successfully expanding their production network, plus  further investing in equipment utilization.
in 2006, the company sales revenue reaches $ 20 million usd.
our products have been exported to japan, united states, eu, korea, north africa, australia, hong kong, etc. with an average annual sale of $ 60 million usd.
we are a group of many well known silk manufacturers from the quang nam province in cooperation with hand embroiderers around ho chi minh city.
hiep phu tho woodhandicraft and furniture co., ltd click on company  name above for more detailed information!
our factories are located in the center of the biggest black tiger shrimp culturing area and are only 26km from tran de seaport - the biggest port for fishing vessels in the region.
our production capacity is 10,000  products per year.
we control the entire process from growing to bottling according to  iso 9001:2000.
dien quang is currently one of  the nation's largest and most respected names in the compact fluorescent  lighting industry, with more than 65% domestic market share.
vinh hao mineral water was officially appeared in vietnam market in october 1930.
our monthly capacity is approximately of 5000 bottles.
established in 2000 and officially put into production 2001, lien anh production rubber company specializes in producing all kind of natural rubber such as : rss 1, svr 3l, svr 5, svr 10, svr 20, svr low grade, compound rubber, etc.
in addition, we have built 3 cold storages to receive raw materials in buon me thuot, tay ninh and dong nai.
we are expanding our market into europe and america with the main products being sport nets and material sport accessories.
ordesco's scope of business is as follows : - producing detergents (soap, shampoo, body shower, washing fluid for dishes, perfume, cosmetics) - business services (detergents, beverages, consumer and household goods, industry and domestic use chemicals, cosmetics, foodstuffs, tobacco beer and wine, paper and packing)
- agent, commercial business and general services.
we specialize in producing cotton socks, sport socks, children socks and skinned stockings.
according to experts in this field, vinh hao mineral water is to be in no way inferior to other famous products over the world such as evian (french), san.
our products have been exported to  many countries in the world such as japan, middle east, hongkong, the  philippines, taiwain, etc.
kinds of silk woven by quang nam  silk are supplied to both local and export markets.
with a labor force of over 8,000 people, our company are  capable of manufacturing and exporting over 12 million products of footwear  including canvas shoes, slippers, sport shoes, lady shoes
we make every effort to establish a distribution system both in  nationwide and in some countries in the area such as singapore, malaysia,  thailand, etc.
since the innovation of the country,  agifish have become one of the leaders of vietnam sea products industry: export  turn-over and income have been increasing by years; the output has been beyond  8,000 tons of finished products for export.
duc nhan enterpriseclick on company name above for more detailed information!
with 15 dependent units and 6 independent units operating in different fields of business, khatoco has the total annual turnover of about vnd 4000 - 5000 billions.
the products have been distributed via our traditional customers such as smpt (michelin), saficalcan (france), tae young (korea), etc.
"stable and uninterrupted enhanced quality - reasonable price - prompt delivery" as the company business principle in combination with a strong labor force including hearted professional officers, skilled workers, we are expanding export market under oem products and wishing to form long-term and stable business relations with customers from all parts of the world.
the u.s.a and eu where quality and trademark prestige are always required  strictly.
thienlong artex, a newly-established company, specializes in manufacturing and exporting ceramic and handicraft items.
we commit providing products at  high quality, multiform design, reasonable price and considerate after-sale  service.
our products, at present, are displayed at all main distribution systems such as metro cash & carry supermarkets, coop mart, maximart, bookstores, and over provinces cities of the whole country.
our key export markets are united states, canada, european countries and asian countries.
located in quang minh industry zone covering an area of 15,000 square meters, our factory is equipped with modern technology production lines imported from united states, japan, italy, and germany and more than 300 workers.
all necessary inspections will be strictly carried out by our professional quality controllers in order to get the right quality and quantity you expect.
the three factories are all equipped with modern technology machinery, cold storage and other related facilities imported from japan.
tuong an vegetable oil joint stock company is one of the leading companies in food and foodstuff industry in vietnam.
founded in the early of 1960s, our  products have been taken a stable position with a big market share in viet nam,  affirming the superiority on quality and being in harmony with national and the  international standards.
dan phuong co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
with more than ten years of experience, modern machines and over 300 high performance workers, dan phuong's products satisfy totally customer' needs.
with today achievement, hung phat has invested in forming a strong personnel team including high skilled workers and well-educated professional management team, investing in study for various high quality products which meet standards of food hygiene and safety.
the products are divided into 3 groups depending on  the mineral content: one of low mineral, of medium mineral and high mineral.
their mission is to build up  a skilled and professional workforce for co-development, striving for  affordable furniture solutions by supplying eye-catching and diversified  products to meet all customers' requirement in vietnam and world-wide.
in an giang there are over 13,000  family farmers producing more than 50 percent of the total yield of the mekong  delta and the processing capacity is also growing fast.
our main export markets are singapore, cambodia, taiwan, eu  and our target markets are north america khoi nguyen limited company click on company name above for more  detailed information!
striving to provide customers with the best quality is  caseamex's mission.
in particular, we have exported 90% of our production capacity to the united states and other countries under oem products.
we are capable of  designing and developing various locks and hardware with high quality.
with their skillful hands and creative  minds, phong chau have generated individual products on colors and styles and  satisfied more and more customers' demands in the nation and foreign countries.
established in 2003, huong dang artistic handicrafts & lacquerwares co., ltd has been a well-known supplier of typical handicrafts for oversea wholesalers and retailers thanks to its creative, qualified and experienced technician and designer teams who are able to design all the models as to the client's requirements.
in 2006, we have exported to taiwan  and korea with sales revenue of $ 382,000 usd.
dai hong phat ceramics, a private company, was  established in 1998.
established in 2000, quyet mai plastic  enterprise has been in operation for six years mainly manufacturing plastic  products and manually installing household electric products.
more than 10 year experience in export business, nacowood's products have been accepted in japan and european countries.
established in 1987, we manufacture kinds of leather uppers and other leather items.
sao mai company is a private company specializing in manufacturing folding chairs, tables, furniture for schools, hospitals and offices in the north of vietnam.
consequently, duc thanh has a  strong track record of producing high-quality products and delivering on time  to exceed customer's expectations.
our main export markets are uk, france, the netherlands, germany, czech  republic, sweden, usa and some asian countries.
they look forward to co-operating with all trading partners for product development in eu, north america, and other continents.
over  many years in manufacturing and exporting garment product to international  market together with prestige we have gained, legamex desires to establish good  business relationship with customers who are interested in our varieties of  high quality garments and footwear or who are seeking a reliable partner for a  long-term cooperation and investment project for expanding export market more  to take advantage of our current capability.
viet furniture co., ltd. is a company working in the wood  processing field.
products manufactured by mechanical factory 83 are strictly controlled for good quality, and they have been substitutes for many companies, factories in vietnam in stead of importing from overseas.
tan long huy mechanical co., ltd. specializes in  manufacturing in manufacturing machinery and conveyor belts.
viet hung handicraft ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
agifish products, especially pangasius (basa) fish, have been exported to many  countries around the world.
furthermore, we have been exported to eu, usa, hong kong,  korea, japan, dubai, australia with $500000 usd turnover per year.
- frozen seafood produced from clam, octopus, sole fish, blue swimming crab... - processed food processed from materials of seafood, animal, agricultural such as spring rolls of all kinds, hacao, shaomai, shrimp paste on sugarcane, breaded shrimp, port, etc. - kinds of tea scented naturally such as jasmine tea, lotus tea, black tea, oolong tea, puerh, gohyah tea (bitter gourd)...
the company has expanded production by building up a new workshop in danang city, central of vietnam.
our factory covers an  area of 4,500m2 equipped with all machinery imported from japan with invested  capital of $ 100,000 usd.
our company has invested heavily in staff training and new technology to ensure the perfection of our products and efficiency in customer service.
the company has also promoted its products to other countries such as  united states, eu and other competitive countries such as china.
bich chi food company click on company name above for more detailed  information!
drc company, head office in da nang city, manufactures all kinds of rubber tires, rubber tubes, and technical rubber products.
binh tien imex corp pte.
established in 1983, cuong phat ceramics specializes in providing retailers with a full-line of ceramic decorative products at exceptional values.
global safewear takes pride in being your partner in quality.
the company  was founded in 2005 and now employs 15 full time workers and 300 part-time  workers.
in 1992 an lac footwear factory was  transferred into an lac footwear company belonging to the ministry of industry.
we are pleased to welcome both domestic and foreign companies to co-operate with utxi aquatic products processing company in farm raising, investing, processing, and exporting of our products.
our key clients are from singapore, france,  america, italia, australia, hong kong and india.
especially, our goal is to break into other markets such as south america, middle east, africa and russia beside our traditional markets.
dong phuong knitting co.click on company name above for more detailed information!
sodex toseco joint venture co.ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
duc nhan enterprise can provide customers with high quality products at reasonable pricing.
scopes of business: - manufacturer & trader of various kinds of footwear products.
delta sport products are produced under hungarian technology.
their main scope of business is manufacturing all kinds of shoes, clogs, slippers, sandals and handbags for export.
the peanuts from tan tan offer high quality protein and generous amounts of  phosphorous, potassium, niacin, thiamine and iron.
applying iso 9001:2000 quality  management system, we commit bringing customers high-quality products which  meets vietnamese and international standard such as iec, astm, bs, ul, as, jis.
with annual production capacity of 1,000,000 units, our output scale and technology provide up with the high market competitiveness.
viet furniture has expanded its market to european countries.
we offer you competitive prices, superior quality control and flexible minimums.
bitis is a private company specializing in assorted eva slippers, fashion slippers, beach sandals, leather & sport sandals and sport shoes.
along with export activities, vinamit considers the local market as of  great potential for doing business.
over 25 year experience in production, we now have nearly 100 product items including door knob-lock, wardrobe lock, padlock, hanging lock, cremone lock, safe lock, container seal lock, electricity seal lock, etc.
we are committed to providing you with a cost effective product made with  quality workmanship.
the company received an  investment from mekong enterprise fund (mef), a private equity fund known for  its demanding requirements regarding the management capabilities and track  records of achievements of the companies in which the fund invests.
they have been successful in penetrating other countries such as korea, taiwan, new zealand, mexico, portugal, hungary, etc.
established in 1966, bich chi specializes in producing  husked rice flour and various kinds of bean flour for domestic market.
at tam chau, we commit to offer high quality products with excellent traditional flavors and taste, as well as unsurpassed support services.
we wish to co-operate or do joint-venture with all  partners to take advantage of our strength, expanding export market to other  countries as well as north american marketplace.
established in 1999 with advanced technology and modern machine imported from japan, denmark, and germany that ensure the stability of products quality and meet international standard for export by bqvi for iso 9001, penro's product brands such as 'king elephant', 'good catch' are registered and are well-known not only in vietnam but in overseas as well.
our quality control department and modern machinery ensures production to the highest standard.
the  company continues to expand the trademark and product of the company, actively  research and develop product to new markets for export like japan, korea,  china, eu, south america and middle east in order to satisfy the growing demand  of our consumers, as well as integrating into the common trend of development.
established in 2003, appc co., ltd specializes in  manufacturing various kinds of plastic products such as plastic containers for  medicine caps, medical instruments, cosmetics, stationary products, food and  other relevant products.
with its tooling center, ruthimex has met all the customers' demands in designing, making tooling and producing rubber products as required.
the factories are equipped with the most advanced technology and  ventilation systems from korea with the capacity of over 10 tons/day.
our key customers are shigemitsu, itochu, nojima , sojitz, prosibel, weseta, pafo, plumor, metro/gemex, anvil, target, k-mart, sport-wear, matrix, dkny, liz clairborn, calvin klein, mudd, blaklader, ikea, taihin ytextile,yarn text int, bermertex, young kin industry co., pacific chemical.
at present, our monthly production  capacity is 12 teus, and we are able to expand production more up to 15 teus to  meet the increasing demand.
an giang fisheries import
kon tum rubber company (koruco) is a state company  established in 1984 with invested capital of $ 33 million usd.
with a monthly production capacity of 600,000 different  product units, san hoang can make the sample within 7 days.
orient manufacture and trading joint stock company (ordesco)
our products have been exported to korea, china, malaysia, germany, france, spain, italy, etc with sales revenue of $ 8 million usd.
over the past years, hung phat has built up a wide distribution system consisting of over 100 distributors and 10,000 retailers throughout vietnam, and our products have been exported to america, australia, and canada, german, france and asian markets as korea, japan, hong kong.
moreover, the company has  invested in forming a strong labor force including creative research team  trained in thailand and always keeps improving technology in production.
moreover, we also have three workshops in ho chi minh for the introduction of products to the market as well as build up the opportunity to introduce our products to foreign clients who want to find any business with our product.
middle area alphanam joint stock company click on company name above  for more detailed information!
afasco, a  company of fish farmers, with more than 30,000 tons of fish production a year,  keeps its quality products available for domestic and foreign markets.
- trading  and services: warranty services for all kinds of construction machine, repair  vehicle machine, import special products for cement industry, old, etc. -  joint-venture: joint-venture with sumitomo corp to be the owner of thang long  industrial park.
founded in 1986, bay hong hanh produce -  commercial - service co., ltd. has become one of the leading fish sauce  manufacturers in vietnam today under "phu quoc hong hanh fish sauce"  trademark.
legamex state company click on company name above for more detailed  information!
fine foods joint stock company click on company name above for more  detailed information!
due to our business  specialty focusing on supplying high-end products, the company has invested for  modern machinery and equipment of japan technology.
dien quang lamp jsc. is one of the leading manufacturers  in lighting industry with headquarter located in ho chi minh city.
more  than 10 year experience in export business, nacowood's products have been  accepted in japan and european countries.
established in 2004, thanh hai fish co., ltd. is a young professional seafood company.
established in 1982, bitis has now evolved into a group of 3 companies, central highland plaza, china business center, 11 branches, 4500 shops and agencies in viet nam and 20 offices in china, laos, cambodia.
their mission is to build up a skilled and professional workforce for co-development, striving for affordable furniture solutions by supplying eye-catching and diversified products to meet all customers' requirement in vietnam and world-wide.
phuong summer company is a manufacturer of pottery products with the factory located in binh duong province of vietnam.
materials are imported from foreign countries as well as from domestic market.
at present, with a total capital of 21 billion vnd, we are successfully expanding their production network, plus further investing in equipment utilization.
vina tarpaulin inc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
you will derive great satisfaction in service and guaranteed quality.
established in 1996, ha nam textile & garment company  (hanatex) produces yarns for weaving and knitting, fabric for garments, and all  kinds of towels.
the yearly consumption output is ever increasing and vinh hao holds bigger and bigger market share.
the company has a factory of 10,100m2 equipped with modern, synchronous, automatic and multi-purposed machinery imported from japan, especially with the support of hanging transport system in the production.
cl-fish, acronym for cuu long fish company is the  official member of the vietnam association of seafood exporters and producers  (vasep) specializing in farming and processing pangasius fishes (basa bocourti  and tra pangasius hypophthalmus fish).
the company now has more than 673 employees including skilled workers, officers and managers and is applying the quality control system according to iso 9001:2000 which was certificated by organizations such as jas-anz and quacert.
company's sales revenue achieved $2.5million usd in 2006.
our peanuts are always fresh, flavorful and delicious.
viet tien's  production activities are diversified and arranged in specific companies.
delta has made its effort for high quality products, obtaining the respect of domestic and international customers.
we look forwards to business expansion by cooperation with local and oversea customers based on mutual benefits.
we are in the top lists of our clients such as supermarkets, chain stores, and big brand-names who need reliable suppliers with high and stable quality levels.
huy hoang production, commerce and service company (huy  hoang lock) is one of the largest lock manufacturers in vietnam specializing in  manufacturing all kinds of lock under elephan lock brand.
san hoang looks forwards to  establish business relationships with all customers all over the world.
facility integration enables us to offer different groups of textile with consistent quality and competitive price and be our key strength in penetrating new markets.
in particular, we have exported terrazzo  floor tiles, artistic tiles, agar wood oils & revitalizing oils, agar wood  incenses & agar wood candles for aromatherapy, etc to countries in the  world such as japan, korea, australia, italy, portugal, iran, india, usa,  france, greece, etc.
over the past years, with our quality policy statement  focusing on "quality - price - service" which is the most three  issues that customers are paying much attention to, minh hung plastics has  built up a prestige trademark as well as obtained enthusiastically support from  consumers and business partners.
vinamit has built distribution networks  in many countries like china, taiwan, malaysia, singapore, hong kong, thailand,  the philippines, japan, the united states, ukraine, france and some european  countries.
the company has over 1,000 employees now.
established in 1997, phuong hanh company  (fuhaco) specializes in manufacturing and exporting ceramic, furniture and zinc.
we produce yarns, towels, denim fabrics, garments and sewing thread of all kinds.
artistic  handicrafts & lacquerwares co, ltd. specializes in production and trade of  vietnam traditional handicraft and lacquer ware made of natural materials such  as bamboo, wood etc.
the company changed the brass material into stainless steel sus 303, sus 304 which provides high stability, absolute safety, and high aesthetic characters that bring to the customers the feeling of safety.
we have10 affiliate units,  including7 plantations and 3 factories specializing in producing gum rosin, gum  turpentine, turpentine oil, developing forestry resources and gold mining.
-  construction companies (for almost all bridges from south to mid vietnam) -  foodstuff companies (saigon beer, vedan, sugar and milk manufacturers).
we can assist in overall product design or revamp an  existing product.
established in  1994 by the ministry of agriculture and food industry, baruco initially began  with 4 plantations with a total area of 13,594 hectares and 5,500 persons  including workers and officers.
it has been exported to france, laos, cambodia, thailand and myanmar.
our products are for domestic market and have been exported to cuba, australia  and japan.
the company presently carries out business transactions with more than 60 customers in 20 countries over the world: asia, europe, usa, australia and north america.
the company is to make every  effort to keep clients at the head of the field in their production line by  studying and supplying high quality products.
we're looking forward to furthering our future cooperation for years to come with more partners.
with our professional experience in this field we ensure that we can supply you the best quality products with most competitive price of all kinds of seafood from vietnam.
we server our customers with our best commitment, meeting delivery date as well  as excellent sale services.
we have implemented haccp, gmp and ssop programs since 1996.
established in 2002, delta sport now has more than 1000 employees with the manufacturing factory of 10,054m 2 in thanh hoa province.
dien quang lamp jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
thanks to that, we are able to apply the 5s japanese management method, following the goal of total quality management (tqm) with just-in-time (jit) application.
your orders to us will specially be cared under our professional working flow chart.
beside advanced equipment, being a young company, son ha group has strong labor force of 700 employees including well trained engineers and workers.
our products have been exported to european countries such as belgium, austria, switzerland and germany.
to meet any of your specific needs, we also produce  products under customized designs.
our target sales are usd $ 21 million usd in 2007 and $25 million usd in  2009.
in addition, our products have been exported under dien quang brand name to over 20 countries, mainly in asia, korea, middle east and africa.
the fishery in vietnam, especially in an giang, is a cradle of pangasius bocourti and hypophthalmus and rapidly developing with more and more farmers and better quality.
established in 1996, viet tiep crystal co., ltd. is the leading manufacturer and exporter of high-end crystal products in vietnam.
established in october 2003, viet furniture has steadily expanded its operations with a primary focus on indoor furniture.
the factory is equipped with advanced equipment and sophisticated technique imported from japan and slovakia and is applying iso 9001:2000 standard in quality management.
we know that we've been  successful when all our customers feel they were satisfied with our products  and services.
we believed that we have  not only experienced a remarkable improvement along the years but also improved  ourselves by taking step further in achieving the level of customers' 100%  satisfaction to our reliable production and our service.
if you are  interested in any of our products, please don't hesitate to contact us for more  information.
we has  serviced for many world class companies, and our products present everywhere in  vietnam.
footwear jsc.click on company name above for more detailed information!
- agricultural products: rolled kelp, dried sliced ginger,  and papaya with a food processing factory of 80,000 square meters  equipped with machinery imported from japan and western countries, cte has  oriented to produce for export to take advantage of vietnam advantages.
huong nam production -trading - export/
hoang hau dragon fruit farm co., ltd click on company name above for  more detailed information!
dai hong phat's ceramic products have also been displayed in domestic and international exhibitions and have gained prestige and respect from customers around the world.
our products are mainly for domestic market.
phuongsummer pottery co., ltd vietnam click on company name above for  more detailed information!
with the active and well-trained staff and line-up of skilful workers,  we are ready prepared to co-operation with the foreign and vietnam partners to  broaden production and business scale.
in order that our products be accepted and gain prestige in such a hard market as united states, we are aggressively implementing hacpp management in production to meet standards of food safety and hygiene, and have fda approval from the u.s. with monthly capacity of 20 teus and an excellent reputation obtained over the past years in the food processing industry, we wish to develop a prosperous business along with customers worldwide.
hoang hau dragon fruit farm co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
established in 2004, thanh hai fish co., ltd. is a young  professional seafood company.
based on the principles of credibility, equity and mutual-benefit,  casum wishes to form business relationship with all clients all over the world.
the area gathers most talented art  craftsmen and skillful labour source as well as being the centre of material  provision.
eva (ethylene  vinyl acetate resin) sandals, slippers, wooden slippers various in color and  designs, raffia slippers, cork sandal, beach sandal, handbag, case…please  visit their website for further information : www.namafootwear.com.vn nastoma natural stone manufactory click on company name above for more  detailed information!
we specialize in producing kinds of natural rubber such as svr3l, svr 5, svr 10, svr 20, cv60, cv50 and latex ha/la.
sai gon vietnam corporationclick on company name above for more detailed information!
we specialize in bamboo household, bamboo furniture, water hyacinth  handicraft, sea-grass handicraft and wooden handicraft.
we sincerely welcome any interested companies to contact us for more details.
established in 1967, sa giang  corporation now has two factories covering a total area of 20,000 m 2 equipped  with semi-automatic machinery together with traditional devices.
to make it possible  for promoting vietnamese handbag products, spreading our credentials for  quality and good price in local market, our company is planning on expanding  our sales agent network as well as expanding our export market more.
established in 2002, mtb garment import  export co., ltd has been following the principle of "prestige, quality,  and effective", developing into one of the prestige garment manufacturers  in domestic and oversea markets.
a footwear js companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
our marketing team can provide assistance in designs, packaging and merchandising to suit the customer's specific needs.
after months of preparing the machines and  product testing, the company has since cooperated with many government offices  such as: ministry of industry, ministry of science technology against  counterfeiting ministry of market control.
ltd click on company name above for  more detailed information!
the turnover is more than usd $100 million in  the year 2005.
north asia company co.,ltd.
the company has employed 5 korean managers and 366 vietnamese employees.
dong phu rubber company was successfully granted the international iso9001:2000 quality management certification approved by qms (australia) and quacert (vietnam); therefore, our products are reliable.
legamex state companyclick on company name above for more detailed information!
we specialize in producing  mineral water and soft drink; cultivating and producing spirulina algae in the  form of drink and tablets and with having mud, mineral bath service in vinh  hao, tuy phong district, binh thuan province, vietnam.
our company  mission is to bring end-users high quality products, meet all domestic market  needs.
koruco  specializes in producing natural rubber kinds such as rss rubber, svr rubber.
the most outstanding feature of our product line is  quality.
we promise to deliver value and satisfaction to our customer, securing the greatest benefits for customer, end-users and our company under our company motto in business, "the trust and the success of our customers are the prestige and success of our company".
our fish sauce retains best flavor and keep a standard protein degree.
our production structure of export is 45% for usa, 45% for eu and 10% for asia.
firing at high temperatures, our products can be used both indoor and outdoor.
especially, shrimp  chips, the specialty of sadec, have been studied and successfully produced by  bich chi foodstuff company with various kinds such as: prawn crackers - premium  quality, special shrimp chips, special seafood chips, basa fish chips, crab  chips, cuttlefish chips, vegetable chips ...
vinh hao exports to laos, cambodia, usa, australia and the eu.
hong hanh fish sauce enterpriseclick on company name
to make it possible for promoting vietnamese handbag products, spreading our credentials for quality and good price in local market, our company is planning on expanding our sales agent network as well as expanding our export market more.
we have a factory with more than 200 workers and equipped with  modern apparatus production lines for monthly production capacity of 5,000,000  products.
our products have not only been covering the domestic  market by distributing in all supermarket nationwide, and we have already  exported to china, taiwan, hong kong, south korea, singapore, malaysia,  indonesia, japan, australia.
we regularly review our  production and quality management system to ensure a high level of customer's  satisfaction mtb garment import- export co., ltd.
thanks to  that, we are able to apply the 5s japanese management method, following the  goal of total quality management (tqm) with just-in-time (jit) application.
koruco has more than 10,000 hectares of rubber tree in which 7000  hectares are ready for harvest.
- fish: spanish mackerel, big eye scad, round scad, red-snapper,  leather jacket, ect.
in a bid to retain the specific flavor of fresh fruit in the dried chips, the company bravely invested in production lines including an evaporation drying system with the modern sublimation technology from germany, japan and taiwan.
established in 1998, son ha group has grown up with 3 mechanical factories equipped with modern technology machiner for punching, bending and cutting covering a total area of 59,000 square meters, two factories in the north of vietnam and 1 factory in the south of vietnam.
ta shun corporationclick on company name above for more detailed information!
over tens years of penetrating into  this field, phong chau are now proud of bringing from vietnam to the world the  unique and art handicraft products with mainly natural materials and skill of  vietnamese handicraftsmen.
the  next are stages including extraction of the gel, stabilization and  pasteurization with the highest levels of care to bottling or canning.
the company has built up a  professional workforce and applied new machinery which will help us meet the  growth trend of furniture in the market and uniformed quality products output.
we are honor to be the main supplier of texttyle international, s4 fashion partner gmbh, jao, winrise, pacific dunlop, itochu, nogi, royne, k&s planning, pacific trail.
in fact, we are certified by sam sung electronics and panasonic corporation.
phuc son viet international company limited has an affiliated unit named p.s.v in't handicraft specialize in producing all kinds of handicraft products such as wooden military models (ship, boat models; airplane models, aircraft carrier, submarine, motorbike & vehicles, etc) and other gift products.
afa joint stock company (afasco) specializes in importing  and exporting aquatic products and was founded by an giang fishery association  (afa) in 2004 with an initial investment of $ 1.4 million usd from  farmer-shareholders.
kim viet company limited won the v-golden prize and has been proud to be designated as a good key handicraft supplier to north america by the vietnam chamber of commerce and industry (vcci).
we continuously rank the first in  contributing to the national budget with its budget contribution increasing  every year which makes up more than 1/3 of the budget of khanh hoa province,  vietnam.
the products have been shipped to singapore, japan, taiwan, spain, brazil, australia, france and germany with annual sales revenue of $1.5 million usd.
beside the products named ronal, we have also been receiving lots of process contracts for oem products from other trading companies as well as contracts to produce promotion goods from customers.
with an annual production capacity of 10 million products, viet-tiep company continuously invests in renovating equipment and technology for optimized products, production expansion in order to meet the increasing demand of customers.
established in 1995, n&n has  become a professional manufacturer of plastic bags in vietnam.
being in effort to be a reputable garment manufacturer in the domestic and international markets, we are continually seeking trade opportunities all over the world.
established in 1974, viet - tiep lock company is the most modern and biggest enterprise manufacturing various kinds of high quality locks and decoration hardware.
we are willing to cooperate with other partners for overseas' requirements.
in order to meet increasing demands from international markets such as eu, north america etc., nam a footwear became a joint-stock company in 2004 attracting young talented personnel for company development.
especially, we can fabricate equipment as per customer's idea such as customers from the republic of ghana, a country in west africa and united states.
we are a member of vietnam national textile & garment  corp. (vinatex).
each kind of product can be  printed with up to 3 to 5 colors or at customized demands.
owning two factories with a total area about  60,000m2, bmplasco has invested in the most modern equipment from germany,  italy, australia, canada.
sd wooden toys enterprise was formed in 1989 by a group of high school teachers in my tho city.
with a labor force of over 8,000 people, our company are capable of manufacturing and exporting over 12 million products of footwear including canvas shoes, slippers, sport shoes, lady shoes
tan dai hung plastic co., ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
we have exported products to countries in eu, america and asia.
we have been designing, manufacturing millions of products which  are consumed both domestic and world wide.
"stable and uninterrupted enhanced quality - reasonable  price - prompt delivery" as the company business principle in combination  with a strong labor force including hearted professional officers, skilled  workers, we are expanding export market under oem products and wishing to form  long-term and stable business relations with customers from all parts of the  world.
founded in 1987, minh hung plastics co., ltd is a manufacturer of household plastic products and pvc pipes.
pham nguyen company was awarded the certification of international quality management system iso 9001-2000 by bvqi of the united kingdom.
at present, our key export markets are united states, japan and european countries, and we have gained good reputations from the customers both at home and abroad for the quality products and better credit-worthy.
our products have been  exported to taiwan, china, korea, japan and canada with haccp authentication  passed successfully.
nastoma stone vietnam is very happy and ready to form business  relationship with you.
we have presented and sold in diamond  plaza shopping center, super markets and many shops under brand name label  registered 'emsi'.
dieu thuong co., ltd (detoco)click on company name above for more detailed information!
our  products have been exported to european countries such as belgium, austria,  switzerland and germany.
in addition, we have co-operated with many trading partners for exporting vietnam crystal products to czechoslovakia, japan, singapore, australia, korea, etc.
established in 1997, phuong hanh company (fuhaco) specializes in manufacturing and exporting ceramic, furniture and zinc.
we specialize in indoor and outdoor dining sets mainly made from rubber wood and other import wood such as oak, beech and maple.
vietnam tobacco import
our key customers are  shigemitsu, itochu, nojima , sojitz, prosibel, weseta, pafo, plumor,  metro/gemex, anvil, target, k-mart, sport-wear, matrix, dkny, liz clairborn,  calvin klein, mudd, blaklader, ikea, taihin ytextile,yarn text int, bermertex,  young kin industry co., pacific chemical.
bac son wood company produces wooden flooring, engineered flooring, plywood, tabletop, finger joint panel, plata; 2.
our products have been displayed at more than 50 stores and agents nationwide and exported to various markets such as denmark, german, norway, sweden, finland, united states, russia, ukraine, etc. kico and kid's collection trade mark are registered and granted by "2003 golden star award ", "fashion award" given kico at the 2004 fashion fain.
having strong labor force of 2600 workers together with 3000 tons output as yearly production capacity, tan bien rubber company is striving for the expansion of export market to other countries, especially to north american countries.
legamex is a state owned company, and we are a member of vietnam  garment association.
- pp (polypropylene) products: pp bags. . .
we are sure that any your orders to be made with the well  quality and on time delivery.
saigon noni juice product has been distributed in all supermarkets nationwide,  and exported to some countries in eu, america and east asia.
established in 1994 as a joint venture between daewoo corporation and korea  tarpaulin inc, the tarpaulin manufacturer in korea with invested capital of $ 3  million usd.
dong phuong knitting co.
thuan hai trading and produce co. ltdclick on company name above for more detailed information!
moreover, the company has invested in forming a strong labor force including creative research team trained in thailand and always keeps improving technology in production.
beside the current exported markets, kinh do is focusing to some new and large markets such as china, africa, middle east, etc.
the company now has 850  workers and officers, and our current export markets are japan, usa, sweden and  the eu.
secoin is the member of vietnam association for information processing, vietnam association for building materials, vietnam association for construction ceramics, vietnam chamber of commerce and industry and vietnam association for economic sciences.
our  products are for local and oversea markets.
our facilities are equipped with machines and production lines of czechoslovakia's advanced technology.
thuan phat co-operativeclick on company name above for more detailed information!
established in 1990 in ho chi minh city, tan phu furniture is a premier wood processing company.
duc nhan enterprise is one of the leading manufacturers  of furniture products in the highlands of vietnam where they can take advantage  of huge supply of good raw materials.
we are able to cast steel parts up to 500 kilos and pig-iron parts which are over 1.000 kg.
most of our natural stone products are only for  export to some oversea markets such as europe, usa, japan, taiwan, india and  south-east asia with annual export turn-over of $ 1.5 million usd.
with a remarkable monthly production capacity of 20 containers and the  company's precept as "customer first, quality foremost, competitive price,  satisfied service", coseafex looks forwards to your cooperation and  developing with all customers.
we welcome you to visit our factory and wish to form business relationship with valued customers.
the yearly  consumption output is ever increasing and vinh hao holds bigger and bigger  market share.
all products  carry the "tt-saigon cable" brand.
khanh viet corporation (khatoco) specializes in producing cigarettes, tobacco materials; filter rolls; packaging papers, envelopes, notebooks; processing ready-garments; manufacturing machineries, equipment, machine parts; supplying breeding ostriches, crocodiles, processing ostrich and crocodile products; hotels, restaurants, tourist and entertainment services; specializing in product fabric of high quality; corrugated cartons; paper for packaging industry; football.
thu ha coffee is, and will always be, a 100% pure, natural product.
thanh cong paper and stationery co., ltd.
economical-on time, perfect service.
to join in the global trade, thanh cong has invested in a paper that covers  an area of 3000 m2 with 100 persons manufacturing all kinds of high quality  photocopy paper in accordance with taiwanese technology.
minh hung plastics co., ltd.click on company name above for more detailed information!
ffc now has become one of the most prestigious suppliers of high quality seafood products.
with an annual production capacity of 2,000,000 liters, we look forwards to  expanding our export market more to eu and north america as well as wish to  form the business relationship with clients all over the world who are  interested in vietnamese specialties.
our products are fish fillet(frozen fish fillet, segment,  steak, rolls, skewer, breaded, fried breaded), shrimp(hoso, hlso, pto, pud,  sushi, nobashi, cooked breaded, skewer), and other aquatic products such as  cuttlefish, pine apple cut, octopus, frog legs and other kinds of saltwater  fish.
we believed that we have not only experienced a remarkable improvement along the years but also improved ourselves by taking step further in achieving the level of customers' 100% satisfaction to our reliable production and our service.
one of our goals in the near future is to open another manufacturing plant in cu chi.
chotro co., ltd. specializes in manufacturing anti-skeleton key locks that is positioned as "the product against thief".
our annual is approximately 7 million  different products.