when the winter winds blew hard and in the right direction, it would blow out the flames from some of jets, leaving them exposed to ooze unignited natural gas into the apartment's entryway.
and people wonder why i am a light sleeper.
i also have the electric convection oven.
by dan macdonald  jacksonville.com  copyright 2011
i used to have two small propane tanks when i grilled.
it's tougher if you're stupid."
- john wayne dan - great column.
it's dangerous for the obvious reason that you don't want gas filling a  kitchen.
harrold said many of his students have never cooked with gas before  starting the program, but soon come to love the predictability of gas.
once, while my  father was grilling steak, the bottle ran dry.
it seemed to take twice as long to come to a boil.
the only way to cook!
i miss the local hardware store with the real customer service, they are few and far between.
for the past several years, i've been cooking with gas at home and i love it.
while i'm not crazy about heating with gas, i've actually cooked on it many  times in my life.
part of this comes from my western new york/pennsylvania upbringing.
i'll just light the cook top with a  match when i need it."
i still try to do business at that  store because of that service.
in 2007, we remodeled our kitchen.
i'll just light the cook top with a match when i need it."
as for my fear of pilot lights, he  said my respect for them is justified, and it is part of the curriculum.
cooking with gas: it's a blast!
it makes timing a meal so much easier.
"now you're cooking with gas."
share | | email | print "life's tough.
besides the old furnace in the basement, we had smaller gas stoves in the other rooms, especially in the upstairs apartment where i lived.
good thing the kid at the hardware store didn't have a date that night, because he was filling my tank after closing time.
it seemed to take twice as long to  come to a boil.
i can adjust the flame to the proper height.
the project started when we investigated  installing a better exhaust fan, and as most things go in my house, before i  knew it judy had an entire kitchen remodel under way.
the burn wasn't bad, but to this day dad feels bad about that  household accident.
that was a popular phrase used by the cool cats back in the day.
besides the old furnace in the basement, we had smaller gas stoves  in the other rooms, especially in the upstairs apartment where i lived.
the spare was always filled.
the new  magnetic surfaces are space age, but i don't want to have to buy special pots.
his old gas stove top didn't have a pilot light.
there are new ceramic cook tops, but i am afraid of scratching them, as i  can get a little rough and clumsy when i have four pots going at once.
boiling water on those hot coils took no time.
when you shut it down, it is  shut down.
good thing the kid at the hardware store didn't have a date that night, because  he was filling my tank after closing time.
well, almost always; there was the time on my sister-in-law's birthday  when i ran out in the middle of cooking and found myself with two empty tanks.
another fantastic  advantage - i've never run out of gas while grilling.
our stove backs against an exterior wall.
because our kitchen is near the patio, i also had them run a line to the backyard
but it's also a threat to job security to the rookie line cook who  thinks he has heated the stoves in preparation for a day of cooking and upon  his return finds them cold when he needs to use them.
while i love gas, it scares me to death.
now when i get home, i fill a pot with water and let it boil  while i change clothes and check the mail.
being a good son, i volunteered  to change it for him.
i'll be comfy in bed, as cozy as i will be all night
when you shut it down, it is shut down.
jacksonville.com ©2012.
i'll let a pro tell you: "let me put it to you in one word: control," said joe harrold,  professor of culinary arts at florida state college at jacksonville's north  campus.
as for my fear of pilot lights, he said my respect for them is justified, and it is part of the curriculum.
his old gas stove top  didn't have a pilot light.
and i'll have to get out from under the covers to check one more time that i turned off the gas burners.
so i could hook my gas grill to the same huge tank.
glad to see dad took care of that burn the way a father and son should - :)
when  the winter winds blew hard and in the right direction, it would blow out the  flames from some of jets, leaving them exposed to ooze unignited natural gas  into the apartment's entryway.
my first bit of adolescent responsibility was when he showed me at a young age how to light the burners with a match.
i laugh about it now, but  i can hardly remember cooking without my gas oven top.
it  makes timing a meal so much easier.
cooking on a gas stove top is like playing a musical instrument.
during college, i lived with my grandmother in an aged house that lacked proper insulation.
even with these drawbacks, i still prefer gas.
changing gas bottles on a hot grill is also dangerous.
i laugh about it now, but i can hardly remember cooking without my gas oven top.
you can't just light  a match and walk away.
i didn't trust that trickling flame to stay alive in the middle of a cold windy night.
they came with  pilot lights but i told the supers at both places not to ignite them.
i still try to do business at that store because of that service.
i can move the pot off the flame so just a portion of it is being kissed by the flame if i want to simmer something.
by moving pots around and positioning them not directly over the flame, i can still do slow cooking over the high btu flame when necessary.
you can't just light a match and walk away.
it's dangerous for the obvious reason that you don't want gas filling a kitchen.
now when i get home, i fill a pot with water and let it boil while i change clothes and check the mail.
with electric, the burner is still hot for another 20 minutes.
of course, the empty bottle didn't come loose easily, and  when i gave it a jerk to get it off the grill, the back of my hand slapped the  hot grill bottom.
i won't need the oven.
no pilot light needed.
there is nothing like cooking on a gas range.
the florida times-union.
i'll return to bed with a relieved mind, but my back never returns to  that perfect position.
i'll return to bed with a relieved mind, but my back never returns to that perfect position.
the next time i buy a gas stove (which i hope isn't for a while, but i  covet stoves like some men do cars), i would want one with more high btu  burners.
the spare was always  filled.
so, why is gas better than electric?
that was a popular phrase used by  the cool cats back in the day.
i can  adjust the flame to the proper height.
the gas company  simply drilled a hole in the side of the house and ran the gas line straight to  the stove.
today, my gas stove top ignites with an electric spark.
because our kitchen is near the patio, i also had them run a line to the  backyard
by the time i'm ready to cook, so is the water.
they came with pilot lights but i told the supers at both places not to ignite them.
during that time i did learn how to cook on an electric stove but there is no comparison!
have to love those "dual fuel stoves".
don't worry about it, pa, as i remember you generously  treated it with some scotch - you poured it in me, not on the burn.
i didn't trust that trickling flame to stay alive in the middle of a cold  windy night.
by  moving pots around and positioning them not directly over the flame, i can  still do slow cooking over the high btu flame when necessary.
during  college, i lived with my grandmother in an aged house that lacked proper  insulation.
i bake and roast in the electric convection oven.
it's the best of both worlds.
being a good son, i volunteered to change it for him.
now, there are drawbacks to gas.
i can move the pot off the flame so just  a portion of it is being kissed by the flame if i want to simmer something.
later, i had two apartments in jacksonville with gas stoves.
that's dangerous," he said.
well, almost always; there was the time on my sister-in-law's birthday when i ran out in the middle of cooking and found myself with two empty tanks.
posted: july  28, 2011 - 4:05am  | updated: july  28, 2011 - 2:30pm photos octavio jones/the times-union florida state  college culinary students kevin lecointe (left) and racheal davis observe their  instructor joe harrold cook chicken on a gas stove at the school’s north  campus.
my old electric stove was a dragon.
there are new ceramic cook tops, but i am afraid of scratching them, as i can get a little rough and clumsy when i have four pots going at once.
i have cooked on gas my entire life except for a brief time when i had an apartment.
" harrold said many of his students have never cooked with gas prior to enrolling but soon love its predictability.
another fantastic advantage - i've never run out of gas while grilling.
i was afraid my gas stove was broken the first time boiled water on it.
this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
the gas company simply drilled a hole in the side of the house and ran the gas line straight to the stove.
while i'm not crazy about heating with gas, i've actually cooked on it many times in my life.
we decided to install gas because it didn't add a lot of extra expense to  the remodeling job.
don't worry about it, pa, as i remember you generously treated it with some scotch - you poured it in me, not on the burn.
the burn wasn't bad, but to this day dad feels bad about that household accident.
no pilot light  needed.
my first bit of adolescent responsibility was when he showed me  at a young age how to light the burners with a match.
but it's also a threat to job security to the rookie line cook who thinks he has heated the stoves in preparation for a day of cooking and upon his return finds them cold when he needs to use them.
the next time i buy a gas stove (which i hope isn't for a while, but i covet stoves like some men do cars), i would want one with more high btu burners.
just give me fire on metal - cast iron preferably - and i am a happy guy.
the project started when we investigated installing a better exhaust fan, and as most things go in my house, before i knew it judy had an entire kitchen remodel under way.
share | |   email |  print
we decided to install gas because it didn't add a lot of extra expense to the remodeling job.
jack  jacksonville on facebook
i learned to make my uncle don's wonderful scrambled eggs on  his gas stove.
contact dan macdonald at jaxfoodtalk@hotmail.com.
" harrold said many of his students have never cooked with gas prior to  enrolling but soon love its predictability.
it's the best of both  worlds.
i'll let a pro tell you: "let me put it to you in one word: control," said joe harrold, professor of culinary arts at florida state college at jacksonville's north campus.
of course, the empty bottle didn't come loose easily, and when i gave it a jerk to get it off the grill, the back of my hand slapped the hot grill bottom.
july 28, 2011 - 12:05am  cooking with gas: it's a blast!
"we teach them how to light it when it goes out.
i learned to make my uncle don's wonderful scrambled eggs on his gas stove.
for the past several years, i've been cooking  with gas at home and i love it.
by the time i'm ready to cook, so is  the water.
and i'll have to get  out from under the covers to check one more time that i turned off the gas  burners.
once, while my father was grilling steak, the bottle ran dry.
i have one larger burner and a medium one and two smaller ones.
the new magnetic surfaces are space age, but i don't want to have to buy special pots.
gas burner and cast iron skillet!
"with gas, you can control the heat.
i was afraid my gas stove was  broken the first time boiled water on it.