there are a ton of little things you can do that have a huge impact: turning on the oven less often, making delicious use of every last part of a pasture-raised chicken, stocking up on seasonal berries for winter.
mix seltzer with a fresh fruit syrup to make fizzy drinks.
make your own seltzer carbonation machines keep bottles out of  the landfill.
if the number on the produce sticker at the supermarket starts with 9, then the item is organic.
then transfer to storage bags or containers.
buy whole chickens you'll get more meat -- and rich stock -- for your money and far less waste.
there's so much available across  the country now.
drink better coffee your watchwords are "fair-trade certified" and "sustainable."
use natural waxed paper brands like if you care produce  unbleached paper lined with vegetable wax.
there's a reason we have turkey at thanksgiving -- the birds mature in the fall.
" anything in a shell: "mussels, clams, and oysters are almost always  sustainably raised.
though rancher bill niman says the  first step toward a sustainable food system is to eat less meat overall, there  are easy ways to be a better meat eater: skip the additives.
you can use this  method for vegetable stock too.
buy better canned tuna >>  31.
have a green bbq use carbon-neutral  green hearts natural  charcoal briquettes made of wood.
" wild american shrimp: "the tiny  ones from maine, pink shrimp from the northwest, and wild-caught from the  atlantic.
if you can't buy local, buy organic -- coffees, teas, jams, olive oils, honey, nuts, raisins, oatmeal, beans, grains.
for on-the-spot ratings, text the blue ocean institute's fishphone -- 30644 -- with the message "fish" and the kind you're planning to buy.
soak beans and grains overnight you'll cut the cooking time -- and energy usage -- in half.
blanch the cobs, strip the kernels --  oxo's corn peeler works as effortlessly as a potato peeler -- and freeze.
a  few ideas: get glass containers...
get farm-fresh food delivered find a community-supported agriculture (csa) farm near you at eatwellguide.org or localharvest.org and pay a subscription fee for regular batches of local produce (and, in some places, grass-fed meat).
" learn more about organics  9.
google your milk until the usda revised the standards last year, 30 to 40 percent of the  milk sold in the u.s. that was labeled organic was actually from factory  farm-raised cows.
plant more than flowers >>  40.
buy local eggs >>  9.
blanch the cobs, strip the kernels -- oxo's corn peeler works as effortlessly as a potato peeler -- and freeze.
" what  follows are fresh ways to shop, cook, and eat heroically, now and all year  round.
get healthy grain recipes 15.
buy local bread >>  19.
(heat  1/3 cup sugar and 1/3 cup water until sugar dissolves.
keep in mind a cage-free label in the grocery store doesn't necessarily mean the eggs came from chickens that were running around a yard -- they still could have been raised indoors.
eat safer seafood you can enjoy the varieties below with a clean conscience, says barry estabrook, writer and founder of politicsoftheplate.com.
pick healthier pots and pans it really is best to skip  traditional nonstick pans with carcinogenic chemicals (ptfe and pfoa) in the  coating altogether.
make your own seltzer >>  18.
have a green bbq >>  36.
buy local bread shop at your neighborhood bakery or farmers' market.
be package conscious "if you're buying food at the store, try to choose products that come in the least amount of packaging possible, or in containers that are easily recyclable in your area," suggests alexandra zissu, author of"the conscious kitchen.
cut out processed corn avoid buying items with corn or corn-based substances (corn oil, cornstarch, or corn syrup) as ingredients.
check your brand atsustainabletable.org -- and opt for  antibiotic- and rbgh-free (no artificial bovine growth hormones).
there are alternatives -- like cuisinart'sgreengourmet line, which has a nonstick interior that's ceramic rather than petroleum-based.
it describes vegetables, fruits, grains, and beans from seeds that have  been passed down for generations, grown in small crops that may restore the  health of the soil.
make connections "become friends with your local growers and fishermen, so you can keep in touch about what's just been picked or caught," suggests martha stewart, founder of whole living's parent company.
once you've used up the last of a chicken or a turkey, throw the carcass in  a stockpot with enough water to cover, a whole or half onion, a carrot, a  celery stalk, a few garlic cloves, and a couple of sprigs of herbs like parsley  and thyme.
" local varieties: "dungeness crabs from the  northwest, line-caught striped bass and haddock from the northeast, and so  on.
stock up when they're available locally, spread them on a cookie sheet, and freeze them for six to eight hours.
from $4 a can;wildplanetfoods.com - 32.
get composting tips from marthastewart.com 43.
try adapting your favorite recipe to use honey instead of dry sugar.
they top the list of foods to buy organic because of typically high pesticide levels.
be a farmers' market regular your purchases will directly support local agriculture.
or  dice and toss with olive oil, season, and toast to make croutons.
try adapting your favorite recipe to use honey instead of  dry sugar.
wash less wastefully >>  25.
learn more about food safety seals 24. ...
wash less wastefully instead of running greens under the faucet  for minutes at a time, submerge them in water, drain, and roll in a cloth  towel.
(or water  plants with it if unsalted and oil-free.)
they're great for making smoothies, desserts, or just for snacking, even when summer's only a distant memory.
if you're worried about being able to use it all up, go in on it with a friend or two.
you'll have four or five quarts of ready-made stock on hand for soup, braised meat and vegetables, pan sauces, pasta, and risotto.
make connections "become friends with your local growers  and fishermen, so you can keep in touch about what's just been picked or  caught," suggests martha stewart, founder of whole living's parent company.
resolutions aren't just for january
make your own vinaigrette salad dressing is a packaged condiment that's so much better homemade -- and it's incredibly easy to whip up.
eat safer seafood you can enjoy the varieties below with a  clean conscience, says barry estabrook, writer and founder of politicsoftheplate.com.
save that cooking water repurpose the nutrient-rich water you  used to blanch a batch of vegetables for soups or for boiling pasta.
you'll eliminate a plastic package and a fuel-burning journey, and the  bread's likelier to be made with fewer ingredients.
wild alaskan salmon, alaskan halibut, or just about any fish from alaska: "the state has some of the most environmentally sound fishing practices in the country.
" local varieties: "dungeness crabs from the northwest, line-caught striped bass and haddock from the northeast, and so on.
if you're  worried about being able to use it all up, go in on it with a friend or two.
roast at 450 degrees, basting occasionally, for about an hour.
keep in mind a cage-free label in the grocery  store doesn't necessarily mean the eggs came from chickens that were running  around a yard -- they still could have been raised indoors.
because those companies are deliberately marketing to children, and i want to discourage that.
there's a  reason we have turkey at thanksgiving -- the birds mature in the fall.
store liquids like juice, oil,  and vinegar, or bulk-bought grains, beans, and nuts.
get healthy grain recipes - 15.
resolutions aren't just for january >>
ever wish you could be a kid again?
make your own seltzer carbonation machines keep bottles out of the landfill.
read plu codes if the number on the produce sticker at the  supermarket starts with 9, then the item is organic.
look for chickens without hormones that were  pasture raised.
airtight plastic bags are okay, but theglasslock containers shown at left are freezable and microwavable.
get composting tips from marthastewart.com - 43.
go plastic-free keeping track of which plastics are safer (nos. 2, 4, 5) and which are more  likely to release toxic phthalates, styrene, or bpa when heated or warm (nos.
compost your kitchen waste not just vegetable scraps and  eggshells, but leftovers, coffee grounds, stale bread, tea bags, and pretty  much anything else (though animal fats, scraps, and bones don't break down  easily and can attract pests).
there are now more than 5,200 farmers' markets in the country (find one near you atlocalharvest.org), and the numbers will continue to grow if we make them our personal stop & shops.
have a green bbq use carbon-neutral green hearts natural charcoal briquettes made of wood.
the goal is to turn the oven on just once or twice a  week.
rinse only if they're still gritty.
wild planet's albacore is hand-packed in bpa-free cans without added oil, water, or fillers.
as you're roasting a chicken or baking a  lasagna, throw in some vegetables or tomatoes for roasting, and maybe a loaf or  two of zucchini bread.
be a farmers' market regular your purchases will directly  support local agriculture.
buy better canned tuna american albacore is the only canned variety out there that's certified to be sustainably fished.
it's compostable, reusable when wiped down, and can be fastened with masking tape.
wash less wastefully instead of running greens under the faucet for minutes at a time, submerge them in water, drain, and roll in a cloth towel.
use the whole vegetable the stems of cauliflower or broccoli, the  inner leaves of celery, the fronds of fennel, the greens of beets, even the  stems of herbs: all edible, all tasty.
"if you can't buy local, buy organic -- coffees, teas, jams, olive oils,  honey, nuts, raisins, oatmeal, beans, grains.
soak beans and grains overnight >>  15.
compost your kitchen waste not just vegetable scraps and eggshells, but leftovers, coffee grounds, stale bread, tea bags, and pretty much anything else (though animal fats, scraps, and bones don't break down easily and can attract pests).
surround baked goods with cloth instead of plastic wrap.
buy organic "local is always the priority, but the organic  label really does mean something," says chef and author alice waters.
buy in bulk when produce is in  season.
use the whole vegetable >>  1.
when you use your nondominant hand, you might as well be two ...
mix 1  minced shallot, 3 tablespoons any good vinegar, 1 teaspoon dijon mustard, 1/2  cup olive oil, and salt and pepper.
wild planet's  albacore is hand-packed in bpa-free cans without added oil, water, or fillers.
be a farmers' market regular >>  3-7.
roast at 450 degrees,  basting occasionally, for about an hour.
it's not just a boutique marketing term.
get farm-fresh food delivered find a community-supported agriculture (csa) farm near you at  eatwellguide.org or localharvest.org and pay a subscription fee for regular  batches of local produce (and, in some places, grass-fed meat).
read those labels "my criteria for choosing packaged foods are: nothing with more than five ingredients, no ingredients i can't pronounce, nothing artificial, and no cartoons on the package," says marion nestle, nutritionist, author of "what to eat" and creator of foodpolitics.com.
buy organic "local is always the priority, but the organic label really does mean something," says chef and author alice waters.
the food alliance certified seal, at left, means that a product has not been genetically modified.
buy in bulk when produce is in season.
"honey, on the other hand, is a perfectly renewable resource that requires little more than healthy bees and healthy plants and flowers from which to pollinate.
plugging in a high-speed blender or a food processor is worthwhile if it motivates you to cook more often and eat more fruits and vegetables.
make your own vinaigrette >>  46.
wrap with dish towels.
use the whole vegetable the stems of cauliflower or broccoli, the inner leaves of celery, the fronds of fennel, the greens of beets, even the stems of herbs: all edible, all tasty.
there are alternatives -- like cuisinart'sgreengourmet  line, which has a nonstick interior that's ceramic rather than petroleum-based.
be a smarter carnivore though rancher bill niman says the first step toward a sustainable food system is to eat less meat overall, there are easy ways to be a better meat eater: skip the additives.
start a collection of unused vegetables -- an  onion quarter, carrot greens, a turnip, wilted herbs -- and simmer them in  water for at least an hour.
freeze it, pickle it , or preserve it, so you can still eat local when you have off-season cravings.
use your basement the old-fashioned way hardy root vegetables  like squash, sweet potatoes, beets, turnips, and rutabagas will keep four to  six months in a chilly cellar where the temperature stays 40 degrees or below.
in fact, some -- like resolving to be a truly eco-conscious eater -- are best undertaken during the summer, when fresh food is everywhere.
you can use this method for vegetable stock too.
3, 6, 7) can be confusing.
there's so much available across the country now.
(we have yet to come up with an easy-to-remember  shorthand.)
use unprocessed grains anything that qualifies as a whole (i.e., unrefined) grain -- brown rice, barley, farro, quinoa -- is automatically healthier for you and the environment than a processed grain like white rice.
"if 40 percent of american households bought only organic milk, it would change dairy production," says michel nischan, co-owner of the dressing room restaurant in westport, connecticut, and author of"sustainably delicious."
budget for domestic (likely california), small-producer olive oil  labeled organic.
get to the root >>  2.
and eat more real corn >>  24. ...
ask the farmers for  recipe suggestions.
regulations are tighter now, but not all organic milks are  created equal.
learn more about food safety seals - 24. ...
airtight plastic bags are  okay, but theglasslock containers shown at left are freezable and microwavable.
because those companies are deliberately marketing  to children, and i want to discourage that.
wild alaskan salmon, alaskan halibut,  or just about any fish from alaska: "the state has some of the most  environmentally sound fishing practices in the country.
from $4 a can;wildplanetfoods.com 32.
buy only absolutely antibiotic- and hormone-free meat.
get farm-fresh food delivered >>  11.
brew it at home with a french press (2  tablespoons coarsely ground coffee per 6 ounces water) and you've started the  day on a very green foot.
instead of only a handful of tomatoes, pick up onions, potatoes,  and herbs.
" what follows are fresh ways to shop, cook, and eat heroically, now and all year round.
simmer (uncovered) for at least two hours, occasionally skimming the foam that forms at the top.
or keep it simple and cook with pots and pans made from stainless steel, pure  cast iron, or enamel-coated cast iron.
buy whole chickens you'll get more meat -- and rich stock -- for  your money and far less waste.
the goal is to turn the oven on just once or twice a week.
get healthy egg recipes 10.
"you don't have to be an expert gardener." 41.
compost your kitchen waste >>  42.
it's compostable, reusable when wiped down, and can be fastened  with masking tape.
"honey, on the other hand, is a perfectly renewable resource  that requires little more than healthy bees and healthy plants and flowers from  which to pollinate.
use natural waxed paper >>  47.
and, of course, there's the power you wield with your grocery cart.
(we have yet to come up with an easy-to-remember shorthand.)
start a collection of unused vegetables -- an onion quarter, carrot greens, a turnip, wilted herbs -- and simmer them in water for at least an hour.
(heat 1/3 cup sugar and 1/3 cup water until sugar dissolves.
you can  also use a towel and rubber band to cover bowls of food to chill in the fridge  before serving.
pour on the honey >>  41.
they're great for making smoothies,  desserts, or just for snacking, even when summer's only a distant memory.
plugging in a  high-speed blender or a food processor is worthwhile if it motivates you to  cook more often and eat more fruits and vegetables.
freeze berries >>  17.
get healthy egg recipes - 10.
"you really can be a hero one product at a time.
once you've used up the last of a chicken or a turkey, throw the carcass in a stockpot with enough water to cover, a whole or half onion, a carrot, a celery stalk, a few garlic cloves, and a couple of sprigs of herbs like parsley and thyme.
make breadcrumbs whiz stale bread into crumbs and freeze.
use your basement the old-fashioned way hardy root vegetables like squash, sweet potatoes, beets, turnips, and rutabagas will keep four to six months in a chilly cellar where the temperature stays 40 degrees or below.
plant more than flowers "almost anybody can grow just a little bit of food," says chef, farmer, and activist michel nischan.
you'll have four or five quarts of ready-made stock on hand for soup,  braised meat and vegetables, pan sauces, pasta, and risotto.
switch to organic olive oil most mass-produced olive oil is  grown with pesticides, which can be even more concentrated in the oil than on  the olives.
- start over  we also love: you can anonymously report this comment as inappropriate and we will review it to determine if it should be removed from the site.
buy better canned tuna american albacore is the only canned  variety out there that's certified to be sustainably fished.
or keep it simple and cook with pots and pans made from stainless steel, pure cast iron, or enamel-coated cast iron.
even better is buckwheat, which can improve soil quality.
use it instead of aluminum foil or plastic wrap.
buy local eggs purchase them at a farmers' market, directly from the person who collected them.
use it instead of aluminum foil or  plastic wrap.
- resolutions aren't just for january >>
buy local bread shop at your neighborhood bakery or farmers'  market.
go plastic-free >>  48-50.
strain it, pour into glass jars (leaving room for the liquid to expand), let cool, and then freeze.
you can imagine how eating lamb from new zealand might affect your carbon footprint.
budget for domestic (likely california), small-producer olive oil labeled organic.
try to use only what's  at the market for a week's worth of meals.
regulations are tighter now, but not all organic milks are created equal.
there are now more than 5,200 farmers' markets in  the country (find one near you atlocalharvest.org), and the numbers will  continue to grow if we make them our personal stop & shops.
you can imagine how eating lamb from new zealand might  affect your carbon footprint.
you'll eliminate a plastic package and a fuel-burning journey, and the bread's likelier to be made with fewer ingredients.
it'll keep for a week in a corked glass  bottle in the fridge.
be a smarter carnivore >>  37-39.
a huge amount of water is required to produce regular table sugar," says louisa shafia, author of"lucid food."
plant more than flowers "almost anybody can grow just a  little bit of food," says chef, farmer, and activist michel nischan.
pick healthier pots and pans it really is best to skip traditional nonstick pans with carcinogenic chemicals (ptfe and pfoa) in the coating altogether.
it'll keep for a week in a corked glass bottle in the fridge.
switch to organic olive oil most mass-produced olive oil is grown with pesticides, which can be even more concentrated in the oil than on the olives.
also look for  "bird-friendly" or the rainforest alliance label, which means the  beans were grown responsibly.
(or water plants with it if unsalted and oil-free.)
get to the root forgo bagged and boxed salad greens for loose bunches, and look for anything with the roots attached.
overnight you'll cut the cooking time --  and energy usage -- in half.
freeze berries they top the list of foods to buy organic because  of typically high pesticide levels.
add 1/2 cup raspberries, remove from heat, let steep for 30 minutes, then strain.
brew it at home with a french press (2 tablespoons coarsely ground coffee per 6 ounces water) and you've started the day on a very green foot.
pick healthier pots and pans >>  35.
according to the usda, at least 85  percent of the corn grown in this country has been genetically modified,  meaning the plants were altered to make them more pest resistant.
check your brand atsustainabletable.org -- and opt for antibiotic- and rbgh-free (no artificial bovine growth hormones).
you'll use zero  packaging, and you can compost -- or maybe even eat -- the stems.
it's not just a boutique marketing  term.
read plu codes >>  21.
make your own vinaigrette salad dressing is a packaged condiment
for on-the-spot ratings, text the blue ocean  institute's fishphone -- 30644 -- with the message "fish" and the  kind you're planning to buy.
read those labels "my criteria for choosing packaged foods are: nothing with more than  five ingredients, no ingredients i can't pronounce, nothing artificial, and no  cartoons on the package," says marion nestle, nutritionist, author of "what to eat" and creator of foodpolitics.com.
choose  domestic meat.
be package conscious
and they couldn't be easier to roast: brush with butter and season with salt and pepper; bind legs with twine.
drink better coffee >>  44.
limit yourself to two appliances.
then  transfer to storage bags or containers.
store them as close to the time they were harvested as possible -- preferably unwashed, green tops still attached, and packed in sawdust or moist peat moss.
freeze it, pickle it , or preserve it, so you can still eat local when  you have off-season cravings.
the food  alliance certified seal, at left, means that a product has not been genetically  modified.
try to use only what's at the market for a week's worth of meals.
mix 1 minced shallot, 3 tablespoons any good vinegar, 1 teaspoon dijon mustard, 1/2 cup olive oil, and salt and pepper.
store them as close to the time they were harvested as possible -- preferably  unwashed, green tops still attached, and packed in sawdust or moist peat moss.
" anything in a shell: "mussels, clams, and oysters are almost always sustainably raised.
there are a  ton of little things you can do that have a huge impact: turning on the oven  less often, making delicious use of every last part of a pasture-raised  chicken, stocking up on seasonal berries for winter.
instead of only a handful of tomatoes, pick up onions, potatoes, and herbs.
look for chickens without hormones that were pasture raised.
that's so much better homemade -- and it's incredibly easy to whip up.
wrap with dish  towels.
choose domestic meat.
"you don't have to be an expert gardener.
cut out processed corn >>  23.
go plastic-free keeping track of which plastics are safer (nos. 2, 4, 5) and which are more likely to release toxic phthalates, styrene, or bpa when heated or warm (nos. 3, 6, 7) can be confusing.
drink better coffee your watchwords are "fair-trade  certified" and "sustainable."
ask the farmers for recipe suggestions.
"a huge amount of water is required to  produce regular table sugar," says louisa shafia, author of"lucid  food."
fill up the oven >>  34.
and, of course, there's  the power you wield with your grocery cart.
stock up when they're available locally,  spread them on a cookie sheet, and freeze them for six to eight hours.
" learn more about organics - 9.
according to the usda, at least 85 percent of the corn grown in this country has been genetically modified, meaning the plants were altered to make them more pest resistant.
switch to organic olive oil >>  45.
be a smarter carnivore
and they couldn't be easier to roast: brush with butter and  season with salt and pepper; bind legs with twine.
even better is buckwheat, which can  improve soil quality.
or dice and toss with olive oil, season, and toast to make croutons.
buy local eggs purchase them at a farmers' market, directly from  the person who collected them.
you can get a couple of  meals out of a seasonal soup and several out of a homemade pesto.
use natural waxed paper brands like if you care produce unbleached paper lined with vegetable wax.
"if 40 percent of  american households bought only organic milk, it would change dairy  production," says michel nischan, co-owner of the dressing room restaurant  in westport, connecticut, and author of"sustainably delicious."
it describes vegetables, fruits, grains, and beans from seeds that have been passed down for generations, grown in small crops that may restore the health of the soil.
in fact, some -- like resolving to be a truly eco-conscious eater -- are  best undertaken during the summer, when fresh food is everywhere.
soak beans and grains
so make it a policy to use as little as possible in the kitchen.
use unprocessed grains anything that qualifies as a whole (i.e., unrefined) grain -- brown rice,  barley, farro, quinoa -- is automatically healthier for you and the environment  than a processed grain like white rice.
add 1/2 cup raspberries,  remove from heat, let steep for 30 minutes, then strain.
fill up the oven as you're roasting a chicken or baking a lasagna, throw in some vegetables or tomatoes for roasting, and maybe a loaf or two of zucchini bread.
if you can't use it all, give excess back to local farmers or to a community garden.
if you can't use it all, give excess back to  local farmers or to a community garden.
and glass bottles and jars.
google your milk until the usda revised the standards last year, 30 to 40 percent of the milk sold in the u.s. that was labeled organic was actually from factory farm-raised cows.
look for  lamb in spring and goose around christmas.
read those labels photo: johnny miller >>  16.
eat safer seafood >>  27-30.
a few ideas: get glass containers...
read more about the csa movement 12.
you'll use zero packaging, and you can compost -- or maybe even eat -- the stems.
buy whole chickens >>  33.
make breadcrumbs >>  20.
save that cooking water repurpose the nutrient-rich water you used to blanch a batch of vegetables for soups or for boiling pasta.
get to the root forgo bagged and boxed salad greens for loose  bunches, and look for anything with the roots attached.
save that cooking water >>  26.
simmer (uncovered) for at least two hours, occasionally skimming the  foam that forms at the top.
if you're buying food at the store,  try to choose products that come in the least amount of packaging possible, or  in containers that are easily recyclable in your area," suggests alexandra  zissu, author of"the conscious kitchen.
use unprocessed grains >>  14.
and eat more real corn fresh corn is easy to stockpile.
strain it, pour into glass jars (leaving room for  the liquid to expand), let cool, and then freeze.
" wild american shrimp: "the tiny ones from maine, pink shrimp from the northwest, and wild-caught from the atlantic.
cut out processed corn avoid buying items with corn or corn-based substances (corn oil,  cornstarch, or corn syrup) as ingredients.
store liquids like juice, oil, and vinegar, or bulk-bought grains, beans, and nuts.
you can also use a towel and rubber band to cover bowls of food to chill in the fridge before serving.
read more visit other martha stewart living omnimedia sites: select site marthastewart.com emerils.com © 2012 martha stewart living omnimedia, inc.
be package conscious >>  12.
you can get a couple of meals out of a seasonal soup and several out of a homemade pesto.
use your basement the old-fashioned way >>  10.
read more about the csa movement - 12.
google your milk >>  13.
also look for "bird-friendly" or the rainforest alliance label, which means the beans were grown responsibly.
look for lamb in spring and goose around christmas.
make connections >>  22.