{see conquer the 'net for more ideas} reader tips what's being shared on tipnut: {latest comments} -- {tips} copyright © 2006 - 2012 tipnut.com all rights reserved privacy policy | terms
very simple way to keep your plants happy and avoid drying out.
more ideas is this clay pot method too much for what you need?
csupomona.edu diy bucket drip: this is a gravity system to feed your  drip irrigation system.
last year a mouse fell into my clay pot, couldn’t apparently get out, drowned and began rotting in my pot.
they also show a diy using  regular clay flowerpots attached to each other using waterproof gorilla glue  and silicon caulking.
keep  the mouth of the jar covered to prevent insects and debris from getting inside  and to help reduce water loss through evaporation.
dig the pots up at the end of the growing season to prevent breakage over cold winter months.
check out these ideas… lifehacker.comautomated drip system: you don’t need to know much about hardware or plumbing, nor do you have to dig any trenches.
it was reallllllllly nasty!
you can use regular flower pots but make sure to seal closed the drainage hole.
the idea is to fill  glass bottles with water and stick them neck down into moist soil.
use pots that are unglazed for this project here’s the scoop: the idea is to bury clay pots (ollas) in the ground making sure to keep the mouth level with (or just above) the soil surface and then fill them with water.
i think i will implement this come spring!
there are two different arrangement examples provided.
several holes are drilled  into the plastic (advises filling containers with water, freezing and then  drilling) then the jugs are buried into the soil (same idea as discussed in the  article above).
source: upetd.up.ac.za (pdf download)
if i were to use this method, i’d use a fairly large pot, but don’t want random holes in the yard during the winter, can the pots stay buried year round?
bury in the ground, leaving a couple inches above ground.
they advise painting the top of the olla with white paint  to reduce evaporation (top part of the jar will be exposed to the sun).
the  water will slowly drip out through the holes at the bottom.
is this clay pot method too much for what you need?
you  can use larger bottles (for example wine bottles) if you need more time between  refilling.
suburbanfarmonline.com make your own ollas: here’s another clever  & cheap diy, two terra cotta pots are attached to each other with gorilla  glue then sealed on one end.
the larger the pot you use, the larger  the area it covers (and the less often you have to top it up with water).
supplies needed: a drill with 1/4″ bit, 5-gallon plastic bucket and a  hose to fill pail with water.
ph hi ph, i wouldn’t
as the soil dries, suction develops and the water slowly seeps out from inside the pot and into the soil around it (the suction force is created by soil moisture tension and/or plant roots themselves,source).
after setting up the head, you simply lay 1/2 tubing down and stake it where you’ll want to irrigate.
i did this method last year but will definitely change to the milk jug with cover idea.
system is flexible, pretty much leak-proof, and go together like a box of legos.
for the garden {& more} buried clay pot irrigation for the garden {& more} print      email if you are looking for ways to reduce your garden’s water usage this  summer (and low maintenance watering), buried clay pot irrigation might just be  the trick you’re after.
this places the bottle neck down as well but has the bottom  cut off so you have a large funnel to work with (and collects the rain water  too).
reply i live in the northeast and would love to use this method.
reply name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
i have some broken clay pots that will fill the holes in the “regular” flower pots nicely.
a bit of cheesecloth and then a rock on the opening would really keep junk and bugs out.
olla irrigation: (clay pot system)
csupomona.edudiy bucket drip: this is a gravity system to feed your drip irrigation system.
this will slowly release the water into the  soil, reducing the need for soaker hoses.
lettuceshare.com wine bottle waterer: a simple setup using a wine  bottle, wire from a hanging candle holder (or other hanger) and glass  flat-backed marbles (to help get the drip right).
to keep debris out (and potentially clogging the hole), cover with a piece of board.
each pot will water the plants within its immediate area (responding to the soil moisture tension around it).
if you think your winters might be warm enough, try leaving one pot in the ground over the winter and see what happens.
also gives the tip to choose a sturdy object to elevate the bucket since once filled, it’s darn heavy (5 gallons is about 33 lbs.).
this project was previously featured on tipnut and moved here for better  organization.
here’s a similar idea using 2 liter plastic soda bottles from yougrowgirl.com.
bonus: because the soil is kept moist inches below the soil  surface, this helps reduce the growth of weeds (also means less water  consumption and less maintenance).
but then my winters are freezing cold here and the pots would crack for sure.
arrange the pots in clusters and plant your garden around them.
also gives the tip to choose a sturdy object to elevate the bucket since  once filled, it’s darn heavy (5 gallons is about 33 lbs.).
this method can be used in container gardening as well, you’ll  just need to use smaller clay pots that will fit inside the containers or  planter boxes leaving enough room for the plants to thrive.
each pot will water the plants within its immediate area (responding  to the soil moisture tension around it).
water is poured into the top hole (that wasn’t plugged).
they also show a diy using regular clay flowerpots attached to each other using waterproof gorilla glue and silicon caulking.
as the soil dries, suction develops and the water slowly seeps out from  inside the pot and into the soil around it (the suction force is created by  soil moisture tension and/or plant roots themselves,source).
home / garden & plants / green thumb projects  / buried clay pot irrigation
reply what a brilliant idea!
my soil is quite sandy and watering and irrigation never seemed to help.
to keep the system working optimally, add more  water to the pots as needed and avoid letting them dry out completely.
if there are no fitted lids  for the jars, you can use flat rocks, shells or ceramic tiles depending on the  size of the hole.
advises that if your bucket is too transparent, the light will encourage  the growth of algae so choose a pail that’s dark and won’t let much  light in.
a clay pot in operation when installed neck-deep into the ground and filled with water.
howstuffworks.complastic milk jug ollas: instead of using clay jugs, try this cheap version using plastic jugs instead.
this looks like a good solution to the hot, dry spells but, i’m wondering about mosquitoes breeding on the water if it doesn’t go down fast enough.
veggiegardener.com simple watering wells: these are made by recycling  plastic plant pots (one gallon or half-gallon sizes), bury them in the ground  (keeping the rim just above ground level) and then filling with rocks.
suburbanfarmonline.commake your own ollas: here’s another clever & cheap diy, two terra cotta pots are attached to each other with gorilla glue then sealed on one end.
shelterrific.comiowa watering hole trick: keep trees and shrubs watered by drilling a hole in the bottom of a 5 gallon bucket, place it near the trunk and fill with water.
fill with water, twist on the cap and then refill as needed.
advises that if your bucket is too transparent, the light will encourage the growth of algae so choose a pail that’s dark and won’t let much light in.
reply hi sharon, that’s a valid concern but it’s prevented by keeping the mouth of the pot covered.
howstuffworks.com plastic milk jug ollas: instead of using clay jugs,  try this cheap version using plastic jugs instead.
each wednesday receive the latest tips, projects & creative ideas from tipnut delivered right to your inbox...
lots of information on this page including a tip to add liquid fertilizer to the water (you’ll need just a quarter to half the amount you would normally use).
it takes just one crack in the pot for this to no longer work, water would seep out steadily.
here’s a bunch of info to get you started and then i added several different diy irrigation methods at the bottom (some simple and small enough for house plants while others are more suited for gardens and shrubbery).
any place where you’d like to add some water output, you simply puncture the tubing with a specially designed tool, leaving a clean hole.
lettuceshare.comwine bottle waterer: a simple setup using a wine bottle, wire from a hanging candle holder (or other hanger) and glass flat-backed marbles (to help get the drip right).
how many do  you need?
very simple way to  keep your plants happy and avoid drying out.
i would combine underground watering with composting on top.
craftzine.comhouseplant wicking system: the idea is simple yet brilliant: feed water from a bowl underneath (or beside)
the water will slowly drip out through the holes at the bottom.
several holes are drilled into the plastic (advises filling containers with water, freezing and then drilling) then the jugs are buried into the soil (same idea as discussed in the article above).
you could refill the holes with dirt as you take them out.
it did a nice job of keeping my tomato plants moist but not soaked or bone dry which was awesome.
this will slowly release the water into the soil, reducing the need for soaker hoses.
tip: search online with the word "tipnut" to find the good stuff fast!
since the pots are buried, water is delivered more efficiently at root  level rather than above the soil surface (with water needing to travel a few  inches down to reach the roots).
the idea is to fill glass bottles with water and stick them neck down into moist soil.
published: march 17, 2011 updated: march 28, 2012 receive updates from tipnut
radmegan.blogspot.comcoke bottle watering globes:
radmegan.blogspot.com coke bottle watering globes:
select pots that don’t have a long or fragile neck so they’ll withstand being buried without breaking.
the soil seals around the bottle opening and water releases only as the soil dries.
a heavy pail and a few parts are required, but it’s fairly simple to setup.
what kind of pots to use: they need to be unglazed clay pots (otherwise the water will be sealed inside and won’t seep out) and can have a wide or narrow mouth.
also gives brief details of how it works and compares its results to other irrigation systems.
if you are looking for ways to reduce your garden’s water usage this summer (and low maintenance watering), buried clay pot irrigation might just be the trick you’re after.
check out these  ideas… lifehacker.com automated drip system: you don’t need to know much  about hardware or plumbing, nor do you have to dig any trenches.
the larger the pot you use, the larger the area it covers (and the less often you have to top it up with water).
keep the mouth of the jar covered to prevent insects and debris from getting inside and to help reduce water loss through evaporation.
they advise painting the top of the olla with white paint to reduce evaporation (top part of the jar will be exposed to the sun).
after setting up the head, you simply lay 1/2 tubing down and stake it  where you’ll want to irrigate.
this is a  naturally automatic system, if it’s been raining, the soil is wet so
otherwise, this looks like a good idea!
a clay pot in operation when installed neck-deep into the ground and filled  with water.
it’s a new concept to me but this method  has apparently been around for centuries yet still offers value to  today’s gardener.
you can use larger bottles (for example wine bottles) if you need more time between refilling.
if there are no fitted lids for the jars, you can use flat rocks, shells or ceramic tiles depending on the size of the hole.
this is a naturally automatic system, if it’s been raining, the soil is wet so there is no moisture tension and the pots don’t release any water.
this places the bottle neck down as well but has the bottom cut off so you have a large funnel to work with (and collects the rain water too).
a heavy pail and a few parts are required, but  it’s fairly simple to setup.
the soil gets just what it needs, right when it needs it with no gadgets or sensors required!
craftzine.com houseplant wicking system: the idea is simple yet  brilliant: feed water from a bowl underneath (or beside)
there is no moisture tension and the pots don’t release any water.
you can  use regular flower pots but make sure to seal closed the drainage hole.
the soil  seals around the bottle opening and water releases only as the soil dries.
to keep the system working optimally, add more water to the pots as needed and avoid letting them dry out completely.
buried pot surrounded by plants from ecocomposite.org here are some reference pages with more details (also make sure to grab the 25 page pdf linked to in the diagram image above)… ecocomposite.org: provides a bit of history to this technique and traces it back to over 2,000 years ago (from china).
lots of information on this page  including a tip to add liquid fertilizer to the water (you’ll need just a  quarter to half the amount you would normally use).
neat idea  that’s a lot less expensive to put together than the clay pot method  mentioned at top.
reply the link to the 25 page pdf did not work for me.
to keep debris out (and potentially clogging the hole), cover with a piece  of board.
neat idea that’s a lot less expensive to put together than the clay pot method mentioned at top.
so i totally suggest some sort of lid.
bonus: because the soil is kept moist inches below the soil surface, this helps reduce the growth of weeds (also means less water consumption and less maintenance).
veggiegardener.comsimple watering wells: these are made by recycling plastic plant pots (one gallon or half-gallon sizes), bury them in the ground (keeping the rim just above ground level) and then filling with rocks.
since the pot was a narrow top opening i didn’t see it and when i did see something there i thought it was a leaf and didn’t investigate.
use pots that are unglazed for this project here’s the scoop: the idea is to bury clay pots (ollas) in the ground  making sure to keep the mouth level with (or just above) the soil surface and  then fill them with water.
what kind of pots to use: they need to be unglazed clay pots  (otherwise the water will be sealed inside and won’t seep out) and can  have a wide or narrow mouth.
select pots that don’t have a long or  fragile neck so they’ll withstand being buried without breaking.
supplies needed: a drill with 1/4″ bit, 5-gallon plastic bucket and a hose to fill pail with water.
also gives brief details of how it  works and compares its results to other irrigation systems.
here’s a similar idea using 2 liter plastic soda bottles from  yougrowgirl.com.
resources buried pot surrounded by plants from ecocomposite.org here are some reference pages with more details (also make sure to grab the  25 page pdf linked to in the diagram image above)… ecocomposite.org: provides a bit of history to this technique and traces it  back to over 2,000 years ago (from china).
how many do you need?
tip: to test whether a pot will work or not, fill it with water and watch if the surface becomes damp.
here’s a bunch of info to get you started and  then i added several different diy irrigation methods at the bottom (some  simple and small enough for house plants while others are more suited for  gardens and shrubbery).
any place where you’d like to add  some water output, you simply puncture the tubing with a specially designed  tool, leaving a clean hole.
the plant into your  plant’s soil using strips of cotton fabric.
since the pots are buried, water is delivered more efficiently at root level rather than above the soil surface (with water needing to travel a few inches down to reach the roots).
dig the  pots up at the end of the growing season to prevent breakage over cold winter  months.
shelterrific.com iowa watering hole trick: keep trees and shrubs  watered by drilling a hole in the bottom of a 5 gallon bucket, place it near  the trunk and fill with water.
it’s a new concept to me but this method has apparently been around for centuries yet still offers value to today’s gardener.
bury in the ground, leaving a couple inches above  ground.
this project was previously featured on tipnut and moved here for better organization.
this method can be used in container gardening as well, you’ll just need to use smaller clay pots that will fit inside the containers or planter boxes leaving enough room for the plants to thrive.
the plant into your plant’s soil using strips of cotton fabric.
system is flexible, pretty much leak-proof, and go together like a box of  legos.
the  soil gets just what it needs, right when it needs it with no gadgets or sensors  required!
if it does, it’s porous enough.
tip: to test whether a pot will work or not, fill it with water  and watch if the surface becomes damp.
*comments are moderated 1000s of tips & projects ...free for you to enjoy!...