as ever, i’m looking forward to all of your questions in the comments!
i know i share  circumstances with many of you: without some pots on a patio, balcony, or  windowsill, we would be plant-less.
choose a  potting soil that has no added fertilizer or nutrients.
materials plastic pots are the least expensive  container option, so they’re great for anyone on a budget.
can you recommend a  minimum size, or even sizes according to type of plant?
they are a fairly inexpensive option for the home gardener after plastic, and they come in myriad shapes and sizes.
lettuces, for example: these are wonderful to grow at home.
so, for this installment of city  dirt, we’re covering container basics for the urbanite looking to supply  their kitchen with some garden goodness.
if you choose clay pots, be sure to purchase a saucer or plate to sit under the pot.
• make the most of what you grow by considering its uses beyond the kitchen.
(he declined and now has a vegetable bed  in the worst place, which i secretly love.)
if you are adding new plants to previously used containers, do not rely on  simply digging a small hole in the soil and stuffing in a plant start.
i suggest growing plants that will be used frequently, but in small amounts.
[i don't currently have the capacity  for true composting].
it is better  to leave a little wiggle room than to have plant roots mashing up against the  container walls.
these roots will impede the new plant’s roots and constrict air as the new plant tries to grow into the same small space.
materials plastic pots are the least expensive container option, so they’re great for anyone on a budget.
anyway, your post was great and has definitely inspired me to explore more options when i move this summer to as place that *hopefully* has a teeeny bit more space to expand to more pots and more than just herbs
this gives plants time to regrow between cuttings — no sense in planting a crop that you’ll wipe out in one go.
old  soils often contain dead roots from previous plants (see above).
this works in two ways —  to keep moisture off the surface of your deck or patio and to hold in moisture  for the plant.
i had a balcony garden last year with promise, but i  unfortunately neglected it over time (plus partial sun wasn't treating some of  the plants well).
you should know from the onset that not all vegetables grow well in  containers.
(of course,  all of the failures may be due as much to my poor gardening technique as  anything else).
once they've produced their first true leaves, can i put them in pots on my  porch?
the bell peppers did ok (although  the fruit stayed fairly small) and the tomatoes did rather poorly.
or should beets only be grown in a garden bed?
i use lettuce in large amounts, and their fast growing  cycle makes them highly productive, economical, and worthwhile.
as on the  farm, till your soil using a fork or your hands.
(my basil only made it to november, but i'm excited to get it going again).
i won't be discussing it here, but making your own pots is super rewarding, too!
look for organic potting soil mixes from smaller regional companies  rather than the national brands you’ll find in big-box stores.
i’m relegated to planting any food i want in pots.
the bell peppers did ok (although the fruit stayed fairly small) and the tomatoes did rather poorly.
it's honestly not my preference, but still, i like to think that  i’ve perfected the art of growing in my microclimate.
quickly, and offer fresh greens for salads, or for a nice leafy garnish.
if you allow for some growth, you increase the odds of your plant growing to full maturity.
[i'd definitely like to try  lettuce!).
when i'm not knee deep in dirt growing food, you can find me in the  kitchen where i'm likely standing over a canning pot or staring up in to my  pantry deciding what to make.
thanks so much and i'm excited for it to get warmer to start planting!
in my own garden, i fill eight old water bottles and carry them back and forth from my kitchen sink.
i also launched a garden-sharing website in 2009 that connects  urban gardeners to unused garden space across the country -  www.urbangardenshare.org.
for that reason, just as you would in  a garden bed, it’s best to rework your soil before planting.
winner celebration party  added about 8 hours ago reply great post!
loosen it up, remove the root hairs, then gently work in some compost and a spoonful of a low-level organic fertilizer before adding a new plant start.
it’s  true that they are usually the least attractive option, but they hold their  moisture longer than clay or ceramic pots and are lighter and easier to move  around.
choose plants that will run through their life cycle in one season (annuals) as well as plants that continue to come back year after year in the same pot (perennials).
arugula and mache are just popping up, too, having reseeded themselves from last year (at the end of the season i stopped harvesting their leaves and let them "go to seed" — the matured plant grows seed pods that fall into the soil and regrow).
this is  helpful in that it allows roots to breathe and keeps them out of direct water,
they take up little space,  produce (and reproduce!)
they are a fairly inexpensive option for the home gardener after plastic, and  they come in myriad shapes and sizes.
• plan on mixing it up to make sure there is always something new and different to harvest.
anyway,  your post was great and has definitely inspired me to explore more options when  i move this summer to as place that *hopefully* has a teeeny bit more space to  expand to more pots and more than just herbs
today, as i write this, i have marjoram, thyme, and  scented geraniums that survived the winter.
within three  weeks, the lovage should be starting to show (the same plants i’ve had  for four years) and i’ll be planting a second crop of arugula.
this works in two ways — to keep moisture off the surface of your deck or patio and to hold in moisture for the plant.
which fruiting plants do you recommend for containers, and which are destined for failure?
by planting in a contained environment, you are inhibiting the  plant’s growth to some extent.
(of course, all of the failures may be due as much to my poor gardening technique as anything else).
• i rely heavily on herbs in my garden.
can you recommend a minimum size, or even sizes according to type of plant?
so, for this installment of city dirt, we’re covering container basics for the urbanite looking to supply their kitchen with some garden goodness.
restricted by  the pot, not all plants will come to full maturity and produce food.
try to plant in a pot that’s a bit bigger than the plant will actually need.
soil you must use potting soil in your containers  — soil mixes are formulated to maintain a certain level of lightness so  that plants are able to breathe, drain well, and still hold in some moisture.
photos by della chen tags:   city dirt,   garden,  containers,  pots,  compost,  gardening,  urban gardening,  urban,   windowsill amy pennington i am a cook and food writer, author & gardener who is passionate about  the environment, using sustainable resources, reducing my impact on the earth  and making conscious food choices that are both smart for the planet and taste  fantastic.
i know i share circumstances with many of you: without some pots on a patio, balcony, or windowsill, we would be plant-less.
access to water is an important  consideration.
(i figure it’s better to have something available over a long course of time.)
up next, seed starting: big things come in tiny packages.
for that reason, just as you would in a garden bed, it’s best to rework your soil before planting.
in the gardens, i have a business gogo green garden, wherein i build, plant & tend edible gardens for folks in their urban backyards.
this presents the biggest challenge of growing food in small spaces.
lettuces, for  example: these are wonderful to grow at home.
• plants that produce abundant quantities of ingredients that i know i’ll use often are also a favorite.
(my  basil only made it to november, but i'm excited to get it going again).
some plants are grown for their leaves, some for their seeds, and some for their fruits.
lazychef added about 6  hours ago reply can you say a little more about which plants do and do not do well in  containers?
i won't be discussing it here, but making your own pots is super rewarding,  too!
the  herbs, hot peppers, and eggplant did great.
it's honestly not my preference, but still, i like to think that i’ve perfected the art of growing in my microclimate.
soil you must use potting soil in your containers — soil mixes are formulated to maintain a certain level of lightness so that plants are able to breathe, drain well, and still hold in some moisture.
lavender makes a subtle herb rub for seared duck  breast and can also be used as a herbal stuffing for an eye pillow.
if you are adding new plants to previously used containers, do not rely on simply digging a small hole in the soil and stuffing in a plant start.
a container garden should ebb and flow, just like a large  garden.
within three weeks, the lovage should be starting to show (the same plants i’ve had for four years) and i’ll be planting a second crop of arugula.
try to plant in a  pot that’s a bit bigger than the plant will actually need.
‹ previous plotting your way to the garden city dirt
i aim for a constant supply of ingredients for the kitchen, so i nurture plants that can be continually harvested.
choose a potting soil that has no added fertilizer or nutrients.
i was hoping maybe you could point us in the direction for good  resources that will specifically describe which plants will or will not do well  and plants and what kind of sunlight and season different plants need.
which fruiting plants do you recommend for containers, and  which are destined for failure?
once they've produced their first true leaves, can i put them in pots on my porch?
[i don't currently have the capacity for true composting].
we will cover more container plant topics like feeding your plant, tending for plants, and more in upcoming articles, but for now these are the basics you need to get growing.
this  presents the biggest challenge of growing food in small spaces.
(i figure it’s better to have something  available over a long course of time.)
think about it — plants can send out roots and root hairs only as far as the walls of the pot allow.
arugula and mache are just popping  up, too, having reseeded themselves from last year (at the end of the season i  stopped harvesting their leaves and let them "go to seed" — the  matured plant grows seed pods that fall into the soil and regrow).
i also launched a garden-sharing website in 2009 that connects urban gardeners to unused garden space across the country - www.urbangardenshare.org.
just make sure you have some way to water  your plants, as containers require a diligent watering schedule.
access to water is an important consideration.
• plan on mixing it up to make sure there is always  something new and different to harvest.
in the gardens, i have a business gogo green  garden, wherein i build, plant & tend edible gardens for folks in their  urban backyards.
also, i think it'd be really cool if you knew of diy ways to fortify your plants.
i’m relegated to planting any food i  want in pots.
getting started to start a garden in containers, at a  bare minimum you’ll need pots, soil, and a low-level organic fertilizer.
i try to round out my garden plan so there is always  something ready to harvest.
old soils often contain dead roots from previous plants (see above).
i've got some beets started in my basement right now under grow lights.
my rosemary, thyme, and sage that just survived their first winter and are having a little growth spurt thanks to the sun that decided to show its face a little more.
in hot  weather you’ll need to closely monitor the moisture in your clay pots.
deciding what to grow
(air is right up there with sun and water in importance to healthy, thriving plants!)
my mom always had a small herb and vegetable garden, and now for the first time  i have my own little garden, on my windowsill inside my kitchen.
favorite pan for omelets a simple holiday breakfast with a standout technique.
some past articles from this author you'll love: thanks for the great post!
setting up your container garden: tips for apartment dwellers and small spaces – amy many moons ago, i tried to convince a boyfriend to let me grow food in his yard, tearing out existing landscape.
some plants are grown for their leaves, some for their seeds,  and some for their fruits.
as on the farm, till your soil using a fork or your hands.
a container garden should ebb and flow, just like a large garden.
as ever, i’m looking forward to all of your  questions in the comments!
scented geranium leaves can be chopped and used in sweet recipes, infused into water for a facial toner, or steeped to make teas.
if you choose clay pots, be sure to  purchase a saucer or plate to sit under the pot.
photos by della chentags: city dirt, garden, containers, pots, compost, gardening, urban gardening, urban, windowsill i am a cook and food writer, author & gardener who is passionate about the environment, using sustainable resources, reducing my impact on the earth and making conscious food choices that are both smart for the planet and taste fantastic.
and for those of us who have no balcony, nor are able to set plants outside on windowsills, but must make do with strictly indoor container gardening, what do you recommend?
i have a habit of sizing up random yards searching for the perfect place to grow food because sadly, i don’t have a yard or garden of my own.
quickly, and offer fresh greens for salads, or for a  nice leafy garnish.
i've just started getting into gardening myself.
in my own garden, i fill eight old water bottles and carry them  back and forth from my kitchen sink.
i imagine it varies depending on the type of plant.
the herbs, hot peppers, and eggplant did great.
setting up your container garden: tips for apartment dwellers and  small spaces – amy many moons ago, i tried to convince a boyfriend to let me grow food in his  yard, tearing out existing landscape.
today, as i write this, i have marjoram, thyme, and scented geraniums that survived the winter.
tweet pin it this is the fifth in our biweekly series from amy pennington —  urban farmer, founder ofgogo green garden, and author of urban pantry and  apartment gardening — on how to start growing your own food, no matter  how tiny your garden-to-be is.
• make the most of what you grow by considering its  uses beyond the kitchen.
last summer, i tried my hand at container gardening for the first time and grew herbs, hot peppers, bell peppers, eggplant, and tomatoes.
(he declined and now has a vegetable bed in the worst place, which i secretly love.)
think about it — plants can send out  roots and root hairs only as far as the walls of the pot allow.
if you allow for some growth, you increase the odds of your  plant growing to full maturity.
scented  geranium leaves can be chopped and used in sweet recipes, infused into water  for a facial toner, or steeped to make teas.
for example, i think my grandfather used to use egg shells in his garden (but i don't know why), or anything like that.
they take up little space, produce (and reproduce!)
(air is right up there with sun and water in importance to healthy, thriving  plants!)
i aim for a constant supply of ingredients for the  kitchen, so i nurture plants that can be continually harvested.
loosen it up, remove the root  hairs, then gently work in some compost and a spoonful of a low-level organic  fertilizer before adding a new plant start.
it’s true that they are usually the least attractive option, but they hold their moisture longer than clay or ceramic pots and are lighter and easier to move around.
also, i  think it'd be really cool if you knew of diy ways to fortify your plants.
please sign up (or log in) to add a comment!
i try to round out my garden plan so there is always something ready to harvest.
we will cover more container plant topics like feeding your plant, tending  for plants, and more in upcoming articles, but for now these are the basics you  need to get growing.
carol_tanenbaum added  about 5 hours ago reply and for those of us who have no balcony, nor are able to set plants outside  on windowsills, but must make do with strictly indoor container gardening, what  do you recommend?
herbs will single-handedly change the flavor of most recipes and are often pricey at the grocery; many are not commercially available.
for  example, i think my grandfather used to use egg shells in his garden (but i  don't know why), or anything like that.
this is the fifth in our biweekly series from amy pennington — urban farmer, founder ofgogo green garden, and author of urban pantry and apartment gardening — on how to start growing your own food, no matter how tiny your garden-to-be is.
last summer, i tried my hand at container gardening for the first  time and grew herbs, hot peppers, bell peppers, eggplant, and tomatoes.
lavender makes a subtle herb rub for seared duck breast and can also be used as a herbal stuffing for an eye pillow.
my rosemary,  thyme, and sage that just survived their first winter and are having a little  growth spurt thanks to the sun that decided to show its face a little more.
when i'm not knee deep in dirt growing food, you can find me in the kitchen where i'm likely standing over a canning pot or staring up in to my pantry deciding what to make.
i use lettuce in large amounts, and their fast growing cycle makes them highly productive, economical, and worthwhile.
just make sure you have some way to water your plants, as containers require a diligent watering schedule.
it is better to leave a little wiggle room than to have plant roots mashing up against the container walls.
the one question i always have is, how large should my pots be?
thanks so much and i'm excited for it to get warmer to  start planting!
i suggest  growing plants that will be used frequently, but in small amounts.
herbs will  single-handedly change the flavor of most recipes and are often pricey at the  grocery; many are not commercially available.
today: for those of us without garden space, amy coaches us on the path to container gardening.
it is best to add those on your own as needed for the particular plants you will grow.
this gives  plants time to regrow between cuttings — no sense in planting a crop that  you’ll wipe out in one go.
my mom always had a small herb and vegetable garden, and now for the first time i have my own little garden, on my windowsill inside my kitchen.
but it’s not helpful in that the soil tends to dry out quickly.
i had a balcony garden last year with promise, but i unfortunately neglected it over time (plus partial sun wasn't treating some of the plants well).
these roots  will impede the new plant’s roots and constrict air as the new plant  tries to grow into the same small space.
clay pots are porous, so air moves easily through their walls.
[i'd definitely like to try lettuce!).
choose plants that will run through  their life cycle in one season (annuals) as well as plants that continue to  come back year after year in the same pot (perennials).
the ultimate goal is for your garden to be productive.
restricted by the pot, not all plants will come to full maturity and produce food.
in hot weather you’ll need to closely monitor the moisture in your clay pots.
carmeneatyourgreens  added about 5 hours ago reply i've got some beets started in my basement right now under grow lights.
it is best to add those  on your own as needed for the particular plants you will grow.
i was hoping maybe you could point us in the direction for good resources that will specifically describe which plants will or will not do well and plants and what kind of sunlight and season different plants need.
the one question i always have is, how large should my pots  be?
can you say a little more about which plants do and do not do well in containers?
some past articles from this author you'll love: plotting your way to the garden starting small: buying and storing seeds garden planning 101 hayley.marcus added about 2 hours ago reply thanks for the great post!
i have a habit of sizing up random  yards searching for the perfect place to grow food because sadly, i don’t  have a yard or garden of my own.
the ultimate goal is for your  garden to be productive.
a bag of compost is also a great addition.
you should know from the onset that not all vegetables grow well in containers.
this is helpful in that it allows roots to breathe and keeps them out of direct water, but it’s not helpful in that the soil tends to dry out quickly.
getting started to start a garden in containers, at a bare minimum you’ll need pots, soil, and a low-level organic fertilizer.
most plants need a little legroom to stretch their roots.
look for organic potting soil mixes from smaller regional companies rather than the national brands you’ll find in big-box stores.
by planting in a contained environment, you are inhibiting the plant’s growth to some extent.