we were about 12: harold mcgee looking owlish, heston blumenthal with his arm in a sling, some  academics, journalists and prs.
to me, these varied only in their metal-ness – copper tasted more metallic than stainless steel, which tasted more metallic than gold.
last 24 hours restaurants chefs ethical food food festivals television diner's journal serious eats cheese and biscuits eatingasia world foodie guide chocolate & zucchini contact uswho does what on word of mouth and how to contact us with your suggestions wom on twitterfollow the word of mouth team on twitter how to cookfreshen up your culinary skills with our handy guides food & drinkdaily news, reviews, recipes and features from the guardian and the observer by abhijit v banerjee £7.99 £13.49 by sarah raven £27.00 by carol ann duffy £8.99 £20.00 search the guardian bookshopsearch find the latest jobs in your sector: browse all jobs greater london | competitive with excellent benefits (including generous staff discount).
20 april 2012 6:06pm where's bogbrush?
comments on this page are now closed.
as a child i remember the metal cups at school too, but it was the camping trips, all the food and drink had that strong plastic taste from the plates, cups and cutlery 20 april 2012 1:43pm stainless steel isn't the best metal for cutlery, perhaps metal isn't the best material for cutlery at all – though on current evidence i reckon it is.
and the taste of an eating  implement does affect the taste of the food.
20 april 2012 1:22pmresponse to welshmorgan, 20 april 2012
just don’t drop them.
12:19pm my mother once whacked my brother on the head with a ladle.
perhaps stainless steel isn't the best metal for cutlery, perhaps metal isn't the best material for cutlery at all – though on current evidence i reckon it is.
maybe for that reason i enjoyed eating my soup with a wooden spoon at my granny's.
what should cutlery be made of?
but i agree with you, they are good pans, i have 2.
what about a series of columns entitled "consider........" that might be really interesting on a friday afternoon!
it's the perfect antidote for all this rain.
"to me this dinner, with its tasting notes and the rest, seemed like the dernier cri in shark-jumping foodie bullshit.
the dinner was organised by something calledthe institute of making, which sounds like a university for toddlers but is in fact "a multidisciplinary research club for those interested in the made world".
"  while poor old stainless steel was prosaically glossed as "familiar".
find out more inour blog post.
22 april 2012 2:11pmresponse to ambikadevi, 21 april 2012 7:12pm copper, in small amounts, has an anti-bacterial action, it also has excellent heat transfer qualities, so it would be great for holding water (as we know, as we use copper water pipes).
21 april 2012 3:10am oh my fucking god, i'm sure the spoon you use does not affect taste whatsoever!
they sat us down in front of seven shiny spoons:  copper, gold, silver, tin, zinc, chrome and stainless steel.
21 april 2012 1:40amresponse to aakorz, 20 april 2012
"check out the taste profile of silver with beer foam!"
as far as i could tell, this was more or less it.
10:20pm i'd have been tempted to play them.
11:42pm i couldn't resist it either.
but around me cooed a table in raptures at different "flavours" in the metals.
but you have to accept black steel is cheaper and you can season that (as you can cast iron but it is heavy and can break if dropped).
7:12pm interesting article oliver.
beling somewhat plebian, i am happy to use stainless steel.
overleaf was a series of tasting  notes on spoons.
what do you think?posted by oliver thring your ip address will be logged more from word of mouth blog on more blogposts your ip address will be logged 51 comments, displaying firstsort comments by oldest newest 20 april 2012 12:02pm i think you hit the nail on the head with "shark-jumping".
i don’t know about gold, i don’t have any.
the gold spoonwas nicer than most of the others: it  was neutral and clean and barely tasted metallic.
" 20 april 2012 1:49pm "i dare you to try the copper spoon with the grapefruit!"
20 april 2012 1:18pmresponse to welshmorgan, 20 april 2012
20 april 2012 12:34pm school dinners when i was unfortunate enough to have to eat them were served on these awful tin (?
consider yourself reprimanded.
10:06pm i read "one day in the life of ivan denisovitch" as an impressionable youth and ever since then have always had a love of spoons.
"in this  project," it informed, "we asked ourselves how do these materials  taste, do they affect the taste of food, and is it possible to understand, and  thus design, the affect (sic) they have?"
i'm sure that when the new-fangled plastic ones were introduced, we all went for those first because they didn't affect the taste of the cheap orange squash we were drinking.
it was at the indian restaurantquilon, and the idea was to see whether using different metals in cutlery affected the taste of food.
to me this dinner, with its tasting notes and the rest, seemed like the dernier cri in shark-jumping foodie bullshit.
plastic medicine spoons also are guilty of being too curvaceous.
well not forks and knives, but spoons.
her website,asifitwerereal.org, includes "a selection of  biographies" variously written by "a friend", "a  parent", "a sibling", "a stranger" (someone she met on  the tube) and "a pet" ("zoe has no pets," we're told).
even blumenthal, who looked thoroughly baffled by  proceedings, gamely chipped in by observing "there's a bitterness to the  zinc".
20 april 2012 1:35pm nuts! 20 april 2012 1:43pm isn't it just the fine layer of rust/oxidisation you are tasting?
20 april 2012 2:05pm never mind how they taste like with food, does it sound differently using different spoons for acoustics?
"check out the taste profile of silver with beer  foam!" raved another.
20 april 2012 5:53pm this experiment was worthless because it wasn't a blind tasting/testing.
3:10am full stop at the end.
12:34pm we had those metal beakers at my primary school too.
even blumenthal, who looked thoroughly baffled by proceedings, gamely chipped in by observing "there's a bitterness to the zinc".
as a child, i was taught that chowing down on your cutlery was rather rude and that in polite company you weren't supposed to chew on your spoons . . .
20 april 2012 7:10pmresponse to sparebulb, 20 april 2012 4:57pm it competes - theoretically at least - in the way that adding salt just before serving has a different effect to adding it at the beginning of cooking.
5:28am stainless steel isn't the best metal for cutlery, perhaps metal isn't the best material for cutlery at all – though on current evidence i reckon it is.
with a decent selection of acidic foods linked in series you could probably get a decent voltage up.
when private eye asks the question, the answer is usually no: the me and my spoon column features spoons because spoons aren't especially interesting.
a friend of mine loves the wooden stick at the end of a lolly, while i hate its splinters and the way it dries your tongue.
when i was a kid, we were taught that it is the height of bad manners to chow down on your cutlery.
quite amusing that this article appears the same day as one arguing that it is "inappropriate" to elect an old etonian as mayor in a time of austerity.
it's not so much that i think it tastes different to a stainless steel spoon or a wooden one, more that the low density/heat capacity means that you don't burn your lips/tongue so often 20 april 2012 2:02pm
when  private eye asks the question, the answer is usually no: the me and my spoon  column features spoons because spoons aren't especially interesting.
almost all food preparation will involve a knife, there are two main materials, carbon steel and stainless steel.
20 april 2012 6:02pmresponse to fergusmiller, 20 april 2012 5:35pm totally agree, i probably didn’t forcibly state that i favour stainless steel, especially when it has a copper ‘sandwich’
so in theory it shouldn't really matter . . .
20 april 2012 1:23pmresponse to welshmorgan, 20 april 2012
or, more specifically, on what spoons are made of, which would be a good name for an inspirational movie about spoons.
i've noticed my elderly mother find deep dessert spoons to much for her now.
now i have a complete aversion to anything that looks remotely like those old plates and forks.
or weren't  until now.
"artist and maker" zoe laughlin, one of its founders,  was there.
they are so tactile and a gorgeous colour.
to me this dinner, with its tasting notes and the rest, seemed like the  dernier cri in shark-jumping foodie bullshit.
in front of me was a booklet with background research.
so if it is polite not to slurp on your spoon, just how much can you taste of the metal?
i can feel my teeth going on edge remembering the weird plastic taste of a kia ora orange in the cinema circa 1969 - the square clear plastic carton and the strangely hard straw.
22 april 2012 1:55am wooden.
it broke" my mother wacked my hand once with the wooden spoon and it broke.
having said that, i am a little confused.
all the latest truths and trivialities from our team of food writers guardianfood: fennel and maple-cured salmon recipe from @mitchtonks' new book http://t.co/w5gexzhz plus a picture how-to #womabout 16 hours, 41 minutes ago guardianfood: world's 50 best restaurants 2012 on an interactive map.
don't say we never give you anything ...
10:01pm when private eye asks the question... you are aware they're not actually asking questions, right?
perhaps stainless steel isn't the  best metal for cutlery, perhaps metal isn't the best material for cutlery at  all – though on current evidence i reckon it is.
20 april 2012 7:27pm the most important thing about spoons is the depth.
then he would wash his hands and transfer his ring back.
copper, i read with a creeping sense of terror, is "found  to slightly inhibit saltiness", silver has "a slight  bitterness", zinc carries an "earthly, dry, rasping tendency
given all this i fail to see how the spoon can compete.
you are desparate to get into "pseuds' corner" aren't you!
20 april 2012 12:34pm i remember the awful plates, cups and the cutlery . . .
an overly concave spoon seems to leave a residue in the bottom so requiring the eater to turn the spoon over in the mouth.
they sat us down in front of seven shiny spoons: copper, gold, silver, tin, zinc, chrome and stainless steel.
20 april 2012 2:10pm everyone involved in organising this charade, plus those that felt it was a worthwhile excercise, should be removed to somewhere inhospitable and given broken glass to eat their scorpions with.
or, more  specifically, on what spoons are made of, which would be a good name for an  inspirational movie about spoons.
20 april 2012 1:19pmresponse to welshmorgan,
or weren't until now.
for example most kitchens will be using black steel pans (they aren’t black when new but become black with use).
20 april 2012 1:48pm
and they had everyone trying to do it.
"i dare you to try the copper spoon with the grapefruit!"
20 april 2012 5:35pm other restaurants will use untreated aluminium and lots will use aluminium based stainless steel pots like i do - bourgeat is a great brand.
the proper lacquered ones.
the other day i went to a dinner about spoons.
whoever said that can be first.
20 april 2012 6:28pm think i'd have been tempted to try to make impromptu batteries with the zinc and copper spoons.
a silver or gold flute would sound great but i'd also be fascinated to try to play the same materials as the spoons are one of my secondary instruments!
no annoying taste with porcelain spoons.
they say caviar should be eaten from bone.
if you thought spoons were only vehicles for food and parody, think again.
it's the raw immediacy of the metal, the touch of it on your palate, its cold bite on your teeth.
it was at the indian restaurantquilon, and  the idea was to see whether using different metals in cutlery affected the  taste of food.
although i can't entirely blame the plates for the dreadful food, the water, served in cups made of the same metal, was truly disgusting.
plastic spoons always taste greasy, and are only good for babies.
can't wait to get cooking.#womabout 3 days, 13 hours ago last 24 hours last 24 hours zeitgeist is an experiment in showing trending news, topics and articles from the guardian.
finally there are your fillings, if you have the traditional amalgam fillings in your mouth then they contain 50% mercury and descending amounts of silver, tin and copper, plus other trace metals.
and the taste of an eating implement does affect the taste of the food.
21 april 2012 11:26amresponse to mervanator, 20 april 2012 10:01pm i think there's the slightest possibility that he may just about be aware of that.
once in our local cafe we came across a table of four south africans (not that nationality has anything to do with it) with teaspoons hanging off the ends of their noses -- if you lick a teaspoon of the right bowl dimension it will stick to your nose -- it was hilarious.
spoon-fed articles, if you will.
however, milk always seemed colder in the metal ones (pre-thatcher, natch).
20 april 2012 5:49pm the entire premise was a complete joke.
apart from being the best made, most expensive socks i own, they also do work- in that they stop foot rot and stinky feet, you can wear them for days, which is important if you are going on a hike for a few days or more.
20 april 2012 8:08pmresponse to jamesramsden, 20 april 2012 7:10pm if your teeth are in reasonable condition (and not magic) then they don’t feel anything, except pain.
copper, when used in cooking pots is invariably tinned for the same reasons- copper pots are rare these days as there are better alternatives.
copper, i read with a creeping sense of terror, is "found to slightly inhibit saltiness", silver has "a slight bitterness", zinc carries an "earthly, dry, rasping tendency" while poor old stainless steel was prosaically glossed as "familiar".
a spoon should be like the diver in an olympic event, in to the mouth with minimal splash.
"artist and maker" zoe laughlin, one of its founders, was there.
in thailand you can get beautiful teaspoons carved from mango wood.
her website,asifitwerereal.org, includes "a selection of biographies" variously written by "a friend", "a parent", "a sibling", "a stranger" (someone she met on the tube) and "a pet" ("zoe has no pets," we're told).
20 april 2012 2:07pm basil fawlty hit manuel with a spoon, he couldn't have done this with a fork or a knife.
challenged  a dauntless soul.
no discernable taste profiles i have to add.
the food at quilon is deliciously spiced and complex: it was impossible to focus on the spoons.
stainless is what the environmental health will recommend and is what i use in the main, i also use anodised aluminium.
20 april 2012 6:18pmresponse to sooterkin, 20 april 2012 5:53pm try to relax.
your tongue and nose do the tasting, if i smell a silver (plated) spoon i am highly unlikely to notice a difference between that and a stainless steel spoon and as i have explained, eating curry isn’t going to have any effect regardless of what metal you use, somebody’s aftershave would have more effect.
i asked him why and he said this was so that tiny particles of gold would mix into the food over time and enter his system.
it would have to be organized as a blind taste test to determine if the material the cutlery is made of has anything effect on taste.
not the disposable ones.
challenged a dauntless soul.
thring is the sound a spoon/glass collision makes.
infact, some ayurvedic medicines are made with fine gold dust and herbs....as for the taste of food....
harold mcgee looking owlish, heston blumenthal with his arm in a sling, some academics, journalists and prs.
tappity-tap-tap-tappity-tap-tap, fuck me copper sounds good.
the problem with all the other alternatives (and anodised to an extent) is they can’t be given a good scrubbing, with stainless you can take a metal scourer (sp?) to it with impunity.
having said all that.
i really hate tin cutlery.
20 april 2012 1:59pm i have to admit that i often use my titanium 'camping' spoon (due to being lightweight and attachable to things because it has a hole in the handle) when tasting stuff during cooking.
the dinner was organised by something calledthe  institute of making, which sounds like a university for toddlers but is in fact  "a multidisciplinary research club for those interested in the made  world".
it used to make your mouth tingle and not in a good way!
"check out the taste profile of silver with beer foam!" raved another.
consider............yourself reprimanded.
what a daft article!
posted by  oliver thring friday 20 april 2012 11.50 bst guardian.co.uk  article history about this article close me and my spoon
20 april 2012 1:48pm i'd've been happy with a brief opening paragraph followed by this brilliant sentence: "to me this dinner, with its tasting notes and the rest, seemed like the dernier cri in shark-jumping foodie bullshit.
has anything amusing ever happened to you in connection with a spoon?
you could use pyrex or duran pots, ceramic knives (expensive) and chinese ceramic spoons.
the food at quilon is deliciously spiced and complex: it was impossible to  focus on the spoons.
" i'm finally convinced that the daily mail was, in fact, right all along and we are all being escorted to hell in a handcart.
yet there could be the germ of a  good idea here.
i'm pretty sure that when the new fangled palstic ones were introduced, we'd all go for them first, presumably because they didn't affect the taste of the cheap orange squash we were drinking.
much more fun than trying to analyse the taste profile of silver with beer foam.
a friend of mine loves the wooden  stick at the end of a lolly, while i hate its splinters and the way it dries  your tongue.
12:10pm sometimes i feel guardian articles are explaining too much, often leaving less room for creative thought.
20 april 2012 8:01pm
some kind of cheap metal, anyway) plates.
in the gdr, at school, we had aluminium cutlery.
bit dissapointed to not have a column about actual food today, oliver.
my parents have nasty nickel plated cutlery which tastes horrid and finally you can't eat a boiled egg with a metal spoon - must be horn or bone.
to me, these varied only in their metal-ness –  copper tasted more metallic than stainless steel, which tasted more metallic  than gold.
other restaurants will use untreated aluminium, it has superior heat qualities (although cast iron has better heat retention properties), but isn’t advised by the fsa as it can react with foods and cause a build-up of aluminium in the body (a bad thing).
20 april 2012 4:57pm what i don’t quite understand is why the fascination with the material used in the spoon effecting flavour when the material used in the cooking pot is going to have a much larger effect since it is in contact with the food for much longer.
" - best line about food ever.
11:42pm great stuff guys!
but around me  cooed a table in raptures at different "flavours" in the metals.
(she also had real spoons, but on that way it was very stylish.)
stainless steel is non-reactive (but harder to sharpen) while carbon steel is reactive, even slicing a tomato can cause a reaction (it’s easier to keep sharp but holds a blade for a shorter time, hence a straightening steel).
admittedly they'd had the best part of a litre of sangria but it was all great fun
22 april 2012 7:35amresponse to uglyfromtheback, 21 april 2012 12:19pm "my mother once whacked my brother on the head with a ladle.
it was first published at 11.52 bst on friday 20 april 2012.
12:34pm i too remember the awful institutional crockery, cups and cutlery at school - they used to make your mouth and teeth tingle and not in a good way!
also if you cook with cast iron (not enamelled) pans like a dutch oven then the food will, variables aside, supply enough trace iron to supply your daily requirements.
makes each meal interesting coz your hands would prob taste different each time.
nothing boring about them at all, try living without them.
this article was published on guardian.co.uk at 11.50  bst on friday 20 april 2012.
silver also has similar properties, i have a pair of hiking socks (well i have two pairs) and they are woven with small amounts of silver.
the gold spoonwas nicer than most of the others: it was neutral and clean and barely tasted metallic.
overleaf was a series of tasting notes on spoons.
20 april 2012 4:36pm interesting how an article that began with me and my spoon ended up like a scene from it's grim up north london... 20 april 2012 4:44pm i do hope they did a few blind tests - having people try the foods without knowing what the spoons they were using were made of - otherwise it would just have been a load of people eating some free food and restaurant scoring a bit of free publicity, and we can't have that, can we? 20 april 2012 4:51pm the article was perhaps a touch pseud but the issue is a real one.
my grandmom was such a fantastic cook, i never noticed anything else!!!!
my entire belief system has just collapsed, because now that somebody has actually uttered the words: "i dare you to try the copper spoon with the grapefruit!
all this is making me really miss me and my spoon, those were genuinely hilarious and pretty consistently made me sob with laughter 21 april 2012
yet there could be the germ of a good idea here.
20 april 2012 5:09pm incidentally, if my post has frightened anyone, don’t have nightmares.
looking back, in my grandfather's house in south india, water was always served in little copper pots, we ate and drank from pure, solid silver plates and glasses and a very strange thing my grandfather did at every mealtime....he would transfer his big gold wedding ring from his left hand to his right hand while eating.
22 april 2012 2:06am
http://t.co/unnzglqe #womabout 17 hours, 37 minutes ago amy_fleming: got my paws on @jose_pizarro's new cookbook spanish flavours.
anyway, i'm a bit disappointed not to have a column about actual food on a friday afternoon oliver.
so yeah, the metal affects taste.
that you should try to eat delicately, rather than shovelling the food in and that you shouldn't be tasting your spoon.
a shallow bowl should render the food easier to slide off with the lips.
stamp it out of them , i say.
as for me, plebian that i am, i am quite happy with stainless steel.
"in this project," it informed, "we asked ourselves how do these materials taste, do they affect the taste of food, and is it possible to understand, and thus design, the affect (sic) they have?"
as long as it's dishwasher safe i don't give a stuff.
it was last modified at 12.04 bst on friday 20  april 2012.
share comments (…) spoons made from different metals.
turn autoplay off turn autoplay on please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off