the video below is an installment in dental health sovereignty.
this oasis is beyond description, but let me attempt!
for this reason i will continue to promote sovereign self-health care strategies here at danielvitalis.com.
i am so enthusiastic about this upcoming foraging and touring season.
it is this unpredictability that has led to its cloning!
this workshop will be fully catered with organic, local food, prepared by chef frank giglio, who is one of my best  friends and a truly culinary mentor of mine.
for those who would like a deeper look into the biological processes that  take place in the fermentation of cabbage into sauerkraut, check out  this link!
when we eat and drink – we practice relationship  with different forces, with spirits and sentience.
our species’ “ultimate verdict” is the concept of death.
the initial fermentation stage is wonderful, as the cider develops its sparkling effervescence.
if you are thinking of coming, secure your space  soon because this workshop will fill!
simultaneously, it is these  elements whichunite our species, and always have.
through the alchemy of the fermentative process  something new will be created, and that new thing is known as the  “synbiotic”.
my first reaction to seeing petroleum in the spring was notable concern.
my personal approach to nutrition has indeed been influenced by his  writings, and most influential of all was the documentary “the botany of  desire”.
~daniel dec 27, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments did you know that fermented beverages, specifically ethanol containing beverages were a crucial componant of most indigenous and traditional health strategies?
i had mentioned that wild plant harvesting by humans can actually benefit the ecosystem.
~daniel ps, check out this podcast i recently did where we discuss the history of  grains and agriculture, as well as some must have information on making the  grains you use a safe and healthy food!
so much of the the botany of desire: a plant’s-eye view of the world  is focused on breeding, and more specifically the breeding of four plants;  apples, potatoes, tulips, and cannabis!
for those of us living in areas where chaga is not readily available we can  substitute the chaga tea base with any medicinal teas we are currently working  with, keeping in mind that the flavor may vary slightly… but not enough  to make that big of a difference.
it is his, and the apache spirit that is felt so strongly here!
in fact, for  much of the year i use it almost daily and have for several years now… chaga is normally decocted (boiled in water to produce a broth or tea) for  about two hours, yielding a very mild vanilla like flavor (it containsvanillin  as one of its components) which is great to drink on its own, with added cream  and a sweetener (i like maple syrup) to create a drink much like coffee.
consequently, many do not understand their true value.
either the pictures weren’t clear, the text  wasn’t informative enough, the author was lacking real experience, or the  book just wasn’t laid out in a user friendly way (ok, samuel  thayer’s books are an exception to these criticisms, and are excellent  wild food references).
the elixircraft mastery program is an excellent resource for understanding  the concept and components of making liquid medicinal preparations and
its the sap of the maple tree.
he is to be commended, and thanked, for his making wilbur a subject of his professional, guerrilla, video journalism.
invite the forces of nature, say an orange or a  mushroom, and with the right kind of eyes – grow further infused with  infinite ecologies of everlasting spirits.
this is truest expression of environmentalism i can think of!
i will be  talking aboutrewilding and transcending human domestication, and how  we can stay strong, healthy, and actively-fit for a lifetime in a world that  constantly pushing us towards a deeper state of domestication.
while i know it is an ambitious goal, it is my personal desire  to hunt and gather.
there is no  other place on earth that leaves me feeling so connected to the land and to the  elements!
my close  friendfrank giglio will be creating all of our meals throughout the weekend  using the freshest local, organic, and wild-crafted ingredients.
and even though it is winter here, i have been studying up  on the plants i want to learn in the next growing season, as well as using the  calendar in the back to determine when i will be harvesting the key plants i  intend to use throughout the year of 2011!
if you are looking for a premier chaga extract you can find it at my company,surthrival.
if you are thinking of coming, secure your space soon because this workshop will fill!
for years i used this fungus without peeling it, which yeilded wonderful results, but now that i have included the traditional preperation method, it would be difficult to depart from.
i am hoping that in the future some of you will have the opportunity to come to maine to learn the art in person.
more than this, it also prevents the conversion of testosterone into a  metabolite known as dihydrotestosterone, which has been implicated in benign  prostate hyperplasia and even male pattern baldness.
not only is this book the most useful and user friendly i have seen on the subject, but by purchasing it you are directly supporting the preservation of remaining wild places in a radical new way, by educating people how to care for and interface with wild nature.
this video post is about peeling chaga, which is its traditional  preparation method in siberia (it is from their folk medicine that we have  learned of chaga).
as strange as it may seem this was and still  is a revolutionary concept!
before trying truly wild rice, i was familiar only with the store bought, paddy cultivated wild rice which, though wonderful in flavor and rich in nutrition, just simply pales in comparison.
this doesn’t refer to behaving wildly, or giving up your standards of personal conduct, rather it means “shed your domesticator“!
this water runs down past a pool known as the “emerald pool” which is much hotter than the guitar pool.
fermentation can seem a bit intimidating when you haven’t tried it before, and that is why i am posting this video.
this video details how you can make your own, and at a very low price  at that.
~daniel jan 09, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, featured videos, from the  road, interviews, wild food & water | view comments neti pots: nasal irrigation to smog-proof your sinuses how is your sinus hygiene?
plant-based edible living sculpture with vibrant living beings who in return sculpt you.
so it’s really up to us to take an interest if we are to make the friendship of those spirits.
this is going to be a very special weekend,  featuring talks by botharthur haines and myself, as well as introductions to several earth based surthrival skills.
the fresh maple sap is so refreshing, so hydrating, and tastes so good that it is almost shocking that more people aren’t taking advantage of this delicious, abundant, and free late winter/early spring drink!
be ithomo nexus, homo luminous, neo aboriginalis, or sylvapolitans – it’s on, and it’s your choice.
also, special thanks to my friends at evolver for inviting me to be a part  of thevisionary nutrition project, beginning on april 8th with my interview, where i will be teaching about the role of  psychoactive plants in the human ecological and dietary niche.
check out the video below to hear more about ancestral ignition , and to see acclaimed botanist, author, and my foraging and aboriginal skills guide and all around friend, arthur haines, make a fire with a primitive tool known as the bow drill.
the bottom of  the first paragraph makes reference to “oil spring” which tastes of  petroleum!
because we will be teaching actual skills on the land, we must limit the  class size in order to ensure that each student experiences an attentive  learning environment.
if you are looking for a riveting adventure, are interested in peruvian  shamanism, amazonian biology, visiting machu pichu, or just wanting to soak in  a rain forest hotspring, this trip might be for you.
the world and its spirits don’t really care if we do, for the  most part.
in the recent video post we made about wilbur hot spring, i showed a  spring that appears to be bringing up petroleum oil!
below is a link to one of the best books i have read on the subject.
hand harvested, sundried, fire parched, foot treaded, and wind winnowed wild rice is so soft and delicate in flavor that it simply has to be tasted to be understood.
what he shares here is a truly wild food, fully medicinal, and even better tasting than what i was used to!
this  sacred spring spills over and runs into the “guitar pool”, which  is, as you may have guessed, shaped like a guitar!
this book was published by anaskimin, (the penobscot native word for “acorn”) a nonprofit organization here in maine, who’s purpose is the protection of open and wild spaces through public and private education.
visit here to find out more about the retreat, and here to learn about all of the amazing facilitators  for this epic retreat!
i’ll let you watch the videos first though… the recipe is included at the bottom of the post.
and while i love reading, sometimes i get even more (i must admit) out of watching a well crafted video.
this pool feeds down into the “goddess pool”, a hot spring pool the size of an olympic swimming pool!
please let us know what you thought about the video above, and if there are any subjects you would like to see covered in the future.
it was my desire to begin wild fermenting a local sugar of low to moderate  alcohol content that could be drank unfiltered and unpasteruized.
did i mention that there is an optional trip to machu picchu?
eat garbage conjured and sold by the darkest magicians – become “stay puft marshmallow man”; your ill-conceived nightmares.
probably, but i didn’t.
i hope to see you there!
this book was published by anaskimin, (the penobscot native word for  “acorn”) a nonprofit organization here in maine, who’s  purpose is the protection of open and wild spaces through public and private  education.
growing in size, staring at our hands, finding our feet, rubbing our  eyeballs, mind boggled – immersed, surrounded, and face to face with an  overwhelming presence perceived, at times, as threatening.
this e-book is very comprehensive, and empowers us  to take our dental health into our own hands for a lifetime.
in contrast to many wild foraged plants, wild rice requires a more  considerable amount of know how and equipment to locate, access, harvest, and  process, so to show this in its entirety is simply outside the scope of a blog  post.
the class has been filling up rather quickly  these last few weeks, and we are getting very excited for the spring foraging  to begin!
thesonoran desert is one of the harshest, driest  environments on the planet.
we are constantly working to serve  you better!
we strive to put on events that can nourish  the body, inform the mind, and touch the spirit.
the entire book is extensively footnoted so that you  can access the scientific literature from which so much of this information has  been compiled.
significantly, it’s acleanse – of body, of mind – and by extension, environment.
when standing on the hill, the high point of the property, surrounded by the 360 degrees of arizona mountains, looking down at the valley, the magick of this place becomes clear.
trees will be here long after we’re gone, and so will stones and bricks and clouds and the moon.
making your own nettle root tinctures at home can be easy, and only takes few minutes.
it has connected me with one of the essential practices  that makes us human.
i am grateful to the abundant earth.
of course the beverages fermented by native peoples and by our traditional  cultural forebearers were much healthier and nutritionally viable than those of  today, created with local ingredients and wild yeasts, and were not filtered  and pasturized like the ones that most of us were raised around.
especially those “quacks” – originally a term reserved for dentists who employed mercury amalgam fillings – with less than shiny-white histories (e.g. fluoride, mercury, etc).
keep on rewilding yourself!
keep checking mycurrent events for more details, and i hope to meet you somewhere out there soon!
they  have facilitated the transformation ofthe countless people who have attended  (myself included!).
stinging nettle (urtica dioica) is an herbaceous perennial flowering plant  known by many of us for the painful stinging hairs (they are actually called  “trichomes”) that inject histamine into our skin like micro  hypodermic needles.
it is 3 days long, catered by chef frank  giglio with all local organic and wild food, and taught by myself and wild food  expertarthur haines.
~daniel jan 12, 2011 | current projects, interviews, wild food & water | view comments for those of us who are developing or returning to our ancestral health through traditional and indigenous nutritional practices, few food preparation skills are as valuable to possess as lacto-fermentation.
this  is afree interview – call in to  listen live at 10  a.m. est (9 a.m. cst & 8 a.m. pst).
so i can honestly tell you they are the best around.
~d p.s. though saline water is what people usually put in their neti  pots, i have heard of many other solutions.
best of all, you can swallow this toothpaste, which yields all of the amazing health benefits of these detoxifying earth compounds.
and it’s your choice.
enjoy the article and let us know what you think!
many of us have taken our diets and nutrition into our own hands, though  when it comes to personal health care, few of us have really stepped out and  away from the entrenched medical system’s doctor/dentist treatment, and  the role we play in it as “patient” (from the latin meaning  “suffering”).
this is particularly perplexing  since the pollen of pine trees has been used for millennia in china and korea  as both food and a particularly powerful tonic and adaptogen, especially for  the elderly.
we are now getting ready for ancestral ignition, a workshop that myself and some good friends are hosting here at my home in maine,september 16th – 18th, 2011.
“in order to live a magical life, you have to eat magical
i will be speaking in washington, dc at the take back your health conference on april 14th and 15th!
you can imagine that prior to the widespread use of refrigeration, areas of  the world with large apple yields would have had quite a bit of cider on hand,  as the juice of fresh apples ferments quite readily.
for the last several years i have talked more about chaga (inonotus obliquus) than any other wild foraged food or medicine.
i have used this strategy, along side others, such as regular sauna use (check out clearlight saunas, it is the brand of infrared sauna that i have in my home), a clean whole food diet containing lots of wild foods and herbs,drinking natural spring water, implimenting regular functional exercise, all combined with and tied together with time spent in nature.
not only is this book the most useful and user friendly i have  seen on the subject, but by purchasing it you are directly supporting the  preservation of remaining wild places in a radical new way, by educating people  how to care for and interface with wild nature.
they can throw you down,  clean you up, send you out to space, thrust you on a new paths, make you change  your ways, whisper advice, keep you warm, dry, sheltered, alive, and in some  cases, even kill you.
have a look and let us know what you think!!!
it has been working very well for me, and it just might work for you too.
for me it is a place where i shed yet another layer of domestication and  re-member what it means to behuman.
you will gain tremendous knowledge and be supporting  a wonderful and important cause.
now that i am moving away from “novelty foraging” toward a  subsistence that includes wild foods, i am acutely aware of this nutritional  crux.
an open source invitation into deeper relation with the many things that fuel, heal, and energize us; that which is alive all around us, co-createswith us.
i have just finished preparing my presentation, called “habitat, your guide to intentional lifestyle design” which will focus on specific strategies for more than just vigorous health, but epi-genetic wealth.
better yet, take some time to develop mastery of this skill by making it a  regular practice!
it is exciting to see who takes the plunge and  comes along!
you can check out lots of my past interviews with  him (as well as hundreds of other amazing guests) in hisextensive audio archives .
it was schinus terebinthifolius, the brazilian pink peppercorn, and while not a true peppercorn, it is the pink berry we all have seen in the high end peppercorn blends and fancy see-through peppermills.
for those of you who are interested in going deeper, i would highly  recommend an e-book by my good friend nadine artemis called “successful self-dentistry, how to avoid the dentist without ignoring  your teeth”.
and if we can do that–a big  task, no doubt–then the way people interact with the world and the  spirits of the world and universe will change, automatically, from one of  dominance to one of cooperation.
in gratitude, ~daniel vitalis subscribe to entries subscribe to comments all content © 2012 by daniel vitalis compression plugin created by jake ruston - sponsored by memory foam mattress pad and gpt sites.
to compliment and expand on my video, i have also included a video with botanist arthur haines detailing how he taps his maples, and prepares his maple syrup.
turning  simple sugars into ethanol, amino acids, and b complex vitamins, not to mention  a culturally and ritually significant inebriant is a nearly ubiquitous human  behavior, and part of what holds the fabric of traditional societies together.
soaking in these waters in the cold desert night looking deep into space is a gift that few ever give themselves!
and while we use the term  “intoxicant” to refer to drinks that contain alcohol, these people  didn’t associate their sacred beverages with “toxicity” at  all.
for this reason i will continue to promote sovereign self-health care  strategies here at danielvitalis.com.
nettle root contains compunds that bind to shbg taking the place of testosterone and thereby keeping free testosterone in the blood.
it is the open, clear, and relaxed sense of breathing; the ability to fully utilize your respiration that makes you conscious of its importance.
the experience of procuring food directly from wild nature is truly, for me  at least, one of the great joys of living!
thanks for watching, and please let me know what you think.
while the aerial parts of the plant (the parts that grow above the ground) are most commonly eaten as a pot herb (cooked) or made into infusions (teas), it is the roots from which we can extract its potent androgenic substances.
i am honored to share my knowledge and experience of my many years of visiting this land, with all of the retreaters!
* in addition, daniel vitalis personally assimilated the depth of the  respectful and non cult atmosphere that we have created at wilbur.
if you know anyone who might be interested in these events, please share this post with them!
we have become overfed and under nourished.
also, check out our friends at rawnatureboy.com to get an exclusive package deal on sun warrior protein powder, surthrival colostrum & immortal velvet deer antler!!!
this has proven an interesting and valuable endeavor, and i am constantly amazed to discover the source of the foods that i grew up on.
your probably wondering what “a moderate amount of  alcohol” is.
this is because of a curing process used with commercially prepared “wild rice” that causes the grains to become very hard and locks in some of the unpleasantly strong flavors.
i love drinking it this way throughout the day, and like saving the older, dryer, and “harder” cider for the evenings with dinner and after.
or that those who drink a moderate amount of ethanol live longer than those who drink heavily or don’t drink at all?
please let us know what you thought about the video above, and if there are  any subjects you would like to see covered in the future.
while many people use probiotic supplements in an attempt to achieve these ends, most often lacto-fermented foods perform these tasks better, can be made at home from whole, fresh, local foods, are inexpensive, and add a considerable amount of quality nutrition in the form of highly absorbable predigested, living food.
from it nothing is hidden and it knows what’s what –
it has been really exciting to share these with you all, and for me it feels like a timely message, given the considerable distrust and dissatisfaction so many of us have been feeling for mainstream “medicine” in recent years.
greetings rewilder’s!
duringplant dietas, one is isolated, eats very little, and/or very simply, in order to remove distractions, sensitize one’s body/mind/spirit to the subtleties of the spirit world, to become transparent, lucid and focused in it.
it only took a few moments of internet research to discover the identity of  this wildly successful invasive.
this book has become part of my  everyday kit.
here is some information on that healing smelly substance.
now that i am just weeks away from surthrival’s launch of its new pine pollen extracts, i wanted to share a video that is yet one more piece of my natural hormone maintnance strategy.
stephen was sure to include extensive sections on the historical use of pine pollen in various traditional medicine systems, its chemistry, as well as its androgen profile, dosages for use, and yes… even how you can harvest your own!
yet, this oasis isgreen and lush, surrounded by inhospitablegravel-strewn desert.
if you are interested in developing this skill set as well, or if you have experience but are ready to go deeper please check out myancestral plants workshop this may in southern maine!
check out the video interview below to learn more about the book, and click here to get your copy now!
alcohol consumption goes further into antiquity than can be  accounted for, in other words it is part of the human story.
today, most of the worlds citizens are living with an inverse relationship  between micronutrients (vitamins, minerals, etc) and macronutrients (calories).
lastly i want to share the link to the newly rebuilt surthrival website!
everything has a spirit.
the toxic cations are then transported out of our bodies, along with the zeolite powder in our bowel movement.
it is an old document describing the wilbur spring and surrounding area.
merge with the maelstrom, let gaia absorb you.
this blog is in no way supporting reckless or irreverent use of ethanol.
rather, and more vital to our personal healing – as well as to the continuation of life as we know it – is our becoming acquainted with the organism producing the food or medicine itself.
arthur shares a very eloquent response; “it does at first seem like an odd statement that collecting wild plants can actually benefit the ecosystem.
as i began experimenting with tissue detoxification using zeolites and clay, it dawned on me that these, when rendered into a fine flour-like powder, have just the right amount of abrasiveness to take the place of the toothpaste i had grown up with.
this project began a few years back when i read stephen’s outstanding  book “the natural testosterone plan”.
and if we can do that–a big task, no doubt–then the way people interact with the world and the spirits of the world and universe will change, automatically, from one of dominance to one of cooperation.
it is the strengthened engagement with the harmony of humanity – the  beautiful songs we’ve sung and are singing, our peak performance, the  best of the best – that boils down to our collective necessities –  food, medicine, life – from which can be drawn ever-expanding analogies,  inter-elated metaphor, and metamorphosis.
sep 30, 2010 | wild food & water, written word | view comments coca, ayahuasca, wild foods and hot springs!
we are less than a  month away, so if you would like to join us – by us i mean the very  amazing and interesting group of people who have assembled for this trip  – contactjeannette at info@rawflora.com, and check out the 11 day 10  night itinerary here.
and when we, mankind, begin interacting with the world, rather than trying to dominate it, well, i think mankind will be better off.
commonly referred to and often mistaken as  “the ayahuasca diet”- plant dietas are, in very general terms; a discipline and process of cleansing, purging, healing,  learning, and building right-relationship.
each day we are all breathing the many stow-away particles (read: pollutants) that free float amongst what was once, some pretty fresh air here on planet earth.
you can learn a lot from arugula – even more from cacao, or from an elder like maize.
this quiet, ripping whorl, where time is in question, and of its essence.
if you are anything like me, you consume enough books that they could be  considered part of your diet!
as though i was, or have been, turning myself into some kind of garden.
the simultaneous use and conservation of nature requires far more knowledge and skill than simply leaving nature alone.
shailene, from all of us, thank you for all  that you are doing!
hot springs, waterfalls, coca,cacao, wild food and wild medicine, and yes,  even an optional ayahuasca ceremony!
this current video is a 6 part dental health and maintenance strategy that has replaced the role of dentistry in my life.
we really do need a shift away from the current paradigm of a hands-off approach to nature.
for me it is a place where i shed yet another layer of domestication and re-member what it means to behuman.
arthur writes from a place of profound understanding of the nutritional  and medicinal actions of wild foods, as well as the important uses that these  95 plants held for the native people of this continent (and still do for the  “neo-aboriginal” today).
in the meantime, check out the video below to see the harvest and  processing of these beautifully blush bunches of berries!
i have events planned around the us, canada, and even in peru.
the experience of procuring food directly from wild nature is truly, for me at least, one of the great joys of living!
if you are looking for a riveting adventure, are interested in peruvian shamanism, amazonian biology, visiting machu pichu, or just wanting to soak in a rain forest hotspring, this trip might be for you.
these particles are constantly  lodging in and congesting our upper respiratory tract, creating an environment  for infection and/or being drawn still deeper into our lower respiratory tract  (our lungs).
my company surthrival recently started carrying what we  feel are the most beautiful and durable ceramic neti pots available anywhere,  andyou can get one for yourself right here on our newly  designed website (we are pretty excited about this)!
your feedback is crucial to us, and we really do love hearing from you.
october 6th-10th, 2010 epic eden hot springs retreat!  october 6th through the 10th, 2010
the case with clay is very similar, though the phenomena in this case is referred to as adsorption, which is also an electrical binding, but in this case to the surface of the clay particle and without the accompanying exchange of a cation.
their constant  quest instead was securing the macronutrient (carbohydrate, lipid, and protein  calories) that they required for their huge daily energy expenditures.
the softness is like that of the most perfectly cooked white rice but with all the nutritious nutty flavors of a wild intact grain.
my experience has been that you can only truly feel the chronic congestion after you have cleared it.
if your looking to smog proof your sinuses, help to prevent sinus issues in general, and improve your respiratory health, give the neti pot a try.
from my perspective, it appears that a diet that lacks the geophagy pattern could not be called a “natural diet” at all, as it would essentially be deficient in these all-important compounds.
working safely and respectfully with ayahuasca and other teacher plants,  alongside raw food/garden-variety plants, the teacher’s assistants so to  speak, leads, of course, to many physical and spiritual benefits.
also, i want to let you know that though this book was written for plants  of the north east, dozens of the plants here will  be found throughout  north america, and even beyond.
instead i have prepared this short video to highlight the  experiences i had ricing this season.
the behavior is termed“geophagy”, and is unquestionably part of the species-specific diet of human beings.
* in addition, daniel vitalis personally assimilated the depth of the respectful and non cult atmosphere that we have created at wilbur.
it was schinus terebinthifolius, the  brazilian pink peppercorn, and while not a true peppercorn, it is the pink
the world of “modern medicine”, to include modern dentistry, seems far less interested in our health than it does in furthering its quasi-scientific agendas, human experiemention, and profit driven procedures.
trust me, it will help.
magical  food” -david
a sentiment  reinforced in a recent new york times magazine article describing the plant  take-over of new orleans’ lower ninth ward, where “for six and a  half years, the neighborhood has undergone a reverse colonization —  nature reclaiming civilization.”
stephen, having  studied pine pollen extensively, had much to share on the subject.
this is your chance to meet the superfoods, medicinal herbs, and  psychoactive plants of south america right there where they live and grow!
be ithomo  nexus, homo luminous, neo aboriginalis, or sylvapolitans – it’s on,
i encourage you to give it a try, and to get out into your local ecosystem to commune with your landscape.
in a portion of her response lauren’s says “i don’t understand how harvesting wild food can “benefit the ecosystem”.
ok, a little caveat, we might not actually add the probiotic, but rather  let it colonize itself, in what is called a “wild fermentation”, as  is the case here with sauerkraut.
while i hadn’t had personal experience with this plant before, i do have plenty of experience with the principles of wild food identification, harvest, and processing, and each of these skills translate well from biome to biome, from one eco-system to the next.
this is in fact where my very first youtube video was recorded, and the place where i began my career.
no one there was able to explain this to me, and i was looking for some  confirmation….
cider is so easy to produce at homea cave man could do it!
all around it salt crystals grow right up out  of the ground, dusting the area like a fresh snow!
still for my daily use this  is now my preferred method.
stephen was sure to include extensive sections on the historical use of  pine pollen in various traditional medicine systems, its chemistry, as well as  its androgen profile, dosages for use, and yes…  even how you can  harvest your own!
in other words, we can use our environment and lifestyle to activate our genetic potential for a more robust experience of life on earth!
right  there in the heart of the world!
michael pollan, for example, explores this extensively and convincingly in his  work, posing the question: “what if we are all just pawns in corn’s  clever strategy game to rule the earth?”.
the second will focus on  the creation of fire from friction, using natural materials from the landscape,  the way it was done for the last 400,000 years.
especially those “quacks” – originally  a term reserved for dentists who employed mercury amalgam fillings – with  less than shiny-white histories (e.g. fluoride, mercury, etc).
it is a wild new idea that comes from the effects our modern lifestyle has had on our epi-genome and our health.
join us ~ october 6th-10th, 2010 for this epic experience of  a lifetime!
imagine for a moment living without a fossil fuel driven infrastructure to  deliver us our “fresh” veggies in january and an electrically  powered refrigerator to store them in, and its importance and relevance becomes  clear.
i eventually engaged and evolved my raw food/living diet path as a kind of  inverted version of aplant dieta.
- stephen harrod buhner i suspect you will all enjoy this book as much as i have enjoyed being a part of it.
wild food & water visionary nutrition greetings friends!
it has already become one of my most valued herbal references.
our ability to generate and maintain fire is a powerful thing indeed, so it is our intention to pass on not just the skill, but the ethics of stewardship as well.
the roll of  shamanic knowledge for us westerners introduced to those spirits is to spread  that knowledge, make communication easier.
the last two weekend events we hosted in maine turned out to be game-changers for nearly everyone involved.
from  “organic” store-bought toothpaste brands, to tooth soaps and  powders, and even aboriginal “chew sticks” – nothing has been  the right fit for my self-dentistry needs.
~daniel dec 27, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments wild fermented hard cider did you know that fermented beverages, specifically ethanol containing  beverages were a crucial componant of most indigenous and traditional health  strategies?
one of the things i really appreciate about it is that it is written as  more than just a wild food guide, it is a plant medicine guide as well,
it is less hot and more like tepid bathwater… i enjoy this pool for exercise and play!
i eventually engaged and evolved my raw food/living diet path as a kind of inverted version of aplant dieta.
arthur has discovered a method that bypasses both the tea plant as well as the refined sugar!
the  primary fermentative organism present in these kinds of preserves is  lactobacillus acidophilus (who’s name means “acid loving milk  bacteria”) one of our bodies primary microbial symbionts.
thanks for visiting and please let me know what you think of the book!
if anyone finds a reference or more information on this, please leave it as a comment below!!
this monograph is intended to remedy that oversight and help establish it as one of the most important medicinals in the herbalist’s repertory.”
my company,surthrival,  became the first to bring a fully developed pine pollen product line to the  natural foods market place in north america.
we are now  awakening from the last few decades of over-fed / under-nourished slumber and  collectively reclaiming our sovereign health!
the neti pot gives us the ability to clean our upper  respiratory tract, in much the same way that a toothbrush cleans our mouth or a  shower washes our skin, before these particles can accumulate or be drawn  deeper.
we were sure to get them in several different colors so that you can choose one thats right for you.
i have personally been witness to it in my own life amongst people that i love dearly.
the film exposes the myths and mistruths that the diet-fad and processed food industries have perpetrated on a mis-educated populace for so many years.
when he wants to eat wild rice he doesn’t go to the market or health food store, he goes to into the wilds!
there are plenty of micronutrients in the foods that i forage from my ecosystem, but most of my actual caloric needs still come from my local farm.
was it edible, and if so could i make the  time to harvest some of it before my flight home?
it has connected me with one of the essential practices that makes us human.
please come visit me and the  surthrival team, and support this important east coast event!
the first video covers proper drying and storage of the chaga mushroom and preparing a decoction, with the 2nd & 3rd videos being a detailed, step by step instruction on creating an elixir, using the wild-harvested chaga tea as a base.
the second will focus on the creation of fire from friction, using natural materials from the landscape, the way it was done for the last 400,000 years.
we are less than a month away, so if you would like to join us – by us i mean the very amazing and interesting group of people who have assembled for this trip – contactjeannette at info@rawflora.com, and check out the 11 day 10 night itinerary here.
spending time witharthur haines has propelled my wild nutrition path forward in ways i am so grateful for.
to your health and adaptation!
this is truest expression of  environmentalism i can think of!
here is a recent interview with her in black book magazine titled  “eating clay and super humans”!
for me, lacto-ferments like sauerkraut are one of my primary ways of preserving and consuming local vegetables through out the long maine winters.
essentially though, it is process of healing and strengthening.
it is this  unpredictability that has led to its cloning!
was it edible, and if so could i make the time to harvest some of it before my flight home?
exactly how it works isn't known.
duringplant dietas, one is  isolated, eats very little, and/or very simply, in order to remove  distractions, sensitize one’s body/mind/spirit to the subtleties of the  spirit world, to become transparent, lucid and focused in it.
the initial fermentation stage is wonderful, as the cider  develops its sparkling effervescence.
simply follow the steps in the video below, and in a couple of weeks you will have your first batch ready to eat!
daily comm-union, even telepathy, most often one-way, where a plant invited into the human body as food or medicine can “see what you mean”.
the following is a short excerpt from the opening pages of the book: “although the western world has been undergoing its greatest herbal renaissance in over a century the medicinal actions of trees are often overlooked, perhaps none more so than pine.
nettle root  contains compunds that bind to shbg taking the place of testosterone and  thereby keeping free testosterone in the blood.
there is an option to arrive on the early for a trip to the ancient incan city of machu picchu!
his grounded and well researched  teachings on nutrition and the environmental and psychological impacts of our  diets have earned him tremendous respect as and author and authority on the  subject (he’s a professor of journalism at the university of california,  berkeley).
when we eat and drink – we practice relationship with different forces, with spirits and sentience.
these next 3 videos are the follow up from the last post entitled  “stalking the wild chaga”.
for instance, lacto-fermentaion actually increases the amount of  nutrition that was present in the vegetable alone (by converting sugars into  protein rich bacterial bodies, b vitamins, and omega 3 fatty acids), increase  the bio-availability of the existing nutrition (by breaking down cell walls by  predigesting the vegetables cellulose, and removing anti-nutrients) and all the  while preserving the inherent nutrition better than freezing, canning, or  drying!
did i mention that there is an optional trip  to machu picchu?
~daniel jan 27, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water | view comments we are excited to bring yet another video with wild foods expert arthur haines!
not only does lactobacillus acidophilus allow us to preserve and even  increase the amount of nutrition in our vegetables, but it also aids in  digestion and increases our immunity too!
i am so  proud ofsurthrival as a project, as a company, and as a team!
each day we are all breathing  the many stow-away particles (read: pollutants) that free float amongst what  was once, some pretty fresh air here on planet earth.
as each season goes by and my skills  in this area increase, not only have i developed a strong sense of food  security, my direct relationship to the earth as an abundant and loving  provider continues to increases.
studies indicate that 1 – 3 drinks ethanol  drinks per day seems to extend lifespans!
the first video covers proper drying and storage of the chaga mushroom and  preparing a decoction, with the 2nd & 3rd videos being a detailed, step by  step instruction on creating an elixir, using the wild-harvested chaga tea as a  base.
if you would like to see the rest of thetalk, as well as those presented by the rest of the longevity
harvesting nettle rhizomes greetings everyone!
for centuries people have been enjoying the health benefits of the fermented beverage kombucha, which is often mistakenly referred to a chinese mushroom tea.
i suspect you will all enjoy this book as much as i have enjoyed being a  part of it.
it is exciting to see who takes the plunge and comes along!
the main focus of this retreat is to share theancient and ancestral skill of aboriginal friction fire with all of those who attend.
i really feel that this movie has the potential to make some real change in the lives of people you know, so please turn your friends and loved ones onto it as well!
this will be a fun call, and patrick is never shy about taking me into edgy and interesting territory!
we add to that the  “probiotic” organism (these are healthy, symbiotic micro-organisms)  that will be performing the fermentation (here it will be lactobacillus).
the exotic sweet and spicy aromatic flavor of these brittle pink berries was well worth the risk, and i was certain i was on the trail of a new wild food ally.
after years of hosting  events and retreats, we have learned what powerful transformational tools these  kinds of workshops can be.
since the prostrate is the endocrine gland thats responsible for male  orgasm, taking care of it for a lifetime is probably a good idea!
while you may not need nettle root as a medicine for yourself, its highly likely you know a man who does.
this e-book is very comprehensive, and empowers us to take our dental health into our own hands for a lifetime.
but we are new here – sometimes awesome, but ultimately amateur, and we’ve been grasping.
most of us brush our teeth and we usually expect the same of others.
each one of  us must determine how we will responsibly relate to it as a substance, and how  we will steward it with health and safety in mind.
each book is like a tile, great or small, in the mosaic of world-view that we are each assembling.
~daniel nov 18, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water | view comments greetings everyone!
while i have also been fermenting honey with some success (a beverage called mead), i wanted to brew something with a milder effect (mead has the alcohol content of wine, upwards of 16 % or more) that could be done with very little labor or input, just the way our ancestors had done it.
your probably wondering what “a moderate amount of alcohol” is.
for many years now i have visited this oasis of the sonoran desert, and it has been(by far) the most trans-formative location of my life.
the brazilian pink peppercorn tampa bay was the site of another example of an urban forage, and this time  with an exotic invasive that produces more food than i could ever hope to  harvest.
in fact, if you know where to look, you could get everything you  would need for making all the toothpaste you would use for the rest of your  life for probably under $100!
the theme of lectures i have been giving around the continent this year has  been “indigenous nutrition and human evolution”, and much of the  focus has been on the breeding of our modern food supply.
this plant, once planted ornamentally is now southern florida’s most noxious invasive, and today is illegal to plant, sell, or transport within the state!
i am very excited about  both of these classes, and will be posting the details shortly.
abstract learning about nature (i.e., learning that doesn’t involve interaction and use) doesn’t accurately portray the value of different species.
after a few days, to a few weeks, of implementing this practice it will become immediately clear why i am recommending it.
something i could practice daily as a way to learn from, and build relations with numerous “common” plants like kale, chard, chia, blueberries, tomatoes, pears, for example.
there is no other place on earth that leaves me feeling so connected to the land and to the elements!
(the actual video of harvesting wild rice is at the bottom of this blog  post!)
we all participate, we all dance with these elements – and it is these elements that, by and large, make up our world.
dec 08, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments (the actual video of harvesting wild rice is at the bottom of this blog post!)
what role do psychoactive’s play today, and if they are no longer represented in our food supply, is it possible that we can become “alkaloid deficient”?
and don’t forget to check out the mead making workshop that i have coming up next week.
still for my daily use this is now my preferred method.
i will be leading a tour of the sacred grounds of eden, visiting along the tour the six geo-thermal hot springs that spot the land.
bodybuilding wild chaga protein elixir 6 cups wild chaga decoction (tea) 1/2 cup soaked chia seeds 1/4  cup mesquite powder
i will be talking about everything from the “best foods available in the super-market” to the “ worst food that people are eating today“.
this book has become part of my everyday kit.
we are traveling into the jungle to explore the wild foods and medicines of the most bio-diverse region of the world, the amazon!
given the drive for new plant  medicines and the continual search for a new herb-of-the-day that will simulate  excitement in the general populace (e.g. rhodiola, maca), it is astonishing  that pine has been unrecognized for so long.
i had grown up with.
please post your comments so that we can get up on the site for the continued stimulation of the minds of our readers!
it has been  practiced around the world and is present in virtually all pre-industrial  populations.
these retreats are limited to 10 people and they are already filled!
it was a tremendous honor to be a part of the new documentary film “hungry for change”.
these are made right here in the state of maine (where we are based  out of) and i have personally tested them now for almost a decade and a half,
*topical treatments* used alone, creams and ointments that you apply to your skin can effectively treat mild to moderate psoriasis.
this project began a few years back when i read stephen’s outstanding book “the natural testosterone plan”.
she talks about foraging, spring water and her daily clay consumption!
*topical treatments* used alone, creams and ointments that  you apply to your skin can effectively treat mild to moderate psoriasis.
and when we, mankind, begin interacting with  the world, rather than trying to dominate it, well, i think mankind will be  better off.
imagine for a moment living without a fossil fuel driven infrastructure to deliver us our “fresh” veggies in january and an electrically powered refrigerator to store them in, and its importance and relevance becomes clear.
there are plenty of micronutrients in the foods that i forage from  my ecosystem, but most of my actual caloric needs still come from my local farm.
before trying truly wild rice, i was familiar only with the store bought,  paddy cultivated wild rice which, though wonderful in flavor and rich in  nutrition, just simply pales in comparison.
this “look but don’t touch” attitude toward nature has been applied too extensively, and many mistakenly believe that all wild beings are better off without any human interaction.
thanks for visiting and please let me know what you think of  the book!
null null most of us were taught to spit our toothpaste out, which, given the host of  less-than-beneficial ingredients (particularly fluoride) is pretty sound  advice.
what an amazing autumn it has been!
lacto-fermentation, the kind of vegetable fermentation that produces foods like sauerkraut (as well as kimchee and brined pickles), preserves our food in lactic acid, and was one of the dominant preservation techniques used by our ancestors before sugar and preservatives became the norm.
the softness  is like that of the most perfectly cooked white rice but with all the  nutritious nutty flavors of a wild intact grain.
these wonderful drinks were both relatively low in  alcohol, with probably just a bit less than a modern beer, and loaded with  nutrition and calories, making them as much a food as a drink.
then there was also this document which mentions springs of petroleum coming up in the area… now to see if the balneologists know of any theraputic benefit to this naturally occuring compound!
if you can’t make it to the  event, but would like to watch the video stream, here isthe link where you can  sign up to watch at home.
it is a chance to immerse yourself in the temple of the elemental!
~d p.s. though saline water is what people usually put in their neti pots, i have heard of many other solutions.
the springs are so deeply nourishing, and there is always a view of the stars like few have ever seen.
“i think that once a person is aware of the life in everything,  they can begin to access the spirit of everything.
there are so many examples of beneficial human interaction it is hard to know where to begin.
the first will be a three day wild food education, identifaction, gathering, processing, and preparation workshop!
eating and drinking is intimate communication.
special thanks to both arthur and the maine primitive skills school for introducing me to him!
so, this is an official challenge to the kombucha producers and communities to up their game!
while you may  not need nettle root as a medicine for yourself, its highly likely you know a  man who does.
more than any other medicinal mushroom, this has been my number one herbal/fungal ally.
if you are interested in joining us for this online workshop just click the banner below.
i really feel that this movie has the  potential to make some real change in the lives of people you know, so please  turn your friends and loved ones onto it as well!
one of the things i really appreciate about it is that it is written as more than just a wild food guide, it is a plant medicine guide as well, detailing herbal uses of these plants in addition to their uses as foods.
coal tar is available in over-the-counter shampoos, creams and oils.
of course today it is nearly the opposite, where most of the (over) developed world has calorie rich diet composed of overly processed and refined food – think white sugar, white flour, high fructose corn syrup, etc – that is deeply lacking in micro-nutrition.
in  particular i am referring to zeolites ability to perform cation exchange -  cec or cation exchange capacity is the term used in physics- which is its  ability to electrically bind positively charged ions (heavy metals,  radio-isotopes, etc) whilst trading out (in exchange) beneficial cations like  potassium or calcium.
join me on my upcoming radio show with patrick timpone on march  29th at 10 am est.
we are what we eat, and what  we eat runs the show.
i will be facilitating 3 wild food tours in the jungles of peru,  august 5th, 19th, and september 2nd!
daniel and i didn’t want to leave you hanging for long without new  information posted on the site but daniel is unable to devote any time to his  blog for a little while yet as he is on the road and busy spreading the word of shamanic nutrition in california!
the tour is going great and there are several  events left if your thinking you’d like to see daniel do his thing live  and in person!
arthur writes from a place of profound understanding of the nutritional and medicinal actions of wild foods, as well as the important uses that these 95 plants held for the native people of this continent (and still do for the “neo-aboriginal” today).
shailene, from all of us, thank you for all that you are doing!
as per usual, daniel’s delivery in these next 3 videos is  flawless… enjoy!
this past autumn was a really exciting time for my team and i, with so many of our projects coming to fruition and our message ofrewilding, spring water, and indigenous nutrition spreading around our community and beyond, faster than we ever imagined.
this is a path of uniting stories.
with childlike enthusiasm, we have been texting back and forth each day to see how much sap the others trees have produced!
also, as a heads up, arthur and i will be leading two weekend workshops together this year in the north east, one in may called “ancestral plants” and another in september called “ancestral ignition”.
would you like to make your own toothpaste for self-dentistry and
my research led me to the following article from the renowned mayo  clinic.
growing in size, staring at our hands, finding our feet, rubbing our eyeballs, mind boggled – immersed, surrounded, and face to face with an overwhelming presence perceived, at times, as threatening.
now that i am moving away from “novelty foraging” toward a subsistence that includes wild foods, i am acutely aware of this nutritional crux.
given the drive for new plant medicines and the continual search for a new herb-of-the-day that will simulate excitement in the general populace (e.g. rhodiola, maca), it is astonishing that pine has been unrecognized for so long.
best wishes, arthur haines jan 22, 2010 | featured videos, interviews, wild food & water | view comments let's connect!
while i have also been  fermenting honey with some success (a beverage called mead), i wanted to brew  something with a milder effect (mead has the alcohol content of wine, upwards  of 16 % or more) that could be done with very little labor or input, just the  way our ancestors had done it.
earlier in the year i had the culturally enriching experience of imbibing some of the traditional fermented beverages of south america, specificallychicha (from maize) and masatao (fromcassava), both traditional ferments of the people of peru.
so it provides certain answers in the form of nourishment – literally;  “bringing (you) up, raising, fostering, supporting, preserving”.
want to see what a truly clean upper respiratory tract feels like?
this video is a quick peek into my spring cleansing strategy which is most  welcomed after a lengthy season of living indoors.
on this interview, daniel will be speaking about his latest research into thereclassification of modern humans as a new subspecies.
and yes, he and his warriors really used this spring for healing and rejuvenation!
come learn how this april!
i am also very excited to visit the markets and meet the locals!
swimming, bathing, or even just  floating here is a truly unique and indescribable experience!
this plant, once planted ornamentally is now southern florida’s
“what ayahuasca teaches is that right now, at every moment, we already live in the magic forest.”
a path of connectivity.
treatments and drugs by mayo clinic staff  psoriasis treatments aim to: - interrupt the cycle that causes an increased production of skin cells, thereby reducing inflammation and plaque formation.
as  though i was, or have been, turning myself into some kind of garden.
until then, please know that your readership is appreciated.
this quiet, ripping  whorl, where time is in question, and of its essence.
also, as a heads up, arthur and i will be leading two weekend workshops  together this year in the north east, one in may called “ancestral  plants” and another in september called “ancestral ignition”.
many of you are already planning on being there, and those who would like  to join canget your tickets here.
thanks for taking a moment in your day to read this.
lactobacillus takes up residence in our small intestine, creating a kind of probiotic bio-shield in the gut, where it aggressively out-competes other dys-biotic organisms that can cause us to fall ill.
this water runs down past a pool known as the “emerald pool”  which is much hotter than the guitar pool.
since i received my first copy (just a couple of weeks ago on the winter  solstice) i haven’t been able to put it down.
and thus far, for most of us throughout mankind’s short history  on this planet, that effort has not been made.
we invoke separation, like children covering their ears – convinced it’s not happening.
as for the technique and specifics, i will let this video explain  the rest.
what a wonderful feeling to know that this winter i will be eating more of  my calories from foods that were sustainably harvested from my local landscape.
what might appear on the surface to be a wanton act of collection actually represents a gathering system that includes numerous safeguards to protect plants from overharvest.
we will also be  talking about footwear, and why i am such a fan of five-toed shoes!
when this clay or zeolite consumption is combined with sauna therapy (this dual approach is the subject ofmy last video), we arrive at a very effective life-long detoxification strategy that really works, and is easy to implement.
then there was also this document which mentions springs of petroleum  coming up in the area… now to see if the balneologists know of any theraputic benefit to this  naturally occuring compound!
~daniel jan 12, 2011 | current projects, interviews, wild food & water | view  comments sauerkraut fermentation at home
there will be many amazing work/play shop facilitators, body workers, and many newand old friends… morning yoga, sun gazing, spring water….
this is why my teachings have been focusing in on foods that are bred  wisely, or when possible, are wild!
also, this is an excellent resource for herbalists or those interested in herbal medicine, as each plants pharmacology and mode of action are broken down in a very explicit and comprehensible way.
when this clay or zeolite consumption is combined with sauna therapy  (this dual approach is the subject ofmy last video), we arrive at a very  effective life-long detoxification strategy that really works, and is easy to  implement.
with this home-made clay or zeolite toothpaste, the goal is  indeed to swallow it, moving it into the intestine where it can go to work  mopping up industrial and nuclear debris that has bioaccumulated in our tissues.
more than any other medicinal  mushroom, this has been my number one herbal/fungal ally.
but daniel’s statement is factual.
storing vegetables for the winter is a critical skill, and lacto-fermentation has some advantages that are hard to beat.
i think the universe has all the secrets of the universe.
they were not viewed as guilt laden pleasures or sources of immoral behavior and debauchery, but rather as sacred and vitally health supportive.
however, the heart of this guidance was clear: ayahuasca, once  drank, prefers to live in, and works better with; clean bodies.
i have a few more days of maple sap harvesting before heading of to los  angeles for the longevity now conference, april 1st
it is easy to do, and requires very little work or know how.
i put this up to demonstrate how simple it is to produce your own wild  nettle root tincture for use as an herbal medicine.
i think it is an inspired and poignant summation of the plant medicine path, and especially thesynthesis of food, medicine, and the realm of entheogenic plants in the human ecological niche.
the toxic cations are then transported out of our  bodies, along with the zeolite powder in our bowel movement.
yet, this oasis isgreen and lush, surrounded by  inhospitablegravel-strewn desert.
cider is  usually defined as having an alcohol content of 2 – 8.5 % or higher,  though my experience is that it tastes great and is incredibly refreshing even  during initial fermentation when the alcohol content is negligible like that of kombucha.
this will be a time of powerful healing and lifelong transformation for all who attend.
treatments and drugs by mayo clinic staff  psoriasis treatments  aim to: - interrupt the cycle that causes an increased production of skin  cells, thereby reducing inflammation and plaque formation.
thousands of chinese herbs have entered the western pharmacopoeia; the  earliest and best known is perhaps ginseng.
i will be leading a tour of the sacred grounds of eden,  visiting along the tour the six geo-thermal hot springs that spot the land.
my research led me to the following article from the renowned mayo clinic.
from yet another direction, the “higher reflection” in a sense themother of raw, living diets, can be seen in the traditions and disciplines ofplant dietas.
this strangely clad and barefoot historical figure was  committed to much more than just growing apples.
and our  arrogance in trying to continually conquer the universe rather than communicate  with it, has kept us from being taught those secrets.
it has been many years since i have seen a dentist (i was 12 the last time i can remember having an appointment with one), and as it is with so many aspects of living, i have found it far more rewarding to take care of myself, rather than turning my health over to others.
you cannot see this black material in the hot water since it is dissolved; however, you can smell a very mild petroleum like odor in wilbur's medicinal mineral water along with the smell of sulfur, a well known, and established, anti bacterial agent.
this trip is so comprehensive that i will only be able to describe a few of the highlights here!
not to mention communion with pacha mama (mother earth)
they have facilitated the transformation ofthe countless people who have attended (myself included!).
how i arrived at this… as i began experimenting with tissue detoxification using zeolites and  clay, it dawned on me that these, when rendered into a fine flour-like powder,  have just the right amount of abrasiveness to take the place of the toothpaste
the goal is to create a kind of invincible health that allows us to thrive in this mad, mad, world!
we invoke separation, like children  covering their ears – convinced it’s not happening.
you cannot see this black  material in the hot water since it is dissolved; however, you can smell a very  mild petroleum like odor in wilbur's medicinal mineral water along with the  smell of sulfur, a well known, and established, anti bacterial agent.
~daniel nov 18, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water |  view comments wild foods and medicines!
further, pollan suggests, in his “plants-eye view” ted talk, that “looking at the world from other species’ points of view is a cure for the disease of human self-importance.”
despite this, and even because of it, nettle has been used as food and medicine by many cultures and is an important species for those of us who practice foraging, herbalism, or primitive outdoor skills.
the photos are very clear and  the descriptions have been written by someone who has actually used the plants  to the ends described therein (believe me, this is not the norm).
this trip is so comprehensive that i will only be able to describe a few of  the highlights here!
i’m talking about the spirit of the  creek, the bricks in your house, the hundreds of spirits roaming your kitchen.
in contrast to many wild foraged plants, wild rice requires a more considerable amount of know how and equipment to locate, access, harvest, and process, so to show this in its entirety is simply outside the scope of a blog post.
more on this in later blogs.
daniel will be sharing tips on the kinds of things a person  can do to rewild themselves and what it could mean to our health.
that is all changing for me now that i have learned to forage a few key  items, perhaps the greatest and most important, of which is wild rice.
we add to that the “probiotic” organism (these are healthy, symbiotic micro-organisms) that will be performing the fermentation (here it will be lactobacillus).
aside from the vegetables that keep in my cellar (onions, squashes, garlic) and the vegetables i have frozen (wild fiddle heads, japanese knotweed) lacto-ferments are my main source of “living” vegetation.
it is now april 5th, 2010, and this was just received  from wilbur hotsprings!
what if you knew someone hadn’t showered or bathed in months, years, or worse still, never at all… how would you feel about getting… um, close to them?
the theme of lectures i have been giving around the continent this year has been “indigenous nutrition and human evolution”, and much of the focus has been on the breeding of our modern food supply.
oh, and did i mention the food?
we are what we eat, and what we eat runs the show.
now that i am just weeks away from surthrival’s launch of its new  pine pollen extracts, i wanted to share a video that is yet one more piece of  my natural hormone maintnance strategy.
there will be many amazing work/play shop facilitators, body  workers, and many newand old friends… morning yoga, sun gazing, spring  water….
i have just  finished preparing my presentation, called “habitat, your guide to  intentional lifestyle design” which will focus on specific strategies for  more than just vigorous health, but epi-genetic wealth.
thanks to all of you who have supported us!
i certainly wasn’t, growing  up in the 1980’s american dream.
through this quest i have become enamoured by cider, which is the proper  name for the fermented alcoholic draught made from the fresh pressed juice from  apples.
it is a chance to immerse yourself in the temple of the  elemental!
he was committed to  planting apples from seed.
its the trip of a lifetime….
gratitude! ~daniel mar 22, 2010 | current projects, wild food & water | view comments no one there was able to explain this to me, and i was looking for some confirmation….
jul 13, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments coconut water in maine???
she was  so kind as to mention my name and the work i have been doing the last several  years!
wild rice however, is a complex carbohydrate (macro-nutrient), and unlike the mono-cropped and refined carbohydrates of the average american diet, is a rich whole food grain loaded with vitamins and minerals (micronutrients) as well.
from “organic” store-bought toothpaste brands, to tooth soaps and powders, and even aboriginal “chew sticks” – nothing has been the right fit for my self-dentistry needs.
i am very excited about both of these classes, and will be posting the details shortly.
while i know it is an ambitious goal, it is my personal desire to hunt and gather.
i encourage you to give it a try, and to get out into your local ecosystem  to commune with your landscape.
most americans are deficient in micronutrients even to the rda standard (recommended daily allowances of the u.s. national academy of sciences) which is surprisingly low when compared against the nutrient intakes of so called “primitive peoples”.
essentially, plants can do whatever they want with humans, and with  near-absolute impunity.
and our arrogance in trying to continually conquer the universe rather than communicate with it, has kept us from being taught those secrets.
hour after hour i burned to know and meet the species who’s berry drupes splatter painted pink the otherwise indistinguishable wall of sub-tropic greenery that lined the highway 75.
~daniel ps, check out this podcast i recently did where we discuss the history of grains and agriculture, as well as some must have information on making the grains you use a safe and healthy food!
i think that foragers of all skill level  and in a variety of eco-ranges will benefit from this work.
they were not viewed as guilt laden  pleasures or sources of immoral behavior and debauchery, but rather as  sacred and vitally health supportive.
zizania palustris is an aquatic grain occurring  widely throughout the eastern united states (like maine where i live) and  canada.
please come visit me and the surthrival team, and support this important east coast event!
aside from the occasional whole foods splurge, i don’t suspect i  will be eating very many fresh green vegetables until the wild spring shoots  emerge after the thaw.
my last  few videos have been focused on sharing some sovereign self-healthcare  strategies that i have been developing and employing for some time now.
go ahead and leave  a comment below, and please…  don’t be shy dec 21, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments rewilding: tips & tricks for strengthening our epigenetic health tune into daniel’s next interview on the one radio network on november 10th called “rewilding, tips &  tricks for strengthening our epigenetic health”!
plant-based edible living sculpture with vibrant living beings  who in return sculpt you.
special thanks to lin for getting me this information!
this current video is a 6 part dental health and maintenance strategy that  has replaced the role of dentistry in my life.
actually, it is common to nearly all mammals, and in particular to broad ranging herbivores.
it is the wild food apprenticeship you have been  waiting for!
it is so great to get them locally and  for the amazing prices that can only be had on such a visit!
-steve beyer dig around a bit, and you might observe the root of our crisis as being humankind’s long, drunken lust for separation – mind/body, human/nature, food/medicine, physical/spiritual.
evidence for this has been found in archeological sites that predated our current human form, and anthropological surveys have found that it lives on in societies around the world today.
this online workshop will delve deeply into human  domestication and the affects of an alkaloid-poor diet.
there is a globulin in human blood calledsex hormone binding globulin (shbg) which binds to testosterone, rendering it unavailable to the our cells.
below is a link to one of the best books i  have read on the subject.
this is so strange because we tend to, as a culture, consider the apple the very symbol of “natural food”.
this video comes on the heels of the last video we released, which  details how to make the toothpaste that is used in this dental care strategy.
i certainly wasn’t, growing up in the 1980’s american dream.
where the consensus  amongst the conscious is that we are indeed all one, weare nature,  there is no separation, and it’s all changing dramatically.
it is also an excellentblended drink or soup base.
ok, so forgive me here, but i am going to interject a few definitions and a  quick mathmatical formula.
-daniel vitalis visionary nutrition.
swimming, bathing, or even just floating here is a truly unique and indescribable experience!
is there an app for that yet?
if this wasn’t enough, phyto-chemicals in nettle root further work to  prevent benign prostate hyperplasia (bph) by stopping the binding of dht to the  prostate membrane.
here are some video extras from the documentary, and the rest is available for purchase or download online.
-daniel vitalis ~ visionary nutrition.
in particular i am referring to zeolites ability to perform cation exchange - cec or cation exchange capacity is the term used in physics- which is its ability to electrically bind positively charged ions (heavy metals, radio-isotopes, etc) whilst trading out (in exchange) beneficial cations like potassium or calcium.
it only took a few moments of internet research to discover the identity of this wildly successful invasive.
be sure to read  on.
if you would  like to see the rest of thetalk, as well as those presented by the rest of the  longevity now speakers, it is available here.
~daniel nov 24, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments important new chaga foraging update!!!
the results are his latest book which you can find here.
and yes, he and his warriors really used this spring for healing and  rejuvenation!
and once they can do that they can interact with those spirits.
his grounded and well researched teachings on nutrition and the environmental and psychological impacts of our diets have earned him tremendous respect as and author and authority on the subject (he’s a professor of journalism at the university of california, berkeley).
it is also known as the  “goddess pool”, because the pool imitates the curvy shape of a  woman’s body.
i have had the opportuntiy to forage wild foods for a few years now, with each season yielding greater and greater amounts of food.
this is your chance to meet the superfoods, medicinal herbs, and psychoactive plants of south america right there where they live and grow!
when standing on the hill, the high point of the property, surrounded by  the 360 degrees of arizona mountains, looking down at the valley, the magick of  this place becomes clear.
to say that i am grateful would hardly do justice to this exuberant emotion.
alcohol consumption goes further into antiquity than can be accounted for, in other words it is part of the human story.
click the banner below  to tune in or listen to the recorded version!
what if you knew someone hadn’t showered or  bathed in months, years, or worse still, never at all…  how would  you feel about getting… um, close to them?
if this post (or any other) has inspired you, please leave a comment below!
click the banner below to tune in or listen to the recorded version!
-morgan brent all plants are psychoactive.
the goal is to create a kind of invincible health that allows us to  thrive in this mad, mad, world!
~d nov 08, 2010 | current projects, wild food & water, written word | view comments epic eden hot springs retreat!
to compliment and expand on my video, i have also included a video with  botanist arthur haines detailing how he taps his maples, and prepares his maple  syrup.
as i began to contemplate this, i realized i didn’t have a reference point for naturally occurring “rock oil”.
quick question:  what is  the most exotic thing you have ever put in a neti pot?
there is a long and rich historical record of its harvest by  native peoples of this continent and is to this day still harvested by existing  native populations of north america, and in particular the great lakes region.
and yet so much of the fruits we eat are cloned, and few of us are even aware.
as an example, most of us find the idea of cloning sheep or humans strange.
a black, tar like, material can be seen in the  mud around the wilbur hot springs source springs.
further, pollan suggests, in  his “plants-eye view” ted talk, that “looking at the world  from other species’ points of view is a cure for the disease of human  self-importance.”
in fact, learning to properly construct and burn a fire has meant far more to me than just having another survival skill.
thanks  to all of you who have supported us!
it may be hard to perceive because we simply don’t interact with wild plants as traditional cultures did, which means we lack the knowledge base to understand our role in the ecology of these organisms.
visit here to find out more about the retreat, and here to learn about all of the amazing facilitators for this epic retreat!
berry we all have seen in the high end peppercorn blends and fancy see-through  peppermills.
of course the beverages fermented by native peoples and by our traditional cultural forebearers were much healthier and nutritionally viable than those of today, created with local ingredients and wild yeasts, and were not filtered and pasturized like the ones that most of us were raised around.
when we gather edible seeds and seed-like fruits, we unintentionally scatter or drop some of them, helping the plant to disperse further than it would have otherwise.
if you are woman reading this pay close attention.
a student-teacher  relationship emerges as one sits with a plant, drinking it exclusively over a  period of time.
please take a few minutes to check out the “rewild yourself” skills event that i am hosting in maine in the late summer of 2012!
we are now awakening from the last few decades of over-fed / under-nourished slumber and collectively reclaiming our sovereign health!
here is a review from the journal of clinical epidemiology showing the effects of alcohol on life span!
people are constantly asking me to recommend a book on the subject, and there just haven’t been many that i have found particularly helpful.
and how delicious they might be!”
there are of course wonderful uses for chaga with its bark on as well, particularly as an anti-neoplastic medicine.
this means that as a forager i am still largely  dependent on my local agricultural system to provide me with calories that i  need to live out my daily life.
~daniel mar 20, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, featured videos, interviews ,wild food & water, written word | view comments pine pollen book now available!
many of you are already planning on being there, and those who would like to join canget your tickets here.
also, this is  an excellent resource for herbalists or those interested in herbal medicine, as  each plants pharmacology and mode of action are broken down in a very explicit  and comprehensible way.
for those who don’t know, chaga is a fungal sclerotium with  notable anti-cancer  terpines (such as betulinic acid) and immune system  modulating sugars (called beta glucans).
also, i want to let you know that though this book was written for plants of the north east, dozens of the plants here will be found throughout north america, and even beyond.
~daniel jul 13, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments ok, so of course maine hasn’t got any coconuts, but we do have something that tastes just as good – maybe better – and is just as nutritious.
significantly, it’s acleanse – of body, of  mind – and by extension, environment.
this pool is brilliantly green with exotic flora, and feeds down into the most popular pool, “geronimo”!
also, check out our friends at rawnatureboy.com to get an exclusive package  deal on sun warrior protein powder, surthrival colostrum & immortal velvet  deer antler!!!
the scoby, often called the “mother” is placed into the tea where it (the yeast and bacteria) ferment the feed on the sugars and phytonutrients of the tea, fermenting it into the drink we call kombucha.
whats more, the  flowing sap of the maple tree is the first wild food to emerge after a long and  cold snow covered new england winter.
~d food medicine life by morgan maher
it inhabits the shallow waters of lakes, ponds, and slow moving  rivers.
the primary fermentative organism present in these kinds of preserves is lactobacillus acidophilus (who’s name means “acid loving milk bacteria”) one of our bodies primary microbial symbionts.
the roll of shamanic knowledge for us westerners introduced to those spirits is to spread that knowledge, make communication easier.
plants, and plant-time, are like  crop circles (which of course are made of plants in most cases) – like  magic, they appear, leave traces, clues, fruit, messages.
gorman apr 06, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, interviews, wild food  & water, written word | view comments watch hungry for change for free!
i am really excited to announce the release of the new book   “pine pollen, ancient medicine for a new millennium”,  by  stephen harrod buhner.
for those of you who are interested in going deeper, i would highly recommend an e-book by my good friend nadine artemis called “successful self-dentistry, how to avoid the dentist without ignoring your teeth”.
invite the forces of nature, say an orange or a mushroom, and with the right kind of eyes – grow further infused with infinite ecologies of everlasting spirits.
i put this up to demonstrate how simple it is to produce your own wild nettle root tincture for use as an herbal medicine.
here are some video extras from the documentary, and  the rest is available for purchase or download online.
something i could practice daily as  a way to learn from, and build relations with numerous “common”  plants like kale, chard, chia, blueberries, tomatoes, pears, for example.
in fact the modern apple scarcely resembles the true wild apple in taste, size, or nutritional profile.
we create worlds, as worlds creates us.
this online workshop will delve deeply into human domestication and the affects of an alkaloid-poor diet.
i am so proud ofsurthrival as a project, as a company, and as a team!
the plants led me out of concrete jungles, cured any concrete ideologies and crumbling health i might carry – hold my gaze and engage my commitment to unfolding endeavors of evolutionary advantage – wild foods, living water, permaculture, forest gardening, medicinal mushrooms, herbalism, synaesthesia…
ps; more interesting still is the history of the real life character johnny apple seed.
ps; more interesting still is the history of the real life character  johnny apple seed.
simply  follow the steps in the video below, and in a couple of weeks you will have  your first batch ready to eat!
it is also known as the “goddess pool”, because the pool imitates the curvy shape of a woman’s body.
i want to extend a big thanks to the longevity now conference for all they have done to make this happen.
i want to emphasize, the synbiotic is a new  food, not the sum of the original parts, this is why sauerkraut is not  “cabbage”, and wine is not “grape juice”.
it reduces  scaling, itching and inflammation.
this video is for all of you who celebrate being grown-ups, and are unafraid to raise yourselves up and out of the near ubiquitousneoteny that is now standard in the epi-genome in our “modernized” population.
branches bowed under the weight of pinkish-red berries as i sped across the  highway on a recent trip to southern florida last december.
however, the heart of this guidance was clear: ayahuasca, once drank, prefers to live in, and works better with; clean bodies.
that gives a bit of confirmation.
of course today it is nearly the opposite, where most of the (over)  developed world has calorie rich diet composed of overly processed and refined  food – think white sugar, white flour, high fructose corn syrup, etc  – that is deeply lacking in micro-nutrition.
the apple juice i have worked with begins to ferment almost immediately after it reaches room temperature, and in truth gets better each and every day that it sits.
but wait…  theres more!
this well-intentioned phrase has created a populace that no longer uses and cherishes wild species.
watch the the botany of desire dvd for the rest of the story, and then comment below to let me know what you think!
the concept of “rewilding” is about recreating or replicating some of our natural conditions to make ushealthier and more robust .
the experience of eden is always hot, sunny, fiery energy… burning off the old to make room for the new.
finally curiosity got  the better of me, and i decided to do what any avid forager would –   i  pulled over to have a taste.
this is in fact where my very first youtube video was recorded, and the  place where i began my career.
despite this, and even because of it, nettle has been used as food and  medicine by many cultures and is an important species for those of us who  practice foraging, herbalism, or primitive outdoor skills.
if you know anyone who might be interested in these events, please share  this post with them!
for many years now i have visited this oasis of the sonoran desert, and it  has been(by far) the most trans-formative location of my life.
in fact, when someone neglects this important bit of personal cleanliness, the rest of us can be easily turned off.
click here to learn more about this upcoming online event.
recently, she also appeared on the ellen degeneres show carrying a mason jar of spring water which she promptly shared with ellen!
i am really excited to announce the release of the new book “pine pollen, ancient medicine for a new millennium”, by stephen harrod buhner.
i really hope you make  the commitment to join us there!
i have a few more days of maple sap harvesting before heading of to los angeles for the longevity now conference, april 1st
- stephen harrod  buhner
here is what it means.
or that those who drink a moderate amount of ethanol live  longer than those who drink heavily or don’t drink at all?
keep  checking mycurrent events for more details, and i hope to meet you somewhere  out there soon!
i first came across the work of michael pollan when i read (ok, it was an  audio book)
a student-teacher relationship emerges as one sits with a plant, drinking it exclusively over a period of time.
zizania palustris is an aquatic grain occurring widely throughout the eastern united states (like maine where i live) and canada.
due to its status as florida’s floral-enemy-number-one, we can harvest its berries with a kind of impunity that is rarely experienced by the modern forager.
herbal steam baths, guided hikes through forests and eco-gardens, native markets, and lodging in peru’s eco-friendly manu learning center!
you can find all the details and register here.
native biologists, shamans, and wild food experts will lead us through the most nourishing, exciting and informative eco-adventure of our lives!
and while this presents ecological issues in southern florida, it produces a tremendous surplus of wild food for the keenly aware forager.
she was so kind as to mention my name and the work i have been doing the last several years!
now speakers, it is available here.
and while this presents ecological issues in southern florida, it produces  a tremendous surplus of wild food for the keenly aware forager.
native american practices have been shown to increase the abundance of certain species even though lethal collection was being performed.
be it food or information – we become what we consume, and we produce from the inside out.
oct 20, 2011 | current projects, interviews, wild food & water | view  comments sovereign dental health, a 6 part strategy hello friends, welcome (or welcome back) and thanks again for stopping by.
please give us your feedback by leaving a comment below!
while i hadn’t had personal experience with this plant before, i do  have plenty of experience with the principles of wild food identification,  harvest, and processing, and each of these skills translate well from biome to  biome, from one eco-system to the next.
the wonderful chocolatree cafe, based out of sedona,will be preparing the food and overseeing the kitchen!
~daniel jan 09, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, featured videos, from the road, interviews, wild food & water | view comments how is your sinus hygiene?
through this quest i have become enamoured by cider, which is the proper name for the fermented alcoholic draught made from the fresh pressed juice from apples.
i know what your thinking,  shouldn’t i identify the plantbefore i taste it?
as each season goes by and my skills in this area increase, not only have i developed a strong sense of food security, my direct relationship to the earth as an abundant and loving provider continues to increases.
nettle root supports male health in a few different ways.
which has left us losing out on  so much we might have learned.
i want to emphasize, the synbiotic is a new food, not the sum of the original parts, this is why sauerkraut is not “cabbage”, and wine is not “grape juice”.
please keep in mind that this toothpaste, in addition to providing the  mild abrasive qualities we have become accustomed to in our commercially  available toothpaste preparations, is designed to pull toxic cations out of the  body, and to be an aid in our overall radio-protection strategy (protection  from radioactive isotopes).
deep gratitude! ~daniel post script!
their cafe in sedona is definitely the hot spot of the area and is a must visit while going through that town!
quick question: what is the most exotic thing you have ever put in a neti pot?
which has left us losing out on so much we might have learned.
the tour is going great and there are several events left if your thinking you’d like to see daniel do his thing live and in person!
we will also be talking about footwear, and why i am such a fan of five-toed shoes!
the class has been filling up rather quickly these last few weeks, and we are getting very excited for the spring foraging to begin!
most of the wild plants that i have been learning to use are incredibly nutritious (as well as delicious) but a bit low in calories.
many wild  foraged plants are eaten like vegetables (stinging nettle come to  mind) but lack the energy density that we get from meats, grains, oils,  concentrated sugars.
in the new orleans  “jungleland” – behind climates of chaos and the media  newsfeed, burnt cars and dead bodies are consumed by tall grass.
greetings friends & welcome to 2012!
many of us, in fact, might even have a moral repulsion to the idea.
richard richard louis miller, m.a., ph.d. wilbur caretaker in chief since 1972 mar 18, 2010 | wild food & water | view comments daniel and i didn’t want to leave you hanging for long without new information posted on the site but daniel is unable to devote any time to his blog for a little while yet as he is on the road and busy spreading the word of shamanic nutrition in california!
i had met stephen at a workshop he gave in british columbia (here is an interview i did with him) and having become friends, asked if he would be willing to collaborate with myself and the surthrival team on a pine pollen herbal-monograph.
not only does lactobacillus acidophilus allow us to preserve and even increase the amount of nutrition in our vegetables, but it also aids in digestion and increases our immunity too!
here is some information on  that healing smelly substance.
after 14 years of using a neti pot on a regular, almost daily basis –  i must admit, i am amazed how overlooked this basic bit of personal hygiene is.
in my own life i have been pursuing a diet made up of (as much as i can)  local, heirloom, and wild species.
null null most of us were taught to spit our toothpaste out, which, given the host of less-than-beneficial ingredients (particularly fluoride) is pretty sound advice.
hand harvested, sundried,  fire parched, foot treaded, and wind winnowed wild rice is so soft and delicate  in flavor that it simply has to be tasted to be understood.
be sure to contact us soon, as the class size is very limited.
if you can’t make it to the event, but would like to watch the video stream, here isthe link where you can sign up to watch at home.
as always, we would love to hear from you, so please let us know what you  think of this recent post, video upload, and what you would like to see in the  future by commenting below.
i have now arrived at a strategy that is really working wonders for me, and i feel could really work for you too.
there are not many wild foods that taste particularly sweet here in new england, but maple syrup is certainly the exception.
most americans are  deficient in micronutrients even to the rda standard (recommended daily  allowances of the u.s. national academy of sciences) which is surprisingly low  when compared against the nutrient intakes of so called “primitive  peoples”.
having harvested several pounds of these beautiful pink peppercorns, they  are now dried and jarred, and have become a staple of my ever increasingly wild  food rich diet.
organisms native to the area where you are fermenting, or – as is the case with cabbage – are indigenous to the food itself.
keep rewilding, ~daniel mar 25, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments tampa bay was the site of another example of an urban forage, and this time with an exotic invasive that produces more food than i could ever hope to harvest.
joy light and rebeccaastara are putting on this year’s event,  epic eden hotsprings!
“what ayahuasca teaches is that right now, at every moment, we  already live in the magic forest.”
in other words, once you have tried it and felt what clean and clear sinus cavities feel like, you won’t want to go back.
“the fiction that supports the culture-nature separation is rapidly failing under the weight of its own inconsistencies.
this pool is named after the apache warrior who led the final free indigenous natives in the war against the early us!
this film is a beautiful  depiction of how that is happening.
our ability to generate and maintain fire is a powerful thing indeed, so it is our intention to pass on not just the skill, but the  ethics of stewardship as well.
i wanted to share an article by my good  friendmorgan maher, the host of the my upcoming online workshop on  “visionary nutrition”.
jul 21, 2010 | current projects, wild food & water | view comments the botany of desire!
what we  place inside ourselves, transforms us.
keep rewilding, mar 25, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments urban foraging florida!
i have a good sense of the tastes of poisons, and  this strategy has rarely failed me ( i will spare you the tale of the time i  tried a taste of “jack-in-the-pulpit”.
and once they can do that  they can interact with those spirits.
this has proven an interesting and valuable  endeavor, and i am constantly amazed to discover the source of the foods that i  grew up on.
i  recommend it to anyone who is embarking on the journey to invincible health!
if plants – specifically teacher plants – convey anything, it is that they have the upper hand, the higher branch.
~ “i think that once a person is aware of the life in everything, they can begin to access the spirit of everything.
each meal they serve up is delicious, nutritious, and  uniquely prepared.
evidence for this has been found in archeological sites that  predated our current human form, and anthropological surveys have found that it  lives on in societies around the world today.
soaking in these  waters in the cold desert night looking deep into space is a gift that few ever  give themselves!
daniel will be sharing tips on the kinds of things a person can do to rewild themselves and what it could mean to our health.
check out the video interview below to learn more about the book, and click  here to get your copy now!
it all begins with a small pool known as “the source”.
the apple juice i have worked with begins to ferment almost immediately  after it reaches room temperature, and in truth gets better each and every day  that it sits.
for instance, did you know that all of the apples in our modern diet are genetic clones?
the  results are his latest book which you can find here.
i had the privilege of both publishing this book as well as writing the foreword, and am very excited to see it added to the existing herbal literature.
i think that foragers of all skill level and in a variety of eco-ranges will benefit from this work.
each meal they serve up is delicious, nutritious, and uniquely prepared.
i’m talking about the spirit of the creek, the bricks in your house, the hundreds of spirits roaming your kitchen.
a thick, black byproduct of the manufacture of petroleum products  and coal, coal tar is probably the oldest treatment for psoriasis.
if you don’t know shailene’s work, check out her latest film, the descendants, where she co-stars alongside george clooney.
please take a few minutes to check out the “rewild  yourself” skills event that i am hosting in maine in  the late summer of 2012!
the rawflora wild food journey in ledgendary peru!
this video post is about peeling chaga, which is its traditional preparation method in siberia (it is from their folk medicine that we have learned of chaga).
with this in mind, i set forth exploring  a raw food diet – with sharp eyes and a healthy aversion to dogma and  definitions.
daily comm-union, even telepathy, most often one-way, where a  plant invited into the human body as food or medicine can “see what you  mean”.
consider species such as evening-primrose, a colonizer of open, disturbed places that has an edible taproot.
best of all, you can swallow this toothpaste, which yields all of the  amazing health benefits of these detoxifying earth compounds.
this is more than interesting, it is an education in how you can get started too!
a sentiment reinforced in a recent new york times magazine article describing the plant take-over of new orleans’ lower ninth ward, where “for six and a half years, the neighborhood has undergone a reverse colonization — nature reclaiming civilization.”
it is the wild food apprenticeship you have been waiting for!
you are  appreciated!
i really hope you make the commitment to join us there!
this pool is named after the apache warrior who  led the final free indigenous natives in the war against the early us!
finally curiosity got the better of me, and i decided to do what any avid forager would – i pulled over to have a taste.
it has already become one of my most valued  herbal references.
join me on my upcoming radio show with patrick timpone on march 29th at 10 am est.
my company surthrival recently started carrying what we feel are the most beautiful and durable ceramic neti pots available anywhere, andyou can get one for yourself right here on our newly designed website (we are pretty excited about this)!
the neti pot gives us the ability to clean our upper respiratory tract, in much the same way that a toothbrush cleans our mouth or a shower washes our skin, before these particles can accumulate or be drawn deeper.
for years i used this fungus without peeling it, which  yeilded wonderful results, but now that i have included the traditional  preperation method, it would be difficult to depart from.
this doesn’t refer to behaving wildly, or   giving up your standards of personal conduct, rather it means “shed  your domesticator“!
here is another video from my archive showing how to identify and harvest chaga if you are interested in trying this yourself.
jul 21, 2010 | current projects, wild food & water | view comments if you are anything like me, you consume enough books that they could be considered part of your diet!
with childlike enthusiasm, we have been texting back and forth  each day to see how much sap the others trees have produced!
you will have to view the itinerary to believe it!
simultaneously, it is these elements whichunite our species, and always have.
the world and its spirits don’t really care if we do, for the most part.
in the second half of the video  i’ve included a recipe that i have been making with fresh maple water,  chaga, and a bit of cream.
lacto-fermentation, the kind of vegetable fermentation that produces foods  like sauerkraut (as well as kimchee and brined pickles), preserves our food in  lactic acid, and was one of the dominant preservation techniques used by our  ancestors before sugar and preservatives became the norm.
this blog is in no way supporting reckless or irreverent use  of ethanol.
while each section is amazing, i  was most taken by the segment on the apple.
thats not hype, i have literally been taking it everywhere.
it’s true, the apple tree as we think of it is a  grafted plant, and its fruit is exceptionally hybridized.
i think it is an inspired and poignant  summation of the plant medicine path, and especially thesynthesis of food, medicine, and the realm of entheogenic plants in the human ecological niche.
compounds like radon and arsenic, which are  known to be poisonous are considered to have beneficial medicinal action in the  art and science of balneotherapy.
p.p.s.  i understand the many detrimental effects that alcoholism and  alcohol related accidents have had on us as individuals and as a civilization.
they utilized many traditional practices to ensure plants were not eradicated.
for me, lacto-ferments like sauerkraut are one of my primary ways of  preserving and consuming local vegetables through out the long maine winters.
perhaps you have bought  fresh apple juice from a local orchard before and had it begin to ferment on  you!
the  exotic sweet and spicy aromatic flavor of these brittle pink berries was well  worth the risk, and i was certain i was on the trail of a new wild food ally.
this pool is brilliantly green with  exotic flora, and feeds down into the most popular pool,  “geronimo”!
watch the the botany of desire dvd for the rest of the story, and then  comment below to let me know what you think!
it is quickly claiming more and more habitat for itself, displacing native species from their long held habitat.
the newly emerging scientific field of “epigenetics” is rapidly confirming the obvious fact, our habitat and lifestyle choices, from what we eat and breath to what we wear and think not only impacts our health but actually influences our gene expression!
into  which, ayahuasca digs deep, purging junk, transforming thoughts, composting  things, creating soil from soul, turning the stomach into a womb, encouraging  conditions right, good, and fertile – so it can root, grow, and flower.
i hope this motivates you to get out and harvest some food or medicine for  yourself.
as for the technique and specifics, i will let this video explain the rest.
while the aerial parts of the plant (the parts that grow above the ground)  are most commonly eaten as a pot herb (cooked) or made into infusions (teas),  it is the roots from which we can extract its potent androgenic substances.
the newly emerging scientific  field of “epigenetics” is rapidly confirming the obvious fact, our  habitat and lifestyle choices, from what we eat and breath to what we wear and  think not only impacts our health but actually influences our gene expression!
trees will be here long after we’re gone, and so will stones  and bricks and clouds and the moon.
dear friends: some of you have expressed interest in the black tar like substance that daniel vitalis showed in his excellent, and, for me, emotionally moving, 2 movie utube series on wilbur hot springs.
~daniel feb 02, 2011 | current projects, wild food & water | view comments new book now available!
this pool feeds down into the “goddess pool”, a hot spring pool  the size of an olympic swimming pool!
it is becoming obvious that what we do to nature we do to ourselves, what we do to ourselves we do to nature.”
and even though it is winter here, i have been studying up on the plants i want to learn in the next growing season, as well as using the calendar in the back to determine when i will be harvesting the key plants i intend to use throughout the year of 2011!
we are constantly working to serve you better!
you will gain tremendous knowledge and be supporting a wonderful and important cause.
there is a  globulin in human blood calledsex hormone binding globulin (shbg) which binds  to testosterone, rendering it unavailable to the our cells.
stephen, in addition to being a prolific writer on herbal  craft and lore, is a poet and word-smith par excellence.
a thick, black byproduct of the manufacture of petroleum products and coal, coal tar is probably the oldest treatment for psoriasis.
this sacred spring spills over and runs into the “guitar pool”, which is, as you may have guessed, shaped like a guitar!
it has been many years  since i have seen a dentist (i was 12 the last time i can remember having an  appointment with one), and as it is with so many aspects of living, i have  found it far more rewarding to take care of myself, rather than turning my  health over to others.
here is a recent interview with her in black book magazine titled “eating clay and super humans”!
we are now getting ready for ancestral ignition, a workshop that myself and  some good friends are hosting here at my home in maine,september 16th  – 18th, 2011.
i love to hear from you, so please leave me comment below to let me know what you think of this post, the website, and what you would like to see next!
we also feel privileged to share the basics of fire-craft with our friends  and clients because so many of us were never taught how to properly or  efficiently build or maintain a fire.
nettle root is an herbal ally that seems almost designed to ensure the good health of a mans reproductive system into longevity (wives and girlfriends may want to take note).
this universe is full full full of life and life force.
this is particularly perplexing since the pollen of pine trees has been used for millennia in china and korea as both food and a particularly powerful tonic and adaptogen, especially for the elderly.
here is another video from my archive showing how to identify and harvest  chaga if you are interested in trying this yourself.
making your own nettle root tinctures at home can be easy, and only takes  few minutes.
my personal approach to nutrition has indeed been influenced by his writings, and most influential of all was the documentary “the botany of desire”.
have you ever seen plants happen?
the case  with clay is very similar, though the phenomena in this case is referred to as adsorption, which is also an electrical binding, but in this case to the  surface of the clay particle and without the accompanying exchange of a cation.
but we are new here – sometimes awesome, but ultimately  amateur, and we’ve been grasping.
an open source  invitation into deeper relation with the many things that fuel, heal, and  energize us; that which is alive all around us, co-createswith us.
not just for the participants, but also for the facilitators.
and while i love reading, sometimes i get even more (i must admit) out of  watching a well crafted video.
join us for this sure-to-be spectacular call!
i love to hear from you, so please leave me comment below to let me know  what you think of this post, the website, and what you would like to see next!
it’s a great place to stock up on great winter immune system supplements, such as medicinal mushroom extracts and colostrum.
without this knowledge, the need to preserve species can’t be fully appreciated.
cider is usually defined as having an alcohol content of 2 – 8.5 % or higher, though my experience is that it tastes great and is incredibly refreshing even during initial fermentation when the alcohol content is negligible like that of kombucha.
yay, gear!i will be facilitating this experience, along side master shamanic qi gong practitioner jeannette kielo dussel, and the team of shamans, ecologists, and native food and medicine experts who have been assembled for this once in a lifetime experience!
we also feel privileged to share the basics of fire-craft with our friends and clients because so many of us were never taught how to properly or efficiently build or maintain a fire.
plants, fungi and bacteria are significantly adept at piloting humans.
the flavored and herbed kombucha we see on the market is made first with tea, and then is infused with other plants after it is fermented.
check out the video below to hear more about ancestral ignition , and to see acclaimed botanist, author, and my foraging and  aboriginal skills guide and all around friend, arthur haines, make a  fire with a primitive tool known as the bow drill.
today, most of the worlds citizens are living with an inverse relationship between micronutrients (vitamins, minerals, etc) and macronutrients (calories).
this is sarah maria and i’m really excited to have  the opportunity to create this blog post today!
each one of us must determine how we will responsibly relate to it as a substance, and how we will steward it with health and safety in mind.
after years of hosting events and retreats, we have learned what powerful transformational tools these kinds of workshops can be.
from my perspective, it appears  that a diet that lacks the geophagy pattern could not be called a  “natural diet” at all, as it would essentially be deficient in  these all-important compounds.
coal tar  has few known side effects, but it's messy, stains clothing and bedding, and  has a strong odor.
this a path of dissolving separation.
since i received my first copy (just a couple of weeks ago on the winter solstice) i haven’t been able to put it down.
i will be taking part in a 3 day course this weekend with them on winter survival skills, and i will be sure to get lots of great footage!
it is quickly claiming more and more habitat for itself,  displacing native species from their long held habitat.
and while we use the term “intoxicant” to refer to drinks that contain alcohol, these people didn’t associate their sacred beverages with “toxicity” at all.
i’ll let you watch the videos first though… the  recipe is included at the bottom of the post.
i have used this strategy, along side others, such as regular sauna use  (check out clearlight saunas, it is the brand of infrared  sauna that i have in my home), a clean whole food diet containing lots of wild  foods and herbs,drinking natural spring water, implimenting regular functional  exercise, all combined with and tied together with time spent in nature.
today we often refer to “hard cider” as the fully  fermented version, and “cider” as the unfermented, unfiltered juice  of apples, which is a departure from the traditional meaning.
the  behavior is termed“geophagy”, and is unquestionably part of the  species-specific diet of human beings.
in this video arthur and i go into the wilds in search of wild stinging nettle roots for our personal homemade medicine stashes!
this has  been a dream of mine for ages!
“the fiction that supports the culture-nature separation is  rapidly failing under the weight of its own inconsistencies.
dec 01, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments nettle root tincturing and male health
our ancestors ate extremely micronutrient dense diets when compared against our own.
this is my favorite pool for soaking, as it is the quietest  and most…sanctified.
cider is so easy to  produce at homea cave man could do it!
i have had the opportuntiy to forage wild foods for a few years now, with  each season yielding greater and greater amounts of food.
the wonderful chocolatree cafe, based out  of sedona,will be preparing the food and overseeing the kitchen!
ancestral plants is different, this book just seems to have it all.
the main focus of this retreat is to share  theancient and ancestral skill of aboriginal friction fire  with all of those who attend.
in fact, when someone neglects this important bit of personal  cleanliness, the rest of us can be easily turned off.
these are made right here in the state of maine (where we are based out of) and i have personally tested them now for almost a decade and a half, so i can honestly tell you they are the best around.
for countless generations it served as a staple food crop to many indigenous peoples of north america.
one example is the pbs documentary “the botany of desire ” with  michael pollan.
this has been, by far, my most prolific year of harvesting wild food and  medicine.
stay tuned for events that arthur and i will be putting on  where you can learn to harvest your own foods and medicines!
working safely and respectfully with ayahuasca and other teacher plants, alongside raw food/garden-variety plants, the teacher’s assistants so to speak, leads, of course, to many physical and spiritual benefits.
click here for the raw flora wild food journey itinerary i am also very excited to visit the markets and meet the locals!
well, how about our sinuses?
we were sure to get  them in several different colors so that you can choose one thats right for  you.
ancestral plants uses a series of icons to denote the possible uses of a  plant  (a little fire icon for plants with fire uses, an arrow for plants  with uses in archery, etc), and then the text details how, when, and which  parts of a plant can be used in this way.
most of the wild plants that i have been learning to use are incredibly  nutritious (as well as delicious) but a bit low in calories.
join forces with a vine.
i am hoping that in the future some of you will have the opportunity to  come to maine to learn the art in person.
they provide an exotic spiciness to any dish, from sweet  to savory, and they come with the added percieved benefit of being from my own  personal harvest.
earlier in the year i had the culturally enriching experience of imbibing  some of the traditional fermented beverages of south america, specificallychicha  (from maize) and masatao (fromcassava), both traditional ferments of the  people of peru.
fermentation can seem a bit intimidating when you haven’t tried it  before, and that is why i am posting this video.
these wonderful drinks were both relatively low in alcohol, with probably just a bit less than a modern beer, and loaded with nutrition and calories, making them as much a food as a drink.
their cafe in sedona is definitely the hot spot of the area  and is a must visit while going through that town!
i had met stephen at a  workshop he gave in british columbia (here is an interview i did with him) and  having become friends, asked if he would be willing to collaborate with myself  and the surthrival team on a pine pollen herbal-monograph.
this is why my teachings have been focusing in on foods that are bred wisely, or when possible, are wild!
the springs are so deeply nourishing, and  there is always a view of the stars like few have ever seen.
in fact, learning to properly  construct and burn a fire has meant far more to me than just having another  survival skill.
plants, i’ve found, often speak in terms of one’s present perception – in shapeshifting symbols that change as you follow them, conversations to discern and decipher.
to ensure the continued integrity of this site and the quality experience that it provides for our users, we now post all comments on an approval-first basis.
my company,surthrival, became the first to bring a fully developed pine pollen product line to the natural foods market place in north america.
it is becoming  obvious that what we do to nature we do to ourselves, what we do to ourselves  we do to nature.”
stinging nettle (urtica dioica) is an herbaceous perennial flowering plant known by many of us for the painful stinging hairs (they are actually called “trichomes”) that inject histamine into our skin like micro hypodermic needles.
the thing we intend to ferment is known as a “prebiotic” (i am using this term loosely, don’t tell the scientists), this is the food source (sugars) for the organisms that will be converting the food into a fermented-food (in our case cabbage).
because our epi-genetics are influenced by everything in our environment, the lifestyle we have lived has shaped us into some new and all together different creature.
i really appreciated her stepping up to ask because i know that i (and much of my generation) was raised to believe that we are inherently, by our very nature, damaging to ecosystems.
eating and drinking is intimate  communication.
having harvested several pounds of these beautiful pink peppercorns, they are now dried and jarred, and have become a staple of my ever increasingly wild food rich diet.
thank you for reading this and for all your support!
check out this 12 minute video clip  (click on the image below) of the talk i delivered in costa mesa last october  titled, “developing sovereign health: the path of   rewilding ourselves”.
there is a long and rich historical record of its harvest by native peoples of this continent and is to this day still harvested by existing native populations of north america, and in particular the great lakes region.
herbal steam baths, guided hikes  through forests and eco-gardens, native markets, and lodging in peru’s  eco-friendly manu learning center!
for those who don’t know, chaga is a fungal sclerotium with notable anti-cancer terpines (such as betulinic acid) and immune system modulating sugars (called beta glucans).
now a new generation is taking up the call of stewarding this unique piece of earth.
peruvian alpaca garments are the best in the world, and my poncho, hat  and gloves all come from there.
homo sapiens have a long and rich history with psychoactive plant medicines, and they have always been a part of our traditional diets.
perhaps you have bought fresh apple juice from a local orchard before and had it begin to ferment on you!
join me in peru next month!
peruvian alpaca garments are the best in the world, and my poncho, hat and gloves all come from there.
yet perhaps most importantly, the process has opened, and continues to expand, a certain grandpermeability – pathways and bridges between common ground and the sky – between day-to-day and ceremonial nights.
to your health and prosperity, ~d feb 26, 2012 | current projects, wild food & water, written word | view comments greetings friends & welcome to 2012!
my last few videos have been focused on sharing some sovereign self-healthcare strategies that i have been developing and employing for some time now.
this will be a time of powerful healing and lifelong transformation for all  who attend.
storing vegetables for the winter is a critical skill, and  lacto-fermentation has some advantages that are hard to beat.
i will be speaking in washington, dc at the take back your health  conference on april 14th and 15th!
this video is the first part of that strategy, the rest of which i am eager to share with you in full over the next few weeks.
so much of the the botany of desire: a plant’s-eye view of the world is focused on breeding, and more specifically the breeding of four plants; apples, potatoes, tulips, and cannabis!
the experience of eden is always hot, sunny, fiery energy… burning  off the old to make room for the new.
not just for the  participants, but also for the facilitators.
my hope is that our community will immediately see the value of this handy  little device and add it to the tool-belt of practices and skills that are  helping us to thrive in, and adapt to our modern environment.
we have chosen the intimate class size to ensure that each of you gets the  close personal attention you need, and to ensure that we don’t trample  our wild foraging grounds.
now a new generation is taking up the call of stewarding this unique piece  of earth.
rather, and more vital  to our personal healing – as well as to the continuation of life as we  know it – is our becoming acquainted with the organism producing the food  or medicine itself.
actually, i was reading a few of his books and found myself particularly spellbound by the section on pine pollen and its incredible androgenic effects.
this workshop will be fully catered with organic, local food, prepared by chef frank giglio, who is one of my best friends and a truly culinary mentor of mine.
this video below is part 2 of the stinging nettle root harvesting  video that i put up a couple of weeks back.
aside from the vegetables that keep in my cellar  (onions, squashes, garlic) and the vegetables i have frozen (wild fiddle heads,  japanese knotweed) lacto-ferments are my main source of “living”  vegetation.
this information, for me, was particularly fascinating, and i think the same is true for arthur as well!
(and other upcoming 2012 happenings ;)
our ancestors ate extremely  micronutrient dense diets when compared against our own.
not to mention communion with pacha mama (mother earth) right there in the heart of the world!
what a wonderful feeling to know that this winter i will be eating more of my calories from foods that were sustainably harvested from my local landscape.
i wanted to share an article by my good friendmorgan maher, the host of the my upcoming online workshop on “visionary nutrition”.
and thus far, for most of us throughout mankind’s short history on this planet, that effort has not been made.
here is a review from the journal of  clinical epidemiology showing the effects of alcohol on life span!
you can see the detailshere.
up until now these retreats have been a collaborative effort of my teachers and mentorsdavid wolfe and kerri “dancing butterfly” .
daniel has a bit of an aversion to recipes….. preferring to teach the principles and process of elixircrafting and encouraging people to use their intuition and to create from their own unique palate, so it’s a special treat that he measured everything this time and i was able to put together the recipe for you!
daniel has a bit of an aversion to recipes….. preferring to teach  the principles and process of elixircrafting and encouraging people to use  their intuition and to create from their own unique palate, so it’s a  special treat that he measured everything this time and i was able to put  together the recipe for you!
ok, a little caveat, we might not actually add the probiotic, but rather let it colonize itself, in what is called a “wild fermentation”, as is the case here with sauerkraut.
it has been practiced around the world and is present in virtually all pre-industrial populations.
dec 01, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments this video below is part 2 of the stinging nettle root harvesting video that i put up a couple of weeks back.
plants, and plant-time, are like crop circles (which of course are made of plants in most cases) – like magic, they appear, leave traces, clues, fruit, messages.
this monograph is intended to  remedy that oversight and help establish it as one of the most important  medicinals in the herbalist’s repertory.”
for those of us who are developing or returning to our ancestral health  through traditional and indigenous nutritional practices, few food preparation  skills are as valuable to possess as lacto-fermentation.
“in order to live a magical life, you have to eat
go ahead and leave a comment below, and please… don’t be shy dec 21, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments tune into daniel’s next interview on the one radio network on november 10th called “rewilding, tips & tricks for strengthening our epigenetic health”!
most noxious invasive, and today is illegal to plant, sell, or transport within  the state!
it is 3 days long, catered by chef frank giglio with all local organic and wild food, and taught by myself and wild food expertarthur haines.
he was committed to planting apples from seed.
i will be talking aboutrewilding and transcending human domestication, and how we can stay strong, healthy, and actively-fit for a lifetime in a world that constantly pushing us towards a deeper state of domestication.
this promises to be a journey into healing, education,sustainability, and self discovery!
this video is a quick peek into my spring cleansing strategy which is most welcomed after a lengthy season of living indoors.
we really believe that stewardship of this ancient fire-craft is valuable for many reasons, not the least of which is the carrying on of what is one of our most ancient and fundamental human technologies.
i was  immediately impressed with the way that these were built into the nutritional  and spiritual systems of the area.
up until now these retreats have been a collaborative effort of my teachers  and mentorsdavid wolfe and kerri “dancing butterfly” .
this film is a beautiful depiction of how that is happening.
i have a good sense of the tastes of poisons, and this strategy has rarely failed me ( i will spare you the tale of the time i tried a taste of “jack-in-the-pulpit”.
the bottom of the first paragraph makes reference to “oil spring” which tastes of petroleum!
further, experientially learning the uses of wild plants teaches people to value those species while also helping them to become more self-sufficient.
oh, and they taste great too!
you can check out lots of my past interviews with him (as well as hundreds of other amazing guests) in hisextensive audio archives .
lactobacillus takes up  residence in our small intestine, creating a kind of probiotic bio-shield in  the gut, where it aggressively out-competes other dys-biotic organisms that can  cause us to fall ill.
from my perspective it’s a kind of plant artistry.
as i began to contemplate this, i realized i didn’t have a  reference point for naturally occurring “rock oil”.
there are not many wild foods that taste particularly sweet here in new  england, but maple syrup is certainly the exception.
it is the strengthened engagement with the harmony of humanity – the beautiful songs we’ve sung and are singing, our peak performance, the best of the best – that boils down to our collective necessities – food, medicine, life – from which can be drawn ever-expanding analogies, inter-elated metaphor, and metamorphosis.
in fact, for much of the year i use it almost daily and have for several years now… chaga is normally decocted (boiled in water to produce a broth or tea) for about two hours, yielding a very mild vanilla like flavor (it containsvanillin as one of its components) which is great to drink on its own, with added cream and a sweetener (i like maple syrup) to create a drink much like coffee.
i  wanted to recreate this often undiscussed and overlooked aspect of traditional  human diets and bring it into my home and my life.
dec 08, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments wild ricing in maine!
aside from the occasional whole foods splurge, i don’t suspect i will be eating very many fresh green vegetables until the wild spring shoots emerge after the thaw.
after a few days, to a few weeks, of implementing this practice it will  become immediately clear why i am recommending it.
stephen, in addition to being a prolific writer on herbal craft and lore, is a poet and word-smith par excellence.
this strangely clad and barefoot historical figure was committed to much more than just growing apples.
the concept  of “rewilding” is about recreating or replicating  some of our natural conditions to make ushealthier and more robust .
oct 20, 2011 | current projects, interviews, wild food & water | view comments hello friends, welcome (or welcome back) and thanks again for stopping by.
de-barking  chaga yields a far more mild, pleasant tasting, less medicinal and more tonic  tea.
the world of “modern medicine”, to include modern dentistry,  seems far less interested in our health than it does in furthering its  quasi-scientific agendas, human experiemention, and profit driven procedures.
we strive to put on events that can nourish the body, inform the mind, and touch the spirit.
more than this, it also prevents the conversion of testosterone into a metabolite known as dihydrotestosterone, which has been implicated in benign prostate hyperplasia and even male pattern baldness.
hot springs, waterfalls, coca,cacao, wild food and wild medicine, and yes, even an optional ayahuasca ceremony!
for years i have been looking for the right toothpaste for my home  self-dentistry, and have experimented with a great many things.
actually, i was reading  a few of his books and found myself particularly spellbound by the section on  pine pollen and its incredible androgenic effects.
if you are interested in joining us, or learning more about ancestral  ignition please contact us atinfo@danielvitalis.com.
because our epi-genetics are  influenced by everything in our environment, the lifestyle we have lived has  shaped us into some new and all together different creature.
i had the privilege of both publishing this book  as well as writing the foreword, and am very excited to see it added  to  the existing herbal literature.
you can learn a lot  from arugula – even more from cacao, or from an elder like maize.
and how delicious they  might be!”
organisms native to the area where you  are fermenting, or – as is the case with cabbage – are indigenous  to the food itself.
this is an acronym for a symbiotic colony of yeast and bacteria, the strange pancake like colony of organisms that float on top of the ferment.
i have now arrived at a strategy that is really working wonders for me, and  i feel could really work for you too.
however, there exist many examples showing that conscientious use of plants by people is beneficial for those species.
-steve beyer dig around a bit, and you might observe the root of our crisis as being  humankind’s long, drunken lust for separation – mind/body,  human/nature, food/medicine, physical/spiritual.
for years i have been looking for the right toothpaste for my home self-dentistry, and have experimented with a great many things.
studies indicate that 1 – 3 drinks ethanol drinks per day seems to extend lifespans!
side with the plants, learn plants, eat plants, become plants  – let food be your medicine, let medicine be your food – and begin  to synthesize entirely different dimensions of time, technology, communication,  and potential.
this video comes on the heels of the last video we released, which details how to make the toothpaste that is used in this dental care strategy.
coal tar has few known side effects, but it's messy, stains clothing and bedding, and has a strong odor.
while many people use probiotic supplements in an  attempt to achieve these ends, most often lacto-fermented foods perform these  tasks better, can be made at home from whole, fresh, local foods, are  inexpensive, and add a considerable amount of quality nutrition in the form of  highly absorbable predigested, living food.
today we often refer to “hard cider” as the fully fermented version, and “cider” as the unfermented, unfiltered juice of apples, which is a departure from the traditional meaning.
we simply cannot believe it.
we dash for the door, or some way out.
in other words,  we can use our environment and lifestyle to activate our genetic potential for  a more robust experience of life on earth!
there is such a joy and satisfaction for me when i discover a critical  piece of information that answers questions that i have long held.
ancestral plants uses a series of icons to denote the possible uses of a plant (a little fire icon for plants with fire uses, an arrow for plants with uses in archery, etc), and then the text details how, when, and which parts of a plant can be used in this way.
essentially though, it is process of healing and  strengthening.
with the life-form, the being.”
to say that i am grateful would hardly  do justice to this exuberant emotion.
- remove scale and  smooth the skin, which is particularly true of topical treatments that you  apply to your skin.
for the last several years i have talked more about chaga (inonotus  obliquus) than any other wild foraged food or medicine.
you can find all the details and register  here.
prebiotic + probiotic =
did you know that every seed in an apple (there are 5) will bring forth a different type of apple tree?
i wish there was some way to convey flavor through the internet!
but wait… theres more!
click here to see the  full length film for free between now and march 31st!
i wanted to recreate this often undiscussed and overlooked aspect of traditional human diets and bring it into my home and my life.
what we place inside ourselves, transforms us.
and so my road takes me west….
who knows what we have missed simply by not asking a plant what benefit it might have for mankind, rather than saying “tree, chop it and burn it for fire.”
in other words, once you have tried it and felt what clean and clear  sinus cavities feel like, you won’t want to go back.
here is what it  means.
please keep in mind that this toothpaste, in addition to providing the mild abrasive qualities we have become accustomed to in our commercially available toothpaste preparations, is designed to pull toxic cations out of the body, and to be an aid in our overall radio-protection strategy (protection from radioactive isotopes).
for those of us living in areas where chaga is not readily available we can substitute the chaga tea base with any medicinal teas we are currently working with, keeping in mind that the flavor may vary slightly… but not enough to make that big of a difference.
in truth, kombucha, which most likely hails not from china, but from russia, is tea that has been fermented by a “scoby”.
actually, it is common to  nearly all mammals, and in particular to broad ranging herbivores.
“as we begin (once again) to naturalize ourselves – both  nutritionally and medicinally – we may begin to discover that there is  far more to a plant than just its chemical composition, more than just its list  of constituent phyto-nutrients, vitamins and minerals.
no harvest yet has supplied me with the amount of food energy that i was able to gather this september when i learned the ancient art of “ricing”.
i first came across the work of michael pollan when i read (ok, it was an audio book)
~d nov 08, 2010 | current projects, wild food & water, written word | view  comments eden hot springs!
one example is the pbs documentary “the botany of desire ” with michael pollan.
we all participate,  we all dance with these elements – and it is these elements that, by and  large, make up our world.
this is the go-to book for understanding wild plants of the north  east, and the one that will accompany me into the field this year and for years  to come (mine is getting dog-eared already).
if plants – specifically teacher plants – convey anything, it  is that they have the upper hand, the higher branch.
a black, tar like, material can be seen in the mud around the wilbur hot springs source springs.
no harvest yet  has supplied me with the amount of food energy that i was able to gather this  september when i learned the ancient art of “ricing”.
we look forward to your comments and feedback….
i hope this motivates you to get out and harvest some food or medicine for yourself.
de-barking chaga yields a far more mild, pleasant tasting, less medicinal and more tonic tea.
in fact the modern apple scarcely resembles  the true wild apple in taste, size, or nutritional profile.
"rewild yourself: tips & tricks for strengthening your epigenetic health" i also want to share this quick video clip of my good friend shailene woodley’s appearance on thelate night with jimmy fallon show (check out that clip right here)!
this  will be a fun call, and patrick is never shy about taking me into edgy and  interesting territory!
i  am honored to share my knowledge and experience of my many years of visiting  this land, with all of the retreaters!
shailene has become a tremendous ally, helping to share the  message ofrewilding, spring water, and indigenous  nutrition with the world.
the plants  led me out of concrete jungles, cured any concrete ideologies and crumbling  health i might carry – hold my gaze and engage my commitment to unfolding  endeavors of evolutionary advantage – wild foods, living water,  permaculture, forest gardening, medicinal mushrooms, herbalism,  synaesthesia… yet perhaps most importantly, the process has opened, and continues to  expand, a certain grandpermeability – pathways and bridges  between common ground and the sky – between day-to-day and ceremonial  nights.
~ daniel sep 30, 2010 | wild food & water, written word | view comments i will be facilitating 3 wild food tours in the jungles of peru, august 5th, 19th, and september 2nd!
and  yet so much of the fruits we eat are cloned, and few of us are even aware.
if your looking to smog proof your sinuses, help to prevent sinus issues in  general, and improve your respiratory health, give the neti pot a try.
sarah maria xo superfood speakeasy promotions feb 11, 2010 | featured videos, wild food & water | view comments these are the final two videos from the series i shot with arthur haines, botonist and wild foods expert and primitive skills master!
thats not hype, i  have literally been taking it everywhere.
the thing we intend to ferment is known as a “prebiotic” (i am  using this term loosely, don’t tell the scientists), this is the food  source (sugars) for the organisms that will be converting the food into a  fermented-food (in our case cabbage).
though today much of the wild rice sold in the market place is cultivated in rice paddies, this highly nutritious grain is still available to the forager for the price of his or her labor.
i hope you enjoy this two part “wild fermented hard cider”  video.
the entire book is extensively footnoted so that you can access the scientific literature from which so much of this information has been compiled.
try using a neti pot!
for those of you who are interested in developing more wild food identification, harvesting, and processing skills, please consider joining arthur and i for ourancestral plants workshop here in maine, may 6th – 8th, 2011.
instead i have prepared this short video to highlight the experiences i had ricing this season.
my good friend arthur haines has just released his new book ancestral  plants, and i must say, it is amongst the best wild food and plant-use book i  have yet to come across.
running in  circles, making mirages, chasing dragons, ouroborically awestruck, deaf, blind  and dumbfounded by this life, the afterlife, reality and its alternatives,  ghosts, dreams, philosophy, the powers that be, the secret life of plants  – all this raging intricacy.
typically the kombucha begins with a steeped tea (literally the tea plant “camellia sinensis”) and white or “unrefined” cane sugar.
click here to  learn more about this upcoming online event.
synbiotics like sauerkraut have long been used by those before us to fortify their immune systems, assist in digestion (their acidity helps to lower the ph of the stomach increasing the effectiveness of our hydrochloric acid), and to maintain healthy levels of the probiotic organisms that colonize our digestive lumen.
it is the open, clear, and relaxed sense of breathing; the ability to  fully utilize your respiration that makes you conscious of its importance.
they  are a business of high integrity, bringing us the most top notch organic  vegetarian cuisine!
through the alchemy of the fermentative process something new will be created, and that new thing is known as the “synbiotic”.
i know what your thinking, shouldn’t i identify the plantbefore i taste it?
i have personally been witness to it in my own life amongst people that i  love dearly.
i have seen small kombucha projects where honey, agave, and other alternative sugar sources have been used, but they ultimately are less functional than sucrose.
otherwise, we simply carry this debris around, haphazardly sneezing or blowing it out, or letting it drain back into our throats…
where the consensus amongst the conscious is that we are indeed all one, weare nature, there is no separation, and it’s all changing dramatically.
it was my desire to begin wild fermenting a local sugar of low to moderate alcohol content that could be drank unfiltered and unpasteruized.
it inhabits the shallow waters of lakes, ponds, and slow moving rivers.
the following is a short excerpt from the opening pages of the book: “although the western world has been undergoing its greatest herbal  renaissance in over a century the medicinal actions of trees are often  overlooked, perhaps none more so than pine.
did you know that every seed in an apple  (there are 5) will bring forth a different type of apple tree?
better yet, take some time to develop mastery of this skill by making it a regular practice!
otherwise, we simply carry this debris around, haphazardly sneezing or  blowing it out, or letting it drain back into our throats…  blah!
people are constantly asking me to recommend a  book on the subject, and there just haven’t been many that i have found  particularly helpful.
on this interview, daniel will be speaking about his latest research  into thereclassification of modern humans as a new subspecies.
i  promise if you give it just one week of consistent practice, not only will you  easily master this skill, but you will have a life long practice that will  contribute to your health and personal detoxification strategy.
this means that as a forager i am still largely dependent on my local agricultural system to provide me with calories that i need to live out my daily life.
there is an option to arrive on  the early for a trip to the ancient incan city of machu picchu!
turning simple sugars into ethanol, amino acids, and b complex vitamins, not to mention a culturally and ritually significant inebriant is a nearly ubiquitous human behavior, and part of what holds the fabric of traditional societies together.
wild rice however, is a complex carbohydrate (macro-nutrient), and unlike  the mono-cropped and refined carbohydrates of the average american diet, is a  rich whole food grain loaded with vitamins and minerals (micronutrients) as  well.
it is an old  document describing the wilbur spring and surrounding area.
enjoy the summer sunshine!
this  promises to be a journey into healing, education,sustainability, and self  discovery!
this is by far the most exciting event of the year for me!
whats more, the flowing sap of the maple tree is the first wild food to emerge after a long and cold snow covered new england winter.
for instance, lacto-fermentaion actually increases the amount of nutrition that was present in the vegetable alone (by converting sugars into protein rich bacterial bodies, b vitamins, and omega 3 fatty acids), increase the bio-availability of the existing nutrition (by breaking down cell walls by predigesting the vegetables cellulose, and removing anti-nutrients) and all the while preserving the inherent nutrition better than freezing, canning, or drying!
simply gathering bulbs after the seeds had formed would allow the plant to germinate in freshly tilled earth.
into which, ayahuasca digs deep, purging junk, transforming thoughts, composting things, creating soil from soul, turning the stomach into a womb, encouraging conditions right, good, and fertile – so it can root, grow, and flower.
contact info@rawflora to get on the waiting list!
so it’s really up to us to take an  interest if we are to make the friendship of those spirits.
homo  sapiens have a long and rich history with psychoactive plant medicines, and  they have always been a part of our traditional diets.
it’s a great place to stock up on great winter immune system  supplements, such as medicinal mushroom extracts and colostrum.
this has been, by far, my most prolific year of harvesting wild food and medicine.
gorman apr 06, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, interviews, wild food & water, written word | view comments it was a tremendous honor to be a part of the new documentary film “hungry for change”.
welcome friends, foodies, and foragers!
watch the video  above where i compare some of the features against other design-styles.
this past autumn was a really exciting time for my team and i, with so many  of our projects coming to fruition and our message ofrewilding, spring water, and indigenous nutrition spreading around our  community and beyond, faster than we ever imagined.
i will be facilitating this experience, along side master  shamanic qi gong practitioner jeannette kielo dussel, and the team of  shamans, ecologists, and native food and medicine experts who have been  assembled for this once in a lifetime experience!
check out my coming events page to see more of what i am up to in 2012, and how you can come be a part of it!
in my own life i have been pursuing a diet made up of (as much as i can) local, heirloom, and wild species.
further, we have been taught to “take only pictures, leave only footprints.”
my hope is that our community will immediately see the value of this handy little device and add it to the tool-belt of practices and skills that are helping us to thrive in, and adapt to our modern environment.
ancestral plants finally, a wild food and medicine book that really delivers!
richard richard louis miller, m.a., ph.d. wilbur  caretaker in chief since 1972 mar 18, 2010 | wild food & water | view comments bodybuilding wild chaga protein elixir
if you are interested in developing this skill set as well, or if you have  experience but are ready to go deeper please check out myancestral plants  workshop this may in southern maine!
they are a business of high integrity, bringing us the most top notch organic vegetarian cuisine!
~daniel nov 24, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments welcome friends, foodies, and foragers!
without repeated disturbance, the area will eventually grow in with taller plants that will shade out the evening-primrose, leading to a loss of that species at that site.
one of  the great things about a plant like this, is there there is no concern of over  harvest.
"rewild yourself: tips & tricks for strengthening your epigenetic  health" i also want to share this quick video clip of my good  friend shailene woodley’s appearance on thelate night with  jimmy fallon show (check out that clip right here)!
our species’ “ultimate verdict” is  the concept of death.
for those who would like a deeper look into the biological processes that take place in the fermentation of cabbage into sauerkraut, check out this link!
it’s true, the apple tree as we think of it is a grafted plant, and its fruit is exceptionally hybridized.
it is here all around us; eden, heaven – find it in an apple.
their constant quest instead was securing the macronutrient (carbohydrate, lipid, and protein calories) that they required for their huge daily energy expenditures.
keep in mind that this practice, consuming clay and other earth compounds,  is perhaps one of the oldest of all human behaviors.
aug 02, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments greetings friends, thanks for stopping by.
today is the first blizzard of 2011 here in maine, and i am off to enjoy  the snow!
business  partners jen warr of chocolatree cafe and kelly johnson of sedona superfoods,  in combination come together to provide for us at the retreat this fall.
commonly referred to and often mistaken as “the ayahuasca diet”- plant dietas are, in very general terms; a discipline and process of cleansing, purging, healing, learning, and building right-relationship.
6 cups wild chaga decoction (tea) 1/2 cup soaked chia seeds 1/4 cup mesquite powder 1 cup wild blueberries 3 raw eggs 1/2 cup sun warrior protein powder 1/2 cup surthrival colostrum 1tblsp raw butter (or other fat source) 3 guarana seeds 1tsp vanilla powder 1/3 tsp whole leaf stevia powder (or sweetener of choice) pinch of salt thanks for all your support here at danielvitalis.com!!!!
pine pollen, given its potency, its  similarity to ginseng in some of its actions, and its status as, perhaps,the premier phytoandrogen on the planet, should have been recognized long  before now as the powerful medicinal it is.
from it nothing is hidden and it knows what’s
more  than that, it also lays out which plants may be useful as a fire resource (for  friction fire, tinder etc), for cordage (plants that contain fibers that can be  removed and braided in to cord), archery uses (woods that are optimal for  making bows or arrows), and even uses like dyes, glues, and basketry.
what – so it provides certain answers in the form of nourishment – literally; “bringing (you) up, raising, fostering, supporting, preserving”.
click here to see the full length film for free between now and march 31st!
it is so great to get them locally and for the amazing prices that can only be had on such a visit!
the photos are very clear and the descriptions have been written by someone who has actually used the plants to the ends described therein (believe me, this is not the norm).
this is afree interview – call in to listen live at 10 a.m. est (9 a.m. cst & 8 a.m. pst).
joy light and rebeccaastara are putting on this year’s event, epic eden hotsprings!
pine pollen, given its potency, its similarity to ginseng in some of its actions, and its status as, perhaps,the premier phytoandrogen on the planet, should have been recognized long before now as the powerful medicinal it is.
timelapse  the situation and it’s like we appeared only yesterday –  instantaneously – in ever-changing form, on a particular planet.
thousands of chinese herbs have entered the western pharmacopoeia; the earliest and best known is perhaps ginseng.
because we will be teaching actual skills on the land, we must limit the class size in order to ensure that each student experiences an attentive learning environment.
p.p.s. i understand the many detrimental effects that alcoholism and alcohol related accidents have had on us as individuals and as a civilization.
i have witnessed dramatic reductions in the symptoms of psoriasis at wilbur hot springs.
check out my coming events page to see more of what i am up to in 2012, and  how you can come be a part of it!
native biologists, shamans, and wild food experts will lead us through the  most nourishing, exciting and informative eco-adventure of our lives!
to your health and prosperity, ~d feb 26, 2012 | current projects, wild food & water, written word | view  comments is hollywood rewilding?
but to a plant, death is laughable.
one of the great things about a plant like this, is there there is no concern of over harvest.
side with the plants, learn plants, eat plants, become plants – let food be your medicine, let medicine be your food – and begin to synthesize entirely different dimensions of time, technology, communication, and potential.
if anyone finds a reference or more information on this, please leave it as  a comment below!!
it is less hot  and more like tepid bathwater… i enjoy this pool for exercise and play!
many wild foraged plants are eaten like vegetables (stinging nettle come to mind) but lack the energy density that we get from meats, grains, oils, concentrated sugars.
my close friendfrank giglio will be creating all of our meals throughout the weekend using the freshest local, organic, and wild-crafted ingredients.
what role do  psychoactive’s play today, and if they are no longer represented in our  food supply, is it possible that we can become “alkaloid  deficient”?
mar 22, 2010 | current projects, wild food & water | view comments wilbur spring update!
since the prostrate is the endocrine gland thats responsible for male orgasm, taking care of it for a lifetime is probably a good idea!
~daniel mar 20, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, featured videos, interviews ,wild food & water, written word | view comments greetings rewilder’s!
branches bowed under the weight of pinkish-red berries as i sped across the highway on a recent trip to southern florida last december.
business partners jen warr of chocolatree cafe and kelly johnson of sedona superfoods, in combination come together to provide for us at the retreat this fall.
that is all changing for me now that i have learned to forage a few key items, perhaps the greatest and most important, of which is wild rice.
who knows what we have missed simply by not  asking a plant what benefit it might have for mankind, rather than saying  “tree, chop it and burn it for fire.”
they provide an exotic spiciness to any dish, from sweet to savory, and they come with the added percieved benefit of being from my own personal harvest.
there is such a joy and satisfaction for me when i discover a critical piece of information that answers questions that i have long held.
from my perspective it’s a kind of  plant artistry.
this is because of a  curing process used with commercially prepared “wild rice” that  causes the grains to become very hard and locks in some of the unpleasantly  strong flavors.
and don’t forget to check out the mead making workshop that i have  coming up next week.
from yet another direction, the “higher reflection” in a sense  themother of raw, living diets, can be seen in the traditions and  disciplines ofplant dietas.
i love drinking it this way  throughout the day, and like saving the older, dryer, and “harder”  cider for the evenings with dinner and after.
thesonoran desert is one of the harshest, driest environments on the planet.
with this in mind, i set forth exploring a raw food diet – with sharp eyes and a healthy aversion to dogma and definitions.
timelapse the situation and it’s like we appeared only yesterday – instantaneously – in ever-changing form, on a particular planet.
we are traveling into the jungle to explore the wild foods and medicines of  the most bio-diverse region of the world, the amazon!
ok, so forgive me here, but i am going to interject a few definitions and a quick mathmatical formula.
it is now april 5th, 2010, and this was just received from wilbur hotsprings!
we really believe that stewardship of this  ancient fire-craft is valuable for many reasons, not the least of which is the  carrying on of what is one of our most ancient and fundamental human  technologies.
my experience has been  that you can only truly feel the chronic congestion after you have cleared it.
i will be talking about everything from the  “best foods available in the super-market” to the “ worst food that people are eating today“.
be it food or information – we become what we consume, and we produce  from the inside out.
if you have never made a fermentation like this at home, take heart!
you can imagine that prior to the widespread use of refrigeration, areas of the world with large apple yields would have had quite a bit of cider on hand, as the juice of fresh apples ferments quite readily.
you can see that video here.
the film exposes  the myths and mistruths that the diet-fad and processed food industries have  perpetrated on a mis-educated populace for so many years.
“as we begin (once again) to naturalize ourselves – both nutritionally and medicinally – we may begin to discover that there is far more to a plant than just its chemical composition, more than just its list of constituent phyto-nutrients, vitamins and minerals.
i was immediately impressed with the way that these were built into the nutritional and spiritual systems of the area.
keep in mind that this practice, consuming clay and other earth compounds, is perhaps one of the oldest of all human behaviors.
if you are looking  for a premier chaga extract you can find it at my company,surthrival.
for much of the year wild rice has formed a significant part of my diet and i recommend it to my friends and clients often as a commercially available source of wild food!
while each section is amazing, i was most taken by the segment on the apple.
today our air is loaded  with everything from dust (which is mostly dead skin cells) to heavy metals,  from car exhaust to radioactive isoptopes.
i have  witnessed dramatic reductions in the symptoms of psoriasis at wilbur hot  springs.
check out this 12 minute video clip (click on the image below) of the talk i delivered in costa mesa last october titled, “developing sovereign health: the path of rewilding ourselves”.
watch the video above where i compare some of the features against other design-styles.
produce solutions – dissolve.
each book is like a tile, great or small, in the  mosaic of world-view that we are each assembling.
spending time witharthur haines has propelled my wild  nutrition path forward in ways i am so grateful for.
thanks for watching and i can’t wait to hear your results!
also, special thanks to my friends at evolver for inviting me to be a part of thevisionary nutrition project, beginning on april 8th with my interview, where i will be teaching about the role of psychoactive plants in the human ecological and dietary niche.
ok, so of course maine hasn’t got any coconuts, but we do have  something that tastes just as good – maybe better – and is just as  nutritious.
it is a wild new idea that comes from the effects our modern lifestyle  has had on our epi-genome and our health.
this is the go-to book for understanding wild plants of the north east, and the one that will accompany me into the field this year and for years to come (mine is getting dog-eared already).
hour after  hour i burned to know and meet the species who’s berry drupes splatter  painted pink the otherwise indistinguishable wall of sub-tropic greenery that  lined the  highway 75.
due to its status as florida’s floral-enemy-number-one, we  can harvest its berries with a kind of impunity that is rarely experienced by  the modern forager.
recently, she also appeared on the ellen  degeneres show carrying a mason jar of spring water which she promptly shared  with ellen!
we have chosen the intimate class size to ensure that each of you gets the close personal attention you need, and to ensure that we don’t trample our wild foraging grounds.
many of us, in fact, might even have a moral repulsion to the idea.
it reduces scaling, itching and inflammation.
however, we also till the ground when we excavate the roots, disturbing the soil and maintaining an open area–which is absolutely necessary for this species.
if this wasn’t enough, phyto-chemicals in nettle root further work to prevent benign prostate hyperplasia (bph) by stopping the binding of dht to the prostate membrane.
wolfe several years ago, during dieta with ayahuasca, the plants  suggested to me that “ayahuasca would go best with raw food”.
the first wild food of the season!
essentially, plants can do whatever they want with humans, and with near-absolute impunity.
the last two weekend events we hosted in maine turned out to be  game-changers for nearly everyone involved.
eat garbage conjured and sold by the darkest  magicians – become “stay puft marshmallow man”; your  ill-conceived nightmares.
today is the first blizzard of 2011 here in maine, and i am off to enjoy the snow!
plants, i’ve found, often speak in terms of one’s present  perception – in shapeshifting symbols that change as you follow them,  conversations to discern and decipher.
nettle root is an herbal ally that seems almost designed to ensure the good  health of a mans reproductive system into longevity (wives and girlfriends may  want to take note).
as strange as it may seem this was and still is a revolutionary concept!
in this video arthur  and i go into the wilds in search of wild stinging nettle roots for our  personal homemade medicine stashes!
this is going to be a very special weekend, featuring talks by botharthur haines and myself, as well as introductions to several earth based surthrival skills.
with this home-made clay or zeolite toothpaste, the goal is indeed to swallow it, moving it into the intestine where it can go to work mopping up industrial and nuclear debris that has bioaccumulated in our tissues.
~daniel feb 02, 2011 | current projects, wild food & water | view comments my good friend arthur haines has just released his new book ancestral plants, and i must say, it is amongst the best wild food and plant-use book i have yet to come across.
- remove scale and smooth the skin, which is particularly true of topical treatments that you apply to your skin.
running in circles, making mirages, chasing dragons, ouroborically awestruck, deaf, blind and dumbfounded by this life, the afterlife, reality and its alternatives, ghosts, dreams, philosophy, the powers that be, the secret life of plants – all this raging intricacy.
there are of course wonderful uses for chaga with its bark on as well,  particularly as an anti-neoplastic medicine.
i promise if you give it just one week of consistent practice, not only will you easily master this skill, but you will have a life long practice that will contribute to your health and personal detoxification strategy.
these particles are constantly lodging in and congesting our upper respiratory tract, creating an environment for infection and/or being drawn still deeper into our lower respiratory tract (our lungs).
today our air is loaded with everything from dust (which is mostly dead skin cells) to heavy metals, from car exhaust to radioactive isoptopes.
compounds like radon and arsenic, which are known to be poisonous are considered to have beneficial medicinal action in the art and science of balneotherapy.
it  has been working very well for me, and it just might work for you too.
in the autumn of   2010, i am am embarking on a most exciting adventure!
i wish there was some way to convey flavor  through the internet!
all around it salt crystals grow right up out of the ground, dusting the area like a fresh snow!
this video is the first part of  that strategy, the rest of which i am eager to share with you in full over the  next few weeks.
your readership is truly appreciated, ~daniel aug 02, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments how to make your own detoxifying toothpaste, and details on my annual trip  to peru greetings friends, thanks for stopping by.
this is my favorite pool for soaking, as it is the quietest and most…sanctified.
“in defense of food”.
in the meantime, check out the video below to see the harvest and processing of these beautifully blush bunches of berries!
they can throw you down, clean you up, send you out to space, thrust you on a new paths, make you change your ways, whisper advice, keep you warm, dry, sheltered, alive, and in some cases, even kill you.
i hope you enjoy this two part “wild fermented hard cider” video.
for those of you who are interested in developing more wild food  identification, harvesting, and processing skills, please consider joining  arthur and i for ourancestral plants workshop here in maine, may 6th –  8th, 2011.
this way of seeing the world is very much in vogue today.
this is so strange  because we tend to, as a culture, consider the apple the very symbol of  “natural food”.
many of us have taken our diets and nutrition into our own hands, though when it comes to personal health care, few of us have really stepped out and away from the entrenched medical system’s doctor/dentist treatment, and the role we play in it as “patient” (from the latin meaning “suffering”).
the elixircraft mastery program is an excellent resource for understanding the concept and components of making liquid medicinal preparations and i recommend it to anyone who is embarking on the journey to invincible health!
if you are  interested in joining us for this online workshop just click the banner below.
it has been really exciting to share these with you all, and for me it  feels like a timely message, given the considerable distrust and  dissatisfaction so many of us have been feeling for mainstream  “medicine” in recent years.
in the new orleans “jungleland” – behind climates of chaos and the media newsfeed, burnt cars and dead bodies are consumed by tall grass.
the fresh maple sap is  so refreshing, so hydrating, and tastes so good that it is almost shocking that  more people aren’t taking advantage of this delicious, abundant, and free  late winter/early spring drink!
this video is for all of you who celebrate being grown-ups, and are  unafraid to raise yourselves up and out of the near ubiquitousneoteny that is  now standard in the epi-genome in our “modernized” population.
stay tuned for events that arthur and i will be putting on where you can learn to harvest your own foods and medicines!
wolfe several years ago, during dieta with ayahuasca, the plants suggested to me that “ayahuasca would go best with raw food”.
this second video is about my august 4th, 11 day tour of peru, for which i  have just a few openings left.
stephen, having studied pine pollen extensively, had much to share on the subject.
after 14 years of using a neti pot on a regular, almost daily basis – i must admit, i am amazed how overlooked this basic bit of personal hygiene is.
he is to be  commended, and thanked, for his making wilbur a subject of his professional,  guerrilla, video journalism.
raw, living diets take many forms.
special thanks to lauren kinsey, who posted a really valuable comment after seeing the last set of videos with arthur.
nasal irrigation for optimal upper respiratory health greetings, and thank you for visiting this domain!
for instance, did you know that all of the apples in our modern diet are  genetic clones?
though today much of the wild rice sold in the market place is cultivated  in rice paddies, this highly nutritious grain is still available to the forager  for the price of his or her labor.
detailing herbal uses of these plants in addition to their uses as foods.
coal tar is available in over-the-counter shampoos, creams  and oils.
this has been a dream of mine for ages!
for years i have been told that the mother required the caffeine from the tea plant, as well as the sucrose from the sugar.
dear friends: some of you have expressed interest in the black tar like  substance that daniel vitalis showed in his excellent, and, for me, emotionally  moving, 2 movie utube series on wilbur hot springs.
either the pictures weren’t clear, the text wasn’t informative enough, the author was lacking real experience, or the book just wasn’t laid out in a user friendly way (ok, samuel thayer’s books are an exception to these criticisms, and are excellent wild food references).
when we gather this root, we kill the plant.
arthur and his crew harvest enough each season to last them through the year, and they process all of it by hand!
shailene has become a tremendous ally, helping to share the message ofrewilding, spring water, and indigenous nutrition with the world.
the first will be a three day wild food education, identifaction,  gathering, processing, and preparation workshop!
michael pollan, for example, explores this extensively and convincingly in his work, posing the question: “what if we are all just pawns in corn’s clever strategy game to rule the earth?”.
yet we appear now to see eye to eye with the storm.
in the second half of the video i’ve included a recipe that i have been making with fresh maple water, chaga, and a bit of cream.
synbiotics like sauerkraut have long been used by those before us to  fortify their immune systems, assist in digestion (their acidity helps to lower  the ph of the stomach increasing the effectiveness of our hydrochloric acid),  and to maintain healthy levels of the probiotic organisms that colonize our  digestive lumen.
october 6th through the 10th, 2010
more than that, it also lays out which plants may be useful as a fire resource (for friction fire, tinder etc), for cordage (plants that contain fibers that can be removed and braided in to cord), archery uses (woods that are optimal for making bows or arrows), and even uses like dyes, glues, and basketry.