- be sure to wipe a clean chain with a rag as well as possible to rid it of any loose or lingering penatrant fluid.
if one has a choice, the small tube is more functional for bike touring than the little bottles but a little bottle is better than nothing.
hmm, just like the modern cyclist!
sometimes the container needs to be warmed up before filling with hot water.
thanks to the cell phone, it is not unusual to call the destination  location shortly before the expected arrival time to get specialized final  directions.
a loaded touring bike with panniers will cut chain life by 15-25%.
seefront derailer adjustment or rear derailer adjustment.
advanced rim/spoke issues: top, mechanical issues directory, spoke lacing: 3 cross and 4 cross patterns are quite satisfactory  spoke lacing addresses engineering problems and solutions that were actually resolved by the beginning of the 20th century.
many rear derailer cables have slack adjustment tension nuts on both ends.
this problem does go away with bigger  groups (like five or more campers to help spread the load).
- sun position and navigation facts 201 (what the celts and mayans knew): we're still discussing navigation skills for the northern hemisphere.
sram powerlinks are reusable in size 7, 8, and 9 - however, size 10, called a powerlock is not reusable.
wood and laminate will last longer and foam has to be inspected every now and then for wear patterns.
interesting - the sun crosses the sky in an elongated arc across the sky, from east to westok - it takes just about the same amount of time and arc distance for the sun to rise to its highest point as it takes to go from the highest point to set.
- head/helmet mounted lights are becoming more popular.
- at sea level water boils at 212° f or 100° c - as a rule of thumb, for every 500 feet elevation (or 150 meters), water boiling temperature drops 1° f (or .5° c).
- best practice: the z pattern lube application method is particularly effective and smart to do after a really good chain cleaning - this is the time to be sure to spin/run the lubed chain over every sprocket (front and back).
- like cars, the low gear is the setting that offers the most torque and the least speed (compared to other settings).
andthere are bacteria, yeast, mold ... concerns (which may mal affects one's health).
note, in case you did everything perfectly and there is still chain noise, there are other things can causechain noise worth knowing and resolving.
fore-aft pressure is usually only caused by pedal pressure from the rider.
position (chain and cage over the smallest cog).a way to validate the at-rest-position (without undoing the cable) is to place the shifter in either extreme gear setting (chain and derailer cage on largest or smallest ring) and physically pull in the middle of the cable (at the down tube or bottom tube for tandems +), if the cable pull moves the cage over another gear, then it started at the at-rest-position.
- water proof: some handlebar bags are 100% water proof, some are water resistant, some have water proof covers.
plan your gear selection before it is needed, especially for down shifting.
where one has a choice, avoid windy areas, use natural wind blocks  (bushes, trees, boulders, buildings).
covered food pots heat up much faster than uncovered food pots.
work the chain in two or three cleaning application/wiping sessions or remove the chain and use a bottle with chain cleaner or a professional cleaning system (wheel brush and cage or basin).
- cover the business and paper work (arh arh) with the previously removed clean dirt -
a center punch (from a set of different sized punches) will facilitate a nearly perfect cylindrical shape.
insure that the cage is square and not damaged, bent, or mangled.
thus, the most efficient bicycle chain cleaning solution may not be the safest, it is the most impractical field solution (air hose and heat drying), and it is difficult to properly dispose of dirty and flammable penatrant liquid (versus recycling oil - much easier to do, see next).
if anything is wrong, don't ride but get a tech.
there are presta to schrader adapters and every biker should carry an  adapter regardless of their tire valve type.
- 5% of the time, mystery shifting is caused by slightly too loose (or too tight) a shift cable.
- in some of these old towns that are centuries old, we've learned to look at the wear patterns of the street to determine the main throughway.
many long range bike travelers use temporary loctite for pannier bolts  (and other fasteners that come loose) on bike tours - be careful that one is  using temporary loctite and not permanent loctite.
the very scratch of a scribe mark weakens the material/metal at that scratch mark; it is especially a 'no no' for seat posts!
we've had caring hosts, for unexpected late night arrivals,  voluntarily stand in the road so that we would not miss their location.
- 'b' screw means body adjustment screw (it is used to adjust the rear derailer's swing arm 'at rest' position - rarely needed).read more detail.
note: if a the resulting chain holder is a hair too thick, then a little side/lateral hammer pounding on the leg ends at the vise anvil is justified (and works).
- heavy duty wheels (often an aftermarket purchase) endure better than most stock bicycle wheels.
talc color ranges from white to grey or green and can be used by bicycle mechanics in its powder form (most common, using a powder brush) or (sometimes) as a wide chalk like stick.
the perfect tension of pull is that all slack is out but no more effort than that.
not a good thing to learn 2 days from a  bike shop or tire store.
avoid high ridge lines as these areas attract lightning.
learn a  whole lot more aboutwhite gas, naphtha and foreign terms.
sanitation issues: long-term survival is based on not getting sick or injured.
- some people need more light than others.
when the sun is at its highest point in the sky, it is both, noon for that particular spot, and an imaginary line between the sun and the closest point on the horizon forms a perfect north-south line.
- wd-40 [water displacement - formula 40 (composed of mineral oil, mineral spirits, and gasoline according to their website) - invented to prevent rust and corrosion on atlas rockets] is apenatrant, water displacer, and a light duty lubricant.
- the cyclist may or may not pitch (set up) a tent.
the best insulator is a closed cell foam pad.
the cyclist usually finds a spot that will be out of the way of any motorized traffic pulling off the road and from the view of motorized roadway traffic.
the connecting fuel cable must be heavy  duty (like braded metal wiring over neoprene and not just a piece of plastic  tubing that will easily melt).
it is always optimal if laundry can dry over night (when camp-ing or hotel-ing and not inhibit travel).
- sometimes people can see the glowing effect of charged particles on the ground or a grounded object, like a tree, climb up towards the sky just before a strike.
thus, the  following navigation scenarios exist: old town street names are often, only, for three or four block segments.
get a correct sized pin.
- one cannot fly with a stove that smells like fuel!
- some light machine oils (key word on the label is 'clean')
generally, pack heavy stuff low, light stuff high (thus lowering the  center of gravity or keeping it as low as practical).
it is noteworthy that whoever is on duty for cooking needs to make  extraordinary effort to arrive at camp relatively early on his or her cooking  day so as be able to serve supper to the group in a timely manner.
learn more [hint from adventure cycling and john burnett's manual (of bicycle repair)].
the purpose of adding a tube/tire lubricant was to: keep the tube from sticking to the tire, particularly for the inflation  process, help easily remove a non-sticking tube, keep drying patch cement on a repaired tube from sticking to the tire, and
but for whatever reason, 1 in a hundred become noisy (a squeaky, every now and then, dry wheel-bearing kind of noise).
in some cases a tent can be rolled up in the ground cloth (clean side to  the tent).
- very lightly sprinkle tire/inner-tube lubricant (like talcum powder) on the inside of the tire, the focal area is the tire interior surface that is opposite where the ground contacts the tire (or treat or have already treated the replacement tube).
again, a bicycle shop technician can help address this topic/issue.
- fuel bottles, usually (to be purchased) should be in about 25-30 ounce sizes.
btw, the difference between the local time zone and an exact spot on earth is, and must be, addressed by astronomers in local sidereal-time and solar-time.
no problem replacing old 5 or 6 speed bike chains with newer 8 or 9 speed bike chains.
we have yet to be charged for help while touring on bikes (a code of the road thing).
btw, tidal activity is very minuscule between the tropic arcs - tidal effects increase as one heads toward the poles.
- spin the wheel - look for evenness between the rim and the brake pads or rotor to the brake pads.
- in campgrounds, try to not be next door to the latrine, store, shower, or next to major walk ways; avoid groups that drink alcohol, play/sing music, or are loud.
typical found on road side bottles are juice or soda bottle, clean as needed; wide mouth lids are better; fill with biodegradable cleaner (like orange oil) or in a pinch (kerosene or diesel fuel, which have low flash points compared to gasoline).
- for reasons unknown, one cannot find loctite numbered compounds in bicycle shops, hardware stores, nor auto shops (although the stores may carry other loctite products) -
- some bags are more durable than others.
how to lube a chain: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory most chains made from the mid 1990's onward are bushingless bearings.
how to survive a bicycle fall or crash; by dennis and terry struck bicycle fall/crash survival lessons learned (minimize injury): top, lessons learned the hard way from bicycle and motorcycle crashes (real experience shared by the authors).
see how tomeasure chain wear.
- consider using an extra large binder clip and a stick or wire on a chain stay or a seat stay, or use duct tape and a stick or wire for emergency truing work.
- btw, there is one multi-tool that has an emergency derailer hanger built into the tool frame (from wheels manufacturing, this is the same manufacturer of the emergency rear derailer hanger product).
they, in turn, got  these ideas from kevin kelly at kk.org ( http://www.kk.org/cooltools/archives/001289.php who uses a cork to hold open a  sti brake assembly and more recently from alan at ecovelo.info ( http://www.ecovelo.info/2008/07/21/parking-brake/) who has used an elastic hair  band to lock down a brake lever.
be very careful about valve types and mixes.
- the rider's weight matters; more weight in identical conditions will always result in more chain wear (it shortens chain life expectancy).
however, more so than for any other cleaning agent, there are more oil recycling centers than for any other cleaning liquid (not counting sewage and water treatment plants).
in any case,  remote/detached burners are safer for this kind of cooking that requires high  heat output or a long duration burn with a wind screen.
we have a map, a route to travel that requires a northwest  heading, but we don't have a compass.
- handlebar bags that detach and have a shoulder strap are great for carrying valuables that a cyclist always wants on person (passport, wallet/id/credit cards/drivers license, checkbook, itinerary, cell phone and important numbers list).
in the shop: take all the pieces out, line them up or take notes.
further note that other countries have different sets of holidays: seeholidays by country.
- re-set the shifters/derailers to a more reasonable initial cycling (start pedaling) position.
it is very easy to accidently round a nipple with an adjustable wrench  because it is not tight enough on the nipple.
this prevents slow energy leakage that occurs when positive ends are near negative ends, as those pesky electrons will jump across space and discharge the battery.
the situation had the potential for becoming much worse.
- if one plucks each of a series of spokes, like a guitar, and the sound is like ping, ping, thud, ping; the thud is a loose spoke.
- the derailer is physically moving the chain by brute force sideways such that the chain may re-engage the next sprocket's teeth with less effort than if there is no fore-aft pressure.
twist or roll to the back of the shoulder (or bones may break and/or components may be torn).
spoke issues and field fix/solutions: top mechanical issues directory generally, if the wheel rotates ok roundly, the spokes are ok.
perform the same rolling  and air squeezing task a second time for tight rolls (for better bag fit).
- understanding where the sun rises and sets helps us to navigate in the mornings and evenings.
don't apply to eyes or other body orifices, don't apply to synthetic clothing, rubber (synthetic or real), don't apply with glove.
chain related touring wisdom: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory a touring cyclist should have and carry the appropriate replacement chain pins or master links for their bikes.
- then check the adjustment for the 'h' screw - test by placing the chain into high gear (largest front ring).
sometimes, one must ride out with a limited gear selection.
it is better to bag and carry the bike(s).
many bikes have a barrel adjustor on the rear derailer for the shift cable, some don't, but most bikes have a front cable adjustor at the shifter.
in the negative, there may be generator/tire wear issues, alternating dimness/brightness issues, and wiring integrity issues.
- it's cheaper to replace a chain than worn rings and sprockets.
- road navigation is especially an issue for the back roads of europe and for inner village street navigation.
in the field, baffle pockets can hang up on or snatch anything that you walk by or bike by, this is especially problematic in brush country, almost any narrow access path or bike path, in and around many vehicles, walkways, and places of lodging; the pockets can hang-up on just about everything that sticks out at thigh level (drawer knobs, plants, sticks, protruding rocks, brush, fence posts, fence wire ends, almost any barbed wire, door handles [especially those for physically challenged people], vehicle arm rests, door jambs, hand rail ends, gate posts).
- in the us south or tropical areas, people may use a sheet on top of a light weight (summer) sleeping bag or blanket, and maybe crawl into the bag if it cools down (and may not want to attach the sheet to anything).
this is usually bulky space robbing gear but not heavyper se.
little plastic trash bags work too.
there are other native  sanitation products that seem to be effective in the same native/indigenous  areas.
meanwhile, back to the cleaning subject, i find that lighter weight oils are effective for cleaning.
and, while one may consider re-using a quick link, one should replace it no matter what after four uses and one should always carry a brand-new spare quick link along with the usual spare links and chain tool.
- normally tightening is what is needed somewhere.
- sleeping pad: - the lightest insulator is a cardboard windshield sun screen.
any type of alcohol does not burn as hot or heat water/food as fast as petroleum variants but alcohol gets the job done.
for most touring bikers with full loads, the most likely temptation to cross chain occurs one has already made a steep hill climb and there is a little shallow [easier climbing] slope followed by steeper slope, again - why change the front ring when the cyclist is coming right back to granny in, 20 feet, for the remainder of the climb.
if possible, park the bike over a clean cement pad or lay a piece of plastic sheet (space blanket, ground cloth, ...) under the bike.
the only map distributed was an automobile map of the entire island (which only had major towns and major roads listed, not all of the incremental villages nor back roads).
if there is a cable housing ferrule at the barrel adjuster, then remove and stow away (with cable housing).
- perform the task using a chain tool.
one way to avoid miss-threading a tension arm is topre-mark the exact chain-run on the tension arm (see the picture).
shift cable adjustments are not needed very often but one way to tell is that the chain should sit centered on the chain ring.
tools used were a hammer, pliers, and aluminum (grayish) looking spray paint (for finished product).
top mechanical issues directory front derailer adjustment - first, if needed, conduct all front derailer adjustments first, always.
solution: the solution for worn sprocket(s)/ring(s)/cog(s) is to replace the worn out sprocket(s).
- a pocket sized spiral notebook and pencil are priceless in countries where a traveler does not know the language.
- some products with penatrant properties are: - gasoline (very dangerous to use) - white gasoline (very dangerous to use) - naptha (very dangerous to use) - coleman fuel (very dangerous to use) - carburetor spray cleaner - diesel - kerosene - jp4 (aviation turbine fuel - high grade diesel/kerosene;
experience: during the summer, in colorado mountains, we have had water  bottles left on bicycle cages freeze or partially freeze overnight.
the cyclist has to act in the function of a 'mechanical clutch', disengaging pedal pressure as one leaves one front-rear sprocket-ring setting and withholding the pedal pressure until the chain is firmly engaged into the rider's next selection - this is all performed in less than a second (michael smart).
if available, finish the cable with an end cap, both to stop fraying and for safety.
that can be a lot of down time for a touring bike, but is ok if the riders are in a museum or such.
tight/narrow  places, but not so narrow as to break under pressure.
- the two likely causes of a damaged derailer cage are an impact (crash or external caused, like a protruding branch or rock) or a jammed chain in the derailer cage (which usually bends the cage upward with a side twist).
some trailers have a metal screens  that after a while cause wear on gear or bag covers.
it is now 9 am (about half way between sunrise and high noon - remember that the highest point of the sun in the sky is, both, noon and due south or 180°).
it really helps to have the matching mounting point pre-marked with a marking pen to line up the rear derailer's b-screw stop plate appropriately on the bike's frame.
first of all, avoid this kind of mechanical behavior;  slow the bicycle down (under 10 mph/16 kph) and stay in control as soon at the  first hint of tail wag.
we are addressing both  cleaning issues here.
at home some cyclists put their chain in an oven/stove (bake setting) and evaporate (by heat) remnant penatrant; some home cyclists have heat blowers (like a hand held hair dryer).1,3
- in general, thicker chains seem to last longer than thinner chains.
- park tools (st. paul minnesota): a bicycle tool manufacturer that has repair how-to instructions (for a wide range of component manufacturers - scroll to the bike image and click on the problem component)parktool.com/repair and they sell a wide range of tools and kits for various shop or road needs www.parktool.com/products.
pre-setting the spoke bend  - situation:
there are two main differentiating thread lock product type characteristics -
- insure that the cage is square and not damaged, bent, or mangled ( especially after a crash).
- warning: things can still get wet in waterproof panniers!
when one is in the moment on a bicycle tour, one is not likely to stop and fully open a map and read keys or information boxes that are beyond the fold (but sometimes one must - poor map design).on adventure cycling's bicycle route maps, we indicate route mileage points next to the stars (course changes) so that we can more quickly match the map's key information to a particular map point - this is very handy when actually touring on a bike.
some tire valves require a separate adapter or a special adapter if one  does not have an appropriate tire pump.
if a penatrant is used for cleaning, then one may need to wait 24 hours before applying oil lubrication (dependable for a thorough metal part lube coating)
also,in every case, wipe the excess oil off the chain.
don't pick up dirty, grimy, rotten cloth (except to throw it away).
we  have learned, over time, to pack our front and rear lights away and break them  out only for road use.
the next city listed on a sign for a circle may not be the destination city/town/village name - again, it helps to know one's map position/location.
- auto shops and bicycle shops use a much diluted soap-water solution to coat tires with a slightly slippery liquid substance to aid in mounting tires and for removing tires from rims.
- note the count/measure point and add one more full link (1 inch) to that measure.
chain life expectancy: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory how many miles should a bicycle chain last?
- some bag mounts have locks.
an aside: because most bikes don't have stands,
- experience: it generally seems that bike tires lose about 3-5 psi per day, such that bike tires need to be filled/topped off every other day.
- the food and clothing supplies risk/planning parameters are as follows: -
according towikipedia, talcum is used for electrical and heat insulation,baby powder, cosmetics (talcum powder), lubricant, and as filler in paper manufacture.
we do not bring any food into the tent.
don't  forget that toiletries (like mouth wash and toothpaste) and medicines also have  scents that often attract wildlife - store with the food!
bicycle mechanic schools top mechanical issues directory
caution: be careful, metal does not like to be re-bent more
issue, trailer/bike support notes trailer tire spare inner tube(s) three metal tire tool/lever bars (as a minimum: one metal tool and two  plastic)assumption: tire changing tools and kit are available (listed  under previous bike checklist segment)
if the pump is to be stored away, always make it easily available.
- white gas stoves can sometimes be fussy but they work in a wider range of cold temperatures and are reported (by mountain climbers) to work better in higher altitudes (but we have not witnessed any altitude or temperature issues with propane).
- on bikes with multiple bottle cages, sometimes it is wise to mark a mount position on the cages (as some may be purposefully bent left or right to avoid a crank or chain and re-mounting them in the wrong position after a shipping re-assembly can mal effect the drive train system).
- all bicycle touring riders should know how to repair an inner tube flat and know how to repair a broken chain (with a pin and/or a master link).
when i was kid, i seem to remember that inner tubes came with a powdery substance on the exterior.
the following is a list of opposing capabilities from which riders must make tire selection choices.
thepotential problem, based on experience, is that managers often show up just at breakfast time or check out, which is often at 8 or 9 am.
the place to stop and get one's mind and group together is at or before the sign (not inside the circle).
- rotate, twist, and/or bend to make this happen.
which way is it and how many degrees is that on a compass?
just as important, by observation, the existence of these facilities usually implies that no commercial establishments are in proximity.
- default indexed derailer position: - mountain bike rear derailers usually default to the lowest gear (biggest rear sprocket).
see the general chain width/size chart.
the derailer may default to low, sometimes beyond low.
- travelers may not get road crossing warnings for road or highway turn offs.
usually it takes about fifteen  minutes for a sufficient settling process.
touring issue: on camping type tours that are longer than three  days, it is wise to have two stoves, period.
- a helmet rain cover can keep the head dry and warm - there are cold weather and warm weather rain covers.
don't try to recover unused fuel, way too dangerous.
a touring cyclist is much more likely to cross chain a bike to maintain power for a few seconds than a lightly loaded (relatively speaking) speed bike cyclist.
one should consider using mountain bike bar ends as guards for handlebar brakes and shifters.
- caution: replacement chain pins can only connect inner and outer plates (not two inner plates and not two outer plates) which is why a perfectly good half link may have to be removed (in order to reconnect a chain).
in lieu of having a chain holder, one may use a re-usable zip tie, string, wire tie, or a volunteer to hold the chain ends together (to keep the chain off of the ground and from a free run).
- compass information 501 - the north and south magnetic poles are not at the same place as the earth's rotational axis poles.
therefore metal tire tools may be needed (so they don't break).
- typical real tour loads range from 40 to 80 pounds.
many feel that there will be a period (a month?) of mixed up regional variations and weak compass readings, maybe like a hundred regional north and south pole readings.
in either case: some of these wheels have tiny bearing cartridges, some have tiny loose bearings, and some are just plastic with a cover.
- problem 2: when the chain is in a line that is perfectly parallel to the bike frame, then the most energy from the cyclist's pedaling is delivered to the rear end - cross chaining robs a cyclist of power.
interesting the sun crosses the sky in an elongated arc across the sky, from east to  westok it takes just about the same amount of time and arc distance for the sun  to rise to its highest point as it takes to go from the highest point to set.
* chain size for 7 speed chains: same as 8 speed.
which way  is south and how many degrees is it?
- always know how to make a telephone call, by actual practice, back to the home country from another country and how to make a call in that country (or countries).
- third, chainsaw bar and chain oil (in the usa it is always 30 weight unless otherwise indicated; it has no additives nor detergents; available in quart or gallon jug, must transfer into dependable delivery device, the transfer and delivery device are always problematic).
- wipe the sprockets and cranks too - they don't need to be lubed if a fresh lubed chain is run through the different gear ring combinations.
note that all chain lubrication methods need the chain cycled/pedaled through each and every ring/sprocket (for their lubrication).
issue, trailer/bike support notes - trailer tire spare inner tube(s) - three metal tire tool/lever bars (as a minimum: one metal tool and two plastic)assumption: tire changing tools and kit are available (listed under previous bike checklist segment) - caution: tire removal is very difficult on trailers because the tire is smaller and fits much tighter on the tire rim.
some attach and detach easier than others (whose properties can be as problematic as convenient, as some easily detachable bags may come off easier as a result of a good pot hole or rogue tree branch).
thus wax is not a lubricant and wax may prevent or inhibit oil lubrication.
compass information 501 the north and south magnetic poles are not at the same place as the  earth's rotational axis poles.
if packing a wet tent (it happens): fold wet tent inside the ground cloth  and stop to sun dry the tent at the first opportunity (which is often in the  mid day sun and it beats waiting for four or five hours for the sun to come  up).
otherwise, ask for extra towels (we do this all the time); we ring the wet, just washed, clothing in a sink and then wring the clothing inside a towel (usually about 1 shirt and 1 pants per towel ring and/or 2 undies and 4 socks per towel ring and a towel seems to handle only 2 or 3 wring sessions - roughly).
this author experiences this issue of a fast shifting requirement when touring on mountain bikes on mountain trails or forest roads where there can be frenzied bursts of up and down shifting in a short period of time.
wood and laminate will last longer and foam has to be inspected every now and  then for wear patterns.
we now have metal tire changing tools used just for  trailer tire removal.
- technical issue: be aware that some pockets have flat sewn edges but darted baffles in the middle or pocket center, avoid these too.
by the way, so far we have been able to use hotel shampoos for the soap component of the clothes washing - one has to experiment for how much to use and when a spot needs extra soap or rubbing attention.
sometimes, especially in a group, two or three cyclist chains may be cleaned in combination or in back to back processes.
the easier it is to remove a map case from a handlebar, the  better for the cyclist
be sure to check the rear derailers function also, test every sprocket combination - it doesn't take long.
the main chain unit is fixed and does not flex; it is the inner links that rotate about the main chain unit (around a pin or rivet).
a butane lighter was used to melt the rough cut edges - be careful, its easy to light the styrofoam on fire and the flame is nearly invisible (a person can hear it burning but may not see it burning).
- choosing a campsite:
more aboutalcohol stoves or alcohol fuel - also see next  bullet.
on the road, one conducts a lot of map reading with the map in its case,  mounted or not.
thus, at the destination, the bikes come out of the suitcases and are assembled as touring vehicles, and the contents of the duffle bags (to include the panniers) either gets worn on person, mounted or carried on the bike, or the contents get stowed in the suitcase trailer.
other manufacturers exist and tools costs and methods vary.
- insure that there is no shifter cable slack and if the pinch bolt is going to be reset, then reset the barrel adjustor out two turns from full in (if a barrel adjustor exists and they can be on each end of the cable).
permatex threadlockers seem to be more easily found in hardware and auto  type supply stores.
i am so proud of you.
- synthetic clothing tends to not hold as many germs over the long haul.
in ultra remote areas, wood fires are not unusual but be smart  about the situational issues.
dig, with a metal foldup garden trowel (or real garden trowel or plastic  camping trowel), a "cat hole" about a foot deep and four to six  inches wide.
some ideas follow: if a plastic protection tube is on the cable, slide the tube to the corner/bend and tape it down; bend a penny, dime, washer or other coin (with pliers) and put that into place (tape and/or glue).
arrange to visit one of these locations while pedaling through a town or while in a campground at a town's edge.
addendum (2010): there is, now, a  new kind of double lined tube that has slime in just the lining and the lining  is just on the tread side of the tube.
when penatrants are mixed with light weight oil, the penatrant can act as a clearing agent to introduce oil to a small nooks or cranny area (like the space between a chain roller and pin or between chain plates and rollers), but penatrants can keep oil from adhering to a chain roller, side plate, or pin.
tire/inner-tube lubricant (myth or necessity?):
on occasion, some people get lucky.
- the low gear on the rear end is the largest ring/sprocket.
just adding one wheel increases road rolling resistance by 33% (pedal effort).
- for plastic oil bottles with plastic straw tube(s): cut the plastic tube into 1.5 inch segments (about 5 cm's) and tape the extra tube(s) to the bottle using duct tape
after making an adjustment, test ride for 15 minutes or so to see if this is all the adjustment that is needed.
mystery shifting (aka ghost shifting or how to cause a crotch shot): top mechanical issues directory the derailer discussion (previous) addressed the topic of a bicycle not shifting on command and this following topic addresses bicycle un-commanded shifting, that is,the bike shifts unexpectedly on its own.
there are two main differentiating thread lock product type  characteristics -
and, when will the sun be rise high enough to effectively  dry wet gear?
- many mechanics tend to clarify these points so as to avoid term usage differences or misunderstandings.
remember the fix is not  to tune the spokes by ear, but to incrementally tighten and test in order to  remove the wheel wobble.
- front pocket - side pockets - key holder loops - reflective exterior markings - generally, the more options that the handlebar bag has, the happier the cyclist will be in the long run.
another solution is to grasp the wire just before the end cap in order to perform any cable pulling for a derailer adjustment.
see adjacent picture.
- the best way to stabilize a wheel (while it is still off the bike) and undo any 'wound up spokes' (spokes twist when tightened) is to side load the wheel by pushing the center hub down (on a block) while applying palm pressure at spoke pairs 180 degrees apart.
sometimes these systems leak while transported, especially if the fuel is under pump pressure.
the earth rotates 360° per day (24 hours) -
- the temporary compound cracks and crumbles under release pressure but the permanent compound will not budge without damaging or breaking the assembly, however heat can be applied to some permanent compounds to make them release.
mountain trail touring tends to have better  handling with more of a 40% front / 60% rear distribution (and no trailer), or  an almost empty bike pulling a fully loaded trailer.
distances were in the decimal tenths or hundredths, like 5.64 k (kilometer) or 264.4 m (meters).
- ideally, for the long haul (survival), one wants each of the two wheels to support 50% of the total weight.
sometimes the repair person just has to get a little tough on the manual bending and lateral flexing motions.
- in the field, check first: if the bicycle has been shifting nicely for a couple days of travel and it is just beginning to have difficulty shifting into the smallest ring, then turn the shift adjuster barrel on the handlebar shifter,outward from the brake lever housing, 1/8 of a turn at a time (this can be done while riding for experienced rides, one may need to unlock the flat-ribbed lock-nut first.
experience: we have never had an  experience in foreign travel where anyone has lied to us about such things.
noontime still occurs at the shortest shadow of a straight stick, only now  there may be no shadow at all at noon time.
the soap coating can be from liquid soap spread very thin  or from water and a bar of soap - both work well.
make note of the following ... cookware that is black or blackened on the outside (the fire side)
- a helmet mounted shade bill can block out the sun or sun glare - very nice for long rides or tours.
- sometimes the derailer cage can be the source of a shifting or noise problem and not necessarily the shifter or its four-bar parallelogram component.
it may take two attempts.
when resupply points are closer together (and known), then cyclists can travel lighter on food and lighter on clothing.
braking only, in a straight line, may/can exacerbate the wobble frequency and/or force.
note that butane lighters quit working around 7-8,000 ft (22-2400 m).
- the side (of the human body) can take the most shock/g-force (versus the front, back, top or head).
during navigation calculations for the morning and evening, perform your  own interpolation considering the following (generally): march and september: add -5° to 5° north (depending on which side  of the equinox date)
we usually carry about five or six rags in a quart sized plastic bag.
- we carry about six to ten foils per ride, three or four with the tire changing tools, the remainders in the handlebar-bag.
we had one come off the bike's rack while traveling on a rough road and it got run over by the only other truck on the road.
if the rain shower is sustained then the oil float is washed off the road.
the only travel issue that we have had is that the styrofoam  collar may slide down the tongue toward the suitcase - it sort of does not  matter while towing the trailer on the bike, but just before disconnecting the  trailer from the bike, insure that the styrofoam collar is near the coupler -  the best place is right over the rubber coupler bolt.
some cyclists use  the waterproof tent cover as a top cover.
after about fifteen minutes of inactivity on the pad, close the valve.
product numbers  seem to be in the sequence of [part#]+[volumecode] such that a 10 ml bottle of  111 would have a product number of 11110, or a 50 ml bottle of 121 would have a  part number of 12150.
lessons start with a simple but exact list of necessary tools:bicycletutor.com.
beware of oncoming traffic.
bbi has tested different spoke lacing patterns for different sized wheels and found that for the 26" and 700mm wheels (for this range of wheel/rim/tire sizes), that 3 cross and 4 cross spoke lacing patterns offer the most efficient and effective wheel support for push and pull torsion, lateral flexibility, load and strength, and durability.
making one's self visible  during the day or night will probably save one's life, more than once.
consider  learning where or how to secure fuel before arrival.
chainsaw and bar oil is usually 30 weight oil with no additives and no detergents, it's just pure oil.
there are two types of cloud to ground lightning strikes: - cloud bottom to ground - the bottom of cloud is negatively charged and the lightning discharge seeks positively charged ground.
cyclists don't get much benefit from using polymers.
if the weather is bad, cook under the fly, if the weather is good, sit on the fly.
- wax, because of its thick viscosity (even when melted/heated), cannot reach all roller and pin friction areas and may block (less viscous) oil penetration or may dissipate leaving no lubricant - teflon is not a lubricant,
loosen any chain kinks as soon as they are discovered.
there is no way for a cyclist to tell if one is on blm land, open/undesignated county property, state property, federal property (of another type/jurisdiction), or property of any kind (which permits overnight camping).
some bags have many pockets  and access points and some have none.
our bike fridays, with gear (almost with as much bike touring accruements as we can stuff in) seem to weigh-in naturally at about 50 pounds (plus or minus 3 pounds) per suitcase.
- navigation lessons: in old world cities and some older new world european founded cities, street names may not be continuous, many streets or highways are not marked, or destination signage may not exist.
some tandems have left and right side cranks.
- be active (as in pro-active).
while fairly useful alcohol stoves may be made from atuna can (or  military mre cookie tin), we suggest sticking with something more industrial  for global travel.
quick studies only work if the cyclist knows where one is located (road  name/number wise) and where one is going (by road name and by city).
- reset the cable's attachment to the derailer's pinch bolt on the cable attachment arm.
sun position and navigation facts 201 (what the celts and mayans  knew): we're still discussing navigation skills for the northern  hemisphere.
if there are a few trees avoid them but consider using the shade.
a coat hanger, shape twisted tightly around a nail will work (by tight, we mean many wraps close together like a spiral back notebook).
learn/teach to down shift while standing beside the bike for stops made without downshifting beforehand - #1 cause of broken chains for experienced riders and #1 cause of thrown chains - the rear/drive chain of tandem bicycles wears at almost double the rate of the remaining chains.
the same thing happened in a scout camp, in the outdoors, but the fault may not have been the stove's mechanics.
- we also put about a one inch depth of baby wipes into a quart sized plastic zip bag and keep it handily available along with the toilet paper (which is also stored in a waterproof plastic sandwich bag).
lightning facts / lightning survival: top we frequently find ourselves overnighting in high altitude places in the mountains or crossing mountain passes mid to late day when the thunder storms form up.
the same logic works for the southern  hemisphere, south of the tropic of capricorn.
note that it is the additives, in any liquid  fuel, that clog up the stove jets.
there may only be a tiny one square foot sign of a tire in the front yard.
this may help  small groups not have to leave partial cans of fuel.
btw, the difference between the local time  zone and an exact spot on earth is, and must be, addressed by astronomers in  local sidereal-time and solar-time.
some people carry spare spokes.
this road philosophy (of washing daily) allows a cyclist to skip  wash on rainy days, on very humid days (which may last a few days), or on  hurried and stressful days and still have something dry and clean to wear.
said rather simply, thread  lock causes nuts and bolts to temporarily adhere to one another and the setting  will last until a lot of wrench torque is applied to the fasteners.
their interest visibly waned and nothing happened.
start the cleanup water boiling while eating the meal.
- the sprocket tooth pitch changes, over time, as a chain wears the teeth climb and descent curve angles asymmetrically.
- wax is not a lubricant,
my memory seems to recall that front wheel  braking alone can exacerbate the resonance and that gentle rear wheel braking  while gentle 's' turning was more effective.
- see laundry (how to clean your clothes on an ongoing bicycle tour).
bicycle chain quick summary: all bicycle chain pitch's are 1/2" (inch) from roller center to center (or front to front) with an ansi (american national standards institute) set of common design and measure characteristics.
so far, bear safes have proven to be indestructible.
on the road, a cookie tin lid (shape, open plastic sandwich box, or frisbee) is the best cleaning container and a combination tooth and sprocket brush remains the best tool (human tooth brush and cotton swabs are second best).
note that we try to camp at or below 10,000 ft (3000 m) or below tree-line, just for healthy breathing at night.
we've never had a canister stove failure, but we have had two white-gas  stoves leak hot burning fuel (but not for over 15 years).
incorporate chain maintenance/replacement into long tour planning and/or a complete spare chain; in fact, there is some wisdom in alternating chains (even out chain and sprocket wear; allow penatrant evaporation).
- usually an area is selected that will not likely have auto traffic trough it
generalized noise symptom/solution directory: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory noise symptom/solution directory - these are all links
sometimes we buy a package of gum or some candy at the arrival port just to get small bills and pocket change.
in the field, baffle pockets can hang up on or  snatch anything that you walk by or bike by, this is especially problematic in  brush country, almost any narrow access path or bike path, in and around many  vehicles, walkways, and places of lodging; the pockets can hang-up on just  about everything that sticks out at thigh level (drawer knobs, plants, sticks,  protruding rocks, brush, fence posts, fence wire ends, almost any barbed wire,  door handles [especially those for physically challenged people], vehicle arm  rests, door jambs, hand rail ends, gate posts).
- does a penatrant clear the way for further heavier oil/lubrication, or, does a penatrant repel heavier oil/lubrication?
- sometimes, what seems at first to be brake rub on a spinning wheel, is in fact a fender, fender brace, or rack brace rub; adjust/repair as needed.
if one is in a remote area next to a water source (pond, creek, ...), don't pitch a next to the water: it scares wild game that need access to the water and it is generally ugly (spiritually and literally).
what happens is that an adjacent ring will be bent just enough, sideways, that during rotation the bent sprocket tooth/point can push the chain off the current ring and onto the next ring.
- the low gear on the front crank is the smallest crank ring/sprocket.
cotton, wool, and natural fiber materials take much much longer to dry  thoroughly - it is a comparison ofhours versus days of drying time compared to synthetic materials.
size the chain: set the shifters for the smallest cogs, front and rear.
and all of the other stuff is myth: talcum has nothing to do with tube or tire/tyre longevity, leak prevention, or leak speed reduction.
a good pair of channel locks can perform most wrench functions and they have wider fitting capability than a six inch adjustable wrench or a regular six inch pliers.
we had this happen to three of four bike tires, over time - we eventually figured it out and swapped out all slime filled tires and our abnormal high rate of flat tires problem went away.
they formed abbi graduates facebook group page and these guys communicate with each other like a 'band of brothers'.
don't pitch a tent at any low point, river bed, gully, depression, drain channel, or flash flood area/plain.
don't mark or cut the chain yet, there is another step.
if that happens, take the bike to a shop, but if the rider is miles away from a shop because they are on tour, then the rider will need to make their own adjustments, sometimes this means re-bending the bike frame, derailer frame mount, or derailer back into position.
we  additionally learned to wrap a thick rubber band (or two) around the styrofoam  tube to help keep the styrofoam collar on the trailer tongue.
- thought: this is an untried thought, but it seems that the emergency hanger could be hung inside the frame's dropout as well as outside the frame's dropout.
- sometimes, at super close chain inspection, one may find one roller that is extra worn or damaged.
we can use our fist to project  ahead or behind the sun's relative direction to estimate time or direction.
a map may not have the  location marked accurately either (an x just north of town when its actually  located south or west of town).
consider using an extra large binder clip and a stick or wire on a chain  stay or a seat stay, or use duct tape and a stick or wire for emergency truing  work.
most people can be sloppy for about three days (and get away with poor sanitation habits), but then mother nature rears her head and smites thee.
once a person is in a crash, stop denial and start looking for ways to minimize body damage.
what to carry) bar end:
synthetic socks designed for hiking tend be far superior to organic  materials for wear and for causing less blistering.
radio reports are never specific enough to help, except for reporting weather fronts.
fuel (propane or liquid fuel) must be purchased at the destination; purchasing fuel can be a royal pain and easily take up the majority of a day if one is not suitably prepared.
'denatured alcohol' and  variants like alcohol 95 or its lower grade/quality alternate rubbing alcohol  or medicinal alcohol (not the same) are commonly found at pharmacies (including  muslim countries)
keep a jacket and a hat handy to  stay warm and sometimes gloves are useful.
the answer is a fuction of two variables: how many cyclists?
note that it is the additives, in any liquid fuel, that clog up the stove jets.
it  may take two attempts.
there are two important points  to learn from this physics anomaly.
otherwise, the cyclist needs to figure it out.
there was absolutely no indication that the touring instructions would be in text, otherwise we would have bought a bicycle computer.
one heavy duty [main stove] and one light duty [backup] that burns the  same fuel and has the same storage containers - common for soloists.
first, the places on a chain that need lubrication are therollers (which ride rivets/pins or drive sprockets and are driven by cranks) and thelink plate surface areas (which rub adjacent link plates, rub against rollers, and ride on the link pin/
left spoke in 1/4 turn, right spoke out 1/4 turn.
cargo pants/shorts (many pockets) are becoming increasingly popular for  touring cyclists, especially those pants designed with zip on/off leggings.
if some other vehicle is there, if the situation is right, perhaps ask them to position their vehicle to protect you and/or get their approval to use their vehicle as a protection barrier.
if one is on a self guided free schedule tour then washing clothes or having clothes washed isn't much of an issue other than performing the deed and getting the clothes dried because one has the time and one can time the washing with a sunny day for drying.
in every case we were a few miles to hundreds of miles from any known help or solution.
front pocket key holder loops reflective exterior markings generally, the more options that the handlebar bag has, the happier the  cyclist will be in the long run.
about damaged cable retainer(s) and how to fix damaged cable retainer(s): top mechanical issues directory feedback field repair: if the retainer flange (wing, furl) is still there, use any combination of asmall flat tipped screwdriver, small pliers (narrow or needle nose are better), and/or a small hex key or nail.
online education sources: tech search, tech videos, tool site 'how to' instructions bicycle mechanic schools 20+ common bicycle touring maintenance and repair issues and solutions shipped bicycle assembly issues/lessons derailer(s), shifting, and shifter, concept, front derailer adjustment mystery shifting rear derailer adjustment emergency rear derailer setup emergency rear derailer hanger squeaking derailer pulleys all about chains - directory: facts, wear, lubrication, cleaning bicycle touring chain issues chain related touring wisdom chain length, chain size/speed/width, chain tool/use notes, chain holder broken chain and link repair loosen a kinked or tight chain link front derailer chain/cage-rub noise front ring chain/cage-rub noise chain-sprocket stickiness ('chain suck')
if needed, consider using denatured alcohol, coleman fuel, or just a clean rag for cleaning.
one wants a little slack in the chain ends as it helps the pieces fit together easyer - it does not have to be fancy looking.
usually, only upper end drive systems have this capability.
their big payoff is for rear wheel, cassette side, hub flange mounting.
a light weight plastic tent/stake mallet will suffice in hard terrain.
the bipod styled kick stand can help a lot in this situation.
please note that there are many times when a person asks if they can carry a bike on public transportation, the answer will be "no."
but if that is a concern, place the bikes and anything that reflects light  between you and the likeliest automobile approach direction.
if the jockey wheels are just plastic (no bearings), be sure to clean and grease the area that was under the covers.
about tongue and groove pliers (narrow mouth):
organic clothing, particularly cotton, can be more comfortable on a hot  day because of the sweat retention and evaporation.
so the food pre purchase offers an immediate source of food or an emergency food reserve.
- ride for a while, if the situation has improved, maybe no more adjusting is needed, but if the situation is improving, then maybe another outward 1/8 turn adjustment is needed.
and/or it helps more if the mid-day hot sun can use direct sun light to heat and evaporate thelight weight cleaners, fuels, orpenatrants consider setting the chain in a clean jar or plastic bag (a solar heater concept).
generally, a cyclist only needs to remove the tire bead from one side of the rim.
caution: when a trailer is carried in the back of a vehicle these styrofoam  wraps can break free and fly away.
permatex medium strength threadlocker blue is a temporary thread lock  compound for bolts less of 7mm and larger, blue is their medium strength thread  lock color.
if the chain is rubbing against the next sprocket/ring (inward or outward of the present sprocket/ring) then a fine adjustment to the barrel adjustor (usually 1/8th of a rotation to lengthen the cable run within the housing) will re-center the chain on the sprocket.
technically, cog and gear are inappropriate words because gears are driven by a drive gear and not driven by a chain; cogs, supposedly, are for on-hub mounts (verses an off-the-hub mount) -
warning 2: beware of what may be in a compressed air nozzle and beware of the background blow area.
on the road in a foreign country's remote location, a durable bicycle and smart riding are important for success and survival.
- wash your hands with soap or germicide after bladder or bowel relief; wash your hands before preparing or eating a meal.
see next bullet ... - caution: when operating with missing chain links (and we have), a cyclist must avoid cross chaining on the largest cogs/rings as it can stretch, bend, damage, or destroy the rear derailer (especially the pulley cage) because the chain is shorter than the system was designed to manage.
most of the time the cyclist will be carrying their own clothing so total  weight matters.
if one can't speak the local language (or even if one can), break out the actual stove and ask (gesture by pantomiming the pouring of liquid into the stove).
- working with these little things can be tricky and time consuming, especially in the field.
- teflon's use came from the aviation industry (in terms of highly heated and closed bearing survival and longevity).
learn to recognize these as free rags for your use; usually one good shake will get the dust off, save for chain maintenance.
pack for rapid access to rain gear, first aid kit, map, phone, flash light, matches, camera, and wallet - no matter where the item is stored.
- covered food pots heat up much faster than uncovered food pots.
in this manner, the styrofoam collar may be attached and removed from the suitcase trailer tongue.
cover the filled hole with two crossed sticks (best), or crossed grass  bunches, or three rocks (stacked smaller & centered upward).
synthetic clothing tends to not hold as many germs over the long haul.
top start a trip carrying some reserve food.
- generally, we have learned to pack up wet, and take time to dry the gear and clothing at mid day in what is often the sunniest/warmest part of the day (when the sun is as its most efficient and effective heating angles).
- make a conscious effort to keep the tire lined up on the rim just as it was before the tire went flat (so that one can come back and trace back to the offending causal object and be able to remount the tire and not worry about correct/desired tread pattern direction).
rivets make noise,  velcro does not, and plastic buckles tend to be very quiet (assuming one is not  dragging a loose strap).
- fuel bottles and canisters should be marked for usage order (grease pencil, permanent marker).
- emergency fuel: first of all, consider wood if it is an option.
avoid punching holes in such a manner as to weaken the can's support of a pot or pan.
almost everyone who has a few tours  under their belt, even short duration tours, has a hard luck story that caused  them to have to arrive somewhere by bicycling at night.
- some 'stove systems' are designed to quickly heat 'their' pot using 'their' heat shield.
- see bike camping checklist for other travel gear - see on-bike clothing checklist for bicycle clothing - see off-bike clothing checklist for camp/tour clothing - see clothing issues for braod tour clothing topics - see cooking equipment for cook
if the bike is not assembled and validated for bike damaged at the air port baggage/shipping/cargo area, then a cyclist may not have any legal claim for damage.
warning; not a single penatrant can be used in a closed space nor around an open flame.
two stoves of differing fuel types (typically white gas and propane, but  sometimes white gas and alcohol) -
in addition, remember that white-gas stoves that sit on  top of the fuel tank also hold 15-25 ounces of fuel.
- some cyclists put short wraps of duct tape around tubes (like the stays or seat mast) to have available for emergency use, but it also can serve to ugly up a bike.
"hang together or hang apart."
shimano makes such a cage and some bike friday tour bikes have (or used to have) this feature.
we have seen a new and/or re-mounted bottle cage get in the way of the chain run, the bottles themselves, pannier mount and rack pieces, and a tire pump get in the way of a clean chain run or block derailer movement.
so since four pieces of luggage is all that we can handle (plus a strap on briefcase each) then the only variable is the weight - if a bag is over weight, we pay for it, we can't redistribute into a fifth bag as it usually is not allowed or we could not manage it if we were allowed, but we have redistributed between two bags (one over weight and one under weight).
if you have pants like this, either get rid of them or sew down the  edging in a manner that the pockets won't hook on or snag on any objects when  you walk by or bike by said objects.
its purpose is to 'set' the distance between the 'guide pulley' [or pilot pulley or jockey wheel] and the closest rear sprocket/cog - it should be 2-3 mm apart at its closest gear setting (test on each rear-sprocket/chain combination) and it hardly ever needs adjusting once it is set.
travel by u-haul - shelly mossey about bike trailers (all trailer types) and bike trailer checklist: top panniers trailer, clean and all parts functioning appropriately.
consider the appropriateness of having a spare coupling, skewer, pins, or mount device.
- burners that sit on top of propane/butane canisters are better served on the low profile, low center of gravity, smaller 4 oz canister than on a 8 oz canister (totally avoid 16 oz canister for direct mount burners - one good breeze may dump a complete meal onto the ground).
note: if there is a handlebar bag, some of these items should be  carried there.
the practice is most common among solo bikers and on occasion by  couple/pair bikers.
thus teflon can extend the life of metal friction rubbing heating parts.
if one looks at the ingredients on the backside label, one will/should find 'naphtha' listed somewhere.
even when the deet container is double bagged in plastic zipper locked bags, after traveling for a while, the deet container/bottle seems to leak and the storage bags seem to acquire at least one tiny hole which allows the liquid to get out.
the time of sunrise and sunset may shift, based on location north or south  within the tropics.
- the shifter cable may need to be reset (typically, the slack or space comes out of the cable run, as tension over time, whereas actual cable stretch is uncommon).
some bags are more durable than others.
- chain noise and/or cage rub sounding noise (recently added a new chain on worn sprockets or recently added new sprocket(s) with old chain) - front derailer cage rub noise, chain noise, and/or chain trim noise - damaged cage chain/sprocket noise - rear derailer cable tension adjustment noise rear chain noise and sprocket side rub noise; rear (mostly) derailer cable tension adjustment (when and why) - clink noise in rotating chain (one click per chain revolution) - click noise in front crank (one click per pedal revolution) - cross chain issue and solution (discussed under chain line) - squeaking derailer pulleys (aka jockey wheels) - broke tooth, misaligned tooth (one click per sprocket revolution - discussed under mystery shifting) - another good website for sound/noise symptom determination: bicycle bike noises, clicks, ticks, creaks, clunks, knocks and repair; by jim langley front derailer cage rub noise, top, mechanical issues directory, noise symptom/solution sub-directory chain noise, and/or chain trim noise chain noise and/or cage rub noise damaged cage chain/sprocket noise.
it is just the opposite for the december  solstice, the stick shadow will either not exist or it will point north.
if one looks at the ingredients  on the backside label, one will/should find 'naphtha' listed somewhere.
make the far protrusion of the pin
if a bike has frame couplers for shipping (most don't),
be sure to store, carry, or park the bike with the air stems in any  position other than straight down (as the slime tends to settle with gravity  over time and work its way up the stem if the stem is at the lowest gravity  position).
it is possible that in some countries white gasoline may be a mix  of two or more distilled gasoline types with slightly different boiling points  (and flash points) but for all practical purposes white-gas is just gasoline.
chain cleaning methods and issues (between the extremes) top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory bicycle chain cleaning methods (extreme most efficient and extreme most effective): - tour survival - chain lubrication (experience): i have tens of thousands of touring miles away from home and i, myself, have been placed into situations where i have had to use sun-screen, motor oil, wheel bearing grease, and general purpose grease for chain lubrication and ended up having a good tour, a good time, and no regrets while pedaling out of an otherwise undesirable situation (with no known damage to the chain, but tour loaded chains only last half as long as regular road bike chains).
- here's a mental exercise (we actually play this game with scouts; it helps build a mental global positioning image).
touring supplies and equipment panniers, handlebar bags, trailers, carry bag/case, lighting, cargo net, navigation, destination and places to stay sun navigation, great and small circles bicycle speed/distance calculator (aka computer) camping, stoves, cooking, sanitation, cleanup, water, insect repellant, batteries, food reserve clothing, laundry how to avoid a bicycle crash, bicycle crash survival, lightning facts and survival bicycle packing for shipping or transport (light detail) related subject pages bicycle shipping and transporting (heavy detail)
properly dispose of all used cleaning supplies (wipe brush tool and use it again).
- some bikes have an anti-chain suck device (that separates the chain and ring) in the space between the chain and ring at the point where the chain is supposed to go directly to the rear derailer.
what is desired is for each crossing pair of spokes  that come from different sides of the same hub flange to be pre bent.
ps, don't be surprised to find that one is parking their bike next to the owner's mercedes or bmw.
no more late night scrambles in a dark country side from a tent (or cabin or hostel with no toilet) looking for a toilet or a place to go.
following are some helpful visual images: amanda and rich ligato of vagabonds had another nice field solution, they put a bungee cord between their bike frame (bottle cage area) and the front wheel (wheel or spoke) in order to stop bike roll and fall over.
will the traveling take place across areas that have unknown fuel sources?
there are two commonly addressed wheel adjustment dimensions to  conduct herein, lateral [side-ways] and radial [inward-outward]).
another trick that experienced travelers use is to pay attention to the  weather.
- except in arid areas, washed gear will not dry out at night.
cage design is ubber complex and sophisticated; the cage nose, middle, and tail may each have different chain railing/derailing concave/flat/curved shapes for chain shift management as well as high and low cage shape functions and every now and then a cage tail may be designed to curve away from the nose.
there are repair bending motions such that some are better done with the derailer mounted on the bike and there are some bending motions better served with the derailer off the frame.
a bike with a 5 speed rear freewheel and 2 front crank rings was called a 10 speed bike (5 x 2).
it is impossible to carry  enough saniwipe or handiwipe tissue for hand sanitation on a long tour.
- stoves that burn liquefied gas (mainly butane or butane-propane mixtures), sometimes called canister stoves, offer instant lighting (for a price - it is worth it!).
noise/sound: it is extremely tough to discriminate the different kinds and sources of noise that more or less come from the same area (shift trim rub, basket-chain rub, chain/next-cassette rub, sprocket wear or sprocket-chain pitch mismatch wear - see the bottom links/references) because the noise that these all of these activity areas create comes from the same general area and sprocket wear noise is far less common than trim or cage rub noises.
story: the topeak mountain morph with gauge is the very first  bicycle air pump that we have ever used that would actually achieve  full/desired/advertized tire pressure (100+ psi).addendum: topeak
ideally, on a leaking tire, a punctured tire will self seal as soon as the slime material comes in contact with the outside atmosphere, thus preventing a tire from going flat.
- validate that the rear derailer is functioning to remove slack from the chain as one shifts up and down the rear cassette (strong tension arm springs, all 8 parallelogram points cleaned and lubed,derailer pulleys (jockey wheels) clean and lubed, chain lengthnot too long [can it function one link shorter?]).
there are a few issues to regard at the same time: - warning, don't confuse the brake barrel adjuster with the shifter adjustor.
slime for touring: top mechanical issues directory we have had no luck using "slime" in our tires and we  recommend that it not be used for touring.
one will get gestures of agreement or violent non-agreement; it's not hard to  figure out if it is ok.
the third best build method is to work on top of a plastic sheet, space blanket, ground cloth, or empty cardboard box (like a bike manufacturer's shipping box), thus keeping the bike on its side until the wheels are mounted (or in process of being mounted).
- generally, no one likes driving at night, because that usually means something untoward happened during the day.
- our travels: we tend to always carry two stoves that use the same fuel andwe often use both stoves at cooking time -
the only map distributed was an automobile map  of the entire island (which only had major towns and major roads listed, not  all of the incremental villages nor back roads).
- review the concept pictures and diagramed usage pictures (immediately below).
the road intersection may just appear and may not be marked.
- important: file the end cuts free of any burs (or it can scratch a roller).
in about 15 minutes, mark the shadow point, again, with a different small object.
sometimes this takes a few redo's or adjustments.
there are exceptions and it has to do with the design of the four-bar parallelogram that holds the chain rail/derail cage.
one can have this done at a shop by a mechanic.
- spoke problems usually are that one or more spokes are either too loose (mostly) or too tight (rarely) but they can be broke and possibly partly missing.
this steering wobble, if allowed to continue, can result in a loss of steering control.
we try not to pause,  or it messes up the smooth flow of the other traffic.
- keep one in each tool kit.
admittedly, some stated o.d. chain dimensions may have measured only the greatest outer plate distance (when rivets may be slightly wider).
save the instructions, see next note.
the emergency rear derailer hanger fits on the rear skewer and there is a lot of fore and aft adjustment/set-up lee way.
baby wipes serve another good purpose on road weary bottoms.
what bikers forget is that when they replace a chain, if the chain is a different type or from a different manufacturer, then the old emergency links or master link or chain pin may not be appropriate for the new chain (also, new bike warranty can be at stake).
15°arc equals about 1  hour of earth rotation time (even in the winter, there's just less sun light in  the day).
if one is shipping and reassembling bikes (also see bike shipping for more shipping details), be sure tomark other key component meeting points (like the handlebar and stem).
- note, in case you did everything perfectly and there is still chain noise, there are other things that can causechain noise worth knowing and resolving (like putting a new chain on a worn sprocket) problems and solutions for adjusting the front derailer: less often, the 'l' screw or cage is at the physical limit and will not move the cage and/or chain sufficiently (or at all) to place the chain on the low chain ring, or the derailer cage will not place the chain on the high ('h') chain ring.
one may not have to buy extra metal fuel storage bottles (we have yet to find or try).
synthetic versus organic clothing: generally synthetic clothing is lighter in weight, holds/retains less  water, dries much quicker and tends to reduce the amount of bacteria or yeast  naturally held in the material.
about cleaning a bicycle chain and bicycle chain cleaning issues: top ,mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory before the gate ( a priori)
the small bills are for taxis, buses, tips and incidentals and the change is for toilet use or emergency phone calls.
however, if one is on tour (in the field), then the cyclist will need to reshape the cage as best one can - this step can entail more art than science.
each of these scenarios has different riding, handling, and steering characteristics.
one can physically feel the release with  finger tips and often hear a pop or unwind whir.
- the 'h' stamp on a derailer means 'high gear adjustment screw' (which is the big ring on the front crank or the smallest cog on the rear drive).
chain size, speed, width: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory chain size for 5 speed chains: same as 6 speed.
- in any case, if there are dropout-axle fitting issues, get the bike to a shop asap, as shops have special tools to fix or address these issues.
this method is very time consuming and expensive.
we carry about six to ten foils per ride, three or four with the tire  changing tools, the remainders in the handlebar-bag.
it is easier to find kinks by performing a slow roll of the chain while on the bike.
it's the lack of additives and detergents that is important to sheldon; however it is not a problem to use automobile oil (sae 30 wt or even other oil viscosities/weights), read on.
avoid using wd-40 to lubricate chains except when there is no alternative or one is trying to work out some rust.
luckily, we are usually passing through cities, or have a place to stay where the bikes and equipment may be stored, or we park next to the ticket booth where an agent agrees to literally watch the bikes (and we still chain and lock the bikes and take the handlebar bag(s) containing important items and documents with us).
- coleman, now, has a32 ounce (0.94 l) plastic bottle for sale (assume disposable).
also, see previous list item.
- some airlines will average or work from a total weight perspective and some airlines won't.
in remote towns and villages tire shops are often garages located at the back of a home and they are often not allowed to advertise.
1-2 mm is ok for a field repair to get to a shop.
this is  good, well meaning, and for your security and the proprietor's protection.
a new person may need to do this a couple two or three times until the work is as desired with a proper result (functional low gear shifting).
- extra large heatshrink tubing works as a rack hook cover for metal pannier hooks/bracket mounts(found in larger electrical outlet stores or in mega hardware stores) - hint from todd shusterman (da vinci designs).
just  as important, by observation, the existence of these facilities usually implies  that no commercial establishments are in proximity.
- while cycling, it is common to leave wet gear under a strap or net, exposed to the wind and/or sun, in order to dry objects.
we usuallypoint a little skyward (like up at a 25°  to 30° angle) and move the hand and arm inward and outward in line with the  direction (such that the elbow is moving in and out of 180° to 90°  angles).
if one is to use a  camp oven system then use a burner that is separate or detached from the fuel  source by means of a connecting cable.
one solution is to melt some solder into the cable wire's end.
travel by u-haul - shelly mossey about bike trailers (all trailer types) top panniers and bike trailer checklist: - trailer, clean and all parts functioning appropriately.
sterno is an alcohol variant.
- there are many thread lock compounds brands/products which may work equally well - read/study the properties on the label (found in bike shops, auto parts stores, and hardware stores.)
in this manner, the styrofoam collar may be attached and removed from  the suitcase trailer tongue.
the best place to catch kinks is right at the point of rolling off of thetension pulley.
air pressure measures and equivalence table: psi - atmosphere - bar - ksc pound/square inch (psi) atmosphere (atm)
all of these ideas are good.
any time that one can feel a wobble, one's life is in danger.
this information was getting spread out over this website.
- bicycle kick-stand or something similar.
the line formed is an east-west line.
- we don't carry a hair dryer (some folks do), but if it is too humid to allow clothing to dry naturally, we will consider using a hair dryer to dry a day's wash (assuming that we can't get clothes done by or at a laundry service by the next morning for a reasonable cost).
- some oil dripped into the nipple and spoke hole at the rim followed with some wheel spinning will make the nipple adjustment operation easier.
for extensive detail, see bicycle packing, transporting, and shipping.
wally werner of adventure cycling calls these groups  rabbits and turtles.
some (read as most) multi valve type pumps don't do a good air fill job on  any type of valve.
some are water proof, most are water repellent.
this information comes frombarnett's manual dx [bicycle repair and  maintenance] 6th ed - electronic, by john barnett, barnet group inc, 2008;  adventure cycling magazine or itsweb site; tom dobruck, of permatex; and from  our own experiences, seetrue accounts.
the deflation and inflation process seems to help spread the tube more evenly inside the tire.
that had 'leg distance', 'total distance', 'travel instruction', and sometimes  a 'tour note'.
- sometimes the daily weather cycle is such that it rains every evening or every night.
given enough time spent traveling, everyone is eventually faced with a situation where they have to pack a wet bike.
bad  things can happen when one's routine gets interrupted or changed.
see previous bullet.
if such is true, then one or more of the following solutions need to be implemented.
- permatex medium strength threadlocker blue is a temporary thread lock compound for bolts less of 7mm and larger, blue is their medium strength thread lock color.
"hang together or  hang apart."
make choices, the trade off is extra/more  weight to carry.
- goretex or similar jackets are handy for rain, warmth, and wind.
- usually road bike rear derailers usual default position is high gear (h), little rear cog.
brake and shifter cable runs(s): - perform a quick visual check of the chain run, especially if one has just transported the bike, performed shipping disassembly/reassembly work, added a new bike component, or the bike has crashed or fallen recently.
when riding with other bikers, blinking tail lights are quite an annoyance  and distraction - run on steady.
the following percentage estimates are just based on personal experience.
no one cares which arm is used for signaling.
about a carry bag/case for bicycle transport: top listed separately is a detailed description ofbicycle packing for shipping or  transport please note that there are many times when, if  one asks if one can carry a bike on public transportation, the answer will be  "no."
some 'handlebar bag mounts' attach by a wire (like a strap).
waterproof trailer bag.
signage for turnoffs is problematic in old towns.
- to make matters even more interesting, the oldest centers of old towns have often burned down a couple of times in the most recent one thousand years (and may have the newest looking buildings).
we had no choice and the fix worked for us (and some others).
in some cases a tent can be rolled up in the ground cloth (clean side to the tent).
in the field it is difficult to make the penatrant remnant evaporate in a timely manner; usually a chain needs to be exposed to a warm sun on a warm day to help evaporate penatrant remnant (place the chain in a clear plastic bag to enhance an oven effect).
- in non usa towns, at hostels, pensions, residencias, hotels, and places of business, people who own tools, a rarity in itself, either lock them up or take their valuable possessions home with them at night, weekends, and holidays.
approximately only five percent of car tire shops can handle a presta  tire valve.
sometimes it is easier to remove both panniers so that lifting the rear end is easier facilitated for test spinning - keep your sense of humor!
group travel issues: stoves and bottles should be distributed among cyclist but cyclist types  loosely fall into one of two categories.
there are three mutually supporting solutions, in fact, perform as many solutions as is possible: if a person patches or replaces the inner tube but doesn't find and remove the offending object in the tire, the rider will have another flat to fix in about five minutes flat (pun intended).
however, psi is so different, that it is obvious; check some of the scale values.
one may be amazed at what can be found on the roadside if one knows to look for clean rags and clean large mouth bottles (even big clean plastic coke bottles work just fine for shake clean methods - one may need to use a wire to retrieve a chain end).
so a 10 speed bike has a 5 speed chain and a 5 speed rear cluster but don't confuse the term '10 speed bike' with '10 speed chain', two different ideas.
thus pure 30 wight oil is generally the best cleaning oil as well as generally the best final lubrication oil, although it is perfectly logical to initially use lighter weight oil (like 5 wt or 5-20 wt) for cleaning.
the extruding pin/rivet may be on the inside/fame-side of the chain's run.
the old fashioned way, boiling, is performed in three stages.
more treads/inch heavier tire overall lighter tire overall more rolling resistance less rolling resistance less % road hazard damage more % road hazard damagemore rolling resistance less less tpi more tpi thick sidewall thin sidewall butyl inner tube (unsubstantiated) latex inner tube softer tire harder tire bellow correct pressure correct inflation pressure correct inflation pressure above correct pressure wider tire width narrower tire width tread pattern slick not used in tire carbon black used in tire
- outside of the usa and away from big cities anywhere, most toilet facilities will not have toilet paper or if they do have paper, a person may have to pay to use a toilet/wc.
there is a newer 16 oz canister available now.
- method a - the best lubrication method is to submerse the chain in clean oil.
before actually connecting the chain ends, validate that there will not be a violation of the chain too long rule or the chain too short rule.
- comment: we are not going to suggest where to place the touring accruements, but we have evolved a system where we physically place our gear pretty much in the same spot for each different trip.
- for long range touring, drop some solder into the cable about the area of the pinch bolt contact; have a mechanic perform this task or do it yourself.
we are addressing both cleaning issues here.
- chain too long rule:
on bikes with multiple bottle cages, sometimes it is wise to mark a mount position on the cages (as some may be purposefully bent left or right to avoid a crank or chain and re-mounting them in the wrong position after a shipping re-assembly can mal effect the drive train system).
the vast majority of sleeping bag covers are for single sleepers, however,  there are a few designed for two sleepers but the advantages are almost lost  when compared to a two person tent.
little omnivores, while people are sleeping or away, can bite or tear  there way into a tent in order to get to the food.
of course road side rest areas are designed and spaced for automobile traffic and traffic speeds, like 50 miles apart or one hour apart at automobile speed, and on bicycles an entire touring day can happen in 50 miles.
more aboutjockey wheels / derailer pullies.
- bicycle chain characteristics: in general, bicycle chains do not heat up from cycling use (not like an automobile engine) but bicycle chains do reflect the temperature of the environment.
deet will destroy or ruin the effectiveness of synthetic  clothing.
see emergency stove,  next bullet.
as the heated cellular steamed liquid leaves the cell membranes, only the plant fiber structure remains.
or consider using a small block of wood (just about matchbook size) with a grove.
some cyclists use the waterproof tent cover as a top cover.
a hidden issue is that bikes under tour loads are much more difficult to shift under pedal pressure, especially for the front rings especially for long hill climbs and/or for climbs involving multiple angle climb changes (ergo requiring more shifting at the top end of the rear sprockets versus shifting back and forth on the front ring which is much more likely to hang-up).
the answer depends on many, to be presented, variables.
lubricate as may be appropriate but wipe off  any excess.
most bag mounts (bag to bar) allow for quick connect and disconnect and  this is desirable, so as to remove the bag and carry it into a room, facility,  tent, museum, ... .
emergency rear derailer setup for a fixed gear: top mechanical issues directory
- chains that are cleaned often (typically using a penatrant) and are thoroughly dried (compresses air, stove/oven bake dry) done weekly and followed by a proper lubrication will last twice as long (sometimes a little longer) than a chain that is maybe cleaned once month, all other conditions being the same.
remember toz pattern lube the chain on the following day (discussed in the next section).
pretty things attract people (especially kids) and ugly things repel people.
for  simplicity's sake, we're only addressing navigation in the northern hemisphere,  north of the tropic of cancer.
soap remains the  best long term agent/survival-tool for killing germs (while other sanitation  substances do exist); soap is available for sale at most commercial areas  enroute for travelers (store, shop or roadside stand).
the first two pieces of luggage are the bike suitcases.
bicycles with longer chain runs are much more tolerant of cross chaining situations (some with no sprocket-chain rub noise at all).
- remove panniers when transporting bikes on the exterior of a vehicle.
only  makes the road morph now; it is more slender and 1 or 2 inches longer and it  performs just as well as the mountain morph.
- warning: panniers can be stolen and even if the pannier is locked or secured, items can be stolen, and if the buckles are secured, a knife can open a pannier.
bear bags work in remote areas but  not in areas where bears have a lot of human exposure (like in or near car  camping areas).
most new white gas stoves will burn unleaded petrol (since about 2003),  but validate.
loctite 272 and 277 are permanent compounds and are colored  "red."
eccentrics are housings for cranks and they are adjustable 'fore and aft' (as well as laterally) within the bottom brackets.
- it can be used as a dining fly, but don't use the cooking fly in the tent as the food smells may attract unwanted visitors.
the more foam, the more  insulation.
the disadvantage is when a person looks at other people it diminishes or ruins the other person's night vision capability.
a lightly held object can be blown out of the hand or holder.
- coleman,  now, has a32 ounce (0.94 l) plastic bottle for sale (assume disposable).
unfortunately two things  happen if spokes arenot pre bent: spokes wear out faster the wheel rim comes out of true.
the contents of deet or its dispensing agent dissolves synthetic materials.
these poor combinations make the chain work at an angle across the sprockets and causes increased wear and tear on the system and it sometimes makes a notable ugly noise that sounds like metal meshing.
in the field: spokes can be tightened or loosened with a spoke wrench, multi-tool  wrench, or an adjustable wrench.
wear gloves (latex, nitrile, ...), otherwise the stain will last two-three days on the hand.
[and when a new tire can be purchased is a factor as well:  bikers tend to take advantage of bike shops when they can be found because  touring tends to mostly be away from bike shops.
having camped like that, we once discovered that a light shined into a styrofoam cup will radiate light like a lantern - it is the only positive thing about styrofoam that we know (for the record, we found the cup).
- note that when unusual components or new components are present, one should check its affect on chain length and chain line.
synthetic clothing tends to be much more prone to fire spark damage and  burns faster than organic clothing if flash exposed to open fire.
sometimes this drying time can be shared with lunch or a well timed break for another purpose.
we had this happen to three of four bike tires, over time - we eventually  figured it out and swapped out all slime filled tires and our abnormal high  rate of flat tires problem went away.
do not use a scribe to mark anything on a bike unless it is a mark for cutting or trimming a component.
tail light(s) are a wise investment and may be legally required.
- we use the same liquid (green) soap for dishes, laundry, and personal washing.
this must be done for each side (be careful, it is easy  to mix-up spoke side sets).
each left/right half should weigh about the same.
it is noteworthy that the word 'atmosphere' (greek origin) seems to be well understood internationally and also that if one simulates the up-down pumping motion on a stand up bike pump, one will have communicated completely; we have had 100% success in communicating our need (and receiving a positive helpful response).
hotel shampoos work well for washing clothes.
- a little coleman fuel in a re-claimed jar with lid will clean a chain - shake it!
rear derailer sprocket/chain-rub noise 1 click/clink per chain revolution noise 1 click per pedal revolution noise bicycle wobble chain line and cross chain issues about wheels: general: inner tubes, flats and hints damaged cable retainer tire/tyre (soon) bicycle touring rim issues rim integrity and braking vibration spoke issues and field fix/solutions inner tube truth and myths (talcum powder)
- caution: it is difficult to have an unbalanced load on a bike trailer, but insure that it is balanced and never have a load that allows the tongue to go upward when it is not connected.
then re-check the true.
the sign just means that the street turnoff is coming soon, it may be the next street or a following street, or the turn may be within a couple hundred meters.
if one is on tour and runs the bike through a hand held car wash system, using degreaser and then wet rinse clean, followed by hands on rag drying followed by a proper chain oil/lube job, then one can use a car wash; one needs to know what one is doing.
- best practice: wipe the chain once a day.
a very good reason to have adjacent tire and rim grease pencil dots.
it does not take long to develop a feel for this type of maintenance.
- knife, - first aid kit, - lighter or water proof matches, - flash light (torch), - spare batteries, and - rain protection gear.
about new chains: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory some new chains come pre-lubed with good lubrication oil and some chains arrive with apreservative that is suspected of being cosmoline (or like cosmoline).
it's difficult finding something that does not leak.
every cyclist should know these bicycling accident situations and avoidance solutions.
- some commercial airlines, like british airways, allow 75 pounds per bag for international flights while other commercial airlines only allow 50 pounds per bag.
this offers thebest risk coverage for international travel but forces one to carry more fuel/weight.
trim noise or chain and front derailer cage rub noise and/or sprocket/ring/gear wear, chain suck/stick cause/effect, chain noise and/or basket rub noise issues.
look that same as the other factory set pins.
additionally, use self stick velcro circles, about 3/8  inch or about 1 centimeter round diameter.
- bend and shape by hand and/or with pliers.
so, as a chain wears over time, the pitch changes (increases in length) and the changing pitch effects increased wear on the connecting sprockets.
- caution: while undesired, it is common that a cyclist may not have spare links and will be forced to ride with one or two missing links from the chain's original length.
use all safety practices, to include: open area, over dirt, cleared space, not indoors, not in a tent nor under a tarp, never pour fuel into the stove while it has a flame and note that the flame is often invisible.
for example: front rack, steering tube, fork, seat, seat mast, seat post, ... - mark the water bottle cages as front and rear if they are different.
if one is on a self guided free schedule tour  then washing clothes or having clothes washed isn't much of an issue other than  performing the deed and getting the clothes dried because one has the time and  one can time the washing with a sunny day for drying.
- about using the sun for navigation: if the sun is out, one can learn to tell direction with a little sun position and sun travel knowledge.
also: street naming has usually resulted from town growth over a period of time  (measured in centuries).
crash guard for brakes/shifters, parking brake (stop bicycle roll & fall over), all about thread lock, general noise symptom/solution directory, international bicycle travel issues, bicycle tool kit checklist, 20+ common mechanical issues, 20+ common mechanical solutions, 20 plus common mechanical problems, typical mechanical issues, roadside mechanical problems and solutions bicycle touring mechanical issues top bicycle mechanical issues directory bicycle mechanical education the more you know . . .
the wire  connecting strap system is very secure and does not undo easily (it is a good  news bad news story).
terry, as a child, also had a pet lamb get hit by lightning, six feet in front of her.
in the us south or tropical areas, people may use a sheet on top of a  light weight (summer) sleeping bag or blanket, and maybe crawl into the bag if  it cools down (and may not want to attach the sheet to anything).
not have smoky day time fires that can be seen for miles shield fires from the wind and long range view.
the same thing happened in a scout camp, in the  outdoors, but the fault may not have been the stove's mechanics.
yes, it's  messy, read on.
3 mm or more of wobblemay be dangerous to one's  health.
if the end opening is just a little bigger than the center slot's gap that is usually ok.
the penatrant evaporation process can be expedited by an air hose blowing but in order to be thorough; otherwise it takes time for the penatrant to evaporate.
during the noon-lunch rest-stop, if it is bright and sunny, hang items out  to dry while lunching.
then we cut a diagonal cut on one side all the way into the  hollow.
water always freezes at 32° f / 0° c, but at higher altitudes with  dry humidity (mountains), it feels warmer!
- some work effort can be saved by soaking clothing before washing and in certain cases, apply some soap directly to a soiled or stained area for soaking.
she reported that, in a foreign country, she was surrounded by many kids that expressed an interest in her bike.
one can physically feel the release with finger tips and often hear a pop or unwind whir.
let's hear it for charades; pictionary skills are also a rewarding bicycle touring attribute.
we were shocked that the instructions were only in text.
- story: my wife and i watched a foreign baggage inspector pick up a packed bikefriday in its suitcase and drop it on a counter top from about six inches, not being mean but being in a hurry.
a big mitigating issue is whether it will be sunny along the planned travel route?
[this big container settling process will usually double the life of portable water filter systems too.]
some important tool touring issues - duplicate tools (a double edged) issue: in traveling groups, there is usually no need to carry duplicate specialty tools.
the sun performs a magnetic pole flip-flop every eleven years and it is  associated with strong sun spot activity and solar flares.
- some hotels have public washers and dryers, ask.
- third, there is a commercial emergency rear derailer hanger product sold online and in shops.
- the golden rule table of contents keep on cycling (touring survival), on-tour help, 20+ common bicycle maintenance issues and solutions, generalized noise symptom/solution directory, derailer, mystery shifting, how to shift, tools, chains & chain management, threadlock, tire tools, inner tubes, wheels, and pumps tire air pressure measures and equivalence table tire lubricant for inner-tubes (myth?)
making one's self visible during the day or night will probably save one's life, more than once.
synthetic clothing generally lasts/wears longer than organic clothing.
some hotels have public washers and dryers, ask.
generally it costs less to carry a packed bike on an airplane (even with the newer bag costs and weight limits and charges) than it costs to ship the bike.
- avoid a stiff-arm side impact, or a stiff-leg landing.
at about 15° f (-10° c) or lower, liquid gasoline fuel systems  burn more efficiently and controllable than propane/butane fuel systems.
some streets in older neighborhoods may be one way streets (created from  necessity because of their narrowness as well as the congestion caused by city  growth.
many bloggers speak of ease of chain removal for cleaning, especially mountain bikers/tourers, on the other hand, there is a small contingency of riders (stump jumpers, trick riders, and city curb jumpers) that complain of powerlinks breaking.
the disadvantage is when a person  looks at other people it diminishes or ruins the other person's night vision  capability.
- liquid fuel (white or unleaded gas) stove advantages and disadvantages : -
white gasoline can be used in any automobile gasoline engine in an emergency situation.
all the  sophisticated system needs, to be damaged, is one tiny one millimeter stone  chip, a piece of bark, or a stucco chip to reduce functionality or even ruin a  touring trip.
- solutions: - do not buy or obtain pants with any kind with baffle pockets.
generally, the discussions herein are centered on touring survival rather than the merits of a wheel component brand.
in a bike shop, there are special tools for this procedure and the mech/tech may have to disassemble the chain cassette in order to get at the correct ring without damaging other rings.
at the time of this writing (2007), good computers run $25-50 (usd) and simple computers are available for $15.
in the field, gently pull out (using pliers)
heck, it's tough on grown-ups  too.
this is why we often leave travel books behind and why a good five page home made itinerary pays for itself.
micro fiber bags dry faster than goose down bags (hours vs days, better  expedition durability & survivability, functional if wet, store in  waterproof cover/container/bag)
however: - a burner may be attached  directly to the fuel bottle's outlet, or - a burner may be connected  remotely via a fuel transfer hose to a fuel bottle.
keep replacement wires handy (not cheap).
if hot, ok to open windows with screens as long the windows are protected from rain or rain is improbable.
warning: bicycles can slip out from under a rider when rounding curves on oil slick road surfaces or on newly re-oiled roads or on sandy corners - personal experience (dennis struck).
what is desired is for each crossing pair of spokes that come from different sides of the same hub flange to be pre bent.
trailer yoke splash shield: top home made trailer yoke splash shield made for the mounting yoke of a bob yak.
- ranchers have reported cows killed along a barbed wire fence, where lightning struck the wire elsewhere.
the result is very conditional: the answer has to do with whether penatrants and multiple oil fluids keep their individual identities/properties or if the mixes of liquids meld their properties.
- trailer spare tire (optional, depending in remoteness and terrain) - trailer spare nuts, bolts, washers, and - other related trailer/bike parts or spare parts (mount, connector, skewer, flag, bottle cage, bungee cords, extra ties, velcro straps, straps, ..., ).
this occurs to all sprockets but some get worn out sooner than others (the ones with the most rotation/use action).
1 mm or less wobble is the acceptable tolerance  standard for most shops for most wheel rim types.
hardware, marine, or paint stores (all less common in  remote areas).
if the rider knows that the cable housing and wire were messed up and the rider knows that the cable wire needs to be reset/readjusted to the derailers pinch bolt, then while the cable is disconnected, reset the derailer's barrel adjuster to 2 full turns out from the inside stop and do the same thing on the shift lever (reset the barrel and locknut to 1 or 2 turns out from the inside stop).
- road bikers (but not necessarily on a road bike) who are light weight, ride in flats or who take hills casually, avoid rain and dirt areas, and clean their chains regularly (like weekly) often report getting 2,000 miles (or more)
- another trick that experienced travelers use is to pay attention to the weather.
a butane lighter was used to melt the rough cut  edges - be careful, its easy to light the styrofoam on fire and the flame is  nearly invisible (a person can hear it burning but may not see it burning).
while the inner tube may be just a little tacky from the acetone wipe and while the ambient temperature is warm, apply the velcro sticky pads.
it should be soft enough to easily push into the tire while one tire rim is between the wheel rims.
outside of the usa and away from big cities anywhere, most toilet  facilities will not have toilet paper or if they do have paper, a person may  have to pay to use a toilet/wc.
- don't confuse a pump that has two different air valve ends (dual valve, presta and schrader) with a pump that has one end and is convertible between presta or schrader.
in some cases, one will just be greasing the components, knowing that at the next good bike shop one will be replacing the jockey wheels.
some other words for white gasoline are: shellite, gasoline, petro, naphtha, hexane, heptane, benzene, benzine, or benzin, as well as words that contain blanc, blanco, or bronco (latinized words meaning white).
dirty cosmoline will not hurt idle parts but dirty parts will wear faster when put into motion (like on a cosmoline treated bike chain).
- sleeping bag cover, aka bivy sack (optional): - there are goretex type covers that facilitate two capabilities.
it may be used as the ground cloth.
details: the lightning can super-heat the tree at the cellular level.
- until about 2010, thread lock compounds were not available in bike shops nor hardware stores, one had to go to or special order to a big city fastener specialty store or tool supply store.
[i do this myself about once a year and this is one of the reasons that i recommend marking the tension arm with little dots or dashes for the chain run.]
- cover the filled hole with two crossed sticks (best), or crossed grass bunches, or three rocks (stacked smaller & centered upward).
storm direction does not matter.
there are just guide pulleys and just tension pulleys or they can be interchangeable, depending on the system; they can be multiple colors; made of plastic, aluminum, titanium, or ceramic materials; they can have different counts of teeth; and they may contain ring bearings, cartridge bearings, or have tiny little internal [free] bearings that are just begging to be spilled onto the ground at a road side picnic table.
- a spare bicycle chain may be in order, depending on tour distance, duration, and typecaution: bicycle chains wear out twice as fast when towing trailers!
- some bicycles use a drive shaft; some use a drive belt with teeth.
also, it is perfectly ok to use bicycle oil for cleaning, but that process is very expensive.
wrap or re-shape the flange around the hex key.
bicycle crash avoidance (see crash situations ahead of time): top bicyclesafe.com has about 30 specific suggestions for avoiding the 10 most common bicycle-automobile types of accidents.
the drive train 'chain line' is set up to use the low (l) front crank ring (smallest and left/port most) with the low/lower rear cassette rings (which are the biggest and left/port most).
if a cyclist does not know how often laundry can be serviced, then one needs to plan to carry more spare clothing and be prepared to perform their own clothes washing.
all markings are the international sign for don't step, dig, or go here.
"tour books are like cookbooks, to be used when in doubt."-
spokes can be bent in a couple of different methods but the bbi method is best!
cooking requirements for high heat output or a long duration burn, like to  perform oven type baking, should be performed on a burner that is detached from  the fuel canister via a connecting hose.
otherwise, ask for extra towels (we do this all the time); we ring  the wet, just washed, clothing in a sink and then wring the clothing inside a  towel (usually about 1 shirt and 1 pants per towel ring and/or 2 undies and  4 socks per towel ring and a towel seems to handle only 2 or 3 wring sessions -  roughly).
- use the barrel adjuster for fine adjustments (if it exists).
per a blog article bydarren alff, a one piece liquid fuel stove may not be clean or dry enough, even if empty enough (and it should be totally empty) to pass airport security or even leaking fluid standards.
or, left spoke in 1/4 turn and two right spokes out 1/8  turn.
it takes too much time and energy to thaw frozen water and it takes too many human calories to warm water in the body.
noises that are similar sounding and from the same general area: - chain trim noise or chain and front derailer cage rub noise - derailer cable tension noise.
[there is a rare  racing exception where the spoke nut is on the inside of the rim]).
at present, all shimano bicycle chains use pins and only pins for connecting or reconnecting chains.
if one doesn't have a waterproof pannier, its  better to use waterproof rubber/synthetic storage bags for clothing and for  anything that needs to be dry.
auto oil with polymers was designed to operate in a closed environment, the jury is still open on polymer effectiveness in an open bicycle chain system - i've heard nothing negative (by people who actually use automobile oil).
first of all almost no one carries more than 7 days of  clothing.
we now have metal tire changing tools used just for trailer tire removal.
some trailers have a metal screens that after a while cause wear on gear or bag covers.
"shifting is done as much with the eyes as with the hands.
it is worth having one for a tour.
be flexible and enjoy the little curves that  touring throws, it's all character developing!
- short term solution (and helpful hint): when a person mounts the rear derailer, the b-stop screw needs to be against the derailer's stop ( rotate the derailer before applying the final torque such that the derailer's stop is butted against the end/tip of the b-screw (take out the slack or shifting will be problematic).
- always re-check for true (for any method): once the spokes are manipulated, the wheel must be rechecked for true and adjusted if necessary.
it's best to avoid permanent thread lock for bicycles.
- before departure: leave no trace, cover/fill any peg holes, and make the area look like a 'stealth camper' was never there (and maybe leave the place a little better than found).
the situation is that the cyclists, for whatever reason, are caught at  sundown (or near sundown) in an area that has no known hotel, place of lodging,  or campground.
reflective strips can be bought in most good fabric stores or ordered  online and added onto clothing and/or gear.
keep in mind that there is a difference between high noon at a particular spot and 12:00 o'clock noon on a watch.
avoid areas with lightning scarred trees.
³ survival note: if a cyclist is in a high-gear setting and needs to be in a low-gear setting, physically stop and manually place the bike into the correct gear -
if the derailer is removed and remounted (like for shipping), depending on the type of derailer, it is possible to mistakenly re-mount the rear derailer in such a way as to move the derailer's stop plate position for the b-screw or to just miss-mount the derailer such that the b-screw's setting is no longer correct.
the locals have known where the place was located for  centuries and there may not be any local signage.
military pilots are only allowed to wear cotton undies under their nomex (flame retardant) flight suits for this reason.
struck tools (touring issues and what to carry): top mechanical issues  directory first: some important tool touring issues duplicate tools (a double edged) issue: in traveling groups,  there is usually no need to carry duplicate specialty tools.
sleeping bag liner (optional): there are commercial liners but many people use a folded cotton sheet.
the cage should clear the closest gap of any of the crank rings by 1-2 mm - closest crank ring means the closest ring to the cage for each and every ring whose proximity tolerance must be checked.
laundry and/or cleaning your clothes on a bicycle tour: top, bicycle  touring checklist, personal bathing ahh, the necessary drudgery of  getting clothes washed.
known problem nuts or bolts should get some threadlock applied.
chain pitch wear is often, incorrectly, called 'chain stretch' (the length of the chain never changes).
several/many wipes with a clean rag will remove most of the cosmoline, and wiping hard a few times with some regular bicycle oil will do a sufficient enough cleaning job.
of the two adjustment choices, high or low, always adjust the default/start/at-rest position first.
emergency rear derailer hanger: top mechanical issues directory - first of all, some bike manufacturers make and sell replacement derailer hangers for their own bike frames, check with your shop.
we've never had a problem but in populated areas we always have  an eye on the bikes or the bikes are parked inside an otherwise secure  building/barn/garage/facility.
advertising and destination signage are often not allowed.
the same logic works for the southern hemisphere, south of the tropic of capricorn.
note: the vibration resonance trailer wag issue (just presented  previously) seems to be more prevalent or more associated with single wheel,  in-line, trailers that mount to the rear bicycle wheel axle/skewer.
some mechanics work in 1/6 turns because the nipple has six  sides.
[this big container settling process  will usually double the life of portable water filter systems too.]
some people need more light than others.
insure that the air pump is actually capable of attaining the tire's  maximum desired tire air pressure.
[there is a rare racing exception where the spoke nut is on the inside of the rim]).
if spokes aren't bent into shape for their crossing pattern from the factory, the spokes will eventually become bent for their shape on their own just by regular bike use over time.
- threadlocker ls purple is directly equivalent to loctite 222.
knowing  where one is usually comes from a prior map consultation.
second lightest is a bivy sack.
if they work on the first use, they will spring air leaks within a day or two.
in some environmental conditions, some people sleep with a bottle or two.
* make sure that the tire sidewall fitting lines (or other symmetry indicators) are equally spaced from the wheel rim on each side.
except in arid areas, washed gear will not dry out at night.
the quick link also facilitates easier chain cleaning while touring (long tours).always have spare quick links and spare chain links.
- not have night fires as fires can attract unwanted human visitors.
canister stoves are very simple, convenient, and most carry instant  lighters built into the burner (always buy built in lighters/igniters).
some 'stove systems' are designed to quickly heat 'their' pot using  'their' heat shield.
synthetic clothing, when designed for such, can wick moisture away from  the body far better than for organic clothing.
second, use acetone (not paint thinner, not mineral spirits - they add oils) and a clean cloth to finish cleaning the inner tube residue, especially paying attention to the areas for placing/sticking the velcro pads.
stoves and fuel issues: global issues (generalizations with a few exceptions): in north america, europe and some far east areas, propane/butane stove  systems are the standard and typically wood fires are more limited (not  allowed).
- for foreign travel, based on attending a conference (or other business-tax deductible purpose), we are starting to bike before the conference rather than after.
let a shop mechanic do this, but in the field, this sometimes may be performed with an adjustable wrench - bend the entire tooth but not the ring.
some panniers clamp with lever, some use a bent metal hook and need periodic stretch or shrink adjustments to nylon straps, some attach to and detach from special quick connect mounts, some can be secured with a mini locking cable.
this method may take a wheel out of true, it may not, but it may put an unnecessary bend in the spoke (discussed previously, a bend where it is not needed, a bend in the wrong place).
organic clothing can hold up to direct applications of deet but synthetic  clothing may melt.
every ten-thousand years or so, due to a flux of molten iron inside the  earth's core, the magnetic fields do a flip-flop (south to north and north to  south).
- the look of the place may be that perhaps others have camped there before; it may be something like an unofficial automobile/truck rest area or a road side pull-off/break area -
- emergency stove (or hobo stove): - diesel, kerosene, white-gas: a metal can about the size of a small tuna fish can is an ideal size (but not a requirement) will serve as a fire container.
- never use/allow a trailer-bike connection below the level of the trailer axel.
experience: when liquid gasoline stoves go bad, they start leaking fuel, usually while the stove is burning.
the work of bicycling in cool weather keeps one warm, but as soon as one  stops biking, a physical cool down occurs.
- check for tire mount evenness: an uneven tire mount to the rim causes all kinds of annoying little vibration and wear issues.
some other words for white gasoline are:  shellite, gasoline, petro, naphtha, hexane, heptane, benzene, benzine, or  benzin, as well as words that contain blanc, blanco, or bronco (latinized words  meaning white).
know how to and have tested/operated all/any new stoves before  touring.
clothes dryer lint makes a  great fire starter.
burners for propane/butane stoves seem to have a much better low heat  control for lower temperature settings (like simmer, warm, or luke warm).
so, so far, only the chain width is getting narrower, but not the roller nor the sprocket for 10 and 11 speed systems.
- insure that the air pump is actually capable of attaining the tire's maximum desired tire air pressure.
if one is in a remote area next to a water source (pond, creek, ...),  don't pitch a next to the water: it scares wild game that need access to the  water and it is generally ugly (spiritually and literally).
note: shifter cables take much more linear force than brake cables (to me, this is counter intuitive but it is the reason why shifter and brake cables are designed different from one another and they are generally not interchangeable).
- place a grease pencil dot on the tire and on the rim so that the cyclist will know both: knowing these things greatly assists in tire un-mounting and re-mounting time and safety, and it helps with inner tube repair and placement time.
it is noteworthy that whoever is on duty for cooking needs to make extraordinary effort to arrive at camp relatively early on his or her cooking day so as be able to serve supper to the group in a timely manner.
bicycle lighting is worthy of a quality  investment.
the northern solstice is generally on june 21 and the most southern solstice is generally on december 21.
by-the-way, cooking with wood is becoming a lost skill; it is probably a skill worth knowing, as at some point the knowledge may be useful in some trek through a remote region.
- before any trip, insure that the bicycles(s) are road ready the day before (or earlier).
one mitigation scheme is to carry spare nuts and bolts but  another mitigation scheme is to carry a tread lock compound and fasten the  bolts and nuts preventively (discussed herein).
** feedback: from harry, of ted's bicycles in colorado springs, has added two important pieces of information for those that do/must use slime: - remove the air valve component from the tire stem before adding slime.
if one was rotating the incorrect derailer adjustment screw, be sure to place it in its original position and then move to the other screw (and insure that the cage and chain are positioned correctly).
also, if one has the cage in the proper position (most inward or outward ring) and the chain is resting on said ring,if one makes a screw setting adjustment and the cage does not move one knows that one is operating on the incorrect derailer adjusment screw (sometimes it takes a little effort to screw inward, but screwing outward 1/8 of a turn should result in an immediate visual micro movement of the cage).
on the other hand, the bag should not pop off on its own due to riding in rough terrain (which happened to us once).
furthermore, we just left a very big city where we could have purchased such an item.
i'm a turtle [there is an old bar room joke there].
note: there are at least two different ways to mount cargo pant  pockets: 1 - flat edge sewn.
- generally, the bolts closest to the wheel axle seem to take the brunt of the travel vibrations and those nuts and bolts seem to be the first to loosen.
usually the plastic tarp is for the assembler person(s) to sit on and keep loose items off of the ground/dirt and it seems to help keep passer-bye's from walking on or through the equipment on the ground.
also electrical tape or 'duct tape' wraps can dampen sound.
goose down bags are lighter and compress better than micro fiber bags,  useless if wet, use river float proof cover, we store in kayak bag).
experience: we always bring  all, or some, of the water and fuel into the tent at night, thus avoiding many  cold temperature issues.
also punch about 5 holes, about .25-.35 inches round, .5 inches from the top, evenly spaced; 5 holes, about .25-.35 inches round, about 1.0 inches from the top, evenly spaced; and 5 holes, about .25-.35 inches round, 2.0 inches from the top, evenly spaced.
this action may allow cyclists to get moving or keep moving at key times and therefore not leave a person extra hurried or worried in case of a breakdown or other untoward situation.
we have not seen a need for more than 6 bottles for any trip to include those heard about from other expedition thru tours.
- cyclists who ride at gusto, always, tend to get around 1000 miles (800-1200 miles).
we have learned, over time, to pack our front and rear lights away and break them out only for road use.
andthere are bacteria, yeast, mold ...
caution:use protective gloves (heat proof, silicon, welder, or thick) for heat.
- coleman and some other competing vendors, now, have a1 quart (~.97 l) of mostly naphtha (coleman fuel basis) in a metal container, which is available in some camping type stores.
- warning this can be dangerous but sometimes one can reposition the wheel rearward in the dropouts to adjust minute chain slack amounts.
many a time, we have found bikes with flat tires or missing/broke components.
else, tie an overhand knot in the wire close to a good end.
- caution: because of a possible chain line offset with the emergency derailer hanger there may be a sprocket or two that may not be usable or attainable.
- liquefied gas (propane/butane) stove advantages and disadvantages: - it is not unusual for temperatures in the desserts or mountains to reach freezing but for us, our propane stove has never been mal affected.
we took a  child's styrofoam swimming noodle, in our case colored lime green, and cut two  segments (for each bike) into four inch lengths, using a regular saw.
- in the field, when setting up for the night, allow the pad to self fill.
it's those guided or time delimitated tours where washing clothes or having clothes washed is problematic because the task needs to be fit into an otherwise nearly completely booked schedule, i.e., finding time is a problem.
emergency fuel: first of all, consider wood if it is an option.
caveat: threadlock will not work on plastic lined nuts and may  actually weaken the plastic's tight friction property.
- panniers, clean and with all parts in working condition (tight bolts, nuts, screws; straps and buckles; reflectors plastic-devices, cloth-strips; hooks, clamps; rubber mounts, pads) - additional weight, anywhere, changes the handling characteristics, to include steering.
the guide pulley is closest to the rear cassette of sprocket disks and it guides the chain from one disk to another.
thread the chain through the cages and hold the chain with achain holder such that chain link(s) may be added or subtracted to the on bike chain length.
they have tools, air, oil, grease, and water.
very often the buildings with the same street name are from the same  century or growth era.
sun position and tropical land navigation 301: there are nearly always 12 hours of sunlight in the tropics (between the  tropic of cancer and tropic of capricorn).
- at the tour's end, it is useful to have disposable rags, both for bike cleanup (dirt/mud removal) and for cleaning grease/oil/grime off of the drive train.
however, the front sprocket/ring sizes and rear sprocket/cog/cassette sizes (identified by tooth count where the teeth have a 1/2 pitch) combine to yield different [gearing] ratios (that yield different linear inch measurements per wheel revolution).
we mark canisters (and fuel bottles) with desired usage order  numbers.
- the best cleaning system uses a clean solution (for each cleaning cycle/iteration).
it does not take long to  develop a feel for this type of maintenance.
sanitation issues: - long-term survival is based on not getting sick or injured.
- work in increments that are either 1/4 or 1/8 nut turns followed by a wheel spin check.
it is a weight reduction measure (by the mfgr) that puts a burden on the cyclist to guard for gear wear.
sometimes the laddering effect can be seen or heard as little metal objects may vibrate (in your pocket or on a table top).
that means that  one often stops for an extended lunch and hangs laundry on a bike, fence, or  picnic table in order to dry items of use.
when resupply points are further apart (or unknown), cyclists must carry  more food and more clothing.
- many other bicycle chain cleaning methods exist.
- issue: different chains have different widths, so a chain tool cannot be universally perfect for every chain.
- 'dry out now or dry out later' -
- the previous loctite types are known by their color and are often referred to by their color name.
hand apply liquid from bottle to skin or cotton clothing.
if this requires a card code, code numbers, and/or correct coins then be suitably prepared.
if necessary, re-wipe the chain for dirt and/or re-lube the chain and then wipe the excess.
usually right around 3 to 4 days is the most that one carries (except  maybe more underpants), knowing that laundry will be performed by the cyclists  while enroute (almost daily).most cyclists perform their laundry when they  can, thus it is performed almost daily or nightly ( once per 24 hour  cycle).
- how far do i push the pin? -
see next related bullet).
the solution for chain suck is to take the slack out of the chain.
then, only if still needed ( i.e. the derailer is out of range of the sprockets) - inspect the course of the chain and insure that nothing is impeding the chain or derailer (we had a water bottle in a cage, at one time, that was preventing the chain from railing onto the granny ring!).
- most bicycle shop techs can be very helpful in helping a cyclist to secure a suitable touring wheel/rim setup.
measurements at mid day can be taxing and difficult.
this is especially true for a sign in a city placed  in front of a minor street.
no single event robs a bicycle of wheel turning power than chain slack.
conversely, where there are  no road side tables or rest areas, that generally implies that a commercial  establishment is nearby nor coming soon.
- storms and clothing: one big variable addresses whether one is in a passing thunderstorm (where the sun will likely be out later in the day) or a monsoon (where one may be socked in for days of rain).
if traveling for more than two or  three days, those bolts will need threadlock.
in the field, for emergency purposes, one may be able to bend a metal crank arm enough to stop the crank arm from hitting the frame - the crank arm must be replaced as soon as possible as the original stress and the secondary bend back stress ruin the integrity.
note that we are using an orange  colored plasic trowel from a camping store.
leave just enough space to allow the cable to fit between the flange edges.
pull the chain out after a sufficient plate gap and roller penetration, let drip dry momentarily.
in emergency type situations, we have reused pins with success (just to get back to civilization and then address the chain issue).
- bbi method: use a lever, about the size of narrow paint mixing stick (or a vinyl covered handle from a cone wrench) and lever open the spoke intersections to pre-bend the spoke.
now,  pannier equates to saddle bag.
make a mental note to protect the remaining group's travel and safety integrity when member equipment/knowledge separation occurs.
[and when a new tire can be purchased is a factor as well: bikers tend to take advantage of bike shops when they can be found because touring tends to mostly be away from bike shops.
- avoid storing or preparing food in the tent.
make choices, the trade off is extra/more weight to carry.
- often, only the rear wheel is at issue.
those that typically arrive to camp  early and those that typically arrive later.
- where one has a choice, avoid windy areas, use natural wind blocks (bushes, trees, boulders, buildings).
- heatshrink tubing works great as a shoe lace tip (aglet) replacement (narrow tube heatshrink tubing is found in most electrical, auto parts, or hardware stores).
a schrader  tire valve is the same valve that car tires have.
would the reader notice a car coming up from behind with its right-turn signal on and correlate that event with a side road to the right, about forty feet in front, and know what to do?
pannier bag types range from small to large to expedition sized.
quick studies only work if the cyclist knows where one is located (road name/number wise) and where one is going (by road name and by city).
the rubber band is a requirement.
it is very easy to mis-select the incorrect nipple wrench size.
- will the traveling take place across areas that have different fuel supply types (unleaded, white gas, kerosene, diesel; or propane, butane; or alcohol, ...)?
always be prepared to undo what was done and to move the barrel in the other direction for an adjustment.
advanced rim/spoke issues: spoke lacing: 3 cross and 4 cross patterns are quite satisfactory  spoke lacing  addresses engineering problems and solutions that were actually resolved by the  beginning of the 20th century.
nd thread lock compounds are less expensive than loctite's.
apparently, this is some sort of distribution legal issue.
the insulated braded wire connecting fuel hose (or something ruggedly similar) allows one to use a oven system that uses a reflector around the burner such that the entire system can get quite hot (for baking) and not get so hot as to superheat a mounted fuel tank.
ok, ok,  but what about the other times of the day?
the sun only rises and sets at true east and west twice a year, on the  equinox.
or, left spoke in 1/4 turn and two right spokes out 1/8 turn.
- keep a large mouth plastic container and lid (an old empty salsa bottle, for example) about 25-30 ounce in size, and use it for night time liquid relief.
if a seal or component is bad, on will likely be purchasing new jockey wheels.
tools used were a hammer, pliers, and aluminum (grayish) looking  spray paint (for finished product).
aka channel lock, water pump, or grip lock pliers.
seereshaping the cage.
- its not a good idea to stuff tomorrow's clothing in a bag to warn them, because body moisture will ruin any insulation benefits.
- most of the time the cyclist will be carrying their own clothing so total weight matters.
caution: some caring proprietors will (insistently) offer to  lock/secure the bicycle(s) in a storage room, for your safe keeping.
on 3 or  4 day tours, we do carry enough saniwipe and/or handiwipe tissue, but on long  tours we rely on a good ol soap bar (more utilitous than liquid soap and its  associated bottle management).
- use a dental pick (or needle from sewing kit, swiss army knife's toothpick and/or tweezers) to pull off the covers.
this action can indicate a good or bad axle mounting to the dropouts.
- very often the buildings with the same street name are from the same century or growth era.
some stoves are designed for high heat output to more or less boil water  quickly; these same stoves cannot be used or used very well to perform low heat  functions, like to keep a cooked meal warm over a period of time, to simmer.
punch 4-5 holes about 1.5-2 inches  up from the bottom, evenly spaced, about .25-.35 inches round.
- in a stand: wrap the chain around any rear sprocket in line with the derailer, run the chain through the front cage but drape it over the front bottom bracket (from cat).
this is ok for cooking for 1 to 3 people, but not ok for larger groups (too time consuming, too ineffienct).
- experience: make an effort to have spare/replacement links and/or pins, and chain segments for the chain that is actually on the bike.
if the front derailer does not need adjusting, then only adjust the rear derailer.
always have a permanent marker or grease pencil on tour.
bungee/cargo net: top the bungee cargo net is handy for keeping a raincoat handy or temporarily
use achain holder (or similar device) to hold the chains together, 1 to 2 inches in from each chain end (thus allowing easier access to the open end pieces) - in the field: slack is the enemy and dangling chains get dirty, quickly.
there is nothing wrong  with blackened pot sides, in fact dark exteriors on pots/pans makes them heat  faster, one just doesn't want suet on packed cooked ware as it dirties other  gear or containers.
note that most travelers arrive and depart on weekends.
at issue, for single rider bicycles, is that  most cycles are designed to carry a greater portion of the riders weight to the  rear tire, therefore, when packing panniers (front and back), a rider would  need more of the packed weight in the front of the bike.
it is easy to thread a chain in the wrong direction around jockey wheels.
- circles with more than four arteries or more than two lanes are problematic.
about round-abouts (aka circle navigation and survival): top - so far, for us, the major round-about's have had signs that show which road radial is the desired exit.
in real life, 99% of derailer pulleys come properly lubed from the factory and will never be a problem except that the teeth will wear out over time and the wheels will need to be replaced.
so, the best/most-efficient time to dry clothing is in the midday sun.
one cannot fly with a stove that smells like fuel!
- keep the inner tube's relative side the same as the bike tire and rim (physically and often by a mark (like a grease pencil mark on one side of the tube's stem - the same side as the tire and rim dot marks).
- steve cook , mountain bike racer touring supplies and equipment: about panniers and panniers checklist: top trailers pannier or panier derives from middle french and latin meaning bread basket (literally: pertaining to bread).
- insure that the derailer is mounted properly and securely (sometimes sticks get turned up and rotate the entire assembly).
- some mixed penatrant and oil lubricant products are (light weight oil(s) and/or penatrant mixes): - wd-40 (and its clones) - probably 3-in-1 oil (cleans and lubricates bicycle chains - key word is 'clean')
- ride out of harms way.
- simply adjust the cable tension adjuster/barrel until the chain rides the sprockets centered.
sometimes the pin or rivet can be seen, but often it requires feeling the length of the chain on both sides for a pin or rivet that is sticking out just a little more than the others.
there is nothing like, plug it in, and turn it on for simplicity, especially at the end of a long, wet, uphill climb to end a day.
- white gasoline is gasoline with nothing in it, no additives, just ultra clean.
deet will destroy or ruin the effectiveness of synthetic clothing.
always get approval beforehand.
in the positive, there are no battery charge issues.
- always re-check for true (for any method): once the spokes are pre-bent, the wheel must be rechecked for true and adjusted if necessary.
dodge stuff, roll or twist if needed.
on the other hand, wet gear is heavier and unless it is packed correctly it can get other dry things wet - it takes a little deliberate packing finesse to pack wet gear and not get other gear wet.
it is important to have a good lubrication delivery container, preferably with a straw (cut down to 1.5 inches or 5 cm's, tape extra to the container).
some bikes and/or people prefer generator systems.
the bungee net is worth taking on a bike tour where the tour company  supplies the bikes.
- experience/caution: over time many cyclists come to possess more than one bicycle and when they carry the same tools and/or tool kit on the various bikes, it becomes possible that one may be carrying the wrong links and/or pins (as well as wrong tubes) for the current ridden bike.
there are no signs specifying public or private property.
choosing a campsite: in a perfect campsite selection world, one  wants to be up hill on a gentle slope, on smooth water adsorbent ground, out of  the wind or blowing rain, not near a lightning rod, and located where the sun  will shine first thing in the morning.
caution: be careful opening threadlock, as the contents may be  under a little pressure and be extra cautious at altitude when  opening a new container.
light loads and light riders will have little better results.
clink noise in rotating chain (one click per chain revolution): top mechanical issues directory - can be a chain link that is too tight.
on long bicycle tours or after multiple bicycle tours, the wheel rims may crack from braking activity or load stress.
if away from the area, keep the tent doors and windows closed.
- caution: before riding out, check the range of the derailer stops and re-tune as necessary (if possible).
active ongoing maintenance is always better than more time spent on reactive maintenance.
sometimes chain flexing (or 'exercise' expedites complete oil penetration).
it is just the opposite for the december solstice, the stick shadow will either not exist or it will point north.
almost everyone who has a few tours under their belt, even short duration tours, has a hard luck story that caused them to have to arrive somewhere by bicycling at night.
in the field, it's about survival.
- the nice thing about water soluble cleaning agents is that it is a green practice that makes field work easier (don't have to worry about dirty fluid disposal) and one can use water bottles and if there is splatter on the bike, the degreaser/cleaner can often be used on the bike frame or gear components.
always have a spare canister or bottle.
remember that field repairs, in this case, are just to get a cyclist out of a remote area and into a bicycle shop for a proper repair or replacement.
the same spoke sets, just discussed, can be bent by  squeezing the spokes together, by hand, at a point between the nipples and the  intersection of the spoke crossing.
we've never had a canister stove failure, but we have had two white-gas stoves leak hot burning fuel (but not for over 15 years).
better bag systems have partitions with velcro flanges/edges that allow a cyclist to position partitions as desired.
- thread lock compounds are toxic - don't touch, clean hands immediately - read instructions.
- the more remote a place and associated mass transportation system, the more friendly they are toward allowing bicycles on transportation vehicle.
therefore one has to address deviational  differences between compass readings and directions and true north-south earth  grid (longitude and latitude) readings and directions.
by-the-way, cooking with wood is  becoming a lost skill; it is probably a skill worth knowing, as at some point  the knowledge may be useful in some trek through a remote region.
most people cannot tell the difference by sound (includingmoi ).
fifty feet away  (or more) is recommended but sometimes in some environments twenty-five feet is  the best available.
a touring cyclist should have and carry spare chain link sections because when a chain breaks there is usually a damaged link plate or two.
- experience: one needs a clean rag and oil because when a chain breaks, the chain is either on the ground or dragging on the ground.
use oil sparingly and recycle dirty oil.
in camp grounds find out where the sprinkler heads are located, don't set  up on top of or next to a sprinkler head.
we\'ve done it either way, but very often the sack that the tent  comes with will not expand wide enough to allow the ground cloth to be rolled  with the tent - use experience and judgment here.
there is some wisdom in alternating chains, the action can even out chain and sprocket wear, extend the life of sprockets (front and rear), and address the clean chain penatrant evaporation wait issue.
this  was particularly noteworthy after a cattle truck splashed by us, but note that  cattle and sheep trucks travel on all roads and all off road biking is done in  animal country.
- it takes about 24 hours for a penatrant to evaporate on its own.
warning: packing at warm-lower locations-elevations when the  destination is cool, cold, or freezing, leaves many distressed at altitude.
- some streets in older neighborhoods may be one way streets (created from necessity because of their narrowness as well as the congestion caused by city growth.
- food/cooking in tent issues: - warning: there is a strong need to not cook in, or have food in, the tent.
terry got hit by a lightning splinter, the noise of the main bolt about six feet in front of her made her instinctively jump off the ground, which probably saved her life.
if the driver asks about what's in the bag, then the answer  should be "it is equipment" or "sporting equipment" (bikes  are sport equipment, a person just don't say or show what kind of equipment it  is and the cyclist keeps the bike enclosed and sealed).
be careful, a small 1/8 or even 1/16 turn may do it - usually one is tightening the tension (taking slack out - moving the barrel away from the terminus), but it can be the opposite.
some countries use different words and in some cases the same  words may have different meanings; learn the words for white gasoline and  unleaded gasoline for any country that you may visit.
sometimes we carry a quality main  and a simple (clamp on the fuel bottle) backup, or we deliberately carry an  alternate fuel backup system (white gas/unleaded, propane, or alcohol.).
for any jockey wheel, if nothing else, heavily grease the bearings if they exist and add a little grease on each side (under the cover area) and put it back together.
- stow away and keep the rear derailer, cable (housing and wire), remaining links, and anything else that came off the bike (doughnuts, ferules, ...).
so, cyclists in these situations need to make any early departure desires known to the manager - managers will always accommodate the cyclist's needs, often we have been given the manager's key.
f.btw gravel is grave in french - grave wines come from vines grown in gravel - good stuff.
james starrs, the noiseless tenor navigation, destination, places of stay: top - never count on getting a map at the destination.
water boils at lower temperatures at  higher altitudes, which is potentially both a sanitation and cooking issue (air  pressure).
most people don't anticipate.
presently, all loctite bottle colors are red (or a shade of red) and all  bottle caps are white.
- in multi lane traffic, no matter left or right side driving traffic rules, the next exit is always the outside lane and through traffic is the inside lane.
the cause may have come from a few different events: - a bent crank arm, which may have resulted from a bicycle crash, drop, smash, or shipment.
sometimes one must bike for a while in wet miserable conditions just to get to dry lodging where one can hole-up for a few days.
however, if the problem lies in the shape of the derailer cage, then consider reshaping the cage (see seereshaping a damaged cage, the following #3 bullet).
- field - chain cleaning - clean coke bottle method: - for touring, obtain a clean and dry plastic or glass bottle with a lid/cap (often found on the road-side and sometimes in rubbish bins), get two bottles if possible (one for clean fluid, one for dirty fluid) - 12 ounces to 2 liter clear containers will work nicely, bigger is better;
a sterno type stove or 'sterno can' may also make a nice backup stove, as  does a tin-can and some diesel fuel (use only outdoors) -
- 1% of the time, mystery shifting can be caused by a bent sprocket tooth/point.
in fact, it seems that 2 or 3 (1/8 or 1 click) turns usually does the trick.
beware that some bag system partitions don't attach to anything and they are fairly useless.
head\/helmet mounted lights are quite an annoyance and distraction, especially when looking at a person or riding directly behind another bike as the constant light bobbing and mirror reflections are particularly fatiguing and stressful to fellow riders - get some distance and avoid directing light beams into other people's faces.
your eyes let you read the situation as it unfolds.
borrring - the earth rotates 15° per hour - ok, this is interesting - the sun always rises in the east and sets in the west (no matter which hemisphere).duh -
if you have pants like this, either get rid of them or sew down the edging in a manner that the pockets won't hook on or snag on any objects when you walk by or bike by said objects.
this is good as is minimizes chain wear and maximizes rider power.
if old cogs are wider than 2.6mm then the chain must be 1/8" (and not 3/32").
- any lube is better than no lube.
see bullet #1, previous.
- start testing /shifting
waterproof bags are commonly found in kayaking/canoe type boating supply stores or online or in larger camping supper stores.
always re-check for true (for any method): once the spokes are  manipulated, the wheel must be rechecked for true and adjusted if necessary.
permatex makes a threadlocker green, a temporary compound added after a  bolt is fastened, which is equivalent to loctite 292.
one must live by their wits.
- most touring cyclists, that carry an emergency rear derailer hanger, keep it in their tool sack/bag but many mountain bikers zip tie one under their seat.
as far as i can determine, sram links are called powerlinks for size 7, 8, and 9 speed chains; 7 and 8 speed powerlinks are interchangeable (because the chain dimensions are the same).
if the lighting device is constantly falling out/off of the bike, then be  looking for a better/newer system.
put a load in a trailer and typical chain wear increases 15-25%
sometimes we carry a quality main and a simple (clamp on the fuel bottle) backup, or we deliberately carry an alternate fuel backup system (white gas/unleaded, propane, or alcohol.).
in the usa, there are two schools that are continuously recognized by the cycling community for producing outstanding bicycle mechanics and shop stewards (listed below -like harvard vs yale).
perform the cleanup as soon as possible so as to leave packing time and not have to address dirt or wetness issues.
resonance can be felt or seen in the handle bar as the handlebar ends start to shake in
in fact, on tours, it is best to also have a spare chain.
we mark canisters (and fuel bottles) with desired usage order numbers.
if, unavailable, then  hydroseal type waterproof bags work well (treated nylon with special coated  material).
most of these examples have come from actual personal experience.
- one must have appropriate and serviceable fuel containers/canisters that work with the particular stove/s. - always buy and use systems that are universal in their fittings and fuel types, or else one might be stuck with a system that only has supplies in one geographic region.
- in the field: before threading the chain, set the shifters for the large sprockets (so as to use the most chain length, thus helping to keep the chain off the ground).
we were caught off guard and the reader will probably appreciate  knowing about this incident: our italian setup guide acted shocked  that we did not have a bike computer.
the image also lists the part names for the derailer.
avoid bird hangouts (for poop and noise).
what happened over time, in  every case for us, is that when we had a flat tire, an inspection of the inner  tube showed a wear pattern on the tube caused by the liner.
warning: avoid cycling in the center of any paved road because that is statistically where automobiles and trucks drip/leak the most oil.
- campgrounds and motels often offer rags upon request (so people won't use hotel towels - verydéclassé) - this is particularly true to lodging facilities that support motorcycle clubs and/or snow mobile owners (common in the northern and western usa).
field baking is often performed with a clever combination of pots and/or frying pans (or woks) mated together, or sometimes someone has brought a miniature camp oven.
we have yet to see a propane/butane lighter, especially a "wind proof" lighter, be dependable above 7,000+ feet altitude (˜2,000 meters).
if there is a barrel adjuster on the rear derailer, turn it out two turns from the all-the-way-in position.
one solution is tomelt some solder into the cable wire's end.
while camping, we have had to pack-up wet tents and wet clothing and travel (for a variety of reasons, one of which is knowing that the destination was sunnier or warmer).
road signs: outside of north america a road sign, with a turn arrow or a road turnoff  for an approaching street or city, does not necessarily mean that the turn is  the very next road turnoff.
the measured  length of the threadlock fluid/drop is typically .15 inch (1/8) or 2 mm (no  more than .25 inch or 4 mm) on the threads at the end of the bolt.
slime is liquid goo that turns into  a fibrous solid material when it is exposed to air.
also, consider that maybe something else is out-of-place, like a bent ferrule house along the cable run or that a ferrule is partially out of its house, check the entire cable run (particularly when trail riding or if a bike fall has occurred).
on the other hand, the bag should not pop off on its own  due to riding in rough terrain (which happened to us once).
foam pad (or thin plywood or thin counter top laminate) to protect  the trailer bag or other gear from wear.
in order to not break a chain, it is often best to push-walk the bike and manually shift (usually down) to a manageable drive sprocket position.
the more foam, the more insulation.
- all panniers have individual fitting and mounting characteristics, learn them.
note: some people carry handiwipes to wash/clean/sanitize their hands at the poop spot, some leave said materials at the bike.
- spare plastic zipper lock parts bags, about 3 x 5 inches (keep original shipping parts bags - we bought 100 count 3 x 5 inch zip bags from xpedex, $2).
pulley's can be difficult to positively identify as a noise source; their grease can dry out and it is possible that they came from the factory with little or no grease.
recycling dirty oil is the easiest liquid to recycle (not counting water).
some panniers are noisier than others when in motion.
no or little tread traction treadbetter traction little traction soft hardmore flats fewer flats thin thick standard materials high tech materialsshort life long life soft hard standard materials high tech materialssmaller diameter larger diameter climbs more efficiently rides level more efficiently maneuvers easier rides straight comfortably more rolling resistance
white gasoline can be used in any automobile gasoline engine in an emergency  situation.
we pack out used paper (other than what is buried) in another gallon sized plastic bag - we also place other accumulated trash in the same bag and we have been known to leave an area a little cleaner than we found it, a common practice among travelers (as well as to collect and leave more firewood, if appropriate).
if there are many trees avoid the tall ones.
- in the field issues: - fuel transfer is always and only conducted on cold stoves usually before or just before using the stove for cooking (never on a lit stove, a hot stove, or a stove that was just used!).
typical touring bikes have rings and sprockets that may last for 4,000 miles (about four chain replacements) and the heavy duty tour bikes (panniers and trailer on mountain environments with camp equipment) may last for 3,000 miles (about three chain replacements).
[cross-support-bars, when present, tend to be offset a little for this very reason - it is sometimes a case of intelligent engineering getting in the way of intelligent application].
the typical military or civilian mre (meal, ready to eat) is often technically not legal to "import" into most countries (because they often contain meat).
carry a bar of soap; keep it handy in a plastic zipper type bag.
unfortunately, in some cases, only one gallon fuel containers are available for purchase and sometimes not all of the fuel can be used.
caution: it is difficult to have an unbalanced load on a bike  trailer, but insure that it is balanced and never have a load that allows the  tongue to go upward when it is not connected.
on the other hand, wet  gear is heavier and unless it is packed correctly it can get other dry things  wet - it takes a little deliberate packing finesse to pack wet gear and not get  other gear wet.
- some people keep flashlight/headlight batteries opposed when not in use (plus to plus or minus to minus) which prevents accidental discharging and it slows down normal energy leakage.
braking only, in a straight line, may/can exacerbate the  wobble frequency and/or force.
[cross-chain] combinations.
the tour, itself, was still a good tour and we thoroughly enjoyed the sicilian people and experience.
boil water for about five minutes and then let it cool.
see chain widths - all pin and plate logical solutions can only involve pin pushing.
once there is a wax buildup in bicycle chains, it is very difficult to remove.
- march and september: add -5° to 5° north (depending on which side of the equinox date) - april and august: add 5° to 15° north - may and july: add 15° to 20° - june: add 20° to 23° north - sun position and tropical land navigation 301: - there are nearly always 12 hours of sunlight in the tropics (between the tropic of cancer and tropic of capricorn).
the large version of stretch plastic food bowl covers will work well as a rain cover for a bicycle seat -
- bike shops usually use compressed air1,2 to expedite the drying process (no matter the type chain cleaning agent).
- connect the cable to the pinch bolt with the derailer in the at rest position (insure that the cable is lying correctly in the placement grove, if it exists); proper cable lies are almost always straight with no significant bends.
a stove that uses white-gas/unleaded-gas, kerosene, and diesel fuels costs about 160-200 usd.
- in the field, any lubricant is better than no lubricant (engine oil, transmission fluid, grease, and as a last resort: food-vegetable-olive oil).
- when putting the jockey wheel bolts into the cage, if one can, add a little loctite to the pulley bolt threads, remember to re-thread the chain, and add a little loctite to the cage bolts (or add your preferred thread-lock of choice, use purple before blue, but blue is ok).
- steps: - detach derailer shift cable's inner-wire from housing.
in the field, to pack, completely roll tightly compressing with the knees,  and open the valve to let out any air (then replug).
it is impossible to carry enough saniwipe or handiwipe tissue for hand sanitation on a long tour.
see next and previous bullet.
according to rumor, all indirect reports, if the chain is loose enough, it may jump to the next biggest sprocket (lower gear) on its own.
- navigation reasoning factors (aka deductive reckoning or ded reckoning): - it really helps to understand a compass: - a compass has 360° (for that matter, any circle).
chain tools usage notes: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory most chain tools have two chain holding cradles/mounts.
chain sprocket wear can be very subtle, visually.
but don't un-pin the chain yet.
warning: in the worst case scenario, baffle sewn cargo pant  pockets can get you killed.
if using the chain tool, use the farthest cradle and only drive in the center press when all elements are centered and aligned properly.
one never knows what  events will conspire to have a person or persons driving into the dark evening.
it is dirty work, no way around it, wear gloves.
we have learned to watch the weather for various signs (clouds, cloud types, temperature, and wind) and to pay attention to our surroundings (lightning struck trees and fire signs).
the temporary compound cracks and crumbles under release pressure but the  permanent compound will not budge without damaging or breaking the assembly,  however heat can be applied to some permanent compounds to make them release.
in rock strewn sites, a space between rocks may be necessitated and then  be covered with a three rock cover.
butwhat  happens over time, nearly as we can tell, is that eventually the slime around  the air stem/valve begins to harden up from air being put into the tire.
- ultralight riders strive to get their load between 20 and 25 pounds (lighter is better).
tour survival hints: front derailer, plus - drop some solder into the cable about the area of the pinch bolt contact ; have a mechanic perform this task or do it yourself.
pile the dirt to the side because it is coming right back to the  hole.
however, in a pinchin-the-field, it seems that 7, 8, and 9 cassette-ring chain link pins and master link chain links are interchangeable (not so for 10 or 11 cassette-ring chains).
tire air pump: top mechanical issues directory - pumps can often be bike mounted but a slight amount of weight can be saved by carrying the pump in a bag (along with other wheel care equipment).
one pleasant green thing about alcohol is that an organic sourced alcohol  (ethanol, ethyl, pure grain alcohol, medical grade ethanol, medicinal alcohol,  moonshine [versus fossil fuel]) may come from an organic, renewable, source  (distilled grapes, fruit, corn, wheat, rice, millet, potatoes ...) and usually  burning organic alcohol does not leave pollutants as severe as some petroleum  products.
one can carry as much as they want but most people want to carry as little as is needed.
see loosen a kinked or tight chain link for details.
it is rumored that columbus likely sailed with existing maps of portions of the new world!
motor cycle chain degreaser and foam degreaser work with the same knowledge caveat.
- larger, bulky, and less dense objects tend to be placed in the rear: sleeping bags and pads, tent, ground cloth, dehydrated food, clothing.
the wire connecting strap system is very secure and does not undo easily (it is a good news bad news story).
so many people try to rotate their tires near the estimated halfway to replacement point in order to get the most out of their tires (maximum distance).
- because of international bans on shipping or importing food, particularly meat, cheese, and fruit we sometimes order pre-packaged meals from the country that we are visiting and have the packages shipped to the starting point (usually a b&b or a hotel).
actually heats up faster (than cookware that is bright and shiny).
continue turn out trials in steps until optimum result.
which is one of the reasons why it is wise  to have institutions of learning to record ideas, test concepts, and advance  proven arguments.
we have never found this to be an important tour issue but we store  our items inside a waterproof storage sack first and set the storage sack in  the pannier.
learn to look for and quickly study the sign  to learn the desired exit/turn by count, by name, and by road number because  there are often five or six spokes and the foreign language can make it  difficult to understand all factors, plus the exit itself may only have one of  the exit clues (highway number or next town name).
the most accessible and most available fuel on the planet is unleaded  gasoline (not wood, not propane).
rivets make noise, velcro does not, and plastic buckles tend to be very quiet (assuming one is not dragging a loose strap).
then we hang the items to dry (often in this order) on: towel rack(s)
- bar-ends help prevent damage to the shifters and the brakes.
one way to reduce the laundry choir(s) is to: - carry/pack more underwear than shirts and pants;
15°arc equals about 1 hour of earth rotation time (even in the winter, there's just less sun light in the day).
hidden benefit: these same collars can be used on the handlebar when packing the bike or for carrying in a travel bag -
the shield is part of a segment of metal chimney stove pipe (already pre-curved).
- a sterno type stove or 'sterno can' may also make a nice backup stove, as does a tin-can and some diesel fuel (use only outdoors).
also, if you have the cage in the proper position (most inward or outward ring) and the chain is resting on said ring, if one makes a screw setting adjustment and the cage does not move (sometimes it takes a little effort to screw inward, but screwing outward 1/8 of a turn should have an immediate visual micro movement of the cage), then one is on the incorrect stop screw.
there can be a 15-25% chain wear difference just for riding on dirt roads.
malaria and other known diseases (like sleeping sickness) can be spread by mosquitoes.
if one sprays deet on plastic, nylon, or goretex, the deet will destroy it.
bicycle speed/distance calculator or computer top among  bikers they are called 'computers' or 'travel computers'.
go to medicine-hygiene (of the bicycle touring checklist)
- different components or bicycle?
check rear derailercable tension also.
outside of the usa, there is  a deep respect for touring bicyclists.
so that a cyclist won't be stranded somewhere, it is often  best to not ask.
for us, time is always fixed and limited; we can't change the fixed schedule nor change the return day or prepaid flight.
- use chain tool to remove enough links to reconnect chain with very little chain slack.
food smells attract bears, other carnivores, and opportunistic omnivores  (not only like skunks and raccoons but chip monks and field rats/mice).
we went on a self guided tour in sicily.
- on the front rings, low pertains to the smallest front ring and high pertains to the biggest front ring.
remember, when facing east,  north is to the left and south is to the right.
no more late night scrambles in a dark country side from a tent  (or cabin or hostel with no toilet) looking for a toilet or a place to go.
campy's warranty is voided without the use of their tool.
the bike accruements and travel clothing can then be carried in one or two duffle bags.
be gentle and patient.
about knives: if a person is going to have a knife for touring, they may as well have a  swiss army type knife that at least has a big and small blade, awl, scissors,  bottle & can opener, phillips tip screw driver, flat tip screw driver, and  tweezers.
experience: we cover our integrated brake/shifter assembly with a home made  inner tube wrap that keeps dirt and debris out of brake/shifter moving  components (because when a bike falls, often the first thing to impact is the  brake/shifter lever if there is no guard thus causing the assembly to open and  expose the moving components to foreign objects and damage).
if hot, ok to open windows with  screens as long the windows are protected from rain or rain is improbable.
most people know that its harder to signal and pedal at the same time, just don't be too brief in the signal, other people are busy too.
- mark the tire rim with desired (maximum) psi/pressure/atmosphere with grease pencil.
caution: we have yet to see a propane/butane lighter, especially a  "wind proof" lighter, be dependable above 7,000+ feet altitude  (˜2,000 meters).
have water handy, a cover, and/or something like a large thick flannel shirt.
in lieu of knowing how, at least ride in a group with someone who does know how.
we've been touring for decades and have never used anything but a map or a series of maps.
loctite's medium strength  (called blue) or the equivalent brand's medium strength is the single best  strength choice to carry and use for bicycle touring.
- normal operating bike tires loose about 3-5 psi per day.
- caveats: - sometimes one may have to get creative and tie cable at bottom of seat post for the rear derailer and run the inner-wire through the remaining cable housing.
the best nipple adjustment tool is a horse-shoe shaped spoke wrench tool.
this is a poor emulation of spoke bending at stress points  (where spokes cross and bend naturally or by encouragement).
chinese compasses orient southward, while most of the rest of the world  orients northward.
the sun always rises in the east and sets in the west (no matter which  hemisphere).duh when the sun is at its highest point in the sky, it is both, noon for that  particular spot, and an imaginary line between the sun and the closest point on  the horizon forms a perfect north-south line.
typically, in the usa, we use propane stoves, starting a trip with two stoves and  no less than three fuel canisters (sometimes more, sometimes with partially  used canisters from previous travels).
during the winter, 30 weight oil may become so viscous (thick) that it can't be easily applied or removed unless taken into a warm environment - plenty of cyclists ride their bikes in the winter.
- when reconnecting a chain (if removed from the bike for cleaning): place the bike gear derailer settings to the smallest rings, get achain holder (i use athin coat hanger in a c shape - it can be used to hook the chain to a frame component or to hook the chain end to end).
use a chain wear/pitch measure indicator tool - all bike shops have such a tool.
see the following picture.
the following text reveals two different methods for setting the rear derailer to a desired sprocket.
the bicycle can literally trip over itself or the rider can loose total directional control,either event may lead to a crash.
riding a bike downhill, fast, over 'wash board' ridges can cause a rider to lose directional control and loose upright stability.
practice in a place such that if something goes wrong or does not work correctly a person can remedy the situation.
as one may imagine, different chain speeds use different link sizes.
- we keep our bottles at the entrance, either just inside the tent or outside in the vestibule.
the third piece of luggage contains the biking paraphernalia (helmets, all travel clothing, handlebar bags, cameras, extra bottles, toiletry kits, medicines, ...) -
night lighting (bike or helmet; head, tail, or other; blinking or steady,  battery or generator): top we generally do not leave our bike light on the bike during daylight hours  for mountain trails or rough dirt roads but we often leave lights mounted for  road tours.
- pull the shifter cable at the middle of the nearest run (on the down tube or bottom tube) while simultaneously spinning the pedals; you are manually shifting (bypassing the shifter); look at the clearance of the cage over all the front rings.
squeaking derailer pulleys (aka jockey wheels): top mechanical issues directory
cover the ears, and do not allow other body parts to touch the ground.
this presumes that the tire is mounted evenly around and this presumes that the axle is mounted correctly in the dropouts.
- 'chain suck'/chain stick.
deet use warning: more plastic coated equipment (knife and tool handles), synthetics (goretex, polar fleece, nylon with waterproof coating), painted/lacquered finishes (bikes, lighters), leather (driving/shooting gloves, handlebar wraps),rubber (gloves, grips, wraps) and plastic ware (like compasses, gps cases, ipod/music devices, and eating ware)has been ruined by deet than by animals or rough handling.
- avoid high ridge lines as these areas attract lightning.
always re-check for true (for any method): once the spokes are pre-bent,  the wheel must be rechecked for true and adjusted if necessary.
this information comes frombarnett's manual dx [bicycle repair and maintenance] 6th ed - electronic, by john barnett, barnet group inc, 2008; adventure cycling magazine or itsweb site; tom dobruck, of permatex; and from our own experiences, seetrue accounts.
the work of bicycling in cool weather keeps one warm, but as soon as one stops biking, a physical cool down occurs.
also note that many different  sized and shaped spokes exist.
what happened over time, in every case for us, is that when we had a flat tire, an inspection of the inner tube showed a wear pattern on the tube caused by the liner.
the chain rubs on itself in rear derailer area - most rear derailers use a body adjustment screw (usually called a b screw [with no explanation]).
ideally, a super heavy item should be placed centered over the  axle or as near to the axle as possible.
tire air pressure measures and equivalence/equivalents table:
always use a waterproof bag for clothing storage, clear bags seem  to be the most serviceable but any waterproof bag is better than nothing.
good chain performance comes from chains with no slack; 'chain tension' is more important than oil, and oil in important.
- keep the head off the ground.
wally werner, adventure cycling guide (many expeditions), carries his  group first aid kit on the right side of his bike, because in an emergency he  knows to lay his bike on the left side (to protect the derailers from the  ground) and quickly access his first aid kit which is always just under his  pannier flap.
our travels: we tend to always carry two stoves that use the  same fuel andwe often use both stoves at cooking time -
- always validate sprocket wear (previous section).
- getting the cage open is usually a straight forward process and it may require the derailer to be removed from the bike frame.
does one need two stoves that burn the same fuel or burn different fuels?
- in the field, a clue that it is a sprocket and not a basket rub is that the shifting seems to operate perfectly at rest on a stand/bipod-kickstand/while-lifted, during inspection, but one will still mysteriously experience noise while riding that yet sounds like a cage-chain rub (especially riding uphill!).one generally suspects a bad derailer before suspecting sprocket wear.
if one waits to let the  morning sun dry the gear it takes longer (which is lost travel time in what is  often the desirable and cooler day light cycling hours).
- in terms of chain lube or longevity, a chain can last a few days without needing to be re-lubricated.
- either, the derailer needs to be re-adjusted, or if so equipped, the handlebar shifter can be used to perform a slight/one-click adjustment that will separate the derailer cage from rubbing on the chain.
note: in the field, if one is travelling with panniers (vs just a trailer) one usually one has to remove one pannier (the right rear) just to get to the rear derailer.
- adjusting the rear axle mount (only on some types of bike).
how to use the 'chain holder' for broken chain repair - it is used to hold two chain ends near each other and to keep the chain off the ground.
cyclists seem to mount handle bar bags anywhere from top parallel to the ground up to top at almost 45° (so as to facilitate easier or quicker map reading from the saddle).
it is the roller system that wears out (what wears is the roller [inside and outside], bushing [if it exists], and to a lesser extent the chain rivet/pin).
in the field: ways to clean and lube bicycle chains top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory any reasonable effort to periodically clean and lubricate a bicycle chain will go a long ways toward getting the most tour life out of a chain.
- re-supply issues: - - until recently, the smallest quantity of coleman fuel was 1 gallon (3.78 liters).
- first choice, use any known bicycle oil (those sold in bike shops - wax is ok in some cases and teflon is always ok).
- carry a bar of soap; keep it handy in a plastic zipper type bag.
so that we know specific places to not be located during a storm.
- use a jar or empty oil can to capture dirty oil or cleaner.
while touring, what tools should a cyclist carry?
cut holes cut just below the upper/open edge (from little finger nail size to thumb nail size), mix and alternate the holes with spacing such that the container will still support a loaded pot or pan.
- set the derailers (for big to big sprockets), thread the chain through the cages and around the pulleys, tie the chain where it needs to meet (adjust for the absence of a master link if that is the connection method), then double check for any reason that the chain should be longer and validate that the chain does not exceed thechain-too-short rule (previous section).
pour in about .25-.50 inch of fuel.
it is wise to try to carry deet at the lowest point in a bag / pannier / box / container.
we used to be bothered by paying for toilet use, but now we appreciate that a facility exists at all and that it is clean and has paper.
- lightning can bounce off an object and discharge at a peculiar angle or distance.
- polymers are added to oil lubricants to enhance lubrication capabilities.
replacing a damaged  proprietary component on the trail is nearly impossible; these systems are  usually built to close fitting tolerances.
a map may not have the location marked accurately either (an x just north of town when its actually located south or west of town).
bicycle touring chain survival/usage issues: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory - most chain breaks are caused by the bike being in the wrong rings for the current requirements.
- remove the pulleys one at a time (do not pop the covers yet), and write down the markings on each pulley and on which side as they can be directional and it is best to remount everything just as it was.
(other more practical chain cleaning methods are listed undertouring methods) - the most efficient bicycle chain cleaning system uses a liquid penatrant mixed along with vigorous physical brushing and ultrasonic chain vibration/shaking (chain off the bike).
sometimes the l and h screws are not labeled.
- some (read as most) multi valve type pumps don't do a good air fill job on any type of valve.
the easier it is to remove a map case from a handlebar, the better for the cyclist - a cyclist folds and re-folds the map(s) frequently, as one's track moves across the map(s) route over time.
this inspection is best performed with the chain off the bike.
the fluid is supposed to be drained before shipping.
generally, select and pack clothing for a layers capability.
- turning the bike upside-down facilitates the best work area (in the field).
- exactly where the tire lines up with the rim (to help keep the tire/wheel balanced), and - which side of the tire and rim match (left side to left side or right side to right side which in turn keeps positions tread pattern in the most beneficial manner).
if the noise gets worse, try two clicks in the opposite direction.
when sleeping in a bag, it is unwise to burrow into the bag and breathe  inside the bag.
always know where the knife is located and if there is one knife between a  couple of cyclists/campers, it is a nice courtesy to let the other  cyclist/camper know where the knife is located.
in cycling if one wants the fastest tires then the tread must be almost non-existent (for asphalt/paved roads), carcass/walls thin, and the track narrow, all of which is at the expense of thickness for safety and flat avoidance, wide track for comfort and duration, and virtually no capability to ride on wet dirt slopes.
which way is south and how many degrees is it?
a cyclist may discover that the air pressure system at a petro station has psi (usa), atm (france), bar (british, europe), or ksc (asia and metric) for units of measure.
- technical issue: be aware that some pockets have  flat sewn edges but darted baffles in the middle or pocket center, avoid these  too.
- some 'handlebar bag mounts' attach with clamp systems (using nuts and bolts) for fastening.
the expression means to stay put for the duration of the storm and it is a valid consideration; some related variables are safety for the particular location, weather protection, food supplies, sanitation, and one's general ability and capability to stay in place for a while.
- borderline penatrants: lubes like wd-40, 3-in-1 oil, and light machine oil are usually good for 2-4 tour load hours (just re-apply when needed, at or just before the first sound of chain squeak).
if a cyclist knows that laundry can be serviced every 2 days then one only needs 3 days of clothing in total.
wet bags  need immediate attention and can drastically change the joy of a journey.
ware - see cooking equipment for food stuffs - see fire and cooking issues for related travel issues about handlebar bags: top a handlebar bag is a storage device that fits onto the handlebar.
replacing a damaged proprietary component on the trail is nearly impossible; these systems are usually built to close fitting tolerances.
bottles are 10 ml and 50 ml ($20-$45 usd respectively in year 2008) - not cheap.
threadlock is usually applied as one drop spread around the threads of a  bolt at the insertion end.
if a person cannot land on their feet, running, then the next best crash position is to land on their side with the butt side of the hip (butt-hip corner), thigh side, slightly bent leg side, forearm and hand slap (together), all at the same time!
- there do not seem to be any buildup or cleanup issues regarding teflon use (certainly, not like wax).
dennis had a stack of fire wood blow-up about twelve feet in front of him, he had to duck spinning pieces of wood which hit a tin roof above him.
avoid punching holes in such a manner as to weaken the can's  support of a pot or pan.
[hypoid] gear oil (that's 80-90 weight rear differential oil).
- method e - dripping the oil bottle in one spot while manually rotating the chain (backwards).
experience: remove panniers when transporting bikes on the exterior of a vehicle.
a bike computer was not even a site recommendation for items to bring.
- pull the chain tight (the chain usually wants to fall off, use a friend or device to prevent the chain from falling off).
if the handlebar starts to wobble  (a wobble is when the handlebar ends shakes fore and aft while the front wheel  shakes left and right [effecting steering] where the shakes may occur two or  more times per second - these shakes seem to be the physics, physical, and  mechanical result of a tail wag) then physically steering the bicycle in  slight, little, 's' patterns while/and gentle braking may help obtain/regain  control of the bike.
only experienced cyclists, campers and travelers should attempt stealth  camping.
- the cyclist is in the correct lane and needs to change: if one is in the correct lane but needs to change, thenuse a combination signal and hand-finger pointing method.
maybe slip a worker a few coins for useful information.
cage steel is tough to bend and brittle - it can break.
[chain noise as well as other noises] chain facts and background: almost all new chain pin/rivet centers are exactly one half (1/2) an inch apart from center to center (called pitch) or it can be measured from the front of the roller to the front of the next roller.
feedback/contact | site map | print | bicycle touring checklists (supported/self supported) about bicycle touring 1 of 2 (planning/issues) about bicycle
- about stealth camping: - stealth camping is described as 'camping in a location where the legal status of camping is unknown.'
remember, after adjusting and testing the gear limits,re-set the gear settings to an easy start position.
often, backpackers and cyclists would make a one gallon purchase at a store and be forced to leave some fuel in the container, as they could not safely carry all of the fuel (too heavy, too bulky, or not enough safe storage containers/bottles).
very often, cyclists are forced to leave some fuel with the sales establishment.
- advertising and destination signage are often not allowed.
the corollary is that if one has found naphtha listed on the back label of something that looks like it is pump lantern or pump stove fuel, it probably is pump lantern or pump stove fuel.
- some bicycle race teams/racers seem to use talc (to pre lube tires before hand) for quick tube changes for races or by racers - so the concept is not dead.
the  corollary is that if one has found naphtha listed on the back label of  something that looks like it is pump lantern or pump stove fuel, it probably is  pump lantern or pump stove fuel.
experience: we have multiple water bottle cages on most of our bikes, we learned over time that we needed to label them for their positions - the cages near the cranks had to be bent away from the crank side.
- caution: metal tire tools are much more likely to puncture or damage an inner tube than plastic tools.
bar-end as handlebar guard and brake/shifter cover guard: top mechanical issues directory caution:
stoves and fuel issues: - global issues (generalizations with a few exceptions): - in north america, europe and some far east areas, propane/butane stove systems are the standard and typically wood fires are more limited (not allowed).
- some covers have little rain flies to protect the head (on flexible hoops [best] or by pole and stake).
ivan viehoff (world expedition bike traveler - seeextended touring) states that he uses hipoid
we usually keep soap, toilet paper, sani-wipes, and trash in separate plastic bags but located in the same pocket/pannier area (usually in front).
- complements permethrin which can be washed/sprayed onto/into clothing, especially any synthetic ware.
note: one does not make business near camp, food, or water  systems.
perhaps the 4 or 8 o'clock is the best storage positions for the stem (in order to facilitate slime drainage from the stem).
lightning can also travel laterally along the ground, especially if the ground surface is wet.
normally tightening is what is needed somewhere.
spoke problems usually are that one or more spokes are either too loose  (mostly) or too tight (rarely) but they can be broke and possibly partly  missing.
some 'handlebar bag mounts' attach with clamp systems (using nuts and  bolts) for fastening.
- keep the chest, ribs, and head all off the ground.
detached burners (connected  by a hose) work well with any canister size.
we were not even offered a bicycle computer to buy, borrow, or rent.
the cyclist probably will not have visible light nor a visible camp stove fire (and definitely no campfire).
in usa temperate climates, the best spring, summer, and fall seasonal oils seem to be 30 weight (sae viscosity measure) - same as recommended by sheldon brown.
- liquid soaps rule (versus powder).
if a bolt is already installed, and a person wants to apply a penetrating  temporary locking chemical compound use loctite 292 (which is green in color).
anything that burns kerosene and diesel should also handle jp4 or jp5 (aviation/jet engine/propulsion fuel - high grade, lower  flash, kerosene)
this must be done for each side (be careful, it is easy to mix-up spoke side sets).
be careful to insure that the nipple is solidly in the wrench.
- wax can prevent water penetration but it can also prevent oil penetration.
but if that is a concern, place the bikes and anything that reflects light between you and the likeliest automobile approach direction.
- most tire repairs made in the rain or tropical like super humid conditions do not hold up very long.
this  supports an alternate camping style.
bicycle lighting is worthy of a quality investment.
its use  originally came from the auto tire industry, as certain early tubes and tires  would stick together (incorrectly called vulcanization); this rubber compound  sticking or melding is no longer a problem in the bicycle or automobile tire  industry.
caution: when a trailer is carried in the back of a vehicle these styrofoam wraps can break free and fly away.
experience: we have reused link pins and experienced no travel problems.
there are many thread lock compounds brands/products which may work  equally well - read/study the properties on the label (found in bike shops,  auto parts stores, and hardware stores.)
- do use 3-in-one oil or wd-40 on a chain to clean rust or wipe off rust residue, especially on a bike that had to be put away wet, or on a bike that got wet, or on a bike that was left outdoors for some period of time (like most kid's bikes), or the bike is displaying rust on the chain.
note that we are using an orange colored plasic trowel from a camping store.
sleeping bag and sleeping pad on top (because they are light weight).
warning: things can still get wet in waterproof panniers!
get familiar with repair kit functions, usually the sales person or a fellow traveler has experience - keep the instructions, read the instructions.
- perform a quick visual check of the chain run, especially if one has just transported the bike, performed shipping disassembly/reassembly work, added a new bike component, or the bike has crashed or fallen recently.
typically, one selects an interim speed sprocket setting, but there are exceptions (like getting to the leadville, colorado, bike shop and it
so far we have not used/tested this product nor found it with an extended presta valve.
penatrants can be extremely volatile and/or explosive (like gasoline) or they can be less volatile (like kerosene) but still flammable and dangerous to use.
yes, but the bicycle chain roller bearing wear probably is not more than what is caused by cleaning with a tooth brush.
in freezing temperatures and freezing overnight temperatures, we've had presta valves slip completely out of their valve sleeve (they aren't supposed to do that, but it happens).
- another old time remedy is to scrub a chain with a toothbrush or similar parts brush using any solution cleaner or penatrant or even oil (to include auto oil) - replenish dirty solution with clean solution as you go.
- i.d. = inside diameter, o.d. =
does it cause more wear on the bike chain rollers?
ergo, facing east, north is on the left and south is on the right, and west is behind.
plastic on/off fuel control knobs on some stoves have been known to melt from intense oven heat (metal knobs or controls are better).
one can purchase other types of bug repellent but none are scientifically proven to be better than 100% deet.
many feel that there will be a  period (a month?) of mixed up regional variations and weak compass readings,  maybe like a hundred regional north and south pole readings.
sram uses master links to connect or reconnect chains.
the result, possibly, provides another choice of gear ranges (high or low).
we can use our fist to project ahead or behind the sun's relative direction to estimate time or direction.
ewwww cooool, it would be in the southeast!
or, split any kind of hollow tube (like a pen or small metal pipe for an emergency tent pole, or pipe like thing) just big enough to put the cable inside and fasten that down.
- many long range bike travelers use temporary loctite for pannier bolts (and other fasteners that come loose) on bike tours - be careful that one is using temporary loctite and not permanent loctite.
lubricate as may be appropriate but wipe off any excess.
on occasion, left side rear wheel spokes can be different from the right side.
- lightning can splinter into different sizes.
- trim noise sounds a little similar to cross chain noise.
when camping we carry a separate two aa battery camp/tent light that hangs  or stands easily (for tent/camping) - this same light expands into lantern mode  (from beam mode).
- after the tire and tube are mounted, fill the repaired tire's tube and then deflate the tube, maybe make any required mount symmetry adjustments *, and then refill the tube again.
there are emergency broken spoke repair kits.
this activity is called "discharge laddering" or just laddering for short.
the lining protects the slime from the  air valve and normal tube air pressure.
the middle sprocket is usually the statistical best one gear only riding gear.
- intercepting a street by taking a short cut can lead to: - miss-direction due to unexpected or uncharted street direction changes.
the lighting runs down one side of the tree and destroys the bark, leaving a streak scar of exposed tree interior.
the best way to stabilize a wheel (while it is still off the bike) and  undo any 'wound up spokes' (spokes twist when tightened) is to side load the  wheel by pushing the center hub down (on a block) while applying palm pressure  at spoke pairs 180 degrees apart.
note that plastic bag is used to carry the toilet  paper and protect the paper from dirt or water while also protecting gear from  paper flaking.
therefore metal tire  tools may be needed (so they don't break).
- count and memorize how many rotation turns were performed, then if things get worse, one can restore the configuration back to the start point.
or one will need special penatrant dissipation/evaporation tools (like compressed air and/or a heated air nozzle).
- the outside diameter is the greatest distance between, either, the outside of the outer plates or the outside of the widest pin/rivet
see expedition tools checklist for a comprehensive list of tools to  consider for touring for over 30 days or to carry for large groups  (7-16) to very large groups (events).
- warning: pin insertion is performed as a dry press (do not lube the pin).
- in the field, if their is no kickstand, always lay the bike on its non-derailer side (left side usually); it is a good habit, even if the bike has pannier protection.
let the water settle in a big container, if possible, then scoop off the  clearer water to boil in another container.
2 - baffle edge sewn.
it is now 9 am (about half way between  sunrise and high noon - remember that the highest point of the sun in the sky  is, both, noon and due south or 180°).
- we carry a small scrap plywood rectangle, about 3 x 7 inches, for the wheel off fork moments.
metal hooks make noise but can be noise dampened with  rubber/plastic tube wraps/covers.
good wet traction check the tire surface: insure that tire's carcass is not showing, the sidewall is not beat-up, is not rotten, nor is falling apart for road tires.
- moving the barrel outward, away from the brake lever, takes slack out of the cable.
- alcohol: one needs a taller flame to obtain the highest heat output.
- set or re-set the derailer hand controls.
- during navigation calculations for the morning and evening, perform your own interpolation considering the following (generally): a similar chart could be made for the winter months (or for summer in th the southern hemisphere), with the sun rising and setting south of the east-west line.
clean out the old dirty grease.
he died of complications of ms and his dream lives on - one can learn a lot from his website.
if possible, flex all of the chain components.
the rider must stop for health reasons to let the body rest and recharge itself, hopefully with water and nutrition.
tent: know how to set up beforehand - attach any cords or lines that should  normally stay with the tent.
in addition, all of the reflective material on the saddle bags and  clothing help with making a biker much more visible at night.
note: remember  to pick up your belongings (gloves ...)!
place a stick in the ground at a deliberate angle (usually 45-60° to  the earth).
in europe they are not allowed to advertise or have a large entrance sign.
- channel lock pliers are far more utilizable than regular pliers.
the best sack is the clear plastic storage sacks/bags which allow one to see items inside the bag.
- about tongue and groove pliers (narrow mouth):
we always carry one new brillo pad (in a plastic sealed bag) although we  have not used one for years - it's a just in case thing.
- bicycle: general packing checklist (for the typical solid-frame road, touring, or mountain bike) - bicycle:
bicyclesafe.com is adefensive cycling education and a bicycle road touring survival education rolled into one education package.
white gas stoves can sometimes be fussy but they work in a wider range of  cold temperatures and are reported (by mountain climbers) to work better in  higher altitudes (but we have not witnessed any altitude or temperature issues  with propane).
- tents that are fully enclosed keep creepy crawlers out.
- commercial airlines will not knowingly allow hydraulic fluids to be carried in bikes with hydraulic brakes.
if the cage were damaged, one may need to slightly bend/re-shape the cage (seereshaping a damaged cage).
there is nothing like having a bipod stand on a bike for a long tour to help one conduct shift tuning/adjustments in the field, a travel mate will appreciate it too.
a link bind is a connection that is so tight that the chain does not flex of bend as it rolls across the sprockets or it can sometimes be viewed as kinked in clear air - a person can see a kink in the chain line as it moves through its path.
we once had lost a mounted headlight and could not find our stored flashlight, so we removed the red lens cover of the tail light to use it for a camp/tent light - now, most tail lights have red lcd bulbs.
- cosmoline was originally a military rust and corrosion preservative that feels like an ultra thin coating of tar.
in many cases a good  channel lock type of pliers can perform many bike wrench  requirements/functions.
note: on a paved vehicle lane, the two tire track lines for automobiles and trucks is statistically the cleanest part of the road.
one, riding tense with tight grips can cause problems, and two, if a person is in one of those tail wag situations, then recovery requires a more gentle grip on the handle bar (as opposed to a locked 'death grip').
the rubber band  is a requirement.
three, sometimes one just has to deal with surprises.
we have found the simple battery  inside the led light device (vs separate battery) mounted on the  handlebar/steer tube/fender to be quite sufficient for touring, both for seeing  and for being seen.
- note: any time that the derailer is off the bike is a good time to wipe it clean, place a drop of oil on each of the 8 parallelogram pivots, work the parallelogram, oil the swing arm pivots (no oil on or near the cable or its attachment point), work it a few times and then wipe the excess/visible oil off the parts/components.
however, note that if a sleeping pad gets wet, one can cover it with a space blanket (recommended to carry).
this trick is done so that one may back track from the hole in the tube to find the hole causing object in the tire (if it is still there).
if the cage is damaged or misshaped and one can get the bike to a bike shop, then do so.
always express appreciation - we either give a head nod of thanks and/or mouth or say the word for "thank you" and/or we give a hand wave.
usually 2 or 3 repetitions communicates the need (and its hard to drive and signal at the same time).
there may be a scenic view or pastoral view/feel.
water proof varieties can be found in better camping stores or online.
bike type does not matter but this is still mostly from fair weather, hard riding, and hard road miles.
- burners for propane/butane stoves seem to have a much better low heat control for lower temperature settings (like simmer, warm, or luke warm).
some bicycle race teams/racers seem to use talc (to pre lube tires  before hand) for quick tube changes for races or by racers - so the concept is  not dead.
- usually if there is a problem it is from a poor mount of the axle but note that the dropouts can wear unevenly, bend, or otherwise not be perfectly symmetrical.
exercise all safety  precautions (see emergency fuel below).
next challenge level.
bicycle tires can and do get hot, but nothing like an automobile tire.
- let the water settle in a big container, if possible, then scoop off the clearer water to boil in another container.
- re-set the derailers and chain (small to small sprockets) and validate that the chain does not fail thechain-too-long rule (previous section).
initially, we punctured half the tubes in the process.
sleeping pad: the lightest insulator is a cardboard windshield sun screen.
out of their chains (with a few reports of 4 to 6 thousand miles).
in addition, the (front) handlebar bag  tends to also contain small but dense objects.
where would we expect the sun to be.
- do not allow yourself to be thrown on your chest and chin, use the arms to change the fall into a side impact.
a bike computer was not even a site recommendation for items to  bring.
- use loctite 242 (temporary) "blue" (colored fluid) on bolts of 7mm or larger diameter.
- generally, shimano chains use replacement chain-pins to connect replacement chain segments or a broken chain andsram chains use (modern) master-links (called power-links) to connect replacement chain segments or a broken chain.
- sometimes eat cold food and not have a fire at all.
don't take shelter there, don't camp there!
- always know where the knife is located and if there is one knife between a couple of cyclists/campers, it is a nice courtesy to let the other cyclist/camper know where the knife is located.
consider carrying  a reflective triangle (on person or equipment).
we were shocked that no one had told us  that is was a requirement [we brought our own bikes and packed from their  checklist].
there is no way for a cyclist to tell if one is on blm land,  open/undesignated county property, state property, federal property (of another  type/jurisdiction), or property of any kind (which permits overnight camping).
we always bring in water bottles in the mountains or even if the  temperatures will reach the 40's f/10's c.
check each end of the trailer mount (bicycle and trailer).
in the field issues: fuel transfer is always and only conducted on cold stoves usually before  or just before using the stove for cooking (never on a lit stove, a hot stove,  or a stove that was just used!).
also consider other liquid fuels of the area/region (alcohol, diesel, kerosene,  lamp oil, jp4, or cooking oil; use white gasoline or unleaded gasoline as a  last resort [its more volatile but manageable]).
- another issue for using any bicycle chain cleaning product is safety of use.
most bike  stores do not carry large expedition bags in stock.
- it can be the crank's pedal arm hitting the bike frame (usually the chain stay).
- enter an iteration cycle of adjusting and micro adjusting and spin the pedals while test shifting as needed (screw in or out in 1/8 turn increments).
jp5 = jp4 + antifreeze additive [also ok to use]) - mineral spirits (mineral only means that it came from the ground) aka white spirit - mineral oil - alcohol (very dangerous to use) - paint thinner (most paint thinners have additives; don't use a paint thinner with additives).
- or - - white/unleaded-gasoline pump systems (like coleman or msr) with a detached pumped fuel bottle.
this is a little tough on 12 year olds because it is trigonometry  and most of them are just starting basic algebra.
- group travel issues: - stoves and bottles should be distributed among cyclist but cyclist types loosely fall into one of two categories.
foot note: heat from a high-intensity fire, as in a large forest fire, can also cause this samedeath twist (see second pictures above).
- the most convenient time for chain and drive-train maintenance is in the morning (before biking) or in the evening (after biking), however, wax, grease, and heavy oil usage often requires application when it is warmer outside (typically in mid-day).
some covers have little rain flies to protect the head (on flexible hoops  [best] or by pole and stake).
when traveling, don't count on help during these time periods (siesta's too).
be very careful at this time, because some of these jockey wheels can fall apart and they can have lots of little pieces.
- see on-bike clothing checklist for bicycle clothing - see off-bike clothing checklist for camp/tour clothing - see common travel modes (touches on clothing requirements for various travel modes).
these plastic straws seem to be easily lost on tours.
- method d - moving the drip bottle over the center of a stationary chain, the chain is rotated in increments between the crank ring and the cassette/cogs; the chain can be lubed on the top run and the bottom run within the same cycle/setting/rotation; somewhere between 2 and 3 crank rotations will usually achieve full chain exposure.
bar-end as handlebar guard and brake/shifter cover guard: top  mechanical issues directory caution:
- when should one wash clothes?
another solution is tograsp the wire just before the end cap in order to perform any cable pulling for a derailer adjustment.
flip top water bottles offer better protection from road elements.
- commercial airlines will not allow a passenger to carry pressured air or co 2 cartridge(s) on their person or in a carry-on bag.
- hotel shampoos work well for washing clothes.
: smart to open the tool kit and lay it and the z key (bike friday's double ended 5 & 6 mm s wrench) directly under the frame.
goretex or similar jackets are handy for rain, warmth, and wind.
military pilots are only allowed to wear cotton undies under their nomex (flame  retardant) flight suits for this reason.
the cyclist may or may not pitch (set up) a tent.
i've re-used oil drip bottles and i've used oil soaked rags with ok success (spinning pedals through the gears to evenly distribute the oil).
- hydration is extra important to bike riders and backpackers, so one must learn to be careful with water bottles in a tent.
keep and fix the damaged inner tube later, e.g., in the evening under dryer conditions.
the spokes must match the existing spoke  system.
experience: we always bring all, or some, of the water and fuel into the tent at night, thus avoiding many cold temperature issues.
permatex makes a threadlocker red, which is more or less permanent (can be  removed with heat) which equates to the loctite 272 and 277 products.
"i ride for my heart.
the disadvantages of an attached burner and liquid fuel tank are that one cannot have a camping type oven set on the top of the burner  and then tightly wrap a wind screen/reflector around the base - it is possible  to overheat the fuel tank and burn up the entire system.
never setup  a tent without staking at least one corner (usually four) or one may discover  what is meant by the termmaytag (the tent blows away and tumbles  everything inside -murphy's law: tumbling tents are attracted to water  or cliffs).
check the following (symptom - solution): - poor tire to rim mount - redo, equal bead line - poor wheel mount to drop out - refit skewer to one side, eyeball balance, sometimes takes 3 or 4 attempts.
however, make a quick check to see if a pannier has interfered with any derailer/shifting/tranmission effectivness.
in a perfect campsite selection world, one wants to be up hill on a gentle slope, on smooth water adsorbent ground, out of the wind or blowing rain, not near a lightning rod, and located where the sun will shine first thing in the morning.
additionally, use self stick velcro circles, about 3/8 inch or about 1 centimeter round diameter.
tire liners for touring (avoid them): top mechanical issues directory we have tried to use "tire liners" to no avail (at a different time than the slime problem).
it really helps to dry the chain when done (swing the chain clean in an open area and/or hand dry wipe it
in the field a cyclist will need to use evaporation and/or heat (sun hitting a chain in an open sandwich bag).
hint: a bicycle bipod facilitates a better assembly work area and for long term remote bicycle tours, no other single thing makes trail side maintenance easier than having a bipod; a bipod kick stand helps tremendously with derailer adjustments or repairs as well as helping with rear tire repairs (80-90% of all flats are on the rear tire).
- heat can be used for the evaporation process (like direct heat of the day sunlight exposure, which can be time consuming) or a heater/blower device may be used in a shop (again safety is a huge issue); some home cyclists use blow dryers (with heat resistant gloves) or some cyclists bake their chain in an oven (to heat evaporate the remnant penatrant).
- no matter where the tent entrance is, the sleeping bags must be inline with the downhill run (sometimes called fall-line) and the heads at the uphill end (or else bodies will slide into each other over the course of the night or blood will rush/pool at head).
if used, wait an hour or two, the penatrant will evaporate and then use appropriate oil or grease (lubricant).
at or after 2010, thread lock compounds could be found in some major hardware stores (big box stores).
this situation also produces the sound like chain trim noise , a sound indicating that the chin cannot decide on which ring to be (a sound like a derailer that needs tuning).
exercise all safety precautions (see emergency fuel below).
option 2 - remove the rear derailer - remove the rear derailer and chain (use chain tool to undo chain or master/power-link)
if one is to use a camp oven system then use a burner that is separate or detached from the fuel source by means of a connecting cable.
hydration is extra important to bike riders and backpackers, so one must  learn to be careful with water bottles in a tent.
read onward for decision indicators.
the 'l' stamp on a derailer means 'low gear adjustment screw' (which is the smallest ring on the front crank or the biggest cog on the rear drive).
in multi lane traffic, no matter left or right side driving traffic  rules, the next exit is always the outside lane and through traffic is the  inside lane.
not saying this is right, just saying that this is the scenario that cross-chains a touring bike the most.
pin may only be pushed (not pulled).
a cyclist folds and re-folds the map(s) frequently, as one's track moves  across the map(s) route over time.
wet bags need immediate attention and can drastically change the joy of a journey.
- generally, we camp with books of matches and a cheap 7/11 disposable butane lighter for short trips and we will also have a magnesium striker for longer trips.
clearly she did not know their intention.
it takes about 15 minutes of time to determine a good east-west line (in  lieu of other signs of nature, not discussed here); field expedient e-w lines  can be made in 2 or 3 minutes.
- sometimes there is a little cross-support-bar in the center of the tension arm (the space in between the two jockey wheels) that the chain rubs upon.
the sun still rises in the east and sets in the west.
water proof: some handlebar bags are 100% water proof, some are  water resistant, some have water proof covers.
there is another screw on the rear derailer called the b screw, it is usually on the mount of the derailer body where it contacts the bike's derailer frame/mount (it can be on back side of the derailer's mount).
some master links are a different color from the chain and do not need marking.
seebest oil lubrication method (the previous section), as well as other oil lubrication methods.
the best application is liquid dish soap but as young scouts we directly rubbed the pot's side with a bar of soap that was dipped in water (don't worry about clumps).
the more fluid a person is during a crash, the less the trauma of impact and the less the total injuries.
we have never been mistreated or mislead and local peoples love to help outsiders on bikes.
when a derailer is damaged, the result is that the cyclist may have to push their bike and/or ride their bike as a fixed single speed bike.
we don't carry a hair dryer (some folks do), but if it is too humid to  allow clothing to dry naturally, we will consider using a hair dryer to dry a  day's wash (assuming that we can't get clothes done by or at a laundry  service by the next morning for a reasonable cost).
some people put on address labels and then strip them off, leaving that ugly white gummy look of an old sticker (rub some dirt on it to make it non-sticky and more ugly).
- put the bike on a work stand, kick stand (bipod, triangle), find a way to get the rear wheel off the ground, and/or get a buddy to help hold up the rear end of the bike or in a worst case scenario lay the bike on its non-derailer side (left side usually).
drying a chain in the sun in a plastic bag can accelerate drying time to 2-4 hours.
[mike flack - trails-edge.com] pdf file available) bicycle bike noises, clicks, ticks, creaks, clunks, knocks and repair by jim langley
some bags have many pockets and access points and some have none.
- little omnivores, while people are sleeping or away, can bite or tear there way into a tent in order to get to the food.
- the advantages of separate burner and liquid fuel pump bottle are that they are lighter and take up less space; components can be readily interchanged (or replaced).
- dirt or dirty conditions shorten chain life.
- in most of the rest of the world, the most available fuel type is unleaded gasoline however, in remote africa, the middle east (oil poor areas), and remote china the indigenous populations typically cook on alcohol stoves, thusalcohol can be the primary fuel in some geographic areas.
a schrader tire valve is the same valve that car tires have.
how does the bag attach to the mount?:
the guide pulley should not touch the cog at all, the guide pulley should be about 1 to 2 mm from the largest rear sprocket (in the lowest gear setting for the rear derailer).
- some tire valves require a separate adapter or a special adapter if one does not have an appropriate tire pump.
place the pressure marking on the rim center next to the air stem (and do not mark the rim side where the brakes rub).
two, preventive maintenance, now, heads off problems down the road.
perhaps the 4 or 8 o'clock is the best storage positions for the  stem (in order to facilitate slime drainage from the stem).
we long for the day where we can travel  somewhere on a flexible and open time schedule.
circles with more than four arteries or more than two lanes are  problematic.
- make sure that the loose chain is properly weaved through the jockey wheels (aka pulleys) and derailer cages.
less endurance long endurance more flexible less flexible wears rapidly lasts longer poor wet traction
- run the good inner-wire end through the barrel adjuster (or rear entry hole if no barrel adjuster) toward and through the pinch bolt mechanism.
this supports an alternate camping style.
this is a handy cut out reference table for tire pressure equivalence.
take advantage of the directional knowledge by facilitating landmarks to help one maintain a more or less straight/directed line of travel (or else, one will end up traveling 300 yards/meters in dense foliage and be forced to take measurements again - line up trees, rocks, or hill tops to assist in maintaining a visual straight line of travel).
- one pleasant green thing about alcohol is that an organic sourced alcohol (ethanol, ethyl, pure grain alcohol, medical grade ethanol, medicinal alcohol, moonshine [versus fossil fuel]) may come from an organic, renewable, source (distilled grapes, fruit, corn, wheat, rice, millet, potatoes ...) and usually burning organic alcohol does not leave pollutants as severe as some petroleum products.
if the driver/conductor asks about what's in the bag, then the answer should be "it is equipment" or "sporting equipment" (bikes are sport equipment, one just don't say or show what kind of equipment it is and one keeps the bike sealed and covered).
usually the mid day sun dries items faster than the morning or evening sun.
- teflon (a product of dupont) is a fluoropolymer, a type of polymer (discussed in subsequent lubrication caveat).
sometimes a hair dryer can be used to dry  clothing if the air is super humid and clothes won't dry unassisted, over night.
air pump, air pressure conversion table slime for inner tubes, tire liners tools (touring issues and
very often the only way to reach deep is with a plastic knife (eating wear knife or adeep reach bicycle serrated blade of about 1/4 inch or 1 cm gapped and spaced triangle shaped teeth).
per a blog  article bydarren alff, a one piece liquid fuel stove may not be clean or dry  enough, even if empty enough (and it should be totally empty) to pass  airport security or even leaking fluid standards.
coleman fuel and similarly competing fuels (that show an image of a  coleman pump stove and/or coleman pump lantern on the container) are made from naphtha.
- caution: if the amount of air pressure loss is greater than 5 psi a day, then start looking for another pressure loss cause.
- the vast majority of sleeping bag covers are for single sleepers, however, there are a few designed for two sleepers but the advantages are almost lost when compared to a two person tent.
how to loosen a kinked chain.
in cities, it is a security issue (bike accessories like lights and pumps seem to dissapear in cities).
- field - chain lubrication and application method: - for touring, bicycle oil (small bottle) is the most common lubricant.
choose for tour needs and resolve  all compatibility, fitting, and security issues.
over time, the styrofoam  compresses and the rubber band(s) become more important.
- one should mark the juncture of the seat post stem and the seat post tube such that the stroke of the mark touches both the stem and tube at the same time.
- in camp grounds find out where the sprinkler heads are located, don't set up on top of or next to a sprinkler head.
flex back and forth sideways, also the near side cradle of a chain break tool is exactly for this purpose.
stressing the wheel - 'debunked' (all from bbi) - theory a: over stressing the spoke (by over tightening the nipple and then backing it off).
- synthetic clothing generally lasts/wears longer than organic clothing.
"the bicycle is the noblest invention of mankind.
- the id and the odyssey - sometimes the ego gets in the way.
experience: s&s coupler(s) seem to need tightening once every seven rider days.
highlighter can be removed with clorox bleach and a cotton swab (allow time for drying, usually about four hours, on tours perform the bleach-swabbing before night and the map will be dry by morning).
these items and their location should be  known while they are on the bike as well as in the tent or in the detached  handlebar bag (carried into museums and such).
- rotating the nipple/nut towards the axle, tightens.
a bike shop can determine this issue and resolve it - there is a range of things that can have changed from a loose lock nut to having to replace the bearings or bearing cartridge set.
it still works but one may not want or need the cleaning component (which is probably apenatrant or penatrant like compound).
- one thing that usually needs to be done is to buy beefier wheel rims.
two leading bicycle chain manufacturers are shimano and sram (initials of owners, pronounced schram); many other good manufacturers exist in the market place.
sram powerlock 10 is a one-time use only kind of connecting link.
- the overall angle between sunrise and sunset locations on the horizon form winter solstice to summer solstice is 46.9° (23.4° north of an east-west line to 23.4° south of an east-west line - also a total of six fists); this is significant and worthy of attention when conducting ded reckoning.
this usually means that someone in the  group needs to remember to get the needed object/information from the departing  biker or that the object needs to be purchased (or ordered or a particular  issue needs to be addressed) at the next opportunity.
see bicycle touring tools checklist for a list of tools to consider  for touring as an individual, couple, or small group (3-6).
- synthetic socks designed for hiking tend be far superior to organic materials for wear and for causing less blistering.
i have to ask, what is wrong with that?
spray cans with deet easily ruins synthetic material.
if one were to face the sun at noon, one would be facing south.
use an empty coca-cola sized can or something the size of a campbell's  soup can.
but it is not likely that the ancients made the link to the earth's orbit tilt or even realized that the sun was at the center of earth's orbit).
- synthetic versus organic clothing: - generally synthetic clothing is lighter in weight, holds/retains less water, dries much quicker and tends to reduce the amount of bacteria or yeast naturally held in the material.
first, use a clean dry towel or paper towel to wipe the powder residue from the inner tube.
mark it with something small and identifiable that won't blow away.
leave the cover/guard component alone for 24 hours and then mount the  cover/guard to the brake/shifter system (see the next picture).
older bikes had sprockets called cogs on afreewheel (part of the hub) versus, now mostly on a free-hub (independent of the hub or free of the hub).
which is one of the reasons why it is wise to have institutions of learning to record ideas, test concepts, and advance proven arguments.
therefore, we may store the lights.
sometimes, it is wise to know when to 'hole up' for a day or two or three for passing monsoons, typhoons, hurricanes, tropical depressions, and/or storm fronts.
use a chain holder to hold together chain pins 1 to 2 inches in from each chain end (thus keeping loose ends out of the dirt and allowing easier access to the open end pieces).
left spoke in 1/4 turn, right  spoke out 1/4 turn.
sewing machine oil and light weight oils will not last very long on a bicycle (2-6 hours).
[repair] boot - optional: heavy duty manual pump (usually stays with transport vehicle or in the trailer of one biker in a group).
which way  is north? .
- flip top water bottles offer better protection from road elements.
- permatex makes a threadlocker red, which is more or less permanent (can be removed with heat) which equates to the loctite 272 and 277 products.
the solution requires some professional mechanic frame bending with special tools (usually, but sometimes a frame break and weld is in order).
wheels do not have to be all the way up in a drop out, but a cyclist needs enough surface area that the skewers will hold and the wheel still needs to be center aligned for its track and for brakes (disk or pad).
note: in some countries, the word 'paraffin' means kerosene,  here paraffin means a white waxy flammable substance.
according towikipedia, talcum is used for electrical  and heat insulation,baby powder, cosmetics (talcum powder), lubricant,  and as filler in paper manufacture.
assure that a snug dirt free clean fit exists.
we've never had a problem but in populated areas we always have an eye on the bikes or the bikes are parked inside an otherwise secure building/barn/garage/facility.
thepotential  problem, based on experience, is that managers often show up just at  breakfast time or check out, which is often at 8 or 9 am.
we don't have waterproof handlebar bags and it has never been an issue, but we do keep some things in their own zip lock type plastic bags on occasion (wallet, passport, and phone).
on occasion, left side rear wheel spokes can be different from the  right side.
don't pour out any remaining liquid until it's absolutely cool and safe (sometimes flames are invisible).
re-set any pins or rivets that stick out too far (pins or rivets rub on sprockets and sometimes the derailer cage).
in theory, tire liners lay between the inner tube and the tire itself, thus presenting a puncture barrier to thorns, nails, and other objects that cause puncture flats.
in addition, i would add this caveat: i would consider heavier weight lubrication for really hot climates (just like for automobiles) and i would consider lighter weight lubrication for cold climate riding (i ride in the winter in colorado and this is a real issue and solution).
major field repair issues: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory - warning: in the field, a cyclist may be forced to reuse a rivet/pin that was not designed to be reused.
1 - if a person is within thirty seconds of the sound of thunder of a lightning flash, then a person can be hit by lightning.
always have night lighting for a bike on a tour.
double pads are great for facilitating zip together sleeping bags.
at sea level water boils at 212° f or 100° c - as a rule of thumb,  for every 500 feet elevation (or 150 meters), water boiling temperature drops  1° f (or .5° c).
- don't forget to clean the pulleys but try not to get cleaning fluid in the pulley bearing area, seederailer pulleys (aka jockey wheels) for cleaning and lubing issues.
closed vehicles offer some protection, not because they are on rubber tires but because they have a steel cage and thick windows to block or deflect a lightning bolt.
this is a riding style, there is always pedal pressure and they are often out of their seat.
this may take a few iterations and be careful with the parallelogram.
fire and cooking issues the first rule of fire making is that the fire maker must be prepared  to put it out.
first, use a clean dry towel or paper towel to wipe the powder  residue from the inner tube.
remove the lid, leave the bottom intact.
- reflectors and safety: many bikers remove the factory reflectors, we don't.
see the directory of noise symtoms and solutions for other kinds of chain noise.
99% of all front derailers default to the low (l) position when disconnected from the cable.
- sometimes the de-railed chain is moving so fast sideways, that it comes completely off the sprockets (when it would not happen under normal shift behavior).
if the tire is an off-road tire or a off/on road touring mix (as are most bicycle tours), make sure that treading has enough treading for braking and direction control for the front, and traction for the rear.
metal will last longer but anything that works to get a rider out of a remote jam is better than nothing to include folded paper wrapped around the cable and taped down.
bike friday z key cages are different from non-key cages.
thus, the following navigation scenarios exist: - old town street names are often, only, for three or four block segments.
- plastic air mattresses absolutely are the worst sleeping pad.
said another way, 8 speed chains generally outlast 9 speed chains in identical usage environments, 8 is generally better than 9, ... .
the loosening mount (or front cradle) of a chain tool allows one to apply direct force, reverse force (flip chain over), or just the hold chain while the person flexes the chain back and forth such that the new pin/link connection is no tighter than the rest of the chain links.
tire/tyre selection:
replace with a new crank arm and don't be surprised if a rider must buy/purchase said crank arm as a pair of arms (left side, right side) as the bike shop supplier may have no choice.
the waxy powder of an aspen tree will provide about a spf-10 sunblock equivalent.
- synthetic clothing, when worn in a fire/hot atmosphere will damage the human body more than its organic clothing counterpart, in fact cotton and wool offer a little protection or burn delay when compared to synthetic clothing.
"take a course in good water and air; and in the eternal youth of nature you may renew your own.
note that removing the other pannier may make it easier for someone to lift the rear end and test spin the drive train system adjustment.
this is one of those rare  cases where a cheap looking, inexpensive light duty (versus heavy duty)
a cyclist can ship directly to a hotel or b&b but they usually do not like the added liability nor do they like the storage responsibilities (they too have valuable space problems) -
some countries use different words and in some cases the same words may have different meanings; learn the words for white gasoline and unleaded gasoline for any country that you may visit.
- only the front chain plate is affected.
can the links be used more than once?
the link's ability to hold together under pressure just wore out.
- as a rule of thumb, light casual bike riding in ideal conditions and never in dirt or mud will facilitate an environment whererings and sprockets may last for five or six chain replacements (i.e., in ideal conditions rings and sprockets may last 5,000-6,000 miles).
usually right around 3 to 4 days is the most that one carries (except maybe more underpants), knowing that laundry will be performed by the cyclists while enroute (almost daily).most cyclists perform their laundry when they can, thus it is performed almost daily or nightly ( once per 24 hour cycle).
the advantage is that everywhere a person looks is lit up.
- some buildings, structures, and dwellings are so old or well known that they don't have a formal postal address, its just x house, x farm, x mill, x monument, or x castle.
- finally, if needed, flex the two inner chain links laterally at a mix of angles to help loosen (micro widen) the pin hole of the inner links.
field baking is often performed with a  clever combination of pots and/or frying pans (or woks) mated together, or  sometimes someone has brought a miniature camp oven.
by our own experience and observation, atmosphere, bar, and ksc are all so very close in unit value that the measurement difference is negligible; usually close is good enough.
it takes a little experience to identify road slickness and rider vulnerability.
- lady modesty: just a reminder that in 3/4 of the world, the showing of bare shoulders and/or bare legs isculturally sensitive (to include southern or eastern europe) and sometimes that style of dress can bar one from entering some establishments, especially government buildings, shrines, churches, and religious centers.
waiting/ soaking/penetration time is proportionately longer for heavier viscosity oils.
- remove the rear derailer's cable housing and stow away.
struck camping and outdoor travel issues top at all times, on the road or in camp, a cyclist should be able to quickly  find the following items: knife, lighter or water proof matches, flash light (torch), spare batteries, and rain protection gear.
avoid dense brush/growth areas as there is no way to stop a fast moving  fire (started nearby).
sometimes we additionally turn the event into a snack/rest break - it helps to be of good cheer.
sprocket/ring/cassette replacement is strictly for a shop to perform (or one needs the experience, tools, and parts to perform the repair in the field).
said rather simply, thread lock causes nuts and bolts to temporarily adhere to one another and the setting will last until a lot of wrench torque is applied to the fasteners.
don't even try to bring a stove as carry-on luggage.
a small flat tip screw driver may be needed to open the flange or at least open the flange enough to guide in the center punch.
note: heavier front loads require more arm strength, therefore some  riders place more weight in the rear and some riders prefer to pull a loaded  trailer (thus freeing up front weight for control and changing the percentage  of weight on the bike's tires).
- dispose of dirty rags properly (we usually get about five days use out of a rag and we store the interim rag in a sealable plastic bag).
one mitigation scheme is to carry spare nuts and bolts but another mitigation scheme is to carry a tread lock compound and fasten the bolts and nuts preventively (discussed herein).
so far, with one exception, the b&b's were quite willing and no hotel has ever denied such a request.
- in the field, a clue is noise with a brand new chain on old sprockets when everything was more or less operating quietly before the new chain.
be aware that there are (at least) two kinds of bungee nets: one kind of bungee net has two mounting/connecting hooks and is meant to  drape over a front orrear rack and/or pannier from one side to  the other (typically hooking at the bottom of the rack's frame).
it is very easy  to mis-select the incorrect nipple wrench size.
it is wise to consider the dressing customs of destination  countries.
- tent: - know how to set up beforehand - attach any cords or lines that should normally stay with the tent.
pat yourself on the back and welcome to basic navigation.
in light traffic in small towns we follow the normal rules of  etiquette, to include proper lane selection, but nine times out of ten,  everyone one else usually yields to a biker in the circle.
alcohol, a most underrated cooking fuel.
then shorten the chain by 1 to 3 plates, depending on using pins or a master link.
- organic clothing, particularly cotton, can be more comfortable on a hot day because of the sweat retention and evaporation.
site map | feedback | print | bike touring, bicycle touring, bike tour, bicycle tour, bike touring checklist, bicycle touring checklist, bike tour checklist, bicycle tour checklist, bike touring 101, bicycle touring 101, self contained bike touring, self contained bicycle touring, self contained bike tour, self contained bicycle tour, fully loaded bike touring, fully loaded bicycle touring, fully loaded bike tour, fully loaded bicycle tour, about bicycling, about cycling, about bike touring, about bicycle touring, keep on cycling, bike touring survival, bicycle touring survival, chain oil grease loctite, all about bicycle touring, about bike touring, about bicycle touring, about ccle touring about bicycle tours, bike road maintenance, bicycle road maintenance, bike road repairs, bicycle road repairs, bike road maintenance, bicycle road maintenance, bike maintenance, bicycle maintenance, bike repairs, bicycle repairs bike maintenance, bicycle maintenance, bike tour maintenance, bicycle tour maintenance, bike tour repairs, bicycle tour repairs, bike tour maintenance, bicycle tour maintenance, on-tour help, maintenance, threadlock, chains, fully loaded, permatex, tires, tire, tyre, tools, inner tubes, wheels, tire, pumps, bicycle, loctite, tire lubricant, inner-tubes, bike repairs, emergency bicycle repairs, bicycle trail repairs, fix a flat tire, bike maintenance, bicycle maintenance, emergency maintenance, sun navigation, bicycle tour mechanical problems, cycle tour mechanical issues, navigation destination places to stay, great and small circles, bicycle speed/distance calculator (bike computer), crash survival, camping, sanitation, cleanup, water, insect repellant, batteries, food reserve, lightning facts and survival, foreign and domestic tour planning issues, panniers, trailers, carry bag/case, bicycle packing shipping transport issues, bicycle shipping and transporting, cook, cooking, fire, camp fire, camp stove, travel and cultural things to know, stove fuel, coleman, propane, butane, tire air pressure measures and equivalence table, tire air pressure measures and equivalents table, bicycle touring checklist, bicycle tour planning metrics, bike bicycle tour touring checklist, bicycle camping, cycling, check list, velo, bici, bicicleta, travel, trip, campaign, expedition, pannier, panniers, trailer, carry bag, cary case, ship, shipping, packing, commercial airlines, airline express, suitcase, luggage, transporting, survival tips, survival tricks, tour, cycling, holiday, items, cycle, ride, riding, campain, campaigning, self contained, supporting, supported, fully loaded, self sustaining, tool, tools, holiday, supplies, packing, adventures, adventure stories, story, saddle tale, tales, travel log, travelouge, ultralight, ultra light, cycling, camp, checklist, about stealth camping, stealth camp, stealth camp precautions, how to select a place to camp, camp selection, tent location, choosing or setting-up a campsite, keep on cycling (touring survival), on-tour bicycle help, 20+ common bicycle maintenance issues and solutions, derailer issues, bicycle mystery shifting, bicycle ghost shifting, how to shift a bicycle, bicycle tools, bicycle pumps, about bicycle chains, about bicycle chain management, bicycle nut and bolt threadlock, bicycle tire tools, bicycle inner tubes, bicycle wheels, bicycle panniers, bicycle tire air pressure measures and equivalence table, bicycle tire lubricant for inner-tubes, bicycle trailers, bicycle touring supplies and equipment, bicycle handlebar bags, bicycle carry bag, bicycle carry case, bicycle stoves, bicycle lighting, bicycle cargo net, bicycle tour navigation, bicycle travel navigation, bicycle destination and places to stay, bicycle sun navigation, great and small circles bicycle cooking, bicycle speed/distance calculator (aka computer),bicycle crash survival, bicycle camping, bicycle sanitation, bicycle cleanup, about water for bicycle touring, insect repellant, batteries, bicycle tour food reserve, how to avoid a bicycle crash, lightning facts and survival, bicycle packing for shipping or transport, bicycle shipping and transporting, bicycle tour planning, bicycle tour issues (foreign and domestic), bicycle touring checklist, bicycle travel and cultural things to know, bicycle tour planning metrics, about bicycle touring and touring issues,
in a bike shop, the techs/mechs will typically use a high pressure air hose/nozzle to blow out or dry out a bike chain.
while on tour, apply threadlock to nuts and bolts as they are discovered  loose (or for replacement of missing fasteners).
- permatex bottles and tubes are blue colored with white caps.
test: there is a test with a simple sprocket wear measure device/tool that looks similar to a chain whip, where one places the device's base between two sprocket teeth and lays the chain across the remaining sprocket teeth and if the third link (6th half link) will not hold onto the sprocket, then the pitch distance is too much (or the teeth are to worn).
thus, allowing the cyclists to get moving (if or when desired).
the use of disposable gloves (latex, nitrile, ...) helps greatly to keep one's self clean.
whenever we pass through a town or village we dump  the trash in a receptacle but sometimes it can be three of four days between  towns or trash can availability.
chains are attracted to the ground like the peanut-butter side of bread.
- store food in a bear bag or bear safe.
learn to read the signs.
- mark storage bags, as applicable, with marker pen for contents.
it is the inner plates and roller that must freely rotate around the pin (or rivet).
- chinese compasses orient southward, while most of the rest of the world orients northward.
a person should not  tightly wrap a wind-screen around a cooking pot/pan/oven, flame burner, and  fuel canister for a high heat output or a long duration burn - be sure that the  fuel storage container is separated from the flame/heat wrap area.
'good enough' can get one out of the field and back to civilization.
the nut and bolt clamp method of attachment is more  serviceable for bike shipping, when the mount must be removed in order to pack  the handlebar.
some people only use their bike light and accept the tent lighting  inconveniences.
we carry a second knife in/with the kitchen ware - it is only  to be used for cooking and the chief cook will get very  if the knife is used for anything other than kitchen work - all  lasting friendships and relationships have boundaries, learn them.
second, if one quickly streams oil, using a narrow straw tube from/on an oil bottle, across a line where the link plates and roller cross the chain rivet/pin, then one can lubricate the roller and chain plate gaps of one pin and each chain pin must be treated in the same manner.
- white gas stoves require some form of fuel pressurization (by manually pumping).
pour in about 1.0 inch of fuel.
when weighing in at airports, we often need to move a few pounds from on case to another.
on my own bikes, i will scratch/scribe in a letter.
one never knows what events will conspire to have a person or persons driving into the dark evening.
sometimes nylon lace type tips can be melted and molded (caution: burning and/or dripping liquid nylon burns intense like miniature napalm and must not be handled by hand (use piece of wet paper/cardboard ); some repair suggestions from "ian's shoelace site").
- http://www.bbinstitute.com/ barnett bicycle institute manager@bbinstitute.com
- field - periodic wipes: - for touring, the periodic wipe issue is that it is usually the accumulated dirt that needs to be removed and it is the dirt that causes chain, sprocket, and crank ring wear.
- some handlebar bag map systems use velcro mounting.
- cyclists over 200 pounds need to address the heavy duty wheel/rim stress issue up-front.
wheel spin checks are looking for less wheel wobble (left/right, up/down)
- as a navigator, one must be flexible and able to cross reference a turn with other relative aids (like street names, destination town names, road position, map validation, ...).
- slow down using a lazy s pattern (not a straight line).dennis' suspicion: a straight line does not allow high or low frequency resonate waves so dissipate within the bike frame but for some reason, based on survival experience, lazy s turns allow successful recovery.
in the game with scouts, everyone gets a turn in the middle using different directions.
caution: if the amount of air pressure loss is greater than 5 psi a  day, then start looking for another pressure loss cause.
the cable likes to jump out of the way during this process.
the cage should be over or close to being centered over a ring (usually the smallest ring).
sometimes one must bike for a while in wet miserable conditions just to  get to dry lodging where one can hole-up for a few days.
click noise in front crank (one click per pedal revolution): top mechanical issues directory - it can be a bottle or cage that needs to be bent back into proper position.
slime is liquid goo that turns into a fibrous solid material when it is exposed to air.
also, sometimes, we keep deet in a leak proof container (as we had a leaky deet  bottle once).
also check to see if the cage is hitting a sprocket/gear (there should be 1-2 mm clearance from the closest cage-sprocket shifter setting).
the links are not designed to be opened and closed at will and the links may eventually fail to hold a chain and when a chain link fails, it is almost always on a hill at the farthest point from any help.
- by far, people who ride on hard roads, versus dirt roads, get more miles from their chain.
- note that there are three common nipple/nut sizes (3.23, 3.30, and 3.45 mm - others exist, and 3.23 is the most common - aka park black).
take a very small flat metal bar and fold it into a spiral or twist around the cable's space (treading or twisting the cable into the inside space).
the cyclist usually finds a spot that will be out of the way of any  motorized traffic pulling off the road and from the view of motorized roadway  traffic.
in a crunch, sleeping-bag covers or similar such sacks work as a carry-bag substitute.
- usually the mid day sun dries items faster than the morning or evening sun.
in alaska, the leading killer of grizzlies are mosquitoes, literally sucking the life out!
a spoke is a bolt and a nipple is a nut (note that the nut's contact with  the rim is typically a flange on the other side of the rim
- when sleeping in a bag, it is unwise to burrow into the bag and breathe inside the bag.
- examples of mixed/combined penatrant/oil-lubricants products.
the worst time for a mystery shift is when standing on the pedals for a hill climb, invariably a cyclist gets the saddle driven up the crotch - ouch!
addendum (2010): there is, now, a new kind of double lined tube that has slime in just the lining and the lining is just on the tread side of the tube.
- if one is thrown off their bike, then rolling is usually the best course of action (assuming that a person is not about to go over a cliff or such - one still has to actively think).
- sleeping in the open is common (sleeping bag on top of a space blanket (or ground cloth), flashlight and weapon of protection handy).
streets can bend or dog leg.
on the equator itself, actual  sunrise and sunset time differences are measured in minutes and near the tropic  lines, the sunrise and sunset time differences can approach an hour and a few  minutes.
we've had caring hosts, for unexpected late night arrivals, voluntarily stand in the road so that we would not miss their location.
- warning: all penatrants are flammable and dangerous; some are more explosive than others - diesel and kerosene are the safer to use products of the listed penatrant products.
- don't adjust more spokes than two adjacent on one side or three in a row (two on one side and one from the other side) at any time.
most  canisters, when nearing empty, have low pressure delivery issues; we just swap  out canisters at this point.
one may not have to buy extra metal fuel storage bottles (we have yet to find  or try).
dennis had a warning while performing a shifting adjustment on the same bike on a bike stand just a day prior - the quick link just opened up and dropped the main chain while performing a pedal spin to test a cage/shift adjustment.
** feedback: from harry, of  ted's bicycles in colorado springs, has added two important pieces of  information for those that do/must use slime: remove the air valve component from the tire stem before adding slime.
thread lock compound also inhibits oxidation and/or galvanic [metal to  metal bonding] corrosion.
all bags need to be unrolled and fluffed at the campsite to be effective  insulators of warmth.
we pack out used paper (other than what is buried) in another  gallon sized plastic bag - we also place other accumulated trash in the same  bag and we have been known to leave an area a little cleaner than we found it,  a common practice among travelers (as well as to collect and leave more  firewood, if appropriate).
tour planning and issues (foreign and domestic)
² survival note: when a chain won't go into a gear properly, stop the pedal pressure, stop the bike, and physically look at the situation/problem.
as a navigator a traveler must be familiar with map reading and relative positioning.
- depending on where one is located, the midday stick shadow may point south or north or not exist at all.
therefore one has to address deviational differences between compass readings and directions and true north-south earth grid (longitude and latitude) readings and directions.
- the situation is that the cyclists, for whatever reason, are caught at sundown (or near sundown) in an area that has no known hotel, place of lodging, or campground.
- a few sleeping bags have interior tie strings for liners but most don't.
whenever we pass through a town or village we dump the trash in a receptacle but sometimes it can be three of four days between towns or trash can availability.
then we hang the items to dry (often in this order) on: yes our room may temporarily look like a 13th century hovel.
following are  some helpful visual images: amanda and rich ligato of  vagabonds had another nice field solution, they put a bungee cord between their  bike frame (bottle cage area) and the front wheel (wheel or spoke) in order to  stop bike roll and fall over.
this is one of those rare cases where a cheap looking, inexpensive light duty (versus heavy duty)
one must have appropriate and serviceable fuel containers/canisters that  work with the particular stove/s. always buy and use systems that are universal in their fittings and fuel  types, or else one might be stuck with a system that only has supplies in one  geographic region.
canister stoves, are very reliable and don't need servicing like white-gas  stoves.
one way to reduce the laundry choir(s) is to: carry/pack more underwear than shirts and pants;
aircraft bearing based moving parts see a lot of heat and a lot of activity and are carefully monitored - lives depend on processes working correctly and dependably.
but this wear can be accumulative with dirty chain wear and added weight chain wear which can increase wear by 25-50%.
henry all about thread lock compounds (aka: threadlock): top mechanical  issues directory why this is important?
tires get hot on hot days from the sun and from heavy loads (like from touring), but tires don't get hot from just riding around (like for autos and trucks).
about insect repellents, deet and permethrin: top about deet: 100% deet works best and has tested best as an insect repellent, especially for mosquitoes, but deet may pose a health hazard.
perform the same rolling and air squeezing task a second time for tight rolls (for better bag fit).
the other side of that issue is that a worn quick link will come apart during use - almost always while climbing a hill with a load.
- the tree can super-heat and twist on its hollowed cell fibers.
- the pulley axel bolts can be different from one another and should be marked (use a plus sign for the bolt that is closest to the cage's plus sign).
water facts and management: top in freezing environments or on very cool mornings, when one can, fill  water containers with hot water.
we had one come off the bike's rack while traveling on a  rough road and it got run over by a truck pannier racks and bags can have compatibility-fitting issues between the  bike, bag, rack, and mount - resolve before purchase or travel.
if one plucks each of a series of spokes, like a guitar, and the sound is  like ping, ping, thud, ping; the thud is a loose spoke.
marking determination depends on what components need to be removed for shipping and reassembly.
on occasion, some  people get lucky.
- will the traveling take place across areas that have unknown fuel sources?
one bike fall (from falling over the kick stand or slipping down from a structure or from crash impact) can cause debris to enter the system and gum up the inner workings or even break a shifter or a brake component.
there are times when some people want to drive at night (other than just  for fun or for some night time bike event).
notes: - the particular sprockets that typically need to be replaced are the ones that the cyclist spends the most time; typically this is the small front ring and/or the large back sprocket (aka the granny or climbing gears) and maybe an adjacent sprocket or two.
travel and cultural things to know bicycle tour planning metrics about bicycle touring and touring issues the bicycle touring checklist code of the road positive karma, chi, joss, spirit, good-will ... all have a habit of coming around again.
- 3-in-one oil was invented as a bicycle lubricant, rust preventative, and cleaner in 1894.
some cyclists use their home oven/stove to bake/evaporate the penatrant.
- a traveler should always have small bills and coinage of the country (or countries) being visited.
it is better to wipe excess oil off the chain before it is mounted to the bicycle (or re-cleaned), but the excess oil and chain can be wiped away while on the bike.
- blog chain feedback/comments: there is a sort of generalized movement among tour bike cyclists (mountain or road) and road bike cyclists (thus excluding bmx, track, fixies, and cruiser bikes) for changing chains to sram chains for the convenience of powerlinks over shimano pin driven systems.
- the other common kind of bungee net has four mounting hooks and it is typically used on top of atrailer and typically is mounted as a square or a diamond cover pattern.
he opened the suitcase and saw the strange contents.
a person should not tightly wrap a wind-screen around a cooking pot/pan/oven, flame burner, and fuel canister for a high heat output or a long duration burn - be sure that the fuel storage container is separated from the flame/heat wrap area.
- self sticking tire patches are usually way better and faster than using a patch and glue.
- check for wheel rim rotation roundness (lateral and radial): anything greater than 3/16 inch or 3 mm should have a tech or shop inspection/adjustment.
- list of penatrant types.
after a few weeks, even self washed laundry is ready for a washer and dryer or a professional laundry service.
however: - a burner may be attached directly to the fuel bottle's outlet, or - a burner may be connected remotely via a fuel transfer hose to a fuel bottle.
[not jp6 nor jp7] - this advice from a former military pilot (dennis).
this  method may take a wheel out of true, it may not, but it may put an unnecessary  bend in the spoke (discussed previously, a bend where it is not needed, a bend  in the wrong place).
a  watch's time is set to a time zone so that many nearby locations may operate  from common and shared clock time.
- we always carry one new brillo pad (in a plastic sealed bag) although we have not used one for years - it's a just in case thing.
set the hanger in the same axial plain as the hole was for the original hanger.
also, he states that talc is still widely used in the  agriculture industry.
if one is in the field and one can see or feel that there is slack in the cable wire then make sure the barrel adjustor is not loose, check each end (if loose, fix) or else take the slack out - usually this only involves one or two 1/8 outward turns of the barrel adjustor (on rare occasions up to a couple full turns).
- john barnett, of bbi, recommends that if a bicyclist only wants to carry one loctite bottle/type, then they should carry loctite 242 and use it for all fasteners.
the moisture from the breath will rob the bag of its insulating capabilities.
- warning: downhill runs and downhill running speeds may facilitate or induce some kind of vibration resonance that starts with a trailer wag (like a dog's tail wag).
- tour bike (less rear sprockets) versus speed bike (more rear sprockets):
- towels and rags are necessary for several chain wiping iterations.
it is possible that in some countries white gasoline may be a mix of two or more distilled gasoline types with slightly different boiling points (and flash points) but for all practical purposes white-gas is just gasoline.
miscellaneous: the waxy powder of an aspen tree will provide about a spf-10 sunblock  equivalent.
in its worst case, the chain may mystery shift.
while the inner tube may be just a little tacky from the acetone  wipe and while the ambient temperature is warm, apply the velcro sticky pads.
- one chain cleaning method is to use a flat low profile pan/lid like a cookie tin lid or the tin itself (or a frisbee or a solid pie tin - the original frisbee company made commercial pie tins).
this brute force push of the chain can be in either direction (up or down the cassette).
- see insect repellent discussions (deet and permethrin, read the hyper notes).
- space blanket (aka emergency blanket): - they work - read instructions.
synthetic sleeping bag materials tend to be heavier than goose down for the same amount of insulation r value.
top mechanical issues directory (under contruction) tire selection is a bit like aircraft design in that every choice made is at the exclusion of another capability.
" - william saroyan, from his introduction to james starrs'the noiseless tenor the next best place for bicycle help (than a bicycle shop): top - tire shops are a biker's best friend!
then, when a biker starts pedaling s/he starts shifting (often many sprocket/cassette rings) and applies too much torque pressure at the same time; thus breaking a chain.
know how to and have tested/operated all/any new stoves before touring.
- an out of position eccentric (tandem or greater passenger size bicycle).
most new chains, for almost every chain based bike created today, have a 1/2 inch pitch (99.99%).
she indicated to the kids that it was a good bike but that it needed some repairs.
naphtha is white gasoline (this knowledge from a coleman representative).
sun position and navigation facts 101:
note that the amount of days  is directly related to travel or tour distance.
cyclists must pay more attention to all sanitation issues (bathroom, cooking, cleaning, personal ... ), of which bacteria free clothing must become a focused priority.
note that butane lighters quit  working around 7-8,000 ft (22-2400 m).
don't use permanent threadlock or superglue (except for dire circumstances).
ok, ok, but what about the other times of the day?
if too much threadlock fluid/gel is applied to  the object, then immediately wipe away the excess or just wipe it clean and  start over.
- twelve inch trailer tires are very difficult to remove or fix.
most people will have reading-meaning interpretation problems at some  point.
- downshift before a hill, not on a hill (or else everything may come to a frustrating stop).
otherwise, the two best tools for emergency construction aresuper glue (permanent glue) and/or duct tape.
- a bag carry strap is very important and useful for toting the bag off the bike.
the pot will become very  black but the places that were soaped will come out shiny clean after a wash.
a rider can push uphill, sometimes nearly as quickly as one can ride.
[with no explanation]).
the spokes must match the existing spoke system.
if one does not know the cage's shape then try to square it more or less from a top-down view and make it parallel to the chain line (center line of the front rings to the center line of the rear sprockets).
the  inner tube's leak point would always be where the inner tube was most worn from  the liner.
while braking: top, mechanical issues directory, also see wheel/bicycle wobble - check the axle fit in the dropout: a poor fit of the axle in the dropouts is the #1 most common bicycle touring problem and a poor fitting causes other mechanical problems.
- measuring chain wear: there are bike-shop tools that can indicate the states of chain wear but there is a simple do it yourself test.
white gas stoves require some form of fuel pressurization (by manually  pumping).
- square the derailer cage to the chain line (an imaginary line from the center of front rings to the center of the rear sprockets).
this usually means that someone in the group needs to remember to get the needed object/information from the departing biker or that the object needs to be purchased (or ordered or a particular issue needs to be addressed) at the next opportunity.
after a few days on the road, the importance of  personal sanitation grows.
- cargo pants/shorts (many pockets) are becoming increasingly popular for touring cyclists, especially those pants designed with zip on/off leggings.
if we ever face either of these challenges, we'll have at least one white-gas stove system.
also, this method has the least worries and least additional effort for properly disposing of dirty fluids, just wash the ground and put the rags into a trash container while enroute somewhere.
[gear] (and 'h' screw means high
- boiling water or cooking over a fire: if the pot is already black and crusty, on the outside, from the smoke of many wood fires, then use that pot as is.
most bike stores do not carry large expedition bags in stock.
- at about 15° f (-10° c) or lower, liquid gasoline fuel systems burn more efficiently and controllable than propane/butane fuel systems.
- keep the eyes open for as much of the event as is possible.
bolts and nuts may (and  often do) unfasten in the middle of a tour, possibly leaving a cyclist stranded  but more likely adding a couple of unexpected days to a tour in an undesirable  location while the cyclist(s) figure a way to manage the effects of a broken or  missing bike part.
on  hotel based tours, one usually does the laundry daily if possible, washing  just before or after the evening meal depending on available time.
talcum is not needed if one was to pre-inflate a bicycle tube with  just enough air pressure as to give the tube its round form and install the  tube into the tire; then that action would usually prevent tube folds or twists  (which would otherwise have eventually lead to a flat tire).
of course road side rest areas are  designed and spaced for automobile traffic and traffic speeds, like 50 miles  apart or one hour apart at automobile speed, and on bicycles an entire touring  day can happen in 50 miles.
to the best of our knowledge, there is no such thing as a one piece  propane/butane canister and stove.
- avoid an impact force to the shoulder that is inline with the shoulder and neck.
on camp  based tours, depending on whether one is expecting to cycle out of camp the  next day, either, one does laundry washing just before or after the evening  meal and lets the clothing dry over night, or one does laundry washing in the  morning and sun dries it during the day (maybe while making a side trip).
if available, get a hand from another person, to hold a pedal or chain in place (to keep the chain from free running to the ground).
it helps to prevent strand breaks and insures that the cable will last longer.
- experience: from cat (of bbi), when reconnecting a busted chain (or new chain of proper length), lay the chain across the crank housing (not the crank sprocket), thus giving more slack to better manage and control the chain.
- we have seen people use coleman fuel from/for their camp stoves - this can be dangerous.
it is worth taking one class, just to learn this maneuver.
we mix our canister size purchases so that 4 oz canisters exist primarily as a backup/spare and we try to use larger canisters as the primary fuel source.
- hills (taken strongly) and/or all day mountain rides (time spent mostly climbing) can shorten the life of a chain by as high as 25% but 10-15% is typical.
- the amount of daily sun rise and set location change is slightly greater during the equinox times and slightly slower for the solstice times (an effect of spatial geometry).
- for routine lubrication (not after super cleaning the chain, but after a wipe down), use the 'hold the bottle stem/tube still method' over the rollers as one spins the chain, or one can 'move the bottle over a still chain' (this is done in segments as one rotates the chain the length of one oil run, repeat till done).
how to loosen a kinked bicycle chain, how to loosen a tight chain link, top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory or how to push-in a protruding rivet or pin: a picture is worth 1,000 words -chinese
- get/have/obtain a 'chain holder'.
- we prefer oil (to include teflon and/or synthetic blends) over wax or grease types of lubrication, for long range touring, because oil is the least messy lubrication and presents the least management problems.
if a cyclist gets a factory oil lubed chain or the factory installs pre-lubed chains, then there is no need for further action, however there is nothing wrong with a re-lube for peace of mind.
emergency: some people have successfully placed the pedal end of a crank, still mounted to the bike, onto a boulder and jumped onto the arm near the bottom bracket to perform an impact bend with a friend holding the bike in place.
note: in some countries, the word 'paraffin' means kerosene, here paraffin means a white waxy flammable substance.
it happens that this same mechanical  issue can happen in aircraft.
any type of alcohol does not burn as hot or heat water/food as fast  as petroleum variants but alcohol gets the job done.
see bullet #2 above, for front derailer re-mount instructions.
at issue, for single rider bicycles, is that most cycles are designed to carry a greater portion of the riders weight to the rear tire, therefore, when packing panniers (front and back), a rider would need more of the packed weight in the front of the bike.
in the case of tension arm cross-support-bar rub, re-thread the chain on the other side of the cross-support-bar.
re-supply issues: - until recently, the smallest quantity of coleman fuel was 1  gallon (3.78 liters).
then mystery shifting is often a symptom of coupler(s) working loose, usually at the bottom coupler position(s).
a cyclist mounts the chain by rotating the derailer's cage 90°, laying the chain across the opening, and then releases the basket; the swing arm then snaps the tension out of the chain and it is ready to go [one should conduct a pedal spin to synchronize the cage position with the derailer's hand setting].
on trails it is a wear issue (mounted lights have more frequent breakdowns).
let's say that sunrise comes up at 6 am.
- a big muddy cleanup may be needed at the tour's end.
we usually use bicycle squirt bottles to wash  the hands with bar soap (small, carried in its own plastic bag), sometimes at  the poop site or sometimes back at the bicycle.
ps, don't be surprised  to find that one is parking their bike next to the owner's mercedes or bmw.
it may be wise to duct tape the lens caps (small strips along the seam).
that means that the duffle bag(s) must be foldable and storable in order to be stowed in a trailer or pannier, that is, the duffle bag must be flexible and foldable with or without wheels.
- experience: we broke a plastic tire tool/lever, and most are plastic, while removing a trailer tire to fix an inner tube flat.
accident scenarios are reversed engineered to the point of explaining when and where a cyclist could and should recognize an evolving accident situation (the road survival part) and explaining what course(s) of action that a cyclist could and should perform in order to avoid a collision (the defensive action part).
if one has a shiny new pot and one wants it to stay shiny, then coat the outside of the pot with a thin layer of soap, cook and/or boil water, and then wash the pot clean.
the expression addresses the issue of whether to pack and leave an area with wet gear or stay in an area and dry the gear in sunlight?
- commercial airlines recommend that flyers keep tires at least 15 psi below the tire's recommended maximum pressure.
- caution: when buying spare tubes, beware that there are long valve stems and short valve stems.
most often, the 'l' screw needs to be adjusted inboard using the ideas presented in thederailer operation concept's graphic/image, such that the cage moves in a direction to positively place the chain onto the low gear (smallest front ring) without pushing the chain over/off the ring and without chain rub noise.
see bike camping checklist for other travel gear see on-bike clothing checklist for bicycle clothing see off-bike clothing checklist for camp/tour clothing see clothing issues for braod tour clothing topics see cooking equipment for cook
another advantage of a tour company issuing a gps is that the cycling company can hide some of the routing details and secrets from competing vendors - we have signed non-disclosure agreements for some operators.
- a derailer cable that is too loose (typically) or tight (rarely) can also cause a sound that sounds like a misaligned chain or a broken sprocket tooth.
it is best to work the lateral spoke issues first and then the radial issues, however, one spoke dimension adjustment will always effects the other spoke dimension.
a pinched or twisted tube will wear unevenly and break or leak in a rather short period of time, measured in a few minutes or hours.
it may be used as an additional insulating layer between the bags and the tent bottom, a common usage in the winter as well as in mountain climates.
it is wise to set up a cooking area away from the tent.
sometimes a hair dryer can be used to dry clothing if the air is super humid and clothes won't dry unassisted, over night.
rivet[or rarely a roller may ride on a bushing, which in turn rides on a pin/rivet]).
- the field solution may be to remove the front derailer and operate the front as a fixed gear and only use the rear derailer to shift as needed.
in his case, he's had plenty of practice.
we are seriously gracious, thankful, and we take pictures with the owner(s) and helper(s).
the cyclist is in the correct lane and needs to change: if one is  in the correct lane but needs to change, thenuse a combination signal and  hand-finger pointing method.
otherwise, an adjustment in the field while on tour, probably should not involve making any cable tension adjustments.
flip the wheel for each flange  set of spokes.
how to fix damaged cable retainers.
this method gets a little funky when measuring from the horizon to directly overhead without the use of some object like a tree or building (to help mark the fist counts) but guess what, there's another method for noon stuff.
most people know that its harder to signal and pedal at the same time, just  don't be too brief in the signal, other people are busy too.
in some cases a cheaper stick-on (glue-on) plastic mount can be applied but this too requires a smooth clean surface and the bike will probably need to be power sanded or maybe even power grinded.
- a worn sprocket may create a sort of repelling action to a chain with a different pitch (usually a new chain on an old sprocket ring but it can be an old chain on a new sprocket).
the measured length of the threadlock fluid/drop is typically .15 inch (1/8) or 2 mm (no more than .25 inch or 4 mm) on the threads at the end of the bolt.
there is usually no choice as to where to place the drop because the nut  opening is often smaller than the threadlock brush or nozzle.
liquid fuel (white or unleaded gas) stove advantages and disadvantages : at about 12,000 feet (3650 m) or higher, liquid gasoline fuel systems burn  more efficiently and controllable than propane/butane fuel systems.
sometimes this can be done by ear.
- warning: in the worst case scenario, baffle sewn cargo pant pockets can get you killed.
in over 2,000,000,000 applications of deet, there have been just over 30 reported skin irritant reactions (rash like).
start with the default derailer position first, it is possible that low gear on the derailer may now be sitting on the second or third sprocket also it is possible that a cyclist may have to mentally alert one's self to stop from using one or more of the high gears (smallest sprockets) due to possible derailer out of range limits.
sewing, while time consuming, will outlast iron-on strips.
but we haven't had to cook  above 11,000 (3350 m).
if the previously removed inner-wire has a good head and it has at least 5 inches of good wire (not damaged or frayed from the crash) use the wire, as is, for now.
- wally werner, adventure cycling guide (many expeditions), carries his group first aid kit on the right side of his bike, because in an emergency he knows to lay his bike on the left side (to protect the derailers from the ground) and quickly access his first aid kit which is always just under his pannier flap.
there are decals for sell on the internet that make bikes look old, dented, dirty, scratched, and un-desirable.
mark or tape the chain for a break point (pin removal location)
- in most situations, just after a penatrant application to a chain, penatrants can prevent oil penetration and repel an immediate oil application to the chain.
- so far, the monetary costs of using oil to clean oil are the same or less expensive than using other bicycle chain cleaning products and/or using bicycle chain oil to clean a bike chain.
" - presently, all loctite bottle colors are red (or a shade of red) and all bottle caps are white.
not a good thing to learn 2 days from a bike shop or tire store.
- bag, clean and serviceable, working zippers/closure mechanism - packing instructions, add on instructions/notes - bike part/piece/component covers/protectors - loose parts/pieces bag(s)/case(s) - disposable cleaning rags, especially for chain grime, dirt, and grease removal - foam wraps, styrofoam shields (see creation instructions) - packing straps (velcro straps) - bag tag / ownership id tag: one never knows when a bag tag will be the one thing that gets a lost/forgotten/misplaced bag and contents returned.
international travel issues with stoves and fuel: - one cannot fly with fuel!
about jockey wheels / derailer pullies.
each one of the wheel components is important.
often the wire strap must be cut in order to remove a  handlebar bag mount but users of this system never need to remove the mount,  they just remove the bag).
then, removing one pannier may be considered, just to obtain access to the rear derailer.
the question is a bit like asking 'how long should an automobile last'.
the cyclist usually scouts out the place during the remaining daylight, but for whatever reasonit may be a drop dead-tired emergency rest area selected in the middle of darkness.
pack for rapid access to  rain gear, first aid kit, map, phone, flash light, matches, camera, and wallet  - no matter where the item is stored.
don't take on single  track until ready and capable.
many pumps do not achieve this requirement.
- break off the pin's pilot piece.
caveat: threadlock is for active bicycle touring and not for  shipping.
so two fists equals about 15°arc (see where this is going).
slime for touring: top mechanical issues directory we have had no luck using "slime" in our tires and we recommend that it not be used for touring.
this applies to integrated brake-shifter systems too.
- two stoves of differing fuel types (typically white gas and propane, but sometimes white gas and alcohol) -
the entire seven day tour was in written instructions in a written table (tabular format) that had 'leg distance', 'total distance', 'travel instruction', and sometimes a 'tour note'.
we were given travel instructions in 100% written text and symbols.
learn or figure where the food will be stored: 1) not in the tent, 2)
keep in mind that this position should be used only as a last resort!
warning - bicycle handling skill: if a person locks their arm  muscles, while holding the handlebars while moving/riding/cycling, to the point  that there is no absorption of road/bicycle vibration, then a person can cause  a front wheel steering wobble.
it is difficult to work on the cage and not damage the four-bar support parallelogram - be smart and forceful with control.
it is wise to shift no more than two rear sprockets at a time, or else the chain may never catch up to the derailer and therefore seize/freeze (the chain wedges between the derailer cage and sprockets - can happen in the front derailer too), thus forcing the cyclist to stop and manually adjust the chain, derailer, and shifter.
- only experienced cyclists, campers and travelers should attempt stealth camping.
if, unavailable, then hydroseal type waterproof bags work well (treated nylon with special coated material).
some good tour bike characteristics: - tour bike (longer chain) versus speed bike (shorter chain): the longer the drive train, the lesser the cross chain issue/sensitivity.
coleman fuel is a commonly carried camp stove fuel for bike touring and it is readily available at camp grounds, either to buy, borrow, or leave extra fuel with another camper.
if applied  to a nut apply 1/2 a drop (takes luck, skill, or practice) or one drop (max) -
heat and vibration shaking seem to expedite full surface area oil contact.
front derailer adjustment, first check: top mechanical issues directory rear derailer adjustment derailer adjustment steps follow, below this derailer concepts graphic.
- the best insulator is a closed cell foam pad.
we may or may not keep the plastic container bag, depending on bag wear or bag contents.
in actuality, nipples and spokes can be  over torqued and there is no standard way to make this method work every time -  it does work sometimes, it does not work all the time.
- one capability is that a person can sleep in the open, without carrying a tent.
however,  note that if a sleeping pad gets wet, one can cover it with a space blanket  (recommended to carry).
the head hood on  a mummy bag was invented to serve the purpose of a stocking cap, but many  people cannot tolerate the total confinement of a mummy bag and prefer open  square end bags.
typical or common emergency camp reasons are delays caused by: bike  repair, bonk, hypothermia/physical/heat exhaustion (inability to think  clearly), illness, dizziness, injury, injured partner (muscle strain), threats  and/or road rage from a vehicle driver.
take the chain off the bike, lay it out on a clean surface (ideal if there is a small nail brad to gently pull the chain slack away) and then measure the distance to the 12th link on the far away side of the roller while pulling on the 12.5" link (12 links or 24 pins is 12 inches, a link is one outer plate pair and one inner plate pair, new roller pitch is exactly 1/2 inch when new) so the accumulated distance at 12 links should be exactly 12 inches.
use matches up to about 11,500 (3500 m), then magnesium strikers.
crouch down on the balls of the feet, keeping them as close together as possible.
derailer adjustment order (shop or field, front before rear): - if both derailers need adjusting, then always perform the front derailer adjustment first.
seechain lubrication issues for benefits.
there are no signs prohibiting camping or resting.
- carry spare/replacement links and/or master links - caution/lesson/experience: sram quick links and power links are only supposed to be used once (by their own documentation).
also, marking a master link helps to find it faster for maintenance or repairs.
couples who are tired of mismatched, always slipping apart pads, may enjoy  the benefits of a double pad.
we would have been quite happy to have a simple computer.
- balance of load in panniers - left-right sides should be within 1-2 pounds of one another.
this is a similar method as used for un-bindinga kinked chain (which is addressed in a following section).
and all of the other stuff is myth: talcum has nothing to do  with tube or tire/tyre longevity, leak prevention, or leak speed reduction.
it is our experience that bottles of 10 to 20 ounce size are not practical  for touring by bicycle; buy the larger storage containers.
darren states that one should use a  detachable fuel system for international travel (for destination cycling).
these rivets may make vibration noises while riding and may be very irritating after a while.
or, glue two nuts to the frame and let the cable run in between.
unfortunately there are usually a couple different stop plate mounting position choices/options (it is often not 'idiot proof'
one bike fall (from falling over the  kick stand or slipping down from a structure or from crash impact) can cause  debris to enter the system and gum up the inner workings or even break a  shifter or a brake component.
sometimes eat cold food and not have a fire at all.
survival note: steel is the most forgiving material and therefore the most survivable bike tour frame material and material of choice of global trekkers.
mbs get about a 15-25% reduction in expected chain life.
one of the caveats about using car washes is that accidently spraying the crank and hub bearing areas can create another problem (water in the bearings), a much more expensive issue to address whether it's the cost of your time and/or your money.
always have local small coinage.
ergo, it is better to place small clamp on burners only to the  shorter 4 oz propane/butane canisters.
all white-gas stoves  need servicing at some point (which is why they have repair kits).
mental math occurs here. .
also electrical tape or 'duct tape' wraps can  dampen sound.
sleeping in the open is common (sleeping bag on top of a space blanket (or  ground cloth), flashlight and weapon of protection handy).
"take a  course in good water and air; and in the eternal youth of nature you may renew  your own.
before first light and maybe have packed the tent in a pannier/trailer by sunrise and the cyclist may be cooking or eating breakfast just after sunrise.
[caution: this step often forgotten.] - reset, as is appropriate, the 'l' screw and/or h screw so that a cyclist will have a full adjustment run for the next adjustment session.
- run the chain around the largest rings (cage threading is not usually needed but with two ring front derailers one may need to thread through or else the cage may be in the way).
- we usually have both cleaning wipe types and they can be purchased in bulk at x-mart.
- learn or figure where the food will be stored: 1) not in the tent, 2) bear vault, 3) bear bag.
domo arigato gozimus dojo.
comment: we are not going to suggest where to place the touring  accruements, but we have evolved a system where we physically place our gear  pretty much in the same spot for each different trip.
sometimes people can feel the outer plates settle in between the pin ridges.
that is, change tires early versus later.]
- keep deet and water purifier bleach/clorox in lowest area in waterproof containers (like plastic zip lock type bag) as it can/will leak and destroy plastic, nylon, and leather.
bicycle assembly checklists: the following are 'assembly sections' of specialized bicycle shipping and packing checklists (they are all similar): - bicycle: general assembly checklist (for the typical solid-frame road, touring, or mountain bike) - bicycle:
roloff's point is that the 11 to 21 tooth sprockets need to be replaced immediately (because the chain can start slipping or rounding over the teeth - a safety hazard for the rider and damaging to the bike) and sprockets with more teeth can wait to be replaced (less urgent of a problem/situation).
if one uses a spray bottle with deet, learn to spray it on the bare palm and then hand apply it to skin areas.
experience: it is usually better to ship the bike with the chain removed than mounted and taped to the frame in a bag.
chain slack happens because the sprocket disks and crank rings are different sizes.
to make matters even more interesting, the oldest centers of old towns  have often burned down a couple of times in the most recent one thousand years  (and may have the newest looking buildings).
this should look parallel to the centerline between the two straight tires (or center of a trike or quad), if not, this is an additional shop issue to address (later).
in the field: if the replacement pin is too short, and no other correct replacement pin is available, consider using a master link or reusing a removed pin/rivet (to get out of a desperate situation).
- cut off excess cable, but leave enough to allow the cyclist to reset the derailer parallelogram and/or selected sprocket.
- sprockets are driven by a chain (from a power crank), gears are driven by gears (from a power crank).remember: car engine pistons are connected to a crank shaft.
- be fluid, if an object is going to punch the body, don't stiffen up for an impact, be loose and force the body to roll the body part along with or away from the punching object - move a body part along with a punch.
- cage design is ubber complex and sophisticated; the cage nose, middle, and tail may each have different chain railing/derailing concave/flat/curved shapes for chain shift management as well as high and low cage shape functions and every now and then a cage tail may be designed to curve away from the nose or that may the field solution when such did not exist before.
if one has a shiny new pot and one wants it to stay shiny, then coat the  outside of the pot with a thin layer of soap, cook and/or boil water, and then  wash the pot clean.
empty the container in the morning and rinse it appropriately for pannier  storage.
front derailer adjustment, next do: - understand the derailer adjustment concept from the previous picture (just above).
the dwelling's architectural age is noticeably older as one approaches the  oldest part of the town.
- trim the legs after the shape is formed.
3 mm or more of wobblemay be dangerous to one's health.
on 3 or 4 day tours, we do carry enough saniwipe and/or handiwipe tissue, but on long tours we rely on a good ol soap bar (more utilitous than liquid soap and its associated bottle management).
if one is shipping and reassembling bikes (also see bike shipping for more shipping details), be sure to mark other key component meeting points (like the handlebar and stem).
they are either temporary or permanent.
what no one tells you: the outer plates are attached to the pin (or rivet) -
for reasons unknown, one cannot find loctite numbered compounds in bicycle  shops, hardware stores, nor auto shops (although the stores may carry other  loctite products) -
most multi speed chains (aka derailer chains, which means chains used for shifting versus chains for fixed gear bikes [sometimes called 'fixies']) run on 3/32" (2.38mm) wide rollers.
the anti-chain suck device needs to be checked for wear and maybe adjusted.
- most of the time, the cyclist's own bike clothing is serviceable for off the bike activities, but not always.
the amount of daylight and night are equal  only on these event dates.
when compared side-by-side in identical conditions, synthetic clothing will always dry faster.
be sure to properly dispose of remnant cleaner.
if a helmet and sweatband are worn, then the sunlight is likely to be blocked from the forehead (thus eliminating the need for sunscreen on the forehead).
note: all of the methods of chainoil application need the chain to be forward or reverse cycled/pedaled through each and every ring/cassette (for their lubrication).
- loctite 272 and 277 are permanent compounds and are colored "red.
water facts and management: top - in freezing environments or on very cool mornings, when one can, fill water containers with hot water.
we took a child's styrofoam swimming noodle, in our case colored lime green, and cut two segments (for each bike) into four inch lengths, using a regular saw.
this same issue is taught to some pilots in  flight school, especially to helicopter pilots.
- some people carry spare spokes.
if rear panniers are mounted, one may need to remove one or both panniers.
the b screw adjusts the distance between the guide pulley and the largest rear sprocket/cog.
however: experience, we had a cold temperature patch repair problem such that a self sticking patch would not stick, period.
itsbenefits to bicyclists is that it has a distinct greasy feel and it is not soluble in water (it works in wet conditions without turning to mush) and talc can serve as an effective lubricant between the tire and the inner-tube to keep them from sticking.
the disadvantages of an attached burner and liquid fuel tank are that one cannot have a camping type oven set on the top of the burner and then tightly wrap a wind screen/reflector around the base - it is possible to overheat the fuel tank and burn up the entire system.
the first nuts or bolts to loosen are most typically the pannier rack  support fasteners and the fender fasteners.
bottles are 10 ml and 50 ml  ($20-$45 usd respectively in year 2008) - not cheap.
it was discovered that certain spoke lacing patterns gave wheels a better/improved strength, flexibility, and durability over other patterns.
this is true for dry or wet leaves and the worse situation is dry leaves on top of old soggy/boggy leaves at an intersection.
also  use waterproof bags for the sleeping bag(s) and the sleeping pad(s).
there is no pin movement on the back plate.
rear sprocket/cassette and chain grind noise, top, mechanical issues directory, noise symptom/solution sub-directory rear chain noise and sprocket side rub noise; rear (mostly) derailer cable tension adjustment (when and why): a: chain rubs/grinds on something in the rear derailer area chain and rear sprockets don't quite line-up - usually cable tension can be adjusted at the grip shift or shift lever.
note that in many cases, the field work is just to get the wheel in good enough shape to get out of the field and into a bike shop.
note: remember to pick up your belongings (gloves ...)!
on the other hand, the selected area may be 100 yards away from a road,  fence, visible traffic, or structures.
- coleman fuel and similarly competing fuels (that show an image of a coleman pump stove and/or coleman pump lantern on the container) are made from naphtha.
- wax and oils with wax coagulate around 60°f and will not pour or penetrate where needed.
- wheel spin checks are looking for less wheel wobble (left/right, up/down)
- chain links, link pins, and master or connector links are not universal.
liquefied gas stoves are especially practical for travel in the  usa, europe, japan, and populated areas of asia and north america (versus  mongolia, afghanistan, alaska, and the yukon)
their fare and it may allow them to get an early dinner or perform last minute tasks.
- the most effective bicycle chain cleaning system is to use oil as a cleaner: sheldon brown uses this same argument with less elaboration.
in addition, the (front) handlebar bag tends to also contain small but dense objects.
fire starter, wind proof lighter, matches, and magnesium striker issues: - some people carry emergency fire starter material; usually this is a little cube of something bought commercially or it may be homemade (like wax or paraffin drizzled onto lint from a clothes dryer).
don't adjust more spokes than two adjacent on one side or three in a row  (two on one side and one from the other side) at any time.
since about 2003, most bike mounted tire pumps, are convertible between  schrader and presta tire valve types.
it can be the tire pump on a side or cage mounted pump.
- note: heavier front loads require more arm strength, therefore some riders place more weight in the rear and some riders prefer to pull a loaded trailer (thus freeing up front weight for control and changing the percentage of weight on the bike's tires).
- on the other hand, the selected area may be 100 yards away from a road, fence, visible traffic, or structures.
- towel rack(s) - curtain rods - seat/chair backs -
there are a few top-of-the-line drive train systems (cranks, cassettes, derailers, and chains) that are directional and have special instructions for chain mounting, link placement and link segment placement - owners of those bike systems will probably know about their bike's special requirements.
detached burners (connected by a hose) work well with any canister size.
- as a minimum, if using liquid petroleum stoves, make sure that they burn white gasoline (sometimes called white gas) as well as unleaded gasoline (for automobiles, use the lowest octane for vehicles) but know that some stoves, for a greater purchase cost, can additionally burndiesel and kerosene fuels.
at or after 2010, thread lock compounds  could be found in some major hardware stores (big box stores).
also: - street naming has usually resulted from town growth over a period of time (measured in centuries).
has low human absorption but has traced its way into breast milk batteries and battery management: top - the aa battery is the most common battery in the world.
generally, carry the smaller but heavier objects in the front: tools,  parts, lube, stove, fuel, and cook ware.
- just so that the reader knows, no one that we know of, sells just jockey wheel seals or parts.
it seems to not matter how wet a bike is during a ride as long as the seat is dry.
about penatrant cleaners/lubricants: top, mechanical issues directory ,chain sub-directory
- long term solution:
- loose headset - tighten/fix (sometimes these need to be pretty snug)
fire starter, wind proof lighter, matches, and magnesium striker issues: some people carry emergency fire starter material; usually this is a  little cube of something bought commercially or it may be homemade (like wax or  paraffin drizzled onto lint from a clothes dryer).
almost all front derailers default to the low position when not connected to the shift cable (but there are exceptions and it has to do with the design of the four-bar parallelogram that holds the chain rail cage).a way to validate the at-rest-position (without undoing the cable) is to place the shifter in either extreme gear setting (chain and derailer cage on largest or smallest ring) and physically pull in the middle of the cable (at the down tube or bottom tube for tandems +), if the cable pull moves the cage over another gear, then it started at the at-rest-position.
cosmoline is now used all over the world as a metal preservative.
for example, say that it's about 2:00 pm (1400 hours), we can count 4 fists backwards from the sun to find the 180° due south line and then make easy heading direction plans from there.
- most new white gas stoves will burn unleaded petrol (since about 2003), but validate.
- penatrants can be used for cleaning a chain.
however, in the outback, a cyclist may not have telephone access, smart-phone access, nor internet access.
a cyclist can also use a pen, or a spit & dirt smear).
hand axe, saw, hammer/mallet issues: a device is needed to pound in tent stakes in many places with hard ground  and no rocks, yet who wants to carry a heavy weight on the trail?
- replacing the chain if it is worn out such that the pitch has changed significantly.
these rivets  may make vibration noises while riding and may be very irritating after a while.
the only travel issue that we have had is that the styrofoam collar may slide down the tongue toward the suitcase - it sort of does not matter while towing the trailer on the bike, but just before disconnecting the trailer from the bike, insure that the styrofoam collar is near the coupler - the best place is right over the rubber coupler bolt.
'dry out now or dry out later' - the expression addresses the issue of  whether to pack and leave an area with wet gear or stay in an area and dry the  gear in sunlight?
- sometimes the l and h screws are not labeled.
we  were given travel instructions in 100% written text and symbols.
the purpose of a connector it to eliminate having to reconnect a cable at a brake head or a derailer head (pinch bolt) thus eliminating a need to readjust a derailer or brake.
parking brake or front brake lock band/strap/wrap: top mechanical issues directory brake lever strap (i.e., parking brake): the way that the original concept was learned here, was via matt or bren at bikehacks.com ( http://bikehacks.com/ecovelo-parking-brake-for-your-bike/).
note that when an anti chain device is functioning (that is, if/when the chain is hitting the anti-chain suck device) then that is a symptom of a drive train problem issue that needs to be resolved.
many touring bicyclists carry a few extra  spokes and nipples.
most self supported bicycle 'tour groups' with a paid/hired leader  in the usa,use two stoves; typically both stoves are combination  white-gasoline/unleaded-gasoline fuel systems that sit on small attached  fuel tanks (like the coleman exponent).
- one can make a jig by hammering two nails, 1.9 to 2.0 inches apart, into a piece of wood.
while we can more easily overcome jet lag with bicycling work, we cannot overcome jet lag while sitting in an air conditioned room while sitting in a comfortable chair, where the lights are turned down for a projector presentation.
the fire can/stove will get very smutty.
white gasoline is gasoline with nothing in it, no additives, just  ultra clean.
the last caveat is that if one is going to tour for 3 to 6 months (for example, conducting a cross continent tour and carrying a tour load), that cycling activity will wear out one chain and probably wear out two chains - it is wisest to alternate chains in this case and definitely wise to carry a backup chain.
| close me | bicycle touring checklist | bookmark | bottom | ©/about |
- review the 'chain tool use' pictures and the 're-attach a broken chain' pictures (above).
the following are issues to consider for a handlebar  bag(from our experiences): it is important that the handlebar bag mounting hardware be able to attach  at different angles.
crashes of this nature usually have a bent handlebar, destroyed shift system, and at least one good remaining brake.
if the driver asks about what's in the bag, then the answer should be "it is equipment" or "sporting equipment" (bikes are sport equipment, a person just don't say or show what kind of equipment it is and the cyclist keeps the bike enclosed and sealed).
in theory, this is like tuning/stressing a guitar string, over tighten a little and then reset it as desired, in theory the stress takes out any stretch that may occur over time.
use loctite 242 (temporary) "blue" (colored fluid) on bolts of  7mm or larger diameter.
there is a third spoke adjustment direction (fore/aft-torsion) but only advanced and very unusual spoke lacing patterns need to address this issue and it's better left to wheel persons.
- always have repair kits and instructions for white gas stoves (a good reason to have two identical stoves and carry only one repair kit).
bicycle touring checklists (supported/self supported) about bicycle touring 1 of 2 (planning/issues) about bicycle touring 2 of 2 - displaying now - about bicycle transport (pack/ship/box) |
here's a useful fist measure* reference table: 1 fist ~ 7~8° or 30 minutes of relative sun travel (actually the earth  rotates)
we  number our canisters so as not have more than two partial full canisters with a  two stove/burner setup.
it happens that 'coleman' is fairly well known international brand name associated with white gas or coleman fuel and the term may be used in remote countries to mean white gas (and not the brand of white gas/naptha that coleman sells).
here's a useful fist measure* reference table: - 1 fist ~ 7~8° or 30 minutes of relative sun travel (actually the earth rotates) - 2 fists ~ 15° or 1 hour - 3 fists ~ 24° or 1.5 hours - 4 fists ~ 30° or 2 hours - 5 fists ~ 37° or 2.5 hours - 6 fists ~ 45° or 3 hours - we can use our fist knowledge to tell time and to navigate.
- during the noon-lunch rest-stop, if it is bright and sunny, hang items out to dry while lunching.
conversely, where there are no road side tables or rest areas, that generally implies that a commercial establishment is nearby nor coming soon.
terms 2, extended/related chain issues: the rear group of sprockets can also be called a cassette or a cluster and may have none, one, more, or all sprockets be replaceable as individual sprockets (often directly proportional to cost).
probably one of the biggest potential travel benefits of a handlebar bag is its ability to hold and display a map, like a miniature dashboard.
- the dwelling's architectural age is noticeably older as one approaches the oldest part of the town.
one can carry as much as they want but most people want to  carry as little as is needed.
bicycle wobble: top, mechanical issues directory, also see wheel vibration
- thanks to the cell phone, it is not unusual to call the destination location shortly before the expected arrival time to get specialized final directions.
- gross bike weight matters, the more the load on a bike, the more that the bike chain wears.
- when riding on dirt road trails, especially double track jeep trails, because soft dirt and sand tends to drift to the lower of the two tracks, switching lanes to the upper track (track of the higher elevation) will usually result in a more efficient ride (less pedal effort to maintain speed).
- when planning or scoping a route on a map, consider writing/indicating key change/mileage/distance points on the map itself, especially when map keys or information boxes are hidden away by map folding.
but we haven't had to cook above 11,000 (3350 m).
look for the word 'naphtha.'
this works but is not as efficient and as  effective as the bbi method because the bend is not at the natural spoke  intersection.
this works but is not as efficient and as effective as the bbi method because the bend is not at the natural spoke intersection.
no one knows how it will affect earth and navigation on earth.
it works for drawing pertinent concepts or objects, maps, names and addresses, and for making travel notes or ideas.
a few people, especially those with a touch of lesdyxia, are prone to  reading errors.
if needed, consider borrowing a water hose or visiting a car wash or a creek.
taking the slack out of the chain may be accomplished by: - working with a clean chain (degrease/degrime and clean lube the chain).
the same spoke sets, just discussed, can be bent by squeezing the spokes together, by hand, at a point between the nipples and the intersection of the spoke crossing.
the concern is about the parting biker having or having  had a special tool or something else that the group needs or will need (like  tickets, keys, codes, telephone numbers, ...).
"we woke to deer in the field this morning."
these loctite products can be found online and in commercial  "fastener" type stores.
at 6 o'clock, slime can run up and into the stem by sheer volume and at 11-12-1 o'clock, slime can settle into the stem.
caution: metal tire tools are much more likely to puncture or  damage an inner tube than plastic tools.
often, backpackers and cyclists would make a one  gallon purchase at a store and be forced to leave some fuel in the container,  as they could not safely carry all of the fuel (too heavy, too bulky, or not  enough safe storage containers/bottles).
we mix our canister size purchases  so that 4 oz canisters exist primarily as a backup/spare and we try to use  larger canisters as the primary fuel source.
- hand axe, saw, hammer/mallet issues: - a device is needed to pound in tent stakes in many places with hard ground and no rocks, yet who wants to carry a heavy weight on the trail?
hikers and bikers do not have any protection and must use their wits.
we don't really know  the effect that such a change will have on earth.
tents that are fully enclosed keep creepy crawlers out.
abouthair dryers (assuming that the hotel does not have a fast  inexpensive laundry washing service):
- chain part/tool/support needs are very chain specific for 10 or 11 speed chains.
always test spin the pedals after an adjustment and run the shifter(s) through all gears (sprockets/cogs, rings) and always take a test ride before putting the tools away.
- don't get repellent anywhere near anyone's eyes, lips, or arm pits.
learn to dry wet gear, clothing, and/or equipment with the mid day or mid morning sun (whenever it appears for the warmest longest time).
- most bicycles use sprocket rings and chains.
sometimes a person may find two cans such that one fits inside  the other - use the bigger can for storage and for extinguishing the fire.
if we ever face either of these challenges, we'll have  at least one white-gas stove system.
don't put the tent under the bear bag location.
also, be aware that some hotels (with rooms having an electronic card key) turn off all electrical power to the room when the electronic key card is not inserted into the "i'm-home" slot.
- facts: concept: be sure to review thederailer concept picture (worth a thousand words) about how the adjustment stop screws function, their purpose is explained conceptually in this text image.
depending on where one is located, the midday stick shadow may point south  or north or not exist at all.
- talcum is not needed if one was to pre-inflate a bicycle tube with just enough air pressure as to give the tube its round form and install the tube into the tire; then that action would usually prevent tube folds or twists (which would otherwise have eventually lead to a flat tire).
- caution: a tight link (link bind) can cause shifting problems.
if the flange is too open use a small plastic hammer to guide the flange into place.
their coloring scheme seems to match loctite's color scheme their product numbers are different from the part numbers.
make a mental note to protect  the remaining group's travel and safety integrity when member  equipment/knowledge separation occurs.
it is common to see long distance cyclists in regular out-of-doors  clothing that is fit for the climate(s) and region(s) - it often has to do with  snow covered mountain passes, rocky mountain roads, floods, marshes, rain, mud,  hot sand, and walk-pushing a damaged bike.
if a person is going to have a knife for touring, they may as well have a swiss army type knife that at least has a big and small blade, awl, scissors, bottle & can opener, phillips tip screw driver, flat tip screw driver, and tweezers.
consider having it shipped  within the destination/country; this applies to food/rations also.
first, have checked all items listed just previous.
- check for brake rub: usually brake rub is caused by a poor wheel mounting to the dropouts, but it can be an indication of a brake system problem.
the act is a wise investment and the call will usually make someone's day.
each of these scenarios  has different riding, handling, and steering characteristics.
all experienced travelers of remote areas, regardless of weath, position, or power, have a stash of toilet paper somewhere.
- does one need two stoves that burn the same fuel or burn different fuels?
thus, the clamp method favors bicycle break-down and re-assembly  for bike shipping.
luckily, major airlines and ships use gps navigational systems so the impact of a magnetic change is probably greatly reduced.
the equinox days are generally march 20 and september 22 (actual dates and times vary up to one earth day).
- even spraying and rubbing a chain down with wd-40 will get the chain pretty clean.
remember to oil the just cleaned chain on the following day.
liquefied gas stoves are especially practical for travel in the usa, europe, japan, and populated areas of asia and north america (versus mongolia, afghanistan, alaska, and the yukon) - the most accessible and most available fuel on the planet is unleaded gasoline (not wood, not propane).
as a minimum, if using liquid petroleum stoves, make sure that they burn white gasoline (sometimes called white gas) as well as unleaded  gasoline (for automobiles, use the lowest octane for vehicles) but know  that some stoves, for a greater purchase cost, can additionally burndiesel and kerosene fuels.
- usually the first thing one does when pitching a tent is place stakes into the ground, 1, to hold it in place, and 2, rationalize the layout.
- warning: this is a safety issue with the smaller sprockets (less than 21 teeth) as chain slip may occur and performance may be lost at a key moment of pedal pressure.
- at home, store foam sleeping pads unrolled and re-plug only after obtaining atmosphere equilibrium.
thus, when a person leaves the room and takes the key, the computer that was thought to be charging may be not charging at all, and, in fact, if it is powered up it will be discharging.
- pot soaping: if one has to cook with wood (or sticks, straw, grass ...) for fire, then pre-soap the outside of the cooking pot so that suet will wash/clean off easier/better; for washing in these conditions, besides using a brillo pad, clean sand may be used to scrub a pot's outside.
- using a friend (or a lever as last resort by yourself) and align the derailer parallelogram to the desired sprocket (usually the middle sprocket or next smallest) and fasten/lock-down/tighten the pinch bolt/mechanism.
- penatrants take about 24 hours to evaporate (without external acceleration) and the presence of a penatrant can keep higher viscosity oil(s)
we've  met some really interesting people in this manner and we've had some excellent  off the beaten path sightseeing and restaurant recommendations.
we own several different types of stoves, so our systems familiarity is up to speed.
binder clips can be used as clothes pins and some people carry little half sized plastic camp clips/clothes-pins (not us).
note: this same tin can stove works with diesel, kerosene, and  jp4.
[by the way, the obviousrookie place to break a chain is downshifting a lot while climbing a hill - hint, down shift a lot before the hill.]
- double check the shift-cable's run for condition and any obstructions (i have found cables that slipped out of their ferrules and cables that slipped out of their braze-on holders).
- experience/caution: over time, many cyclists may have changed chains and chain manufacturers many times but may not have kept up with correct and matching chain segments, pins, or links (stored in the tool bag - 'out of sight, out of mind')
keep deet and water purifier bleach/clorox in lowest area in waterproof  containers (like plastic zip lock type bag) as it can/will leak and destroy  plastic, nylon, and leather.
brake/shifter cover/guard instructions: see image at left.
in the sun - in an air flow - window - porch rail or porch furnishings - air vent - other room feature
- comment: in an emergency, flat tip screw drivers can be used -
the advantages of an attached/combined burner and liquid fuel tank are that separate pieces don't get separated among different packers, there is  always fuel (assuming the tank is full) and the system is ready to use as soon  as it is unpacked,the system tends to be 'beefier' (heavy duty), and  there may be directions printed on the tank (making life easier for new cyclist  campers).
note that in the field, it is easy to break cable strands during the pinch bolt reset process.
the sun performs a magnetic pole flip-flop every eleven years and it is associated with strong sun spot activity and solar flares.
they are very tight knit.
this is the reason that swimming pools close at the first sound of thunder.
beware that some bag system partitions don't attach to  anything and they are fairly useless.
note that there are three common nipple/nut sizes (3.23, 3.30, and 3.45 mm  - others exist, and 3.23 is the most common - aka park black).
ideally, the tool mouth/head should be narrow enough to fit in
103.0 7.00  7.07 7.23 110.0 7.49 7.58 7.73 observation:  atmosphere, bar, and ksc are all close enough in value that it does not seem to  matter for bicycle tire applications.
this is cool, but what's with all the time stuff.
the expression means to stay put for the  duration of the storm and it is a valid consideration; some related variables  are safety for the particular location, weather protection, food supplies,  sanitation, and one's general ability and capability to stay in place for a  while.
we have not seen a need for more than 6 bottles for any trip to include  those heard about from other expedition thru tours.
cowboys were known to ride a hundred miles just to eat a pastry or doughnut with a cup of good coffee.
usually 2 or 3 repetitions communicates the need (and its hard to  drive and signal at the same time).
sprocket setting? - considerations: a rider can coast downhill at a fast speed, regardless of a sprocket-chain setting.
forexperienced bikers, this usually results from unscheduled/unplanned stops, typically to take a picture, look at a view, or join a friend who stopped (for any reason).
there are other native sanitation products that seem to be effective in the same native/indigenous areas.
bicycle packing for shipping or transport: top the following presents a brief introduction of some bicycle packing, shipping, or transport issues.
cyclists seem to understand viscosity being presented as a sae 'weight', 50 weight is thicker than 30 weight, 30 weight is thicker than 10 weight; one will not see the word weight on sae lubricants, they will see sae 30 (
if it is done on the bike, the crank stem, bearing casing or cartridge may be damaged from the bending process.
eventually the hardening slime will cause an air pressure gauge to have a  faulty reading such that more pressure is in the tire/inner tube than indicated  by the gauge, thus a high pressure blowout occurs (under touring conditions).
if nothing else consider using the remaining water, water bottles, and a rag.
the 20, 10, and 5 weight oils are proportionately more suitable to progressively colder climates.
we also mark the trailer wheel or trailer for trailer tire pressure.
emergency single speed derailer set up - caution: it is common that before re-connecting a broken chain, a half link (one set of plates) with one or two bent/twisted/damaged chain plate(s) will have to be removed.
don't take on single track until ready and capable.
it appears larger because the electricity has super heated the air and the moisture in the super heated air reflects the bright light and gives the appearance that the electrical bolt is 12 to 18 inches wide.
- as a non-business expense: if a flight trip for a bike tour is not for a conference or business purpose, then two bikes can be carried in two cases.
learn to look for these places as one travels.
- bicycle chain cleaning products that are water soluble cannot be completely removed by water rinsing.
after the summer solstice the sun starts to rise and set a little  more to the south each day, passing through the equinox and reaching its most  southern arc on the winter solstice.
fifty feet away (or more) is recommended but sometimes in some environments twenty-five feet is the best available.
- white gas stoves to be used for international travel should also burn kerosene & diesel fuels as well as unleaded gasoline (use the lowest octane automobile fuel).
the solution is to re-thread the chain properly: - sometimes the issue is chain placement/threading at the correct input or output point on the tension arm itself.
a wet bag or wet clothing usually ends touring for a while (or in total) and the effort to dry said gear becomes the focus of most of one's effort, like finding a town or place with a clothes dryer.
it is easy to miss-thread a chain through most rear derailers: hardware note: the best derailer swing arm (basket) design for quick touring assembly is the 'open cage' design type that allows the cyclist to place the chain in between the jockey wheels (aka derailer pulleys) without having to thread the chain through a cage opening/end nor have to weave the chain around the jockey wheels (pulleys) -
the following are issues to consider for a handlebar bag(from our experiences): - it is important that the handlebar bag mounting hardware be able to attach at different angles.
a problem is that if the derailer is removed and remounted (like for shipping), depending on the type of derailer, it is possible to mistakenly re-mount the rear derailer in such a way as to move the derailer's b-screw's stop plate (which may be on the derailer and not on the frame
adjusting the front derailer's mount position: field solution: - undo the cable only at the derailer.
some are water proof, most are water
bear  vault, 3) bear bag.
- always wear a helmet and gloves, period.
but, for some people in some situations where time is more of a factor than money, then it isnot unusual to air/ground freight a bike to a destination bike shop and have the bike shop assemble and test ride the bike.
[not jp6 nor jp7] - this advice from a former military pilot  (dennis).
overview this is a multi-part section that addresses bicycle maintenance fromthree perspectives.
do not just apply threadlock everywhere.
talcum is clean and wipes off easily from brushing one's hand  together, brushing from clothes, or washing hands or clothing.
most rear derailers use a body adjustment screw (usually called a 'b screw'
- a bent sprocket tooth can cause the same sound.
it is better to have insertible partitions inside the bag, in order to:  separate items, hold items upright (so they are easily accessible), and to keep  small item from sinking underneath all of the bigger items.
in some cases it may be spot welded (low probability).
chain holder: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory how to make a simple flat 'c' shaped 'chain holder', mod 3 - get hold of a thin old spoke or a light to medium duty coat hanger.
- penatrants dissipate or evaporate after a period of time (typically about 24 hours unless heated and aired).
warning 3: some hand held heat blowers can ignite flammable chain cleaning solvents/penatrants, be very careful, pre-wipe the chain of any free liquid with a clean rag, work in an open ventilated area free of any flammable materials and properly store all used rags and solvents.
try to get the knot small enough to fit inside the barrel adjuster (if possible).
takes about 30 seconds longer than the former/traditional chain roll drip method (cat/bbi).
the product id is 24024 and only comes in a 6ml tube.
(some air lines are nicer about this than others, oddly the more enjoyable airlines seem to be more strict.)
we're watching the tip of the stick's shadow, the sharper the better.
most of these examples have  come from actual personal experience.
as a navigator, one must be flexible and able to cross reference a turn  with other relative aids (like street names, destination town names, road  position, map validation, ...).
- most self supported bicycle 'tour groups' with a paid/hired leader in the usa,use two stoves; typically both stoves are combination white-gasoline/unleaded-gasoline fuel systems that sit on small attached fuel tanks (like the coleman exponent).
head/helmet mounted lights are becoming more popular.
- adjust the vertical as required - this may be best done by using a piece of wood and tapping the wood lightly with the equivalent of a soft head hammer; in the field one must get creative (i've used or seen used: a rock and a stick, a tent mallet and a tire tool, the hammer part of a hatchet and a plastic digging tool, plastic mini cutting board, plastic writing pen, and wood pencil [cut square ended]).
there are dirt, splatter, and grease  concerns (which tend to be cosmetic)
* remember, after adjusting and testing the gear limits,re-set the gear settings to an easy start position.
when should one wash clothes?
we have had fuel delivered at quite a cost, but it was still, overall, cheaper than spending a day shopping with many unknown travel variables.
- thread lock compound also inhibits oxidation and/or galvanic [metal to metal bonding] corrosion.
always work where a fire will not burn anything else of value nor spread.
repeating left and right turns and holding the handlebar tighter transfers the resonance from the handlebar to the wheel.
- the cracks are usually very fine and are usually microscopic (they typically seem to be hairline, mini-lightning bolt looking, and slightly purplish on steel/alloy rims).
its use originally came from the auto tire industry, as certain early tubes and tires would stick together (incorrectly called vulcanization); this rubber compound sticking or melding is no longer a problem in the bicycle or automobile tire industry.
- paraphrasing general chuck yeager, in yeager, an autobiography - american pilot, wwii vet, p-51 fighter pilot, first person to exceed and survive the speed of sound bike touring, bicycle touring, bike tour, bicycle tour, bike touring checklist, bicycle touring checklist, bike tour checklist, bicycle tour checklist, bike touring 101, bicycle touring 101, self contained bike touring, self contained bicycle touring, bicycle touring mechanics, self contained bike tour, self contained bicycle tour, fully loaded bike touring, fully loaded bicycle touring, fully loaded bike tour, fully loaded bicycle tour, bike road maintenance, bicycle road maintenance, bike road repairs, bicycle road repairs, bike road maintenance, bicycle road maintenance, bike maintenance, bicycle maintenance, bike repairs, bicycle repairs bike maintenance, bicycle maintenance, bike tour maintenance, bicycle tour maintenance, bike tour repairs, bicycle tour repairs, bike tour maintenance, bicycle tour maintenance, on-tour help, maintenance, threadlock, chains, permatex, tires, tire, tyre, tools, inner tubes, wheels, tire, pumps, bicycle, loctite, tire lubricant, inner-tubes, bike repairs, emergency bicycle repairs, bicycle trail repairs, fix a flat tire, bike maintenance, bicycle maintenance, emergency maintenance, keep on cycling (touring survival), on-tour bicycle help, 20+ common bicycle maintenance issues and solutions, derailer issues, bicycle mystery shifting, bicycle ghost shifting, how to shift a bicycle, bicycle tools, bicycle pumps, about bicycle chains, about bicycle chain management, bicycle nut and bolt threadlock, bicycle tire tools, bicycle inner tubes, bicycle wheels, shipped bicycle assembly issues/lessons, derailer(s), shifting, and shifter, concept, front derailer adjustment, rear derailer adjustment, emergency rear derailer setup, emergency rear derailer hanger, squeaking derailer pulleys, mystery shifting, all about bicycle chains, bicycle chain facts, bicycle chain wear, bicycle chain lubrication, bicycle chain cleaning, bicycle touring chain issues, chain related touring wisdom, chain length, chain size/speed/width, chain tool/use notes, chain holder, cable retainer, broken chain and link repair, loosen a kinked or tight chain link, front derailer chain/cage-rub noise, front ring chain/cage-rub noise, chain-sprocket stickiness ('chain suck'), rear derailer sprocket/chain-rub noise, 1 click/clink per chain revolution noise, 1 click per pedal revolution noise, bicycle wobble, chain line and cross chain issues, about wheels, all about wheels, inner tubes, flats and hints, tire/tyre, bicycle touring rim issues, rim integrity and braking vibration, spoke issues and field fix/solutions, inner tube truth and myths (talcum powder), air pump, air pressure conversion table, slime for inner tubes, tire liners, damaged cable retainer, tools (touring issues and what to carry), bar end:
place the shifter in the same position as the derailer at-rest's crank ring position (usually over low gear for the 'l' adjustment, i.e. over the smallest front ring or to be micro adjusted over the smallest ring).
it is not unusual to see an experienced rider fit and re-fit a mount up to three times to get the overall fit perfect.
many synthetic clothing items will virtually dry by spinning it overhead  but organic clothing may need an hour or two to dry out in a best case  scenario.
top mechanical issues directory - about talcum (persian talq) is a mineral from the ground (composed of hydrated magnesium silicate; which looks like dirty quarts but is vey soft, like soapstone).
experience: a biker can fill a schrader tire valve at almost any  petro station in the world (including fuel, gas, or tire shops).
for online searches, one may need to use the word 'derailleur' but the actual french word isdérailleur.
proverb; the following is worth 4,000 words - the bicycle chain mount closest to the handle (called the front cradle) is to be used for link loosening (which is technically, pushing the pin and the far outer plate away from the front plate), thus loosening the plate and pin friction on the inner plates and roller bearing.
- understand the derailer adjustment concept picture/diagram (the adjusting concept, adjusting screws and the screw stop concepts apply to the rear derailer too).
- use nitrile or latex like gloves for cleaning.
the summer solstice is the longest day in the northern hemisphere and the  winter solstice is the shortest day in the northern hemisphere
unfortunately, in some cases, only  one gallon fuel containers are available for purchase and sometimes not all of  the fuel can be used.
bag, clean and serviceable, working zippers/closure mechanism packing instructions, add on instructions/notes bike part/piece/component covers/protectors disposable cleaning rags, especially for chain grime, dirt, and grease  removal foam wraps, styrofoam shields (see creation instructions) packing straps (velcro straps) bag tag / ownership id tag: one never knows when a bag tag will be the one  thing that gets a lost/forgotten/misplaced bag and contents returned.
burners that sit on top of propane/butane canisters are better served on  the low profile, low center of gravity, smaller 4 oz canister than on a 8 oz  canister (totally avoid 16 oz canister for direct mount burners - one good  breeze may dump a complete meal onto the ground).
- many magnetic field specialists think that the earth is due for a magnetic pole change now or they feel that such a change is imminent.
but most people get about five safe linkups.
see emergency stove, next bullet.
- warning - bicycle handling skill: if a person locks their arm muscles, while holding the handlebars while moving/riding/cycling, to the point that there is no absorption of road/bicycle vibration
navigation reasoning factors (aka deductive reckoning or ded  reckoning): it really helps to understand a compass: a compass has 360° (for that matter, any circle).
- frequently, there are things that a person can do, before coming to a rest, that may save one's life or minimize any injury.
let it dry, or dry rub what one may.
warning: downhill runs and downhill running speeds may facilitate  or induce some kind of vibration resonance that starts with a trailer wag (like  a dog's tail wag).
some long stems require that a tire be completely removed in order to re install the tube and tire at the same time.
if the lighting device is constantly falling out/off of the bike, then be looking for a better/newer system.
in some cases, the chain holder will not fit in between the inner plates, so in that situation the chain holder will have to be fitted between only the outer plates.
bad steering alignment causes uneven tire wear and peculiar wheel and riding vibrations.
while this can be indicative of a mechanical problem, it is often a cyclist caused issue.
this excess application issue happens to everyone sooner or later.
- at a table or bench, protect an area for loose bearings, use a plastic sheet or news paper or plate or such.
consider the appropriateness of having a spare coupling, skewer,  pins, or mount device.
dennis had to grab  one, once, and run it out of an extra large tent of a wilderness base camp.
- there are two commonly addressed wheel adjustment dimensions to conduct herein, lateral [side-ways] and radial [inward-outward]).
see mystery shifting, listed previously.
stabilizing the true:  - once a wheel it trued, before being used on a bike, the torsional wind-up of tightened spokes must be released.
doing laundry is especially  problematic if one is staying at hotels where there is no laundry service (which is more common than people realize, especially for foreign travel in  rural areas [where most bike travelers expect/want to tour]).
it is common to see long distance cyclists in regular out-of-doors clothing that is fit for the climate(s) and region(s) - it often has to do with snow covered mountain passes, rocky mountain roads, floods, marshes, rain, mud, hot sand, and walk-pushing a damaged bike.
before departure: leave no trace, cover/fill any peg holes, and make the  area look like a 'stealth camper' was never there (and maybe leave the place a  little better than found).
interestingly, internationally, the word 'coleman fuel' seems to be as  well known, as 'white gasoline'.
- micro fiber bags dry faster than goose down bags (hours vs days, better expedition durability & survivability, functional if wet, store in waterproof cover/container/bag) - sleeping bag liner (optional): - there are commercial liners but many people use a folded cotton sheet.
- validate that the front derailer system operates in-line with the rear derailer and cassette (check chain line and cages not bent or mangled).
which way is it and how many degrees is that on a  compass?
- synthetic clothing, when designed for such, can wick moisture away from the body far better than for organic clothing.
consideration: if a cyclist is on tour and at a bike shop and the chain is close to 12 + 1/16 inches (at 12 links or 24 pins, strecthed), then consider installing a new chain if you are not likely to see a bike shop within 14 cycling days (2 cycling weeks).
- a moisture wicking headband does a good job of keeping sweat out of the eyes.
if a bolt is already installed, and a person wants to apply a penetrating temporary locking chemical compound use loctite 292 (which is green in color).
brake/shifter cover/guard instructions: see image at  left.
in order to affect the back plate, the chain unit must be flipped over, thus the back plate becomes the front plate.
until about 2010, thread lock compounds were not available in bike shops  nor hardware stores, one had to go to or special order to a big city fastener  specialty store or tool supply store.
each day, after the spring equinox, the sun rises and sets a little more  to the north until it reaches its most northern arc on the day of the summer  solstice.
we live  in colorado at 7,500 ft (2200 m) and everything has been tested up to 11,000  (3,300 m).
therefore, in some cases, one is directed to online tutorials (as well as schools for the hardcore).
the entire  seven day tour was in written instructions in a written table (tabular format)
- if possible, as soon as one picks up a tuned bike from a shop (or you just tuned it perfectly or as soon as it is opportune),mark the juncture of the derailer and frame (sometimes at two different places, using permanent marker [black or silver]) such that the stroke of the mark touches both the derailer and frame at the same time.
during the summer in dessert/very-hot climates, some long range cyclists use transaxle oil (hypoid gear oil - 80/90 weight).
the inner tube's leak point would always be where the inner tube was most worn from the liner.
we quit using liners and replaced all the inner tubes and the  unusual high rate of flat tires problem went away.
bicycle touring maintenance issues and solutions also see maintenance schools and self training web sites.
be mentally prepared to work both ways.
there are many more good schools listed on the internet!
- generally, pack heavy stuff low, light stuff high (thus lowering the center of gravity or keeping it as low as practical).
both shimano and sram have different links or pins for differing chain types (7/8-9-10 cassette sprockets) and/or chain grades.
pull as much slack out of the wire as possible without breaking or fraying the wire.
the previous loctite types are known by their color and are often referred  to by their color name.
then we cut a diagonal cut on one side all the way into the hollow.
-dennis struck tools (touring issues and what to carry): top mechanical issues directory
handlebar bags are frequently detached and carried by the biker  into museums and other places of interest (where bikes are not allowed).
some touring cyclists do not travel with a handlebar bag; typical  reasons for not using a handlebar bag are its added travel weight and weight  added to the front-end steering thus effecting speed, response quickness, and  maneuverability.
ideally, the tool mouth/head should be narrow enough to fit in tight/narrow places, but not so narrow as to break under pressure.
some facilitate external strapping of extra loads, most  don't.
- note: the vibration resonance trailer wag issue (just presented previously) seems to be more prevalent or more associated with single wheel, in-line, trailers that mount to the rear bicycle wheel axle/skewer.
don't forget that toiletries (like mouth wash and toothpaste) and medicines also have scents that often attract wildlife - store with the food!
if landing square on the butt, roll to one cheek or the other, before hitting the ground.
those times are usually weather or  climate related (i.e.:, crossing a desert or hot arid plane, cooler  temperatures, head wind days, calmer weather, ...).
a spare bicycle chain may be in order, depending on tour distance,  duration, and typecaution: bicycle chains wear out twice as fast when  towing trailers!
the rear drive chain of a tandem gets about twice (2x) as much wear as solo bike chains per unit of time.
it is wise to have at least two fire starting igniter sources {book of  matches, sealed waterproof matches, cheap butane lighter, magnesium striker;  battery and two wires; 9v battery and steel wool}.
sometimes the container needs to be warmed up  before filling with hot water.
we've met some really interesting people in this manner and we've had some excellent off the beaten path sightseeing and restaurant recommendations.
issues and answers (assuming no laundry service available): the following relates to the how much to carry section on the tour planning web page.
- fist counts work very well for time calculations.
if a person yells "heiyee" during this episode, they will double their energy, gain focus, and be in control - it works!
knowing where one is usually comes from a prior map consultation.
thus, one has a backup chain and one avoids the issues associated with penatrant drying and the (as much as) 24 hour waiting time.
- make the connection: either, use the chain tool to drive in the connecting pin, or use a master link (powerlink sample follows).
in fact anyone could see an exact outline of the edge of the liner on the inner tube.
water boils at lower temperatures at higher altitudes, which is potentially both a sanitation and cooking issue (air pressure).
rotating the nipple/nut towards the axle, tightens.
conversely,  if the wheel rotates out of round, there is usually a spoke issue.
in extreme cases, a pin/rivet rub will wear out the outer pin grip on the outer chain plate wall and the chain will come apart (usually on a big climb).
believe it or not, no other bike component makes fully loaded touring and trail side maintenance more convenient than having a bipod on a touring bicycle; in the long-haul, it is worth the extra weight.
we keep a "p" bottle on the other side of the entrance.
- streets can bend or dog leg.
addendum: sheldon brown was a cool guy who lived life as well as allowed by nature.
the handlebar bag can be big or small in size.
for the record, in 2010, a good white-gas/unleaded-gas  stove costs 40-60 usd.
- here's the typical coup de grâce: a bike setup with panniers (front and back) with a trailer, performing something like the great divide mb route (no matter the type of bike) will be lucky to get as little as 50% chain wear - it can be worse.
some chains have special groves and notches that are designed to benefit shifting, in fact, because of this, it is suspected that some campagnolo broken chains have to replace six links at a time (for something like the chain groove and notch issue) - the point is that replacement links should be arranged like the original chain's links.
see insect repellent discussions (deet and permethrin, read the hyper  notes).
be careful not to drop or drag the chain on the ground.
- warning: if the far side pin position is set correctly in the outer plate and the near side of the pin is inside the main chain unit, then the pin is too short, it cannot be used.
smaller framed bikes and short wheelbase bikes seem to react more adversely to this condition (terry).
if applied to a nut apply 1/2 a drop (takes luck, skill, or practice) or one drop (max) - there is usually no choice as to where to place the drop because the nut opening is often smaller than the threadlock brush or nozzle.
road navigation is especially an issue for the back roads of europe and  for inner village street navigation.
this action  keeps surprise rain, hail, and critters out.
space blanket (aka emergency blanket): they work - read instructions.
- oil is, just as effective as wax or grease and is a time saver, wipes/removes grime easiest with a clean rag, and is easiest to apply in temperatures below 60°f (~15°c).
[also known as "do the job right the first time".] - note that security is always an issue.
on hotel based tours, one usually does the laundry daily if possible, washing just before or after the evening meal depending on available time.
if there is a barrel adjustor on the front derailer (extremely rare) adjust it to one full turn out from the inside stop.
start with paved roads and then dirt roads.
rear wheels require a tool or two to remove the cassette so as to  access the cassette side, hub flange's spoke mount.
assure that a  snug dirt free clean fit exists.
it is wise to have at least two fire starting igniter sources {book of matches, sealed waterproof matches, cheap butane lighter, magnesium striker; battery and two wires; 9v battery and steel wool}.
the answer is a fuction of  two variables: how many cyclists?
it may be wise to duct tape the lens caps (small strips  along the seam).
avoid bird hangouts (for poop and  noise).
we did read and re-read the instructions often and we had to make a few communal decisions about the word/travel meanings sometimes (but these things are healthy and build character).
so, the  best/most-efficient time to dry clothing is in the midday sun.
solutions/answers for stove selection: two identical type stoves, using the same fuel and storage  bottles/canisters - a most typical solution.
- what opportunities exist to do laundry in mass (self or service)?
contrary to the popular expression, lightning not only hits twice, lightning hits some geographical prominent areas repeatedly.
- caution: any bicycle chain cleaning activity that uses water can result in rust or corrosion particularly in the very areas that need lubrication (oil protection).
also, we break long pencils into three inch lengths, as that is a handy size and packs well with a tire repair kit.
when the rider finds the inner tube leak point, the rider will note the distance from the air stem point and trace the same distance on the tire, in the same direction and then find and remove the offending object from the tire.
thus, the clamp method favors bicycle break-down and re-assembly for bike shipping.
[otherwise, one is going to hear and feel the chain grind as it moves from the brute force of relocating the chain from one ring/sprocket to another ring/sprocket and there is a chance that the chain can hang-up in the basket and jam, thus stopping the bike as a minimum, or breaking the chain, but at worst the derailer may be destroyed.]
in rock strewn sites, a space between rocks may be necessitated and then be covered with a three rock cover.
the problem with penatrants is that they dry out in a very short period of time and this is good.
- street names may only be posted at one spot (where a biker may not know or ever find) or the street names may not be posted at all.
[dennis was raised in japan.]
- missing the street because it does not extend beyond a few blocks.
note that the amount of days is directly related to travel or tour distance.
- anything that burns kerosene and diesel should also handle jp4 or jp5 (aviation/jet engine/propulsion fuel - high grade, lower flash, kerosene)
we once  had lost a mounted headlight and could not find our stored flashlight, so we  removed the red lens cover of the tail light to use it for a camp/tent light -  now, most tail lights have red lcd bulbs.
- one heavy duty [main stove] and one light duty [backup] that burns the same fuel and has the same storage containers - common for soloists.
no problem, just wipe off excess or wipe off all of it and try  application again.
however, the managers are often the only person with a key.
add full links (two link plates in a row) one full link at a time to the chain holder until the chain is too long (per the above chain too long rule).
practice with loads (real or simulated).
the sign just means that the street turnoff is  coming soon, it may be the next street or a following street, or the turn may  be within a couple hundred meters.
this act is greatly  appreciated at the other end and it keeps them from worrying about the traveler  or
it is not unusual to need four cleaning cycles.
- experience: we also carry a chain holder in order to hold the chain together while performing a chain repair.
be aware that many lodging facilities have switches on the wall as well as the outlet and that they both have to be turned on in order to facilitate a successful electrical charge.
used dirty oil is easier to recycle than any other kind of cleaning agent - much of the used oil will be in a towel/rag.
mornings and evenings are easier to calculate than in the mid day.
- the first nuts or bolts to loosen are most typically the pannier rack support fasteners and the fender fasteners.
the most common need for failed shifting capabilities results from crashes.
fuel bottles and canisters should be marked for usage order (grease  pencil, permanent marker).
butwhat happens over time, nearly as we can tell, is that eventually the slime around the air stem/valve begins to harden up from air being put into the tire.
- the chain does not need to be lubed every time that it is wiped clean.
if there are trees around, while lightning often does discharge through a tree top it does not have to, it can go directly the ground, to a short tree, between trees, or go to or through any other object.
a sterno type stove or 'sterno can' may also make a nice backup stove, as  does a tin-can and some diesel fuel (use only outdoors).
the area may or may not have trash cans.
very often, cyclists are forced to leave some fuel with  the sales establishment.
learn to look for and quickly study the sign to learn the desired exit/turn by count, by name, and by road number because there are often five or six spokes and the foreign language can make it difficult to understand all factors, plus the exit itself may only have one of the exit clues (highway number or next town name).
while unprocessed oil comes from the ground/earth, returning processed oil to the earth is bad for drinking water and water tables.
all lasting friendships and relationships have boundaries, learn them.
the cyclist actually points to the spot that one need to be.
outside of the usa, there is a deep respect for touring bicyclists.
- always take advantage of an opportunity to charge rechargeable batteries, especially cell phones, cameras, and computers.
henry all about thread lock compounds (aka: threadlock): top mechanical issues directory why this is important?
for simplicity's sake, we're only addressing navigation in the northern hemisphere, north of the tropic of cancer.
once one uses a 4 oz spare, then a numbering system is needed to indicate a practical and functional usage order (or one goes through all of the mental gymnastics each time one heats something or one gets stuck with one stove and no backup - not a fun scenario).
laundry issues seem easier to address if one is camping, unless one has to move whether or not the clothes are dry.
in some of these old towns that are centuries old, we've learned to look  at the wear patterns of the street to determine the main throughway.
caution: lingering penatrant on a chain may prevent oil from reaching necessary inner friction areas.
- start at the l or h screw that represents the at-rest-position: the at-rest-position is where the derailer cage goes when it is un-connected to the shifter cable.
deet can and will destroy goretex and plastic, melts it.
fire and cooking issues - the first rule of fire making is that the fire maker must be prepared to put it out.
then, install air valve (as quickly as practical).
she happened to have some duct tape wrapped on her bike.
this act is greatly appreciated at the other end and it keeps them from worrying about the traveler or
we've been touring  for decades and have never used anything but a map or a series of maps.
on the road in a foreign country's remote location, a  durable bicycle and smart riding are important for success and survival.
in any case, remote/detached burners are safer for this kind of cooking that requires high heat output or a long duration burn with a wind screen.
unfortunately, the typical touring cyclist usually does not have the time to wait around for a day or two.
empty the container in the morning and rinse it appropriately for pannier storage.
if one waits to let the morning sun dry the gear it takes longer (which is lost travel time in what is often the desirable and cooler day light cycling hours).
- alex ramon's bicycle tutor - flash video presentations about bicycle component repair or maintenance (rear derailer, front derailer, brakes, ...).
right-side and up.] - take partial used role(s) of toilet paper from home, flatten & compress the roll to take up less space.
- foam pad (or thin plywood or thin counter top laminate) to protect the trailer bag or other gear from wear.
permatex (usually costs the least and can be found in auto and hardware  stores): permatex low strength threadlocker purple is a temporary thread lock  compound for bolts less than 7mm, purple is their low strength thread lock
1-2 mm is ok for a field  repair to get to a shop.
" - eric hjertberg, wheel designer about wheels the bicycle 'wheel' consists of the tire, inner tube (if not tubeless), spokes, rim, and hub.
we may or may not keep the plastic container  bag, depending on bag wear or bag contents.
note: 100 feet is usually a practical safe distance and 100  yards is a group sanitary safe distance, but sometimes either distance can be  impractical.
is pretty much uphill all the way).
- an out of position crank, laterally or sideways, as a crank related adjustment, overhaul, install may not have centered the crank stem, bearings, cartridge bearings, or locking nut(s) properly within the bottom bracket.
over spray can cause undesired effects or safety issues.
the cyclist probably will not have visible light nor a visible camp stove  fire (and definitely no campfire).
on occasion, an adjustment to the rear derailer may require a fine re-adjustment on the front derailer to insure proper line-up of h/h or l/l combinations.
permatex bottles and tubes are blue colored with white caps.
- wd-40, sewing machine oil, and 3n1 oil all work in a pinch and we have used them all at some point, they just won't last very long as a lubricant (3-6 hours of steady tour load riding) and if the excess oil is not wiped clean, these particular oils are noted for holding dirt on chains (slightly to a lot more so than 'bicycle chain oils').
alcohol stoves can be found online and in larger outdoor stores (like rei).
yes,using white gas or naptha can be dangerous but is is a cleaning fluid that is on hand or sold in a camp store in a camp ground.
make an effort to know where the bike light(s) is(are) located (when not  mounted).
no one ever writes about this topic and travel sanitation is important: go to medicine-hygiene (of the bicycle touring checklist)
the shovel never touches the waste.
see: mental philosophy (below).
- always adjust the default at-rest-position's screw first; usually this is the l screw before an h screw.
he then did some courtesy probing but from a point of respect.
when a person re-mounts the rear derailer, the stop screw needs to be against the stop (rotate the derailer or stop plate so that the stop plate meets the end/tip of the b-screw [some stop plates are free, some stop plates are fixed]).
this tool information is now consolidated under two functions.
always have repair kits and instructions for white gas stoves (a good  reason to have two identical stoves and carry only one repair kit).
beyond that, be looking for a cause (inner tube, valve, or tire).
- caveat: threadlock will not work on plastic lined nuts and may actually weaken the plastic's tight friction property.
- handi-wipes (or equivalent): set aside something to clean the hand(s) afterwards (their will be dirt and grease on fingers, we use 2 by 3 inch sized in foil type wipes, bought by the box from x-mart).
panniers, clean and with all parts in working condition (tight bolts,  nuts, screws; straps and buckles; reflectors plastic-devices, cloth-strips;  hooks, clamps; rubber mounts, pads) additional weight, anywhere, changes the handling characteristics, to  include steering.
- as the water cools, no bubbles, add chlorine in the form of two drops per liter/quart or five drops per gallon (best ratio), mix and let set for at least five minutes - unscented clorox works very well.
successful recovery: this may not work for every situation but this  has worked for me (learned from motorcycles).
caution: there are a few specialized drive train systems that require the use of specialized tools.
on the june solstice the stick shadow will either  not exist or it will point south.
brands (three examples of thread lock compound)
as an aside, people like to help 'fully loaded' bicycle tourists; the experiences will make a cyclist feel good about one's self, life, and humanity.
it doesn't just jump out in the 'language for dummies' books.
bend the point to a straight position.
knowing this  behavior is the difference between a first class scout and a tenderfoot -  tenderfeet need guidance.
some larger bolts may use two drops.
multi weight is ok but will likely operate only at first weight listing (left side).
bear bags work in remote areas but not in areas where bears have a lot of human exposure (like in or near car camping areas).
, then a person can cause a front wheel steering wobble.
- if one pulls a derailer cable wire by the 'end cap' (aka crimp), one will likely pull off the end cap and the cyclist will not be able to remount the end cap and therefore will have loose strands at the cable's end, thus making it more difficult to grasp the cable end for any derailer maintenance.
highlighter can be removed with clorox bleach and a cotton swab (allow time for  drying, usually about four hours, on tours perform the bleach-swabbing before  night and the map will be dry by morning).
second lightest is a bivy  sack.
- magnesium strikers always work (assuming magnesium exists!)
in lieu of a handlebar bag, then having these items in one location like a dry sack is often convenient for situations where a traveler may have to be separated from the bike for a while (museums, historic places, theaters, restaurants, cafés, hotels, toilets/water closets, ferries/boats, and trains).
if there are a few trees  avoid them but consider using the shade.
master links always go between a pair of inner plate sets and a perfectly good outer plate link on the end of a chain may need to be removed (in order to reconnect a chain by its inner plates on the chain's end).
- use a black or silver/gray marker to mark any component/object on a bicycle (especially for marking seat posts and handlebar positions).
a stove that uses white-gas/unleaded-gas, kerosene, and  diesel fuels costs about 160-200 usd.
the soap coating can be from liquid soap spread very thin or from water and a bar of soap - both work well.
in some cases one may want to use a different colored highlighter as sometimes the color hides information written in the highlighter's color.
not all retail stores have this size, call around, typically they are found in camping/outdoor type stores and they are available online (but shipping can be expensive).
here's a mental exercise (we actually play this game with scouts; it helps  build a mental global positioning image).
if it is done off the bike it is difficult to position the crank in a manner that allows just the correct amount of bending without damaging the stem or pedal fittings.
a chain kink (link bind) must be loosened (mechanically by tool and/or physically by hand).read next bullet ... - wisdom:
it is often the pin or rivet that wears on a neighboring sprocket and that is why the greatest diameter distance is the most important measurment - also that is a reason why one looks for protruding pins or rivets in a chain inspection.
the  fire can/stove will get very smutty.
some chain tools have little holes in the tool to insert the pilot to hold it and then the tool can be rotated against a firmly held chain and pin and the pilot will snap apart cleanly (the pin is pre-grooved for a stress snap) or one can use a pair of pliers.
emergency stove (or hobo stove): diesel, kerosene, white-gas: a metal can about the size of a small  tuna fish can is an ideal size (but not a requirement) will serve as a fire  container.
because tires don't hydroplane on wet surfaces of paved roads, tires don't actually need tread per se, tires need just enough cover material to protect the carcus integrity.
if something is moving toward the eyes or the face, then move the head (rotate, twist, and/or bend).
note: this same tin can stove works with diesel, kerosene, and jp4.
top mechanical issues directory this crossover table has evolved because different countries have different standards for measuring air pressure.
bicycle speed/distance calculator or computer top among bikers they are called 'computers' or 'travel computers'.
panniers can be stowed in duffle bags too.
go quietly, alone; no harm will befall you."
note: 100 feet is usually a practical safe distance and 100 yards is a group sanitary safe distance, but sometimes either distance can be impractical.
- hint: the good news / bad news story is that most cyclists will bike by a clean piece of cloth (lost, serviceable, trash) on the ground or road-side, almost daily.
- lie out and set up the chain on the middle sprocket, front and rear (or choose desired positions).the middle rear sprocket always leaves the most flexibility for setup and selection change due to chain length.
waterproof bags are commonly found in kayaking/canoe type boating  supply stores or online or in larger camping supper stores.
when one is in the moment on  a bicycle tour, one is not likely to stop and fully open a map and read keys or  information boxes that are beyond the fold (but sometimes one must - poor map  design).on adventure cycling's bicycle route maps, we indicate route mileage  points next to the stars (course changes) so that we can more quickly match the  map's key information to a particular map point - this is very handy when  actually touring on a bike.
- transaxle/hipoid/hypoid/rear-differential 80/90 wt oil (summer dessert), wheel bearing grease, two ounce tube of general purpose bicycle grease.
usage: generally, the bolts closest to the wheel axle seem to take the  brunt of the travel vibrations and those nuts and bolts seem to be the first to  loosen.
a rider will live longer with this adapted behavior.
there are times when some people want to drive at night (other than just for fun or for some night time bike event).
'denatured alcohol' and variants like alcohol 95 or its lower grade/quality alternate
it is not the dropout shape that holds a wheel to the axel; it is the skewer and the cam lock force.
for the record, in 2010, a good white-gas/unleaded-gas stove costs 40-60 usd.
handle the cable with minimum of force or effort.
when soaping a  pot, the thinnest of water and soap mixed will serve (don't worry about thick  areas - cleans easily).
the advantages of separate burner and liquid fuel pump bottle are  that they are lighter and take up less space; components can be readily  interchanged (or replaced).
mornings and evenings  are easier to calculate than in the mid day.
the sun only rises and sets at true east and west twice a year, on the equinox.
tubes do stick to tires on occasion, just from being pressed together over a time frame, but it doesn't appear to be cause for tire lube alarm.
chain wipes go a long way towards chain longevity.
the plywood mini block is particularly useful for supporting the fork while mounting the shock tube/unit to the bottom headset.
in a one kilometer distance on a more or less straight street, an old city street may have six or more different street names.
this is often done as soon as the front wheel can be mounted with a rear mounted bipod kick stand (on rare occasion it is the opposite, a front bipod and rear wheel mounted).another huge advantage of having a bipod kickstand is being able to park the bike wherever the cyclist wants; it frees the cyclist from having to park with other bikes without kickstands that are either leaning against a structure or building and it frees the cyclist from having to lay the bike on its side (which takes up a lot of space, especially if there are 20+ bikes in the same area).
[moving the barrel inward puts slack into the shifter cable and generally moving the barrel inward will make the shifting situation more difficult.
one can use yellow highlighter on colorfast printed maps (printed by  professional printers; for a few dolars more, some computer printer inks are  colorfast).
pin is just for a 9 speed chain pin, ditto 10 pin for 10 speed chain.
while some reflective strips can be glued, by hot ironing, the more lasting reflective strips are sewn.
many touring bicyclists carry a few extra spokes and nipples.
generally, no one likes driving at night, because that usually means  something untoward happened during the day.
some chain fixes will necessitate a little plate position adjusting in order to have even link flexibility and pin/rivet evenness (so a slightly protruding pin/rivet does not hang up in a derailer cage to mal effect smooth shifting) - wisdom: when connecting additional link segment(s) be sure to align the link plates such that the direction is the same, some indicators are numbers or characters on the side plate that should read the same for existing and replacement links (not upside down, not reversed).
- when one is cycling and there are one or more road side tables and/or rest areas, learn to take advantage of these facilities for rest/snack breaks.
- since about the year 2010, just about every bicycle mechanical problem and solution can be resolved through an online search.
theories come and go and people who have been around for a  while see a cycle of about 20 years where new ideas are offered, again, but it  turns out that the new ideas are old ideas and they have already been tested  and resolved, amended, or debunked.
- water from rinsing cannot be completely removed.
this is based on all of the previously listed assertions.
- successful recovery: this may not work for every situation but this has worked for me (learned from motorcycles).
start pointing 45° downward toward where the cyclist needs to be - other drivers will let the biker in.
this in turn may affect the cable/derailer attachment (a little too loose, a little too tight, back to item #1).
that is, change tires early  versus later.]
- steve cook , mountain bike racer touring supplies and equipment: about panniers and panniers checklist: top trailers pannier or panier derives from middle french  and latin meaning bread basket (literally: pertaining to bread).
this may also be caused by something locking the wheel or chain but the cyclist's pedal pressure¹ ² ³ may have caused the chain to tighten up on the derailer and physically cause the derailer's frame mount to bend or cause the derailer to bend internally (to include a combination of both objects to bend).
in aircraft design, if one wants to carry a heavy load then the wings have to be big (larger surface area) but if one wants to go fast then the wings need to be small (smaller surface area).
the handlebar bag is the one item that we  always detach from the bike to carry into stores, bathrooms, lodging, museums,  cafés, ... .
- break/un-pin the chain (as required), ensure that the chain is setup through the derailer cages and pulleys and then connect the chain (see how to pin or masterlink a chain).
- never use/allow a trailer-bike where the front of the trailer's flat loading deck is lower than the rear end of the loading deck.
in the field, one should take dirty oil to an oil recycling location - it can't be burned off like dirty coleman fuel or dirty diesel fuel).
caution: avoid putting the bottom of the frame on the ground (floor, deck, ...).
tongue and groove pliers is quite functional and half the weight of heavy duty tongue and groove pliers.
- caveats: - this is a reason to think about carrying a half-link (find online).
but we often leave lights mounted for road tours.
spokes can be bent in a couple of  different methods but the bbi method is best!
thus penatrants are problematic, certainly some penatrants are more dangerous too use and penatrants may prevent more viscous oil lubricants from properly coating or adhering to metal parts.
experience: we have learned, over time, to memorize the word(s) for air pressure (for international travels).
the last mark is due east.
if the system does not have a new chain, then replace the chain too.
about round-abouts (aka circle navigation and survival): top so far, for us, the major round-about's have had signs that show which  road radial is the desired exit.
alcohol stoves can be found online and in larger outdoor stores  (like rei).
pot soaping: if one has to cook with wood (or sticks, straw, grass  ...) for fire, then pre-soap the outside of the cooking pot so that suet will  wash/clean off easier/better; for washing in these conditions, besides using a  brillo pad, clean sand may be used to scrub a pot's outside.
[caution: this step often forgotten.]
concepts: - the front cradle (or near cradle) is designed to work on just one (outer) chain plate, the front most chain plate.
probably one of the biggest potential travel benefits of  a handlebar bag is its ability to hold and display a map, like a miniature  dashboard.
it does not take long to learn typical cyclist patterns and most people know their classification before starting a group tour.
the chain length is too long when the chain fits around the bicycle's two smallest cogs/rings and the chain touches itself after running around the tension pulley.
- most mechanics deliberately perform nipple tightening and loosening below the axle as opposed to above the axle because the hand twist rotation direction is reversed on the top versus on the bottom.
the other important reason to carry spare links is to replace busted/bent links on a broken chain; this should be part of the tool/repair kit.
it helps prevent handlebar rubbing/scratching.
james starrs, the  noiseless tenor navigation, destination, places of stay: top never count on getting a map at the destination.
magnesium strikers make a spark, not a flame.
how  many cyclists cook meals above 12,000 feet (3650 m) or below 15° f  (-10° c)?
the importance of a good cook: charles goodnight, famed cattle trail boss of the american west,  invented the chuck wagon for quality food logistics support [get the cowboy  humor, charles-chuck wagon] and he hired the very best cooks, knowing that good  food was always at the heart of any sustained and successful trail drive.
cool - on any particular day, when sun shadows are at their shortest, that shadow is pointing north (because the sun crosses the sky in an arc across the southern sky).
- be sure to wipe the excess lubricant from the chain and sprockets, as needed.
there is no safe place outdoors.
this may not have any meaning but some people suspect that  the chinese, whose civilization had and studied the compass before any other  known civilization, may have had a compass before the last magnetic pole change  on earth.
- most bikers don't want anything in their pockets while biking, but as soon one stops for any duration in a remote area, people should have a knife on their person.
- always use a waterproof bag for clothing storage, clear bags seem to be the most serviceable but any waterproof bag is better than nothing.
flip the wheel for each flange set of spokes.
it happens that this same mechanical issue can happen in aircraft.
expedition tour group leaders prefer heavy duty, durable, and  relative simplicity over light duty - stoves get beat up by cycling tour groups.
one may  top the mattress off with a couple of breaths and then close the valve but  avoid wet/moisture breaths, as this may facilitate bacterial growth inside the  bag over time).
some bag mounts have locks.
the cyclist must make mental and physical effort to hold the pin and link plates centered on the outer tool cradle (the far cradle) with one set of fingers while carefully operating the twist-in pin-screw with the other set of fingers, all while keeping all object parts perfectly centered.
during the winter season (or in cold climates), wax in an oil solution can solidify so hard that it will not come out an oil bottle spout - see picture).
lesson: keep that little sealed tube of rubber cement that comes with tire repair kits as there are occasions when using rubber cement is the only patch repair solution.
we do call and/or email  logistics arrangements beforehand.
furthermore, soap-water solutions give  tires a slightly tacky bead for installing and sealing bicycle and automobile  tubeless tires to the rim.
it seems that most people (including moi) apply too much the first  time and a much of the control problem derives from the delivery system (bottle  design).
this may help small groups not have to leave partial cans of fuel.
they are two different things and, in our experience, the  convertible is better and the dual is not worth owning.
- one may have to accept a limited set of gearing combinations.
their fare and it may allow them to get an early dinner or perform last  minute tasks.
don't even try to  bring a stove as carry-on luggage.
two (2) little field hints/tricks for long tour survival: -
it is the cyclist's preference for no-additives, wax, teflon, other additives, or engine oil.
typically, the at-rest-position is the low (l) gear (chain and cage over the smallest ring) position or else apply the following logic to the high (h) position (chain and cage over the biggest ring).
one must figure out which screw is which, in a majority of instances the l screw is to the outside on a front derailer and the inside on a rear derailer but this is not written in stone (it can be the other way around and it can be mixed - the safest analysis method is to actually look for the stops and reverse think the mechanical functionality).
if all of the flat tires are in the rear tire, then if possible, the traveler probably needs to be distributing more weight to the front wheel.
warning: panniers can be stolen and even if the pannier is locked  or secured, items can be stolen, and if the buckles are secured, a knife can  open a pannier.
specific stove selection facts/issues: - two identical type stoves, using the same fuel and storage bottles/canisters - a most typical solution.
if there is a grove for the cable on the pinch arm, insure that the cable is placed there.
- wax can help prevent dirt collection (why mom used to wax the floor).
use the chain holder and then thread the chain through the derailer cages (be careful on the rear derailer pulleys, as it is easy to thread in an improper direction) and then pin or link the chain together.
one capability is that a person can sleep in the open, without carrying a  tent.
- some multi-gear hubs, internal hubs, and/or automatic gear systems may have a chain adjustment setting, reset to shortest adjustment setting or re-set as directed/required by the system manual (also, a cable adjustment may be in order).
- major handle bar mounting questions/issue: how does the bag's mount attach to the handlebar?
by-the-way, if this actually happens, and the problem is the front derailer not railing onto the low gear ring then try down shifting the rear derailer; very often the movement will help nudge (re-align the chain-line) the chain onto the little front/granny ring.
also, one may need heavier duty tires (or maybe just new tires).
a rider cannot walk on the flats as fast as one can ride.
- one issue with using oil for cleaning is removing dirty oil, proper/safe disposal of the oil, and how to clean oneself or keep oneself from getting dirty.
in the field, if the rear cassette is a single piece, then one may need to get creative with some big tools like the end of a pair of pliers, a large screw driver, the handle end of a cone wrench (with cover removed), and/or maybe a hammer stone.
1 mm or less wobble is the acceptable tolerance standard for most shops for most wheel rim types.
- some handlebar bag map cases are mounted by snap-on rivets.
- interestingly, internationally, the word 'coleman fuel' seems to be as well known, as 'white gasoline'.
lady modesty: just a reminder that in 3/4 of the world, the showing  of bare shoulders and/or bare legs isculturally sensitive (to include southern  or eastern europe) and sometimes that style of dress can bar one from entering  some establishments, especially government buildings, shrines, churches, and  religious centers.
see more details at the following link,tires, tools, lubes, and other help ....
one must pay attention, but we find auto driver behavior to be consistent.
street names may only be posted at one spot (where a biker may not know or  ever find) or the street names may not be posted at all.
for  example, say that it's about 2:00 pm (1400 hours), we can count 4 fists  backwards from the sun to find the 180° due south line and then make easy  heading direction plans from there.
heck, it's tough on grown-ups too.
- organic clothing can hold up to direct applications of deet but synthetic clothing may melt.
- when making adjustments, be keenly aware of the vertical spacing between the cage and crank rings for each ring's position - ultimately, one wants 1-2 mm clearance from the closest cage-sprocket shifter setting of the set of all front rings.
tire shops can be difficult to find outside of the us.
get  familiar with repair kit functions, usually the sales person or a fellow  traveler has experience - keep the instructions, read the instructions.
- or - white/unleaded-gasoline pump systems (like coleman or msr) with a  detached pumped fuel bottle.
stressing the wheel - 'debunked' (all from bbi) theory a: over stressing the spoke (by over tightening the nipple and then  backing it off).
- all bags need to be unrolled and fluffed at the campsite to be effective insulators of warmth.
- on the road, some riders learn to square the mount to one fork dropout or the other and have no subsequent problems.
remember, the advantage of determining an east-west line is to tell direction by inference.
their big payoff is for rear wheel, cassette side,  hub flange mounting.
the voice in italics is our  tenderfeet boy scouts, average age 12.
cyclists must pay more attention to all sanitation  issues (bathroom, cooking, cleaning, personal ... ), of which bacteria free  clothing must become a focused priority.
plastic on/off fuel control knobs on some stoves  have been known to melt from intense oven heat (metal knobs or controls are  better).
- coleman fuel and similarly competing fuels are made from naphtha , a grade of oil distillation between gasoline and kerosene (for its boiling point) but itis a type of white gasoline.
travelers may not get road crossing warnings for road or highway turn  offs.
generally, from experience, we pack wet and move out (in these conditions).
on trails it is a wear issue (mounted  lights have more frequent breakdowns).
this is ok; consider it in your chain length plan.
warning: a partial trailer load needs to be stored such that it is  balanced and won't be able to shift - loads that shift can be dangerous and  cause a cyclist to lose balance, control, or a vibration resonance.
- there are emergency broken spoke repair kits.
store low, just like with water purifier chlorine/clorox.
disconnect the cable (loosen the nut the minimum amount to free the cable tension) and as soon as the cable is free/disconnected, reset the hand shifter's adjustment barrel and locknut to 1 or 2 turns out from the inside stop.
this is a poor emulation of spoke bending at stress points (where spokes cross and bend naturally or by encouragement).
how to poop in the wild!
however ... caution: sometimes, bikers part ways or loose bikes or equipment (for a variety of reasons).
- sun position and navigation facts 101: - the earth rotates 360° per day (24 hours) -
try to keep/maintain character alignment.
there is a likelihood that the mosquito can carry the bird-flue virus as well as other pathogens.
- the best chain lubrication process is complete emersion soaking in oil for a time that allows for full penetration to all chain part surface areas.
a bag carry strap is very important and useful for toting the bag  off the bike.
- most motels and campgrounds will give anyone, upon polite request, rags that can be used for maintenance.
some buildings, structures, and dwellings are so old or well known that  they don't have a formal postal address, its just x house, x farm, x mill, x  monument, or x castle.
learn a whole lot more  aboutwhite gas, naphtha and foreign terms.
this is particularlymore of a problem on bicycles and atvs as they tend to have many more bounces per minute than other forms of transportation (thus a higher risk factor for causing both a deet container leak and a puncture in the outer container/bag).
- a dedicated cleaning tooth brush is a perfect tool for hand cleaning grit.
we live in colorado at 7,500 ft (2200 m) and everything has been tested up to 11,000 (3,300 m).
- story: we read an article about the perimeter lady (she rides around things like parks, lakes, cities, countries).
we used to be  bothered by paying for toilet use, but now we appreciate that a facility exists  at all and that it is clean and has paper.
- 10 speed and 11 speed bicycles are much more sensitive to cross chaining because the chain is less wide and the rings and cogs are much closer together, to the point that a cyclist must consciously up-shift and down-shift from end to end maintaining sets of chain line combinations.
- is toxic to cats - do not leave treated clothing laying around where pets are a concern -
if a car stops for us, even though it had the right away, we go.
about using the sun for navigation: if the sun is out, one can  learn to tell direction with a little sun position and sun travel knowledge.
cover the business and paper work (arh arh) with the previously removed  clean dirt -
now, pannier equates to saddle bag.
start  pointing 45° downward toward where the cyclist needs to be - other  drivers will let the biker in.
boiling water or cooking over a fire: if the pot is already black and  crusty, on the outside, from the smoke of many wood fires, then use that pot as  is.
- the term gear and low gear comes from cars and driving vehicles.
such an indicator is invaluable for re-posting or re-assembly of the bike's seat/saddle.
we have evolved to taking the bike tour first, then attend the conference and we attend serious heavy weight conferences.
- you are facing east.
this is a judo 101 fall position.
when he was done, he closed the suitcase and gently set it down for a baggage handler to pickup.
one usually has about 24 hours before rust sets.
hot oil has safety issues.
in the field, when setting up for the night, allow the pad to self fill.
the ambient air temperature must be  warm to hot!
how to re-attach a broken chain (for a derailer bicycle): top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory caution: one must carefully use any chain tool as all link segments sit loose and do not properly sit or align with the chain tool's link-pin driver.
spoke issues and field fix/solutions: top mechanical issues directory - generally, if the wheel rotates ok roundly, the spokes are ok.
it is difficult to give the shift action a little pause in order to take the pressure off of the derailer and chain, in fact the very act of providing a shifting pause will probably bring the bike to a halt.
velcro mounts are  quieter for riding and are easier to mount and un-mount.
the handlebar bag is the one item that we always detach from the bike to carry into stores, bathrooms, lodging, museums, cafés, ... .
bring water in bottles into the tent and  position them away from cold areas.
on camp based tours, depending on whether one is expecting to cycle out of camp the next day, either, one does laundry washing just before or after the evening meal and lets the clothing dry over night, or one does laundry washing in the morning and sun dries it during the day (maybe while making a side trip).
we usually use bicycle squirt bottles to wash the hands with bar soap (small, carried in its own plastic bag), sometimes at the poop site or sometimes back at the bicycle.
- see expedition tools checklist for a comprehensive list of tools to consider for touring for over 30 days or to carry for large groups (7-16) to very large groups (events).
we have also missed destination places because we expected signage or lights to be turned on at night.
- issues with only text/written directions: - each subsequent direction can be based on getting the predecessor direction correct.
auto shops and bicycle shops use a much diluted soap-water solution to coat tires with a slightly slippery liquid substance to aid in mounting  tires and for removing tires from rims.
- check outer wall thickness: thin outer walls are caused by rim brake wear over time - eventually the rim must be replaced, which is often the time to beef up the rim quality.
a 220 pound rider will have 10-25% more wear than a 115 pound rider.
this action keeps surprise rain, hail, and critters out.
remove the lid, keep the bottom.
use an empty coca-cola sized can or something the size of a campbell's soup can.
we usuallypoint a little skyward (like up at a 25° to 30° angle) and move the hand and arm inward and outward in line with the direction (such that the elbow is moving in and out of 180° to 90° angles).
btw, this issue is one of the few times that weconsider staying at a koa  type campground for an overnight - one can usually use their washing  machines and clothes dryers (and warm showers are nice too).
- the front derailer mount position may need adjustment (usually only a little).
touring is hard on chains; bike loads usually cut a chains life in half, especially if pulling a trailer or running on a tandem.
- another way to reduce the laundry work load upon one's self is to carry/pack only clothing made of easy wash and fast dry (synthetic) material(s) like nylon, rayon, or polyester.
the 's' driving pattern that worked for me is about 2 or 3 feet, left and right of an imaginary straight line track (track being the normal course where one proceeds as desired).
one symptom of a bad fit is a wheel vibration that (did not exist before) occurs when the brake is applied.
it just happens that many 7 and 8 speed chain parts are sometimes compatible with one another (explained in the next paragraph)
stabilizing the true:  once a wheel it trued, before being used on a bike, the torsional wind-up  of tightened spokes must be released.
oil and threadlock are  not used in conjunction (as the compounds offset each other's properties).
- a sterno type stove or 'sterno can' may also make a nice backup stove, as does a tin-can and some diesel fuel (use only outdoors) -
make a hobo stove per the previous instruction.
some facts: - water causes rust or corrosion, period.
- some panniers are noisier than others when in motion.
we call this container a "p" bottle.
note: wider spokes and heavy duty coat hangers may be too thick for insertion between chain inner plates (to be just less than 3/32 inch or 2.38 mm).
on gentle slopes arrange the tent length inline with the downhill run (not  sideways to the slope).
the work does not have to be pretty, but it needs to restore the retainer's function.
it can be used to store things that are important to the rider, typical things as large as a wallet to things as small as coins or chapstick.
a foldup or collapsible type camping saw is far more productive tool than a hand axe.
the penatrant part of the mix will be the first compound to evaporate or disappear; penatrant evaporation is just a matter of time (usually 24 hours).
spokes have right-hand threading ("righty tighty, lefty loosey"  rules apply).
a quick shower sprinkle or the first 15 minutes of a rain shower present the most surface oil hazard on a paved road.
philosophical clothes packing interrelated questions: how much does one carry of what garment type (shirts, pants, undies)?
as a navigator  a traveler must be familiar with map reading and relative positioning.
- some people have used exterior engine oil degreaser (both with water or by rag wipe), in both cases it is a case of something is better than nothing but it is not the best long run cleaning method over time.
- regarding automobile oil use and oil viscosity: first of all, there is nothing wrong with using auto oil on bicycle chains, however automotive oil was engineered for a closed system (bike chains are open systems) and automotive oil was engineered for a much hotter operating environment (chains operate at the environmental temperature).
- plastic sheet (scrap, tent ground cloth, or space blanket) for bike assembly or disassembly (8 x 8 feet ideal, 3 x 4 feet minimum size).
this information is contained in older boy scout and wilderness survival  hand books.
this suggests that one should toleave the canisters behind when departing and/or totally empty and dry out liquid fuel bottles.
warning: gravel can be every bit as treacherous as oil, especially when going downhill and/or when deep on the trail, or at paved or dirt intersections - reminder from ray
velcro mounts are quieter for riding and are easier to mount and un-mount.
some handlebar bag map systems use velcro mounting.
- being lost (or suffering through a lack of map and landmark match-up) is an opportunity to ask for help and meet interesting people.
- baby wipes serve another good purpose on road weary bottoms.
he immediately realized that the contents were the same thing as pictured (a fully assembled road ready bike).
ideally, for the long haul (survival), one wants each of the two wheels to  support 50% of the total weight.
the better, interim, ground insulators are thin covered foam pads and self  inflating foam pads.
cowboys were known to ride a hundred miles just to eat a pastry or  doughnut with a cup of good coffee.
even quart sized bottles leak once they are opened; gallon sized plastic zipper bags can handle many oil bottle sizes (but not all).
we keep our bottles at the entrance, either just inside the tent or  outside in the vestibule.
it is very easy to accidently round a nipple with an adjustable wrench because it is not tight enough on the nipple.
integrated brake/shifter systems are even more susceptible because they are more complicated (& expensive) and actually more open to getting debris inside their inner workings.
than a couple times before it cracks from bending pressure.
as the water cools, no bubbles, add chlorine in the form of two drops per  liter/quart or five drops per gallon (best ratio), mix and let set for at least  five minutes - unscented clorox works very well.
people on their own schedule can make a day for performing laundry and other choirs or duties.
its purpose is to 'set' the distance between 'guide pulley' and the closest rear sprocket/cog - typically, it should be 2-3 mm apart at its closest gear setting (test on each rear-sprocket/chain combination) and it hardly ever needs adjusting once it is set.
so, if a quick link ever comes apart, no matter the condition, replace it with a new link.
- the chain teeth get worn, thus allowing for a chain slip sound that can sound like a cage rub.
- always have a spare canister or bottle.
- 1% of the time, mystery shifting can be caused by a worn out or defective derailer or shifter at the handlebar.
- why is the subject of penatrant lubrication important: penatrant lubricants are liquids (like gasoline) that have chemical properties that facilitate getting into very small nooks and crannies; penatrants can temporarily break-up or stop a corrosive or galvanic process and penatrants can temporarily act as a lubricant, but like water, penatrants are short lived.
- chains on bikes with trailers wear out twice as fast.
the fourth piece of luggage is for the conference, the good clothes to be left behind with the briefcases (and the legal reason for the trip that makes the flight trip portion become a business expense).
no single event robs a bicycle of wheel turning power than chain slack pedal energy loss, sticky chain, 'chain suck'; top, mechanical issues directory, noise symptom/solution sub-directory issues with too much chain slack: chain suck is the term for a rotating chain that does not immediately roll-off or separate from the drive ring.
- we were caught off guard and the reader will probably appreciate knowing about this incident: our italian setup guide acted shocked that we did not have a bike computer.
lesson: we had a main drive chain on a tandem break open on a major hill climb.
it is best to  work the lateral spoke issues first and then the radial issues, however, one  spoke dimension adjustment will always effects the other spoke dimension.
wally werner of adventure cycling calls these groups rabbits and turtles.
which way is northwest? .
at a temperature of 38-40°f (2-3°c), two different self sticking patches would not stick at all, so we broke out the rubber cement and put on a small dab of cement such that the patch area was tacky in one minute, we then applied the patch (which, in the mean time, was being warmed up in a shirt pocket).
the best application is liquid dish soap but as young  scouts we directly rubbed the pot's side with a bar of soap that was dipped in  water (don't worry about clumps).
- be in a flowing fluid motion, not a statue.
this is dangerous and requires some bike mechanical knowledge, but some bikes will allow some chain slack to be removed by adjusting the rear wheel fit in the rear drop outs.
there are a few different methods for oiling chains in the cycling industry: most methods are ok, one method is perfect but expensive, and yet another method has effective results and is still economical in its application.
these same collars can be used on the handlebar when packing the bike or for  carrying in a travel bag -
crash guard for brakes/shifters parking brake (stop bicycle roll & fall over) all about thread lock general noise symptom/solution directory bicycle tour tool list, typically needed for less than 30 accumulated rider days expedition bicycle tour tool list for 30+ (plus) accumulated rider days other bicycle emergency and/or field issues and repair sites emergency bike repair (scroll down, also small
plastic tire tools can actually break - thus a reason for having metal tire tools.
- most people will have reading-meaning interpretation problems at some point.
we don't really know the effect that such a change will have on earth.
while braking warning: any time that one can feel a bicycle/ride wobble, slow down immediately,your life is in danger!
"i've always considered the bike wheel to be the most ingenious single mechanical contrivance of all human engineering.
- propane (or other butane blend) and unleaded/white-gas still remain the most popular, in that order.
- in ultra remote areas, wood fires are not unusual but be smart about the situational issues.
bbi has tested different spoke lacing patterns for  different sized wheels and found that for the 26" and 700mm wheels (for  this range of wheel/rim/tire sizes), that 3 cross and 4 cross spoke lacing  patterns offer the most efficient and effective wheel support for push and pull  torsion, lateral flexibility, load and strength, and durability.
it can be found in a small tube, small bottle, or larger bottle threadlocker ms blue is directly equivalent to loctite 242.
the main issues are: other drivers want to know where a cyclist is heading: point in the  direction that one needs to go, but don't point in a manner that makes it look  like a turn signal.
grinding noise can have a couple different source issue/solutions: - b-screw's, once set, rarely come out of adjustment on their own.
some really small bikes allow the chain to remain on the bike - there is nothing wrong with that unless the chain scratches the frame or comes loose from the tape job.
- if the old system's chain length was ok and no componets were changed: if just replacing the chain, then make the new chain the same length as the old chain.
usually it takes about fifteen minutes for a sufficient settling process.
actual front derailer adjustments: some quick explanations: - on the front derailer, 'l' screw means low
we  threw sand and dirt on it to put the flame out.
all panniers have individual fitting and mounting characteristics, learn  them.
the amount of daily sun rise and set location change is slightly greater  during the equinox times and slightly slower for the solstice times (an effect  of spatial geometry).
we don't have waterproof  handlebar bags and it has never been an issue, but we do keep some things in  their own zip lock type plastic bags on occasion (wallet, passport, and phone).
- a good bicycle chain length general-rule: - before: - some bikes with rear suspension shock systems flex in a manner that pulls on the chain and therefore the chain needs to be measured for the fully stretched state.
a problem with using auto oil is placing a usable quantity of oil into some kind of delivery container.
- road bikes rear derailers usually default to the highest gear (smallest rear sprocket).
bicycle kick-stand or something similar.
this problem does go away with bigger groups (like five or more campers to help spread the load).
that only punctures (or can be felt) when there is air pressure inside the tire which expands the tire just enough to let the little pin do its slow leak thing.
there are many stories of workers in a bike shop disposing one's shipping containers (because that is what they do with their factory shipments and shop storage space is valuable).
this is especially helpful to bicyclists who are often at the end of a long day and may not want to expend or even have the energy for being lost or for back tracking.
very often, while camping and remote we leave the panniers mounted on the bikes and only bring in the content sacks.
- find a private place (or as private as possible) with soft dirt, gravel, or sand.
see pushing in a pin/rivet for details.
arrg, maintenance time on the trail side!
pat yourself on the back and  welcome to basic navigation.
the 'jammed chain' type of impact can be the most destructive.
- every ten-thousand years or so, due to a flux of molten iron inside the earth's core, the magnetic fields do a flip-flop (south to north and north to south).
of course we are not cycling in freezing temperatures.
option 1 - use the rear derailer - the big picture: a rear derailer needs to be set to one and only one selected gear position.
it's not secret science but manufacturers don't reveal much in this topic area - mechanics learn it or figure it over time.
note that plastic bag is used to carry the toilet paper and protect the paper from dirt or water while also protecting gear from paper flaking.
in either case it is difficult to obtain the correct leverage with anything other than a big crescent wrench.
the connecting fuel cable must be heavy duty (like braded metal wiring over neoprene and not just a piece of plastic tubing that will easily melt).
we were shocked that no one had told us that is was a requirement [we brought our own bikes and packed from their checklist].
there is an interim period where, if a chain is replaced for wear then no major drive train damage will occur, or else the sprockets wear considerably more than normal and new sprockets will be required (front and back) at a increased time and money cost.
remember, after adjusting and testing the gear limits,re-set the gear settings to an easy start position - nothing like mounting up and attempting to start a bicycle in high gear (we've all done it ;-).
read the instructions.
a link is formed by two half links and is 1" in total pitch and consists of two inner and two outer plates (and their components: pins, rollers, and formerly bushings).
- wax can temporarily prevent metal to metal contact (so can water) but it is not lasting.
- on gentle slopes arrange the tent length inline with the downhill run (not sideways to the slope).
- how often should one wash clothes?
tongue  and groove pliers is quite functional and half the weight of heavy duty tongue  and groove pliers.
let's say that sunrise  comes up at 6 am.
when camping we carry a separate two aa battery camp/tent light that hangs or stands easily (for tent/camping) - this same light expands into lantern mode (from beam mode).
carry the fire starting material in a sealed plastic lunch bag.
- the best nipple adjustment tool is a horse-shoe shaped spoke wrench tool.
it was a little cool morning (about 45°f) but in any case the tire removal activity was extremely difficult.
remember to test spin the pedals while shifting; look for smooth shifting and no chain grinding/noises.
- bicycle tool bag/kit and z key
ideally, on a leaking tire,  a punctured tire will self seal as soon as the slime material comes in contact  with the outside atmosphere, thus preventing a tire from going flat.
hand axes are too heavy to carry (even a weapon argument yields to a light  weight knife).
- most bag mounts (bag to bar) allow for quick connect and disconnect and this is desirable, so as to remove the bag and carry it into a room, facility, tent, museum, ... .
talc is particularly effective during the tube inflation process.
- known problem nuts or bolts should get some threadlock applied.
permatex (usually costs the least and can be found in auto and hardware stores): - permatex low strength threadlocker purple is a temporary thread lock compound for bolts less than 7mm, purple is their low strength thread lock
soap remains the best long term agent/survival-tool for killing germs (while other sanitation substances do exist); soap is available for sale at most commercial areas enroute for travelers (store, shop or roadside stand).
tents without bottoms are lighter weight.
- generally, carry the smaller but heavier objects in the front: tools, parts, lube, stove, fuel, and cook ware.
addendum (2009): more and more bicycle touring companies are  offering gps tools for navigation assistance.
the look of the place may be that perhaps others have camped there before;  it may be something like an unofficial automobile/truck rest area or a road  side pull-off/break area -
- method b (as in bbi - hmmm) - bbi has studied chain oiling methods and the best on-bike application method is very logical.
over time, the styrofoam compresses and the rubber band(s) become more important.
this process assumes that the systems were ok before the wheel mount or re-mount.
- heavy duty / touring rims typically have a stronger material, thicker material, more spokes, stronger spoke fittings, and/or better quality spokes.
- avoid areas with lightning scarred trees.
- it is our experience that bottles of 10 to 20 ounce size are not practical for touring by bicycle; buy the larger storage containers.
because auto oil is cheaper and just as effective (bike oil at the price per gallon is reaching $30-40/gallon when one adds up all those 4 ounce bottles at $3-4 per each) and bicycle chains still need to be cleaned at about the same usage cycle.
bungee/cargo net: top - the bungee cargo net is handy for keeping a raincoat handy or temporarily storing anything.
correct this situation as soon as one can get to a bicycle shop or secure knowledgeable help.
the place to stop and get  one's mind and group together is at or before the sign (not inside the circle).
- the better, interim, ground insulators are thin covered foam pads and self inflating foam pads.
one should consider using mountain bike bar ends as guards  for handlebar brakes and shifters.
- next, one should break out a marking pen and a notebook pad, because a lot of parts look similar but are not and some pieces can go on backwards (and should not!).
knowing this behavior is the difference between a first class scout and a tenderfoot - tenderfeet need guidance.
- cotton, wool, and natural fiber materials take much much longer to dry thoroughly - it is a comparison ofhours versus days of drying time compared to synthetic materials.
we have  also missed destination places because we expected signage or lights to be  turned on at night.
- warning: packing at warm-lower locations-elevations when the destination is cool, cold, or freezing, leaves many distressed at altitude.
when resupply points are further apart (or unknown), cyclists must carry more food and more clothing.
- helpful hint: when connecting a chain, it is far easier to run it through the cage on the smallest rings (front and rear).
a wet bag or wet clothing usually ends touring for a  while (or in total) and the effort to dry said gear becomes the focus of most  of one's effort, like finding a town or place with a clothes dryer.
the next city listed  on a sign for a circle may not be the destination city/town/village name -  again, it helps to know one's map position/location.
- 1% of the time, mystery shifting is accidently caused by the cyclist's hand, resting on the handlebar shifter.
mountain trail touring tends to have better handling with more of a 40% front / 60% rear distribution (and no trailer), or an almost empty bike pulling a fully loaded trailer.
- spokes have right-hand threading ("righty tighty, lefty loosey" rules apply).
in the field, sprocket points can be gently bent with an adjustable wrench - bend only the tip, not the ring.
a foldup or collapsible type camping saw is far more productive  tool than a hand axe.
there is a lot of merit to having  two identical stoves (only need one repair kit; no part, piece, or component  matching issues; they generally handle identically).
concerns (which may mal affects one's health).
while we have yet to assemble a bike at an airport, we do make a quick inspection of the suitcase.
philosophical clothes packing interrelated questions: - how much does one carry of what garment type (shirts, pants, undies)?
it is the 'body angle' (
- flat tire repair lessons learned: experienced riders do and maintain four (4) mental/physical tricks when proceeding to fix a flat tire: - lay the tire to the side without the rear-derailer, usually this is the left side.
outside of the usa we have rations drop shipped to our destination start address (thus avoiding any agricultural import issues for fruits, meats, or farm products), we have bought and used self heating rations, andwe have used propane fuel systems (as well as having lived off the local economies).
- grease pencils are sold at hardware stores, sometimes they are only sold in packaged combinations.
consider having it shipped within the destination/country; this applies to food/rations also.
remember that a link includes one outer plate and one inner plate.
- for the same reason, don't store batteries loose and don't store them near metal or other conductive materials (like carbon fiber).
eventually the hardening slime will cause an air pressure gauge to have a faulty reading such that more pressure is in the tire/inner tube than indicated by the gauge, thus a high pressure blowout occurs (under touring conditions).
bike it in, bike it out.
threadlock, so far, is not effective on plastic/nylon lined nut fasteners  (nylon linings serve the same purpose as threadlock compounds).
when overnighting in freezing temperatures (this can be any mountain in  the middle of summer), pay careful attention to not let water freeze.
clear plastic bags allow a traveler to see items  inside the bag - available at canoeing and kayaking stores (online too).
- the cloud top to ground lightning discharge is the deadliest and is often called a clear air lightning strike because the strike can easily be 5 miles from a cloud (the distance record is 25 miles).
what is the actual issue?
magnesium strikers always work (assuming magnesium exists!)
no problem, just wipe off excess or wipe off all of it and try application again.
the head hood on a mummy bag was invented to serve the purpose of a stocking cap, but many people cannot tolerate the total confinement of a mummy bag and prefer open square end bags.
it takes  too much time and energy to thaw frozen water and it takes too many human  calories to warm water in the body.
we did read and re-read the instructions often and we had to  make a few communal decisions about the word/travel meanings sometimes (but  these things are healthy and build character).
if a derailer or brake cable seems loose or tight, recheck the cable run, usually a ferrule either did not seat all the way into its position or the ferrule is completely out of the cable retainer.
what opportunities exist to do laundry in mass (self or service)?
caution: if a biker is waiting at a stop (light or sign) they are naturally positioned on the edge of the outside lane, such that if a stock truck pulls up beside the cyclist, because of the designed curvature of the roadway, that person is down hill from the truck.
a big mitigating issue is whether it will be sunny along the  planned travel route?
- a tandem with panniers and a trailer on a mountain road can see accumulative chain wear in the 60% shorter chain life expectancy range.
yes, it's messy, read on.
- we always bring in water bottles in the mountains or even if the temperatures will reach the 40's f/10's c. - we keep a "p" bottle on the other side of the entrance.
usually an area is selected that will not likely have auto traffic trough
wash your hands with soap or germicide after bladder or bowel  relief; wash your hands before preparing or eating a meal.
threadlock, so far, is not effective on plastic/nylon lined nut fasteners (nylon linings serve the same purpose as threadlock compounds).
north is at 0° which is the same as 360°, east is at 90°,  south is 180°, west is 270°.
- a spoke is a bolt and a nipple is a nut (note that the nut's contact with the rim is typically a flange on the other side of the rim
talcum is clean and wipes off easily from brushing one's hand together, brushing from clothes, or washing hands or clothing.
because someone crashed and the rear derailer no longer operates.
also, it is noon for that spot.
- the cage may need to be reshaped.
- see bicycle touring tools checklist for a list of tools to consider for touring as an individual, couple, or small group (3-6).
- in the field: - spokes can be tightened or loosened with a spoke wrench, multi-tool wrench, or an adjustable wrench.
topeak only makes the road morph now; it is more slender and 1 or 2 inches longer and it performs just as well as the mountain morph.
the voice in italics is our tenderfeet boy scouts, average age 12.
most experienced campers will align the entrance at the  bottom of the slope (versus the top of the slope or sideways to the slope).
in the field, one can hand dry with a rag/towel as much as possible.
if one removes the chain from the bike for shipping purposes, thenthe sram and sram quick link system is better/safer than the shimano pin pop system.
- food smells attract bears, other carnivores, and opportunistic omnivores (not only like skunks and raccoons but chip monks and field rats/mice).
- issues/questions to consider: - will the traveling take place in one area that consistently has the same fuel sources available?
- issue: avoid h/l and l/h
this inference is derived from a condition where more rear sprockets means a necessity for thinner walled chains and thinner walls do not endure as well as a thicker wall, thus a chain break is more likely given everything else being equal.
likewise the drive train is set up to use the high (h) front ring (biggest and right/starboard most) with the high/higher rear rings (smallest and right/starboard most).
keep a jacket and a hat handy to stay warm and sometimes gloves are useful.
consider learning where or how to secure fuel before arrival.
note that sometimes, two cables can be shared in one remaining cable retainer (the cable's length will have to be adjusted at the pinch bolt and sometimes all of the slack needs to be removed at a barrel adjustor).note that sometimes the cable may be temporarily laid between two cable retainers -
there may not have been any grease.
so, note that the lock system has not benefitted us.
- caution: some caring proprietors will (insistently) offer to lock/secure the bicycle(s) in a storage room, for your safe keeping.
- in a shop, a sprocket can be tested with a sprocket wear indicator tool (rholoff has one for about $50 usd [in 2010] - other manufacturers exist, most others are less costly).
fact: bicycles cannot hydroplane on paved roads as bicycles have more weight per square inch (or more weight per square centimeter) than automobiles [source: john barnett of the barnett bicycle institute and author of the barnett manual].
soooo the point is that for good group tour organization purposes, one wants rabbits to carry the stoves, as they are usually the first to arrive at camp, so that they may initiate boiling/warming water for the cook(s).
after the summer solstice the sun starts to rise and set a little more to the south each day, passing through the equinox and reaching its most southern arc on the winter solstice.
experience: when liquid gasoline stoves go bad,  they start leaking fuel, usually while the stove is burning.
- hand pedaling the chain through a diesel fuel soaked rag will work wonders toward cleaning a chain (works withmineral oil and kerosene too).
fist counts work very well for time calculations.
one, the more that one knows about bicycle maintenance, systems, processes and mechanics, the easier it is to identify and resolve bicycle touring mechanical issues while cycling on the road or trail.
the presentaion of this information is from a touring perspective (fully loaded, with panniers and/or trailer, sometimes with camp gear(this is not about racing, cruising, road biking, nor mountain cross).
again, with the time stuff.
pre-setting the spoke bend  situation:
- one can use yellow highlighter on colorfast printed maps (printed by professional printers; for a few dolars more, some computer printer inks are colorfast).
no one knows how  it will affect earth and navigation on earth.
after a few days on the road, the importance of personal sanitation grows.
the ambient air temperature must be warm to hot!
[no 10 pin bowling jokes today.]
- all about bicycle chains directory - general bicycle chain knowledge: facts/background, terms 1, sizes/dimensions, terms 2, chain length, new chain, chain wear, chain life, chain tool, chain holder, lube methods, penatrants: chain lubrication and cleaning issues wisdom 1, chain cleaning methods (between the extremes) motor oil and viscosity extreme most efficient clean and method extreme most effective clean and method field or touring issues/solutions: re-attach a broken chain, loosen a kinked chain, field clean and lube a chain, wisdom 2, field repair errata: noise symptom/solution directory
- to our credit and the instructions credit, we never got lost and we maybe missed two turns.
- the majority of new bicycles are not sold with heavy duty touring wheels.
talcum will work if one was to inflate a bicycle tube straight out  of the box, inside a rim and tire, with no pre-filling the tube with air, and  then talc could help reduce tube folds or twists which would eventually wear  the tube and cause an air leak (thus causing a flat tire).
here's an example of interpolation.
darren states that one should use a detachable fuel system for international travel (for destination cycling).
if they work  on the first use, they will spring air leaks within a day or two.
we have never had altitude problems with a propane stove
more and more places, especially in the usa and europe, do not allow wood  fires or open fires.
- make an effort to know where the bike light(s) is(are) located (when not mounted).
those circles usually have signage.
keep in mind that tread is needed for traction,  control, and safety, so the tire's replacement point will still have a safe  amount of tread.
no one ever writes about this topic and travel sanitation is important: find a private place (or as private as possible) with soft dirt, gravel,  or sand.
in such a case, sometimes some items can be hung over a pannier or trailer to dry while the bikes were moving, and sometimes we have just waited until the 11 am to 2 pm time window to take advantage of the sun being out in order to dry clothes (often tied to a lunch break or a travel break - see side image).
we had one come off the bike's rack while traveling on a rough road and it got run over by a truck - pannier racks and bags can have compatibility-fitting issues between the bike, bag, rack, and mount - resolve before purchase or travel.
underwear items  tend to be lighter and the benefit of more undies usually outweighs the added  weight issue.
caution: avoid being on the outside of a road curve with (or down  hill from) a cattle or stock truck - stuff slides!
one must know the date (which implies the time of the year, for which one  should generally know that sun is heading further north or further south for  the daily sunrise and sunset).
these trees usually live but the trees are stressed and will not hold up well to subsequent micro-biological plant or animal attacks.
it seems strange to worry about detergent effects or even the corrosive effects of a bio-friendly chain cleaner rinsed by water for a chain whose life is 3-6 months.
- the chain cleaning process requires time to remove the penatrant physically or to allow proper evaporation.
- each day, after the spring equinox, the sun rises and sets a little more to the north until it reaches its most northern arc on the day of the summer solstice.
- on the road, one conducts a lot of map reading with the map in its case, mounted or not.
btw, tidal activity is very minuscule between the tropic arcs - tidal  effects increase as one heads toward the poles.
- trailer: - trailer load must be balanced l-r also (no loose gear, tied down, problematic with partial loads) - never use/allow a trailer load where a free tongue goes upward.
- be very careful about valve types and mixes.
cyclists will not likely operate in an environment where 20 weight oil of a 20w-30 oil application will convert to 30 weight oil properties.
close me | bicycle touring checklist | bookmark | top | ©/about |
initially wrap the chain around the smallest rear sprocket and around the front crank housing (bottom bracket).
-  avoid storing or preparing food in the tent.
synthetic sleeping bag materials dry faster than goose down and can  provide insulation when partially wet, goose down cannot.
plastic air mattresses absolutely are the worst sleeping pad.
one seldom has time  and money at the same time.-
most bikers don't want anything in their pockets while biking, but as soon  one stops for any duration in a remote area, people should have a knife on  their person.
keep a clean/dry rag or tissue handy, when applying threadlock.
where is the rain going to go?
this snugness may sound like trim noise and may feel like a broken tooth.
if they won't hold our food or gear for us, we will look for another place to stay.
- a commercial product that is a combined chain and tooth brush (as in sprocket teeth, not human teeth) remains the best cleaning tool -
the typical human closed fist (balled fist, no outward thumb) held  upright at full arm extension, covers about a 7 to 8°arc, so two fists  equals about 15°arc (see where this is going).
- sleeping bag(s): - at home, always store hung or loose, never store packed or compressed.
sram says that it is worn after one use.
the chain must run through the cage and be on the low gear (largest rear cog) for the l screw adjustments and the chain must be on the high gear (smallest rear cog) for h screw adjustments.
- noaa (melbourne, fl), near the lightning center of the united states, on their noaa website, near the bottom of their online web page, states: "if a person is caught in the open and lightning is nearby, the safest position to assume is the lightning crouch.
don't pour out any remaining liquid until it's absolutely cool and  safe (sometimes flames are invisible).
where found in some areas, a four inch hammer stone will work just fine -  good campers leave a good stone for the next site user.
- check for protruding chain pins or rivets.
- one must know the date (which implies the time of the year, for which one should generally know that sun is heading further north or further south for the daily sunrise and sunset).
in the mainland us, the west nile disease is spreading by mosquito.
issues and answers (assuming no laundry service available): the following relates to the how much to carry section on the tour  planning web page.
being lost (or suffering through a lack of map and landmark match-up) is  an opportunity to ask for help and meet interesting people.
- be sure to store, carry, or park the bike with the air stems in any position other than straight down (as the slime tends to settle with gravity over time and work its way up the stem if the stem is at the lowest gravity position).
but maybe it just needs to be re-set (making the chain proximity 2-3 mm at its closest point between the 'guide pulley' and the closest rear sprocket/cog).
every adjustment must result in less wobble or the adjustment must be undone.
the importance of a good cook: charles goodnight, famed cattle trail boss of the american west, invented the chuck wagon for quality food logistics support [get the cowboy humor, charles-chuck wagon] and he hired the very best cooks, knowing that good food was always at the heart of any sustained and successful trail drive.
check to see that the chain is riding centered on the sprocket ring, if it is offset or rubbing another sprocket ring (and the derailer is otherwise operating in the biggest and smallest sprocket rings ok), then consider a derailer cable tension adjustment - seeprevious section.
intercepting a street by taking a short cut can lead to: miss-direction due to unexpected or uncharted street direction changes.
- clean oil can be used to clean a chain and the biggest benefit from that process is that one does not have to re-lube the chain once the chain is sufficiently clean, it's already lubed!
one such indicator is when a rider frequently shifts a chain over the smallest or largest rings (it is time to adjust the appropriate h or l stop screw a little [1/8 turn at a time] to reduce the cage's reach).
- don't pack tools or other hard or heavy objects on top of spokes or frame (as they may dent or scratch).
tire/inner-tube lubricant (myth or necessity?): top mechanical  issues directory about talcum (persian talq) is a mineral from the ground  (composed of hydrated magnesium silicate; which looks like dirty quarts but is  vey soft, like soapstone).
coleman fuel and similarly competing fuels are made from naphtha , a grade of oil distillation between gasoline and kerosene (for its  boiling point) but itis a type of white gasoline.
easy map holder access in very important.
in order to connect a chain, a pin must be pushed through a pair of outer plates, inner plates, and a roller.
some people set the bike upside down on the handlebar and seat/saddle, do so by not putting the side with the derailer to the ground.
- addendum (2009): more and more bicycle touring companies are offering gps tools for navigation assistance.
in the game with scouts, everyone gets a turn in the middle using different  directions.
we have seen melted plastic knobs on gasoline and propane stove systems,  avoid plastic knobs buy systems with all metal components (or as little plastic  as is possible).
- reflective cloth strips can be purchased at better cloth stores or the internet.
- make sure that the shifter is, in fact, set to the at-rest gear position (usually l [or 1],
so make cleaning, drying, and oiling a priority.
in cold air situations, it is very wise to sleep with the head outside of  the bag and to wear a cap on the head (stocking cap is best).
- synthetic clothing tends to be much more prone to fire spark damage and burns faster than organic clothing if flash exposed to open fire.
this action keeps dirt and debris out of the drive train.
sterno is an alcohol  variant.
on the june solstice the stick shadow will either not exist or it will point south.
caution: re-bending a crank arm takes lots of leverage.
- couples who are tired of mismatched, always slipping apart pads, may enjoy the benefits of a double pad.
ideally, a super heavy item should be placed centered over the axle or as near to the axle as possible.
soooo the point is that for good group tour organization purposes, one  wants rabbits to carry the stoves, as they are usually the first to arrive at  camp, so that they may initiate boiling/warming water for the cook(s).
these loctite products can be found online and in commercial "fastener" type stores.
you are not facing the sun, we need to be  travelling northeast.
- 80-90 weight oil works well in heat (90°f/32°c or greater) but remember that even in deserts, the summer nights and mornings are often in the 40s-50s °f (4-10°c).
it can be used as a dining fly, but don't use the cooking fly in the tent  as the food smells may attract unwanted visitors.
- keep the fresh toilet paper in a zip lock bag to protect it form moisture or paper flaking.
it is wise to: - have cooking and cleanup done by night fall.
this is especially true for a sign in a city placed in front of a minor street.
theories come and go and people who have been around for a while see a cycle of about 20 years where new ideas are offered, again, but it turns out that the new ideas are old ideas and they have already been tested and resolved, amended, or debunked.
almost all chain measurements presented here are sourced to barnett's manual dx v7.09 or mechanic classroom education handouts at bbi (2010.02) or john barnett himself (4/7/2010, 6/28/11).
caution: for some unknown reason, it seems that red tail light lens  covers are easily lost while biking and especially while transporting bikes.
- not have smoky day time fires that can be seen for miles - shield fires from the wind and long range view.
- expedition tour group leaders prefer heavy duty, durable, and relative simplicity over light duty - stoves get beat up by cycling tour groups.
it will not guarantee safety!
the best sack is the clear plastic storage  sacks/bags which allow one to see items inside the bag.
this issue can be more of a problem renting bikes in foreign locations (both a pump issue and a tire valve issue).
be careful to insure that the nipple is  solidly in the wrench.
see laundry (how to clean your clothes on an ongoing bicycle tour).
- sometimes a person can feel the laddering effect on the body as a tingling sensation or as hairs standing on end.
- loosely mount/adjust/place the derailer where it looks like it has been placed before.
- there are no signs specifying public or private property.
yes it is worth carrying on a tour!
remember that in the field, a perfect adjustment may not happen; the repairs are being made to get the rider and the bike to a 'down the road' bike shop.
this same issue is taught to some pilots in flight school, especially to helicopter pilots.
- the summer solstice is the longest day in the northern hemisphere and the winter solstice is the shortest day in the northern hemisphere - the earth's tilt angle to the sun is 23.44° (which roughly translates to three fist measures - hold that thought;the result of the earth's tilt angle is indicated in henges and sun temples
most people use "blanket" size safety pins to connect bag and  sheet (attach at the seams to prevent cloth tears).
some oil dripped into the nipple and spoke hole at the rim followed with  some wheel spinning will make the nipple adjustment operation easier.
cut holes cut just below  the upper/open edge (from little finger nail size to thumb nail size), mix and  alternate the holes with spacing such that the container will still support a  loaded pot or pan.
a cyclist may be fifteen miles from a village, a hundred miles from a bike shop, the cell phone cannot connect to a working cell, and a brake won't work and/or the traveler can't shift (the bike is stuck in one sprocket ring, usually low-low for mountain bikes and/or high for road bikes) all because the bike unexpectedly fell over or blew over onto some rocks (and among other things, a simple bar end would have prevented any brake/shifter damage, perhaps even from a road crash).
some helmet covers are waterproof, some water repellent, some are for shading the sun, some are very bright and are safety oriented, and some are just for decoration.
- john muir , american environmentalist water, sanitation, and cleanup: top - water purification & filtration systems work.
- story: the topeak mountain morph with gauge is the very first bicycle air pump that we have ever used that would actually achieve full/desired/advertized tire pressure (100+ psi).addendum:
so, cyclists in these  situations need to make any early departure desires known to the manager -  managers will always accommodate the cyclist's needs, often we have been given  the manager's key.
- fourth, automobile engine oil and synthetic automobile engine oil work just fine on bicycles.
- lateral adjustments are usually balanced.
also, sometimes, we keep deet in a leak proof container (as we had a leaky deet bottle once).
- we have made pre-arrangements with a b&b or hotel to hold our food delivery until we arrive in country and we pre-arrange to have the same facility hold our excess luggage for us while we bike tour.
- needle-nose pliers are the best field tool, then regular pliers, and then it's a tossup between a small crescent wrench or a set of grooved pliers (like channel-locks).
set/re-set the h limit and set the l limit, looking for the chain to rail onto the ring, not go over, and not rub an adjacent ring and not rub the cage.
one will get gestures of agreement or violent non-agreement; it's not hard to figure out if it is ok.
in the negative, ask hotel workers if there is a way to get an out-of-hotel service/business/entrepreneur to do laundry or if there is a laundry facility nearby.
if  one can't speak the local language (or even if one can), break out the actual  stove and ask (gesture by pantomiming the pouring of liquid into the stove).
terms 1: a 9 speed chain means that the chain is made for a bicycle that has 9 cogs on the rear wheel/hub; therefore a 10 speed chain is for a bicycle that has 10 cogs on the rear wheel/hub.
we learned this the hard way.
- the advantages of an attached/combined burner and liquid fuel tank are that separate pieces don't get separated among different packers, there is always fuel (assuming the tank is full) and the system is ready to use as soon as it is unpacked,the system tends to be 'beefier' (heavy duty), and there may be directions printed on the tank (making life easier for new cyclist campers).
this is particularly an issue in hot climates or hot days  where the cyclist(s) must have an early morning start.
usually, especially for warranty and safety purposes, a cyclist will want to use pins and links made by the same manufacturer as the chain, but there are 3rd party vendors that sell replacement pins and links that warrant their products as suitable for use with certain chains.
he states that it lasts longer and is cheaper than bike oils and any auto shop/garage/shade tree location in the world will have a little to spare (even a little in a discarded can/bottle on the side of the road, will get a person a day or three of travel).
itinerary with accommodation telephone numbers trailer tongue collar: top directions for making styrofoam trailer tongue collar(s): when the  styrofoam wrap is attached to the trailer tongue, it keeps the trailer hitch  connector off the ground and therefore out of the dirt.
my memory seems to recall that front wheel braking alone can exacerbate the resonance and that gentle rear wheel braking while gentle 's' turning was more effective.
chain size for 8 speed chains: 3/32" (2.38mm) i.d.; 7.2-7.4mm o.d. chain size for 9 speed chains: 3/32" (2.38mm) i.d.; 6.6-6.8mm o.d. chain size for 10 speed chains: 3/32" (2.38mm) i.d.; 5.8-6.1mm o.d. chain size for 11 speed chains: 3/32" (2.38mm) i.d.; 5.5mm o.d. *
we do call and/or email logistics arrangements beforehand.
- sleeping bag and sleeping pad on top (because they are light weight).
often the wire strap must be cut in order to remove a handlebar bag mount but users of this system never need to remove the mount, they just remove the bag).
- waterproof trailer bag.
the noise can be a result of one or more of two physical conditions: when the chain rotates around the sprocket, because of themismatch between chain pitch and tooth pitch (the standard is 1/2 inch precisely and a worn chain's pitch is greater by fractions of an inch) eventually the pitch mating differences causes a grinding/wearing type of noise that sounds like a chain-basket rub (metal on metal), much like the noise caused by an out of trim/index derailer.
- here's an example of interpolation.
this is darn good behavior when you are hundreds of miles from help.
- the tip of the shadow will move east as the sun travels west.
- caution: for some unknown reason, it seems that red tail light lens covers are easily lost while biking and especially while transporting bikes.
on the equator itself, actual sunrise and sunset time differences are measured in minutes and near the tropic lines, the sunrise and sunset time differences can approach an hour and a few minutes.
trailer yoke splash shield: top home made trailer yoke splash shield made for the mounting yoke of  a bob yak.
folding frame assembly checklist (for bike friday like foldup frame style bikes) - bicycle: break-down frame assembly checklist (for coupled/s&s style bikes, including tandems) drivetrain issues - know thy power delivery system: drivetrain issues sub-directory: bicycle shipping/assembly chain issues shifter and brake cable runs(s) about and how to fix damaged cable retainer(s) shipping issues same page links to related drivetrain topics: all about chains chain touring wisdom chain cleaning methods and issues extreme ways to clean a chain on tour bicycle shipping/assembly chain issues - one issue is the chain itself.
navigation lessons: in old world cities and some older new world  european founded cities, street names may not be continuous, many streets or  highways are not marked, or destination signage may not exist.
- there may be a car, truck, or camper at the site when a cyclist arrives.
- when riding on dirt road trails, especially solid dirt road curves, usually the inside of the curve is soft dirt and/or washboard, neither of which is pleasant to ride upon and usually the outside of the curve is hard and smooth.
any of these actions will require paint touch-up or finishing (which is the most costly aspect of all the repair work and it is purely cosmetic).
its not a good idea to stuff tomorrow's clothing in a bag to warn them,  because body moisture will ruin any insulation benefits.
- tighten the derailer mount, insuring that it does not move during the tightening process.
(just over the rear wheel) - always be nice to your travel partner -
it is mounted with electrical conduit brackets, that are shaped like the letter "p", using very short carriage bolts, small washers, lock washers, and plastic locknuts.
mental philosophy (zen): during crashes, for helpful reasons that cannot be explained, dennis tends to mentally view himself from a stationary position and the world is coming at him (almost like a video game); he then dodges obstacles and prepares for various impacts using the above listed reaction set/algorithms.
in less than a second, the steamed tree (life) liquid evaporates (or at least departs the cell) and lets the tree collapse onto its own hollowed cellular skeleton for support - the process of the tree collapsing onto its empty cell membranes results in the tree becoming shortened and twisted (about one turn for every 8 to 12 feet of height).
- some bikers use heat guns1,3 (like what electricians use for shrink wrap, like a hand held hair dryer) to expedite the drying process.
parking brake or front brake lock band/strap/wrap: top mechanical  issues directory brake lever strap (i.e., parking brake): the way that the original  concept was learned here, was via matt or bren at bikehacks.com ( http://bikehacks.com/ecovelo-parking-brake-for-your-bike/).
" - tom hilliard, team-usa bike coach shift (when, how, how much): top mechanical issues directory - a slight easing of the pedal pressure while the bike moves from its own inertia allows for a smoother shift.
ergo, it is better to place small clamp on burners only to the shorter 4 oz propane/butane canisters.
the reasoning is based on "jet lag."
luckily, major  airlines and ships use gps navigational systems so the impact of a magnetic  change is probably greatly reduced.
when planning or scoping a route on a map, consider writing/indicating key  change/mileage/distance points on the map itself, especially when map keys or  information boxes are hidden away by map folding.
if your adjustment just made more noise or made shifting occur two sprockets at a time, then back off the adjustment and try the other direction.
stuff all unused/extra shipping protection bags into one bag (usually the  biggest bag) to help keep them organized for later use safety reflectors, tape, cloth, and/or flag(s) wheel grease (2 oz tube available at good bike stores) and/or oil owners manual, repair manual, packing/assembly manual owner information demographics list with the cyclist's home and away  contact numbers and another dependable number like a close friend or relative  that is likely to be around or available during the travel absence (like a  parent)
- run the chain through the cage, usually in a l-l front-rear combo (little front ring - big rear sprocket) or else set the chain for an h-h combination (big front ring - little rear sprocket).
moving the barrel too far outward may make a shift skip a ring or set the chain to rub or grind on the cage.]
use discarded bottles on the road side to hold discarded waste and dispose of as properly as one can - we've carried trash (and dirty rags and used dirty fluid for a day or two) for proper disposal.
in about 15 minutes, mark the shadow point, again, with a different small  object.
- there are places where having a blinking head light, blinking tail light, or strobe light on a bike at night is against the law - please know that there is a difference between having a blinking light on a bike, versus having a blinking light on a person.
* - usually mountain bike rear derailers usual default position is low gear (l), big rear cog.
warning: leaves on a paved road or on a dirt trail can act as a road lubricant every bit as good as oil; slow down a lot before having to stop or maneuver in leaves, especially at intersections.
ware see cooking equipment for food stuffs see fire and cooking issues for related travel issues about handlebar bags: top a handlebar bag is a storage device that fits onto the handlebar.
most commonly this is caused by a bent derailer hanger, wheel/axel dropout (thus effecting rear sprocket alignment), chain stay (bent, ditto), or seat stay (ditto, pretty much in that order, 80% being a bent hanger, easy to have fixed, recognition of problem is the key).
so the reason that a cyclist/camper looks for lightening strike tree signs and burn areas is to avoid them!
any cage reshaping will always effect derailer performance and will usually result in a derailer chain/ring alignment re-adjustment.
we number our canisters so as not have more than two partial full canisters with a two stove/burner setup.
the bicycle chain's 1/2 inch pitch measure (and international chain pitch standard) traces back to the first days of chain-driven velocipedes (old high-wheel style bikes; this was before anyone realized that by using a chain, one could have smaller wheels).
it happens that 'coleman' is fairly well known international brand name associated with  white gas or coleman fuel and the term may be used in remote countries to mean  white gas (and not the brand of white gas/naptha that coleman sells).
the sun reaches its most northern and most southern arcs on the solstice.
it is even more frustrating when the hand shifter's index is indicating that a shift took place when the derailer, in fact, did not make the ring change.
- always test spin the pedals after an adjustment and run the shifter(s) through all gears (sprockets/cogs, rings) and always take a test ride before putting the tools away.
again, it is the guided or time delimitated tours that adds stress to the cyclist to address the laundry service issue on a time line.
this  method gets a little funky when measuring from the horizon to directly overhead  without the use of some object like a tree or building (to help mark the fist  counts) but guess what, there's another method for noon stuff.
each left/right half should weigh  about the same.
typically, in the usa, we use propane stoves, starting a trip with two stoves and no less than three fuel canisters (sometimes more, sometimes with partially used canisters from previous travels).
chain line and cross chain issues: top mechanical issues directory - problem 1: some gear combinations force the chain to rub/grind sideways against the sprockets.
if the handlebar starts to wobble (a wobble is when the handlebar ends shakes fore and aft while the front wheel shakes left and right [effecting steering] where the shakes may occur two or more times per second - these shakes seem to be the physics, physical, and mechanical result of a tail wag) then physically steering the bicycle in slight, little, 's' patterns while/and gentle braking may help obtain/regain control of the bike.
damaged plate removal prevents other components from further degradation (like pulleys, sprocket/ring teeth, or the derailer itself).
the derailer (cage) - make shape adjustments if needed.
prevent any damage to the derailer's 4-bar (main unit).
the nut and bolt clamp method of attachment is more serviceable for bike shipping, when the mount must be removed in order to pack the handlebar.
- be sure to properly torque the mounting and pinch bolts for the final settings.
- some people only use their bike light and accept the tent lighting inconveniences.
the advantage is  that everywhere a person looks is lit up.
this method is ok but misses some rollers and may miss many side plate gaps.
never setup a tent without staking at least one corner (usually four) or one may discover what is meant by the termmaytag (the tent blows away and tumbles everything inside -murphy's law: tumbling tents are attracted to water or cliffs).
if the cyclist is lucky, the pressure nozzle may be labeled, most are not.
how to re-attach a broken chain.
we have never found this to be an important tour issue but we store our items inside a waterproof storage sack first and set the storage sack in the pannier.
- the chain must run through the cage and be on the low gear (smallest front ring) for the l screw adjustments and the chain must be on the high gear (biggest front ring) for h screw adjustments.
note: tire wear, between the front and back tire, is proportional  to weight distribution.
see on-bike clothing checklist for bicycle clothing see off-bike clothing checklist for camp/tour clothing see common travel modes (touches on clothing requirements for various  travel modes).
it shortens the life of the drive train system and in a worst case scenario it may leave a cyclist stranded somewhere.
- the purpose of adding a tube/tire lubricant was to: - keep the tube from sticking to the tire, particularly for the inflation process, - help easily remove a non-sticking tube
mark all bottles and/or canisters in the desired usage order (using  judgment for different sizes, partial vs full, and when/where for the next  supply opportunity).
on the road, live by the golden rule, and leave a place of stay a little better than found.
- davinci (the tandem bike company) sells, to the public, a brake and/or shifter cable connector (they are different sizes) that can be conveniently positioned at any interim position.
the multi-part solution is described, in detail, at bicyclesafe.com will prevent an accident and maybe save a life - suggestion from allen beauchamp (facebook page).
this issue can be more of a  problem renting bikes in foreign locations (both a pump issue and a tire valve  issue).
will the traveling take place across areas that have different fuel supply  types (unleaded, white gas, kerosene, diesel; or propane, butane; or alcohol,  ...)?
while cosmoline or similar preservatives prevent rust or corrosion, it attracts and holds dirty particles like dust, dirt, or earth debris.
there are places where having a blinking head light, blinking tail light,  or strobe light on a bike at night is against the law - please know that there  is a difference between having a blinking light on a bike, versus having a  blinking light on a person.
- it is extremely convenient to have a brush handy, be it a human tooth brush or a sprocket tooth brush.
burners on top of tall propane/butane canisters are prone to having large  pots of food tip over, even from a good gust of wind (because of their narrow  canister base).
integrated brake/shifter systems are even  more susceptible because they are more complicated (& expensive) and  actually more open to getting debris inside their inner workings.
furthermore, we just left a  very big city where we could have purchased such an item.
the amount of daylight and night are equal only on these event dates.
this leaves lots of slack.
- some 'handlebar bag mounts' attach by a wire (like a strap).
john barnett, of bbi, recommends that if a bicyclist only wants to carry  one loctite bottle/type, then they should carry loctite 242 and use it for all  fasteners.
the equinox days are generally march 20 and september 22 (actual dates  and times vary up to one earth day).
carry the fire starting material in a sealed plastic lunch  bag.
- threadlock is usually applied as one drop spread around the threads of a bolt at the insertion end.
major handle bar mounting questions/issue: how does the bag's mount  attach to the handlebar?
see successful  recovery following the note.
- re-assemble everything.
experience: it generally seems that bike tires lose about 3-5 psi  per day, such that bike tires need to be filled/topped off every other day.
- cool story! (>) - note: tire wear, between the front and back tire, is proportional to weight distribution.
if necessary, make adjustments and insure that the chain goes onto the ring without overshooting the ring, nor undershooting the ring (chain noise).
second, use acetone (not paint thinner, not  mineral spirits - they add oils) and a clean cloth to finish cleaning the inner  tube residue, especially paying attention to the areas for placing/sticking the  velcro pads.
caution and caveat from john salzbach of rema tip top, a popular american  talc manufacturer/distributor (who corroborates the previous statements) hints  that if a tire and tube have been dressed with talc, then one must clean the  area to be patched very well or patch security may become  "problematic".
sometimes, this stress, including mountain trail riding, may result in broken spokes, spoke stretch, spoke nipple (nut) loosening, and wheel wobble issues.
thread lock chemical compounds, in general: usage: - thread lock is an anaerobic (sets without air) expansion compound that takes on the property of glue.
one such system is the campagnolo 11 speed chain drive system which requires their $200 11 speed chain tool and chain pin finishing (like trimming and peening a rivet) -
- sheldon brown recommends using chainsaw and bar oil, a good recommendation, but it is important to understand the reasoning.
the heart of the matter:
in the field,a smart touring cyclist will alternate between two chains, thus allowing for penatrant evaporation (usually 24 hours), the use of two chains will slow down initial sprocket wear (front and back), it allows a cyclist to keep moving (versus waiting for a chain to dry), it removes the stress around chain care and management (did i wait long enough, will the oil/lube take hold), and, it is nice to have a backup chain for touring.
for some people (like us), the knife must also have a cork screw!
laundry issues  seem easier to address if one is camping, unless one has to move whether or not  the clothes are dry.
front/rear sprocket/ring/gear wear, top, mechanical issues directory, noise symptom/solution sub-directory chain noise and/or cage rub sounding noise issues: derailer cable tension adjustment noise issue: just as the chain wears over time so does the front crank rings and the rear cassette/sprockets.
note: chain holders do not have to be too strong - they are just a convenient 3rd hand 'chain hold together and hold off the ground' tool.
one, riding tense with tight grips can  cause problems, and two, if a person is in one of those tail wag situations,  then recovery requires a more gentle grip on the handle bar (as opposed to a  locked 'death grip').
- other lubrication methods exist.
if the weather is bad, cook under the fly, if the weather is good, sit on  the fly.
tire liners for touring (avoid them): top mechanical issues directory we have tried to use "tire liners" to no avail (at a  different time than the slime problem).
rim integrity and wheel vibration
if necessary, use arm(s) or leg(s) to keep a person's falling/moving body from hitting dangerous objects.
storms and clothing: one big variable addresses whether one is in a  passing thunderstorm (where the sun will likely be out later in the day) or a  monsoon (where one may be socked in for days of rain).
stoves that burn liquefied gas (mainly butane or butane-propane mixtures),  sometimes called canister stoves, offer instant lighting (for a price - it is  worth it!).
pile the dirt to the side because it is coming right back to the hole.
no matter where the tent entrance is, the sleeping bags must be inline  with the downhill run (sometimes called fall-line) and the heads at the uphill  end (or else bodies will slide into each other over the course of the night or  blood will rush/pool at head).
the rearcassette is best cleaned with the wheel off the bike.
- goose down bags are lighter and compress better than micro fiber bags, useless if wet, use river float proof cover, we store in kayak bag).
this power transfer process weakness isexasperated by a dirty chain and sprockets; be sure to operate with a clean chain and sprockets.
dennis struck specific stove selection facts/issues: self supported, experienced, touring cyclists like, either: propane stove systems (like optimus or primus systems) with a  detached fuel canister.
- properly dispose of all used cleaning components.
trailer spare tire (optional, depending in remoteness and terrain)
understanding where the sun rises and sets helps us to navigate in the  mornings and evenings.
in some environmental conditions, some  people sleep with a bottle or two.
if one has a tandem or recumbent, then one needs more disposable rags.
- we have marked the master link (or a randomly selected link on a pin system) with red or white waterproof and oil proof paint/marker so as to aid in chain lubrication so that we have a known start and end point.
- bicycle shops generally do not perform sprocket wear inspections often enough with a measurement tool; bicycle shops tends to make visual inspections and visual inspection tends to find overly worn sprockets way beyond their replacement time.
the same systems usually require steps beyond what is presented herein.
- sometimes the derailer is absolutely perfect for the range of sprocket rings, big to small, butthe chain rides a little too snugly to the next bigger or smaller sprocket ring.
it seems that most people (including moi) apply too much the first time and a much of the control problem derives from the delivery system (bottle design).
cooking requirements for high heat output or a long duration burn, like to perform oven type baking, should be performed on a burner that is detached from the fuel canister via a connecting hose.
note that we try to camp at or below 10,000 ft (3000 m) or below  tree-line, just for healthy breathing at night.
- some bikes and/or people prefer generator systems.
missing the street because it does not extend beyond a few blocks.
bike shop cable retainer replacement: usually the bike shop can either re-braze a braze on cable mount but that action will destroy the paint finish (it will burn from torch use).
adjust the break/un-pin point if needed.
- thread lock does not work on plastic nor on nylon (core/liner threads on some nuts).
one may see a pin designation like7/8 pin or 7/8 link, which means a link orpin that works for 7 or 8 speed chain pin replacement.
if the wag is not brought under control by gently but rapidly slowing down, the wag shake force and wag frequency may increase to the point of loss of control.
at 6 o'clock, slime  can run up and into the stem by sheer volume and at 11-12-1 o'clock, slime can  settle into the stem.
this solution can be applied to the front derailer also.
thus, a worn chain mal affects sprocket wear.
solutions: - do not buy or obtain pants with any kind with  baffle pockets.
2 fists ~ 15° or 1 hour 3 fists ~ 24° or 1.5 hours 4 fists ~ 30° or 2 hours 5 fists ~ 37° or 2.5 hours 6 fists ~ 45° or 3 hours we can use our fist knowledge to tell time and to navigate.
- many synthetic clothing items will virtually dry by spinning it overhead but organic clothing may need an hour or two to dry out in a best case scenario.
unless the wheel rim requires a long stem (because of a double rim wall) then a short stem will be easier to place into the rim.
in fact the only issue that one hears about is the subject of oil detergents, that is, chemicals added to oil designed to clean carbon from cylinder walls and prevent grime or scorching buildup in the bearing/friction contact areas.
- loose spokes - tighten, tune - s&s coupler(s) - check tight (lynn hamilton, ac expedition guide).
the locals have known where the place was located for centuries and there may not be any local signage.
it causes extra wear, poor drive/power transfer to the rear wheel, and may make noise.
all white-gas stoves need servicing at some point (which is why they have repair kits).
some mechanics work in 1/6 turns because the nipple has six sides.
work in increments that are either 1/4 or 1/8 nut turns followed by a  wheel spin check.
- in lieu of having a 'c' hanger, one may use a re-usable zip tie, string, wire tie, or a volunteer to hold the chain ends together (to keep the chain off of the ground and from a free run).
, - keep drying patch cement on a repaired tube from sticking to the tire, and -
it can be found in a small tube, small bottle, or larger bottle - threadlocker ms blue is directly equivalent to loctite 242.
- usually, in a group, white gasoline (liquid stove fuel) is carried across 2 to 6 lined metal safety storage bottles; these bottles are typically distributed evenly among the touring group.
- where is the rain going to go?
- solution: pedal in the gear combinations that offer the most energy return (which also happen to not have chain-sprocket side rub/wear).
oh yeah, we get it, but what about midday.
this road philosophy (of washing daily) allows a cyclist to skip wash on rainy days, on very humid days (which may last a few days), or on hurried and stressful days and still have something dry and clean to wear.
handy wipes, in foil packets like those dispensed at some restaurants, or baby wipes are quite handy for cleaning sunscreen off the fingers and for cleaning up after a tire flat, chain break, chain sprocket slip off, bike assembly, or even cleaning up for a trail lunch.
most of the time, the cyclist's own bike clothing is serviceable for off  the bike activities, but not always.
- make an effort to remove any pending slack in the wire but do not pinch down yet.
don't put the tools away.
- good news: if a derailer frame hole is stripped, it is a very simple matter for most bike shops to tap a larger hole and drop in a helix wire that is the exact same threading dimension as the original standard.
- water based cleaners like bio or eco labeled chain cleaners solutions, simple-green, orange oil, or some liquid soaps will clean a chain in a jar or on the bike.
if the inner plates are too tight on the outer plates (or vice versa) then the pin (on at least one chain side, maybe on two sides) needs to be pushed a little more, in order to release the friction/binding between the inner plate(s) and the outer plate(s).
while fairly useful alcohol stoves may be made from atuna can (or military mre cookie tin), we suggest sticking with something more industrial for global travel.
- in the field, for emergency repairs only, a large adjustable wrench (1st choice) or a tongue and groove pliers (2nd choice) may be used for re-shaping a drop out and on rare occasions, a round file may be used to re-shape a dropout.
it is worth having one for a  tour.
note: place all removed belongings in one spot.
- if possible, as soon as one picks up a tuned bike from a shop (or you just tuned it perfectly or as soon as it is opportune), mark the juncture of the derailer and frame (sometimes at two different places, using permanent marker [black or silver]) such that the stroke of the mark touches both the derailer and frame at the same time.
- on the rear derailer, for the rear sprockets (cassette or cogs), it is just the opposite, 'l' means low but low pertains to the biggest rear sprocket and high (h) pertains to the smallest rear sprocket.
- method c - oiling the gap on each plate side (in two stages/chain-runs, once for each side).
learn a whole lot more aboutwhite gas, naphtha and foreign terms.
on the other hand, virtually no fuel/petro/gas station can handle putting air through a presta bike tire valve.
- in the field, to pack, completely roll tightly compressing with the knees, and open the valve to let out any air (then replug).
hint 2: very often, the brake or shifter cable will need to be re-adjusted for the length of the new run and if it is a shifter cable then a derailer adjustment will likely be in order.
bmx means bicycle mountain cross-country.
how many cyclists cook meals above 12,000 feet (3650 m) or below 15° f (-10° c)?
take partial used role(s) of toilet paper from home, flatten &  compress the roll to take up less space.
also, he states that talc is still widely used in the agriculture industry.
luckily, we are usually passing through cities,  or have a place to stay where the bikes and equipment may be stored, or we park  next to the ticket booth where an agent agrees to literally watch the bikes  (and we still chain and lock the bikes and take the handlebar bag(s) containing  important items and documents with us).
¹ survival note: this is a slightly bigger problem for tandems and triples because there is significantly more combined leg-pressure.
a double pad is the same weight as two pads, bulkier to carry for one person, but the benefit is that the pad never separates and most double pads still allow different fill/pressure levels for each side.
product numbers seem to be in the sequence of [part#]+[volumecode] such that a 10 ml bottle of 111 would have a product number of 11110, or a 50 ml bottle of 121 would have a part number of 12150.
- caveat: threadlock is for active bicycle touring and not for shipping.
- dig, with a metal foldup garden trowel (or real garden trowel or plastic camping trowel), a "cat hole" about a foot deep and four to six inches wide.
many touring cyclists only beef up the rear wheel.
- be aware that there are (at least) two kinds of bungee nets: - one kind of bungee net has two mounting/connecting hooks and is meant to drape over a front orrear rack and/or pannier from one side to the other (typically hooking at the bottom of the rack's frame).
the concern is about the parting biker having or having had a special tool or something else that the group needs or will need (like tickets, keys, codes, telephone numbers, ...).
some bike shops will not allow heat blowers inside their facility (an enclosure/ventilation issue).
thus remnant cleaner can cause corrosion in the bicycle chain (especially in the hard to reach roller and pin friction area which is exactly where lubrication is most needed) and remnant water can cause rust (especially in the hard to reach roller and pin friction area which is exactly where lubrication is most needed).
bicycle tour clothing issues see how much do i carry/pack?
bend the appendages a little so the body parts won't break or be torn - airborne 101 (sneaky pun, intended).
[suggestion from john schubert's book,the tandem scoop, burley design cooperative, 1993.]) - use thread lock for tours.
performance: with all other things being equal, the closer the pilot jockey is to the rear sprockets/cogs, the snappier the shifting performance - yes, it can be set too close (a person can tell by the grinding noise in at least one of the gear settings, but usually in can be heard in all of them).
the inner plates give the chain its linked flexibility and rotation ability.
- an ultrasonic vibrator is best but hand shaking, especially in a bottle like container is very effective and clean empty bottles with a little liquid penatrant like diesel or mineral spirits can be very efficient and effective on the trail side.
this is good, well meaning, and for your security and the proprietor's protection.
- protecting the head is usually the most important thing to do, but on occasion a person may need to focus on dodging a spearing/jabbing object.
if traveling for more than two or three days, those bolts will need threadlock.
having camped like that, we once discovered that a light shined  into a styrofoam cup will radiate light like a lantern - it is the only  positive thing about styrofoam that we know (for the record, we found the cup).
- check for chain kinks.
most  people can be sloppy for about three days (and get away with poor sanitation  habits), but then mother nature rears her head and smites thee.
- adjusting the eccentric (on tandems).
warning 1: wipe all chains as well as one can before blowing, baking, drying, or lubricating (as well as for cleaning, the process reduces flammability, especially for any form of heat drying).
its easy to fix or replace components before a trip but it robs everyone of precious time on the day of a trip.
second lightest is a plastic-bubble/mylar (like) automobile windshield sun screen.
note: do the best for the situation at hand and think about others that may  follow.
underwear items tend to be lighter and the benefit of more undies usually outweighs the added weight issue.
mountain touring seems to have a higher percentage or likelihood of broken chains than road touring.
it may be used as an additional insulating layer between the bags and the  tent bottom, a common usage in the winter as well as in mountain climates.
keep cleaning until one can drag the chain through a rag in a tight fist without any fibers being pulled out of the rag.
the outer plates and the rivet/pin are fixed (usually stamped, peened, and/or riveted - not supposed to move on one another); the inner plate is supposed to rotate about the pin/rivet.
- generally, we  have learned to pack up wet, and take time to dry the gear and clothing at mid  day in what is often the sunniest/warmest part of the day (when the sun is as  its most efficient and effective heating angles).
determine and address the cause of the leak, usually a nail or wire, and just replace the inner tube.
one's knowledge is greatly enhanced if they have a watch (timepiece).
3rd party vendor means 'not the manufacturer' and 'not the bike shop'.
loctite's medium strength (called blue) or the equivalent brand's medium strength is the single best strength choice to carry and use for bicycle touring.
clear plastic bags allow a traveler to see items inside the bag - available at canoeing and kayaking stores (online too).
- there is a trim noise mimic that also may sound like a broken tooth or unaligned chain grind - see the following links.
the cases will become bike trailers.
approximately only five percent of car tire shops can handle a presta tire valve.
it was a  little cool morning (about 45°f) but in any case the tire removal activity  was extremely difficult.
never hit the ground with both cheeks at the same time.
it can be  used to store things that are important to the rider, typical things as large  as a wallet to things as small as coins or chapstick.
bring water in bottles into the tent and position them away from cold areas.
in the negative,  ask hotel workers if there is a way to get an out-of-hotel  service/business/entrepreneur to do laundry or if there is a laundry facility  nearby.
in addition, remember that white-gas stoves that sit on top of the fuel tank also hold 15-25 ounces of fuel.
therefore a half link or two may need to be removed and replaced as well as replacing the original broken link.
in actuality, nipples and spokes can be over torqued and there is no standard way to make this method work every time - it does work sometimes, it does not work all the time.
there isn't a whole lot a person can do to prevent this kind of wear except to: brake less, carry only light loads, and stay away from bumps, rocks, and holes -that's a joke.
- outer wall integrity can only be known by removing the tire and
cyclists seem to mount handle bar bags anywhere from top  parallel to the ground up to top at almost 45° (so as to facilitate easier  or quicker map reading from the saddle).
it really helps to indicate the matching mount points between the frame, stop plate, and/or derailer pre-marked with a marking pen to line up the derailer, frame, and b-screw stop appropriately on the bike's frame.
- permatex makes a threadlocker green, a temporary compound added after a bolt is fastened, which is equivalent to loctite 292.
not all retail stores have this size, call around, typically they are  found in camping/outdoor type stores and they are available online (but  shipping can be expensive).
lateral adjustments are usually balanced.
sleeping bag(s): at home, always store hung or loose, never store packed or compressed.
if there is deet on the fingers and one touches anything, the deet will remove writing or graphical images from the things that are touched, like bike cassette/sprocket ring indicator numbers, camera lettering and icons (on/off, movie, shutter speeds, flash, ...), compass ticks and markings, and any enamel on anything (e.g., gps, ipod, cell, ...).
- fill only about an inch deep; drop in the chain; cap it (or cup it); shake it (shake, don't stir.~ ian fleming.), pour dirty fluid into second container, repeat as needed; pull out the chain; if orange oil or liquid soap used, wash it; wipe it as dry as is reasonable then let it dry (sun it, swing it, - be careful, any combination); when dry, oil it (per the next segment).
twist the lever clockwise, take your time, and 'mind the relatives'.
- some stoves are designed for high heat output to more or less boil water quickly; these same stoves cannot be used or used very well to perform low heat functions, like to keep a cooked meal warm over a period of time, to simmer.
there may be tiny washers.
if a car stops for us,  even though it had the right away, we go.
keep the fresh toilet paper in a zip lock bag to protect it form moisture  or paper flaking.
we usually have both cleaning wipe types and they can be purchased in bulk  at x-mart.
and, how low will the drying process take?
comment: in an emergency, flat tip screw drivers can be used -
- synthetic sleeping bag materials dry faster than goose down and can provide insulation when partially wet, goose down cannot.
in the negative, there  may be generator/tire wear issues, alternating dimness/brightness issues, and  wiring integrity issues.
we have never been  mistreated or mislead and local peoples love to help outsiders on bikes.
another advantage of a tour  company issuing a gps is that the cycling company can hide some of the routing  details and secrets from competing vendors - we have signed non-disclosure  agreements for some operators.
handy wipes, in foil packets like those dispensed at some restaurants, or  baby wipes are quite handy for cleaning sunscreen off the fingers and for  cleaning up after a tire flat, chain break, chain sprocket slip off, bike  assembly, or even cleaning up for a trail lunch.
if one was rotating the incorrect derailer adjustment screw, be sure to place it in its original position and then move to the other screw (and insure that the cage and chain are positioned correctly).seeing the cage move is proof that one is on the correct adjustment
- many road cycling bloggers report that they need to remove the seat post once a year, wipe off all old grease, thinly reapply a very thin new layer so thin that one can barely see it (spread with fingers), wipe any excess, re-mount the seat post and the creak or click noise goes away for another year.
on occasion, while this has not happened to us, one  may ask if anyone left any partially used fuel containers.
caution: new bottles and tubes of threadlock often deliver more fluid than intended.
- oil viscosity is situational (season, location, moisture exposure, and particulate exposure).
we are usually right at the weight limit for the grand total.
- permatex threadlockers seem to be more easily found in hardware and auto type supply stores.
so far we have not used/tested this  product nor found it with an extended presta valve.
tire air pump: top mechanical issues directory pumps can often be bike mounted but a slight amount of weight can be saved  by carrying the pump in a bag (along with other wheel care equipment).
he then focused on the document that we set on top (the suitcase bicycle picture document - see image) and he picked it up to look at the picture of the assembled bicycle.
avoid sap dripping trees, and avoid lightning attractors.
second  lightest is a plastic-bubble/mylar (like) automobile windshield sun screen.
so many people try to rotate their tires near the  estimated halfway to replacement point in order to get the most out of their  tires (maximum distance).
- always wipe a chain after running through mud, water, snow, ice, or rain.
and, when will the sun be rise high enough to effectively dry wet gear?
tire size and standards: iso discussion here ... - under development - here is a much more detailed site about bicycle tires and tubes bicycle touring rim issues: top mechanical issues directory
consider carrying a reflective triangle (on person or equipment).
from adhering to tight friction components (where lubrication is most needed).
so, in general, for low gearing, the chain lines up on the front and back sprockets on their respective left sides.
a few sleeping bags have interior tie strings for liners but most don't.
- note: there are at least two different ways to mount cargo pant pockets: 1 - flat edge sewn.
to our credit and the instructions credit, we never got lost and we maybe  missed two turns.
optional: spare tire and tire [repair] boot optional: heavy duty manual pump (usually stays with transport vehicle or  in the trailer of one biker in a group).
addressing the cable to the front derailer adjustment issue: first (before loosening the pinch bolt): quickly check for any of these other conditions.
penatrants are used to break the bond of dry, rusted, corroded, galvanized, and/or oxidized bolts and/or nuts.
- handling dirty oil can be messy and may take a few cleaning iterations.
- alcohol, a most underrated cooking fuel.
the northern solstice is generally on june 21 and the most southern solstice is  generally on december 21.
- we don't always get to pick how we are dismounted, but a summersault type body roll (feet over head) is better than a chin slide or back slide - judo 201 roll.
some panniers clamp with lever, some use a bent metal hook and need  periodic stretch or shrink adjustments to nylon straps, some attach to and  detach from special quick connect mounts, some can be secured with a mini  locking cable.
less rolling resistanceless treads/inch (carcass)
in lieu of pure 30 weight oil, then auto oil is a perfectly fine substitute, both for cleaning as well as for bicycle chain lubrication.
experience: remove panniers when transporting bikes on the  exterior of a vehicle.
use seal friendly solvent.
- flat tire air filling lessons learned: sometimes when a tube appears to be installed and filled correctly, it will have twisted or folded onto itself and either anomaly creates a weak point in the tube.
this action helps to keep individual wire strands from breaking (and they do break over time/use from the clamp action).
also wipe clean just before oiling the chain.
performance: with all other things being equal, the closer the pilot jockey is to the rear sprockets/cogs, the snappier the shifting performance - yes, it can be set too close (a person can tell by the grinding noise in at least one of the gear settings, but usually noise can be heard in all of the gear settings if the b-screw is out of adjustment).
when compared side-by-side in identical conditions, synthetic  clothing will always dry faster.
it really saves time to have soapy steel wool (like brillo) for the cleaning.
this process is always messier.
in a one kilometer distance on a more or less straight street, an old city  street may have six or more different street names.
experienced riders need to be aware of this kind of situation.
at best, the food supply can  be contaminated and the food can be replaced, or at worst these food  destruction activities cause and end to an otherwise nice bicycle tour.
a bent frame component causes the rear wheel cassette to not line up with the front crank ring(s), which results in the chain alternately aligning with the front crank or rear cassette, thus causing un-commanded gear shifting.
heavy duty wheel/rim caveats: - some trailer wheel/rims need to address the heavy duty stress issue.
additionally, some pannier racks allow or facilitate a top of rack bag in addition to the side mounted bags (which can help balance the load by distributing more weight to the front).
interestingly, if a person is looking at what is happening around their self, then a person will likely be forcing their head off the ground.
caution: if a  biker is waiting at a stop (light or sign) they are naturally positioned on the  edge of the outside lane, such that if a stock truck pulls up beside the  cyclist, because of the designed curvature of the roadway, that person is down  hill from the truck.
generally, we camp with books of matches and a cheap 7/11 disposable  butane lighter for short trips and we will also have a magnesium striker for  longer trips.
- the back cradle holds, both, the front chain plate and the rear chain plate steady - a pin can be and will be pushed through both chain plates.
- rarely is more than a full turn needed.
- most people use "blanket" size safety pins to connect bag and sheet (attach at the seams to prevent cloth tears).
dennis had to go back once.
we discovered that we could buy washcloth sized cleanup rags for garage use by the case at x-mart.
loaded handlebar bags make the bicycle top heavy and  handlebar bags are the leading contributor to 'parked bike' fall over; be sure  to read about thebrake lever strap.
bbi method: use a lever, about the size of narrow paint mixing stick (or a  vinyl covered handle from a cone wrench) and lever open the spoke intersections  to pre-bend the spoke.
middle (m) ring/gear combinations, front and back, achieve the same efficiency combinations - this is good too.
this knowledge should be applied to head lights, flash lights (torches), position lights, tail lights, cameras, and phones.
we specifically look for lightning strike signs1 (scars on trees, twisted trunks, fire sign)
when possible, take advantage of passing through a town, city, or  village that has laundry services or a do-it-yourself laundry facility.
the tension pulley keeps the slack out of the chain.
if the links don't quite come together then add another link or half link (depending on whether a pin or masterlink is to be used).
c: chain rubs/grinds on something in the rear derailer area
note that experienced  people place the toilet paper roll on the trowel handle.
turning the bike upside-down facilitates the best work area (in the field).
thread lock does not work on plastic nor on nylon (core/liner  threads on some nuts).
stealth camping precautions/warnings: the cyclist usually scouts out the place during the remaining daylight,  but for whatever reasonit may be a drop dead-tired emergency rest area  selected in the middle of darkness.
store food in a bear bag or bear safe.
a penatrant is a low viscosity fluid (about the consistency of water) primarily used as acorrosion or rust destroyer, corrosion stopper, corrosion cleaner, dirt remover, wax remover, grime disolver, old oil remover, and general metal cleaner.
the outer plates and pin/rivetdo not rotate because the outer plates and pin/rivet are one fixed component.
the second best method is to use a simple build or assembly jig that holds a frame off of the ground while allowing access to both sides of the bike (or built in such a manner that one end of the frame can be easily switched to the other end, for further access work).
more facts: one link is 1 inch and is composed of 2 linear link plates (an outer plate and an inner plate connected about a pin/rivet).
- canister stoves are very simple, convenient, and most carry instant lighters built into the burner (always buy built in lighters/igniters).
experience: carry a few spare links for emergency link replacement and remember to try to be sure that the spare link types match the current chain type (9 speed vs 10 speed, pins for chain-pin match).
normally when this happens, even though the noise is very bothersome, it is not critical and the cyclist that is on-a-tour can wait till they can ride the bike to the nearest bike shop.
this is  cool, but what's with all the time stuff.
- when possible, take advantage of passing through a town, city, or village that has laundry services or a do-it-yourself laundry facility.
- the practice is most common among solo bikers and on occasion by couple/pair bikers.
usually tools should be one of the last things packed and one of the first things made available for reassembly.
all experienced travelers of remote  areas, regardless of weath, position, or power, have a stash of toilet paper  somewhere.
- finally, in the field, any lubrication is better than nothing.
stay up to date on chain maintenance and replacement.
cyclists have gotten by on vegetable oil, olive-oil, sun-screen, hand cream, vaseline, mineral oil, and mineral spirits.
- master link examples (sram powerlink): - if necessary, re-align the chain on the front and rear sprockets.
more aboutalcohol stoves or alcohol fuel - also see next bullet.
a light  weight plastic tent/stake mallet will suffice in hard terrain.
there is nothing like, plug it in, and  turn it on for simplicity, especially at the end of a long, wet, uphill climb  to end a day.
b: chain rubs/grinds on something in the rear derailer area chain rubs on rear derailer cage miss-threading the chain through the tension arm's jockey pulleys will cause metal-on-metal chain rubbing/grinding noises.
touring 2 of 2 - displaying now - about bicycle transport (pack/ship/box) travelogues, adventures, stories, travel journals, pictures - hover the mouse over text, links, and pictures for more details - thank you for visiting - feedback and suggestions are always welcome by dennis & terry struck about bicycle touring: tips, lessons learned, and tricks of the trade, v43 "treat others as you would have them treat you."
- pre-fill the tube with just enough air to give the tube a round full form without any folds or twists.
there may be a car, truck, or camper at the site when a cyclist arrives.
- stealth camping precautions/warnings: -
sometimes on must wait a few hours or in really bad cases, a few day for deep penetration with wd-40 or liquid wrench type products.
we quit using liners and replaced all the inner tubes and the unusual high rate of flat tires problem went away.
it may be wise to have old news paper or  disposable rag for handling.
if the cyclist has a bipod kick stand, as soon as the frame can be set up without damaging the cable retainers/holders at the bottom of the frame, set the bike upright.
it can be heard most of the time but not always.
all about bicycle chains (touring perspective) top, mechanical issues directory
check the rim for microscopic cracks: - "mike-ing" (micrometer measuring) the wall thickness, and/or - visual inspection, and/or - feel - look for longitudinal cracks, both, along the sides (outer wall) and the top (spoke wall - what faces the axle).
- 'weather out the storm' -
grinding metal against metal is never good.
a 170 pound rider will have about 5-15% more chain wear than a 115 pound rider.
many magnetic field specialists think that the earth is due for a magnetic  pole change now or they feel that such a change is imminent.
in lieu of an open faced derailer swing/tension arm/cage, then the cyclist must thread the chain through the openings for the jockey wheels.
the plan is to use these tools to reshape the flange(s) so that it (they) can be used to hold the cable again.
an aside: this is thereason why most cyclists lay or transport (or rest) their bike to the left side (versus right side), to keep the derailer off any objects.
some attach and detach easier  than others (whose properties can be as problematic as convenient, as some  easily detachable bags may come off easier as a result of a good pot hole or  rogue tree branch).
one must buy new wheels; they range from 5 usd to 95 usd, each.
usually, in a group, white gasoline (liquid stove fuel) is carried across  2 to 6 lined metal safety storage bottles; these bottles are typically  distributed evenly among the touring group.
for us, time is always fixed and limited; we can't change the fixed  schedule nor change the return day or prepaid flight.
it's those guided or time  delimitated tours where washing clothes or having clothes washed is problematic  because the task needs to be fit into an otherwise nearly completely booked  schedule, i.e., finding time is a problem.
note that in many cases, the field work is just to get the wheel in good  enough shape to get out of the field and into a bike shop.
threadlocker ls purple is directly equivalent to loctite 222.
we were not even  offered a bicycle computer to buy, borrow, or rent.
every adjustment must result in less wobble or the adjustment must be  undone.
by the very environment that people ride mountain bikes (mbs) there is more wear on the bike chain because of dirt wear in the chain that results from dirt in the environment.
april and august: add 5° to 15° north may and july: add 15° to 20° june: add 20° to 23° north a similar chart could  be made for the winter months (or for summer in th the southern hemisphere),  with the sun rising and setting south of the east-west line.
[it seems that everyone moves the wrong barrel adjuster at least once in their life.]
- typical or common emergency camp reasons are delays caused by: bike repair, bonk, hypothermia/physical/heat exhaustion (inability to think clearly), illness, dizziness, injury, injured partner (muscle strain), threats and/or road rage from a vehicle driver.
most mechanics deliberately perform nipple tightening and loosening below  the axle as opposed to above the axle because the hand twist rotation direction  is reversed on the top versus on the bottom.
there is a lot of merit to having two identical stoves (only need one repair kit; no part, piece, or component matching issues; they generally handle identically).
sewing, while time consuming, will  outlast iron-on strips.
if one knows the original cage shape, then that is the reshaping goal.
top directions for making styrofoam trailer tongue collar(s): when the styrofoam wrap is attached to the trailer tongue, it keeps the trailer hitch connector off the ground and therefore out of the dirt.
- dispose of used fluids and rags properly.
- talcum will work if one was to inflate a bicycle tube straight out of the box, inside a rim and tire, with no pre-filling the tube with air, and then talc could help reduce tube folds or twists which would eventually wear the tube and cause an air leak (thus causing a flat tire).
- second use a product advertised as bicycle oil (but not a product that lists many uses and bicycle chain lubrication is one of the items on the list - those products probably belong in item 5).
- tour survival - chain cleaning methods: virtually any effort to clean and lube a chain (to include periodic wiping, if nothing else) will result in a longer lasting bicycle chain.
- noontime still occurs at the shortest shadow of a straight stick, only now there may be no shadow at all at noon time.
vibra-tite (nd industries; nylok-detroit corporation) - usually found in  tools stores: nd part# 111 (equivalent to loctite 222) nd part# 121 (equivalent to loctite 242) nd part# 146 (equivalent to loctite 277) nd part# 137 (equivalent to loctite 272)
additionally,  some pannier racks allow or facilitate a top of rack bag in addition to the  side mounted bags (which can help balance the load by distributing more weight  to the front).
outside of the usa we have rations drop shipped to our  destination start address (thus avoiding any agricultural import issues for  fruits, meats, or farm products), we have bought and used self heating rations,  andwe have used propane fuel systems (as well as having lived off the  local economies).
we have  never had altitude problems with a propane stove
there are a few other odd reasons.
don't confuse a pump that has two different air valve ends (dual valve,  presta and schrader) with a pump that has one end and is convertible between  presta or schrader.
note that experienced people place the toilet paper roll on the trowel handle.
keep a large mouth plastic container and lid (an old empty salsa  bottle, for example) about 25-30 ounce in size, and use it for night time  liquid relief.
conversely, if the wheel rotates out of round, there is usually a spoke issue.
- john muir , american environmentalist water, sanitation, and cleanup: top water purification & filtration systems work.
also, banana peels on the ground are verydéclassé.
sometimes h [at max of 2 or 3 or 4 front rings]).
in every case of chain break, we were on mountain or steep hill trails where we were performing a burst of shifting in brief periods of time (carrying touring loads).
- trim noise is caused by the chain rubbing on the derailer cage or against a sprocket.
experience: we have learned  from our mountain bikes that the bar ends can protect and guard the brake  and/or shifter system from damage.
shipping issues: the following is a very light discussion about shipping issues - there is a very heavy and detailed discussion of most known issues and experiences at the bicycle tranport and shipping webpage (within this web site).
- it is better to have insertible partitions inside the bag, in order to: separate items, hold items upright (so they are easily accessible), and to keep small item from sinking underneath all of the bigger items.
- hand axes are too heavy to carry (even a weapon argument yields to a light weight knife).
this method works effectively, efficiently, and economically, once one gets a little application practice.
- there may be a scenic view or pastoral view/feel.
some facilitate external strapping of extra loads, most don't.
scribes are metal pointed markers used for to mark material for cutting.
speed load light weight heavy duty narrow wall thick wall narrow track wide trackhard road dirt road tread less knobby tread narrow width wider widthperformance duration light weight heavy weight road feel shock absorbtion small air volume/capacity large air volume/capacity high air compression low air compression narrow radial circumference wide radial circumferencehard surface soft surface no or little tread traction tread less rolling resistance more rolling resistanceflat terrain steep terrain
which way is north? .
usually the answer is yes.
don't try to recover unused fuel, way  too dangerous.
keep in mind that there is a difference between  high noon at a particular spot and 12:00 o'clock noon on a watch.
- note: how the chain meets for connection can be different, depending on whether a master link is used (inner plate to inner plate) or if a pin is used (inner plate to outer plate) - properly account for correct chain meet-up.
also this can happen in the rear cassette for just one front chain ring and not the other(s), having to do with the angle/alignment of the chain going to the rear cassette.
- caution: avoid being on the outside of a road curve with (or down hill from) a cattle or stock truck - stuff slides!
also use waterproof bags for the sleeping bag(s) and the sleeping pad(s).
not have night fires as fires can attract unwanted human visitors.
- the time of sunrise and sunset may shift, based on location north or south within the tropics.
- plastic sheet or ground cloth (aka foot print): - place under the tent bottom, protects tent bottom from wear, keeps dirt/mud off tent, allows clean tent folding/packing, for packing - shake and the fold ground cloth dirt side to inside.
loctite (usually found in tool stores or hardware stores): use loctite 222 (temporary) "purple" (colored fluid - not bottle  color) on small bolts of less than 7mm diameter.
be flexible and enjoy the little curves that touring throws, it's all character developing!
sleeping bag cover, aka bivy sack (optional): there are goretex type covers that facilitate two capabilities.
- we seem to break one chain, once, every other year.
distances were in the decimal tenths or hundredths, like 5.64 k  (kilometer) or 264.4 m (meters).
reflectors and safety: many bikers remove the factory reflectors, we  don't.
chain wear: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory
so far, it is still permissible to carry co2 cartridges in the luggage.
experienced cyclists use a z or n shaped oiling pattern/motion and thez/n oil method (my made-up name)
remember, when facing east, north is to the left and south is to the right.
most canisters, when nearing empty, have low pressure delivery issues; we just swap out canisters at this point.
trailer spare nuts, bolts, washers, and other related trailer/bike parts or spare parts (mount, connector, skewer,  flag, bottle cage, bungee cords, extra ties, velcro straps, straps, ..., ).
the way to get into such a bad situation is to place frame upright against a wall, bench, or furniture in order to work on the bike (assembly or repair) while the bottom of the frame is on the ground (floor, deck, ...).
see sprocket/ring/gear wear both for wear issues and chain noise.
don't confuse permanent with temporary thread lock.
they are two different things and, in our experience, the convertible is better and the dual is not worth owning.
there is always a balancing act between using oil that sticks to the chain and being sticky enough to retain dirt (why wax was introduced to summer oil applications).
keep spare nuts, bolts, and washers handy.
- the distance between the chain tool's back cradle and back wall is fixed and favors a particular (usually specified) chain speed or type (for example 7/8 speed chain versus 9 speed chain; generally a 7/8 speed chain is slightly wider than a 9 speed chain).
- check each end of the trailer mount (bicycle and trailer).
but, see next bullet ...
there are two important points to learn from this physics anomaly.
make any final adjustments.
this tool  information is now consolidated under two functions.
sometimes, just one pulley may say what it is, thus the other pulley is for the other position.
- on occasion, one can sense a steering alignment issue in that the frame and wheels seem to be not lined up.
- the typical human closed fist (balled fist, no outward thumb) held upright at full arm extension, covers about a 7 to 8°arc,
we have found that persistent problems over time often result from uncovered or unnoticeably sharp spoke end on the rim's inner base, or the tire has a single thin radial tire wire
see successful recovery following the note.
another way to reduce the laundry work load upon one's self is to carry/pack only clothing made of easy wash and fast dry (synthetic) material(s) like nylon, rayon, or polyester.
be very careful with jockey wheels, they can be different from one another.
sometimes a pin or rivet sticks out a little more than the other pins or rivets.
- experience: a biker can fill a schrader tire valve at almost any petro station in the world (including fuel, gas, or tire shops).
- the last mark is due east.
we additionally learned to wrap a thick rubber band (or two) around the styrofoam tube to help keep the styrofoam collar on the trailer tongue.
- chain best length: there is no perfect chain length formula that always works for every cassette, crank, derailer, or chain combination.
don't use permanent  threadlock or superglue (except for dire circumstances).
note: some people carry handiwipes to wash/clean/sanitize their hands at the  poop spot, some leave said materials at the bike.
typically, there is no rear barrel adjustor on a front derailer on and at the front derailer but there is often a barrel adjustor on the handlebar end.
on the other hand, virtually  no fuel/petro/gas station can handle putting air through a presta bike tire  valve.
warning: do not use gasoline!
we\'ve done it either way, but very often the sack that the tent comes with will not expand wide enough to allow the ground cloth to be rolled with the tent - use experience and judgment here.
- you are facing 270°.
- no matter how many sprocket rings a derailer bike has, the sprockets themselves must operate a chain using 3/32" (2.38mm) wide rollers, and - while chains get more and more narrower overall for cassettes with more and more sprockets (10 speed and 11 speed rear cassettes) the inside diameter for the chain has remained at 3/32" (2.38mm).
use a combination tooth-brush tool for the actual scrubbing of a chain (use the chain brush for scrubbing exterior plates and rollers, and use the sprocket tooth brush for the interior plates and rollers).
hand wiping a chain dry helps a lot.
- reflective strips can be bought in most good fabric stores or ordered online and added onto clothing and/or gear.
make note of the following ... - cookware that is black or blackened on the outside (the fire side)
more aboutsleeping bags.
they, in turn, got these ideas from kevin kelly at kk.org ( http://www.kk.org/cooltools/archives/001289.php who uses a cork to hold open a sti brake assembly and more recently from alan at ecovelo.info ( http://www.ecovelo.info/2008/07/21/parking-brake/) who has used an elastic hair band to lock down a brake lever.
- hardware issues: - be sure that any white gas stove, minimally, also burns unleaded gasoline.
read  onward for decision indicators.
initially for bbi grads, other mech/tech/wrenches have joined in (from all over the world).
the lining protects the slime from the air valve and normal tube air pressure.
the front crank rings are best cleaned with the crank arm and rings removed from the bike (most upper line bikes allow this, but not all).
it may be wise to have old news paper or disposable rag for handling.
cool on any particular day, when sun shadows are at their shortest, that shadow  is pointing north (because the sun crosses the sky in an arc across the  southern sky).
if you have a cook that  experiments in the kitchen (first of all, be thankful), get a stove with good  control at low flame settings; usually propane systems are better at low heat  settings.
we have had fuel delivered at quite a cost, but it was still,  overall, cheaper than spending a day shopping with many unknown travel  variables.
experience: we cover our integrated brake/shifter assembly with a home made inner tube wrap that keeps dirt and debris out of brake/shifter moving components (because when a bike falls, often the first thing to impact is the brake/shifter lever if there is no guard thus causing the assembly to open and expose the moving components to foreign objects and damage).
the other common kind of bungee net has four mounting hooks and it is  typically used on top of atrailer and typically is mounted as a square  or a diamond cover pattern.
- there are presta to schrader adapters and every biker should carry an adapter regardless of their tire valve type.
'weather out the storm' -
dennis had re-used a quick link maybe 6-8 times (guessing).
- optional: spare tire and tire
- since about 2003, most bike mounted tire pumps, are convertible between schrader and presta tire valve types.
- http://www.bikeschool.com/ united bicycle institute phone: (541) 488-1121 fax: (541) 488-3485 401 williamson way po box 128 ashland, or 97520, usa common bicycle on-tour mechanical issues and solutions a.k.a.
rubbing alcohol or medicinal alcohol (not the same) are commonly found at pharmacies (including muslim countries) and/or hardware, marine, or paint stores (all less common in remote areas).
the chain is long enough if it touches three pulley teeth of either pulley.
always express appreciation - we either give a head nod of thanks  and/or mouth or say the word for "thank you" and/or we give a hand  wave.
- lightning is typically about 1 to 1.5 inches thick.
laundry and/or cleaning your clothes on a bicycle tour: top, bicycle touring checklist, personal bathing ahh, the necessary drudgery of getting clothes washed.
at home, store foam sleeping pads unrolled and re-plug only after  obtaining atmosphere equilibrium.
going too fast downhill with a single wheel trailer - slow down, your life is at risk.
remember the fix is not to tune the spokes by ear, but to incrementally tighten and test in order to remove the wheel wobble.
- the back chain plate just moves along with the pin movement.
- warning: some hand held heat blowers can ignite flammable chain cleaning solvents/penatrants, be very careful, pre-wipe the chain of any free liquid with a clean rag, work in an open ventilated area free of any flammable materials and properly store all used rags and solvents.
it is always optimal if laundry can dry over night (when camp-ing  or hotel-ing and not inhibit travel).
- boil water for about five minutes and then let it cool.
- almost every damaged bike, from shipping, was poorly packed or loose parts were not well bagged or not bagged at all so the result was lost parts or damaged goods.
while cycling, it is common to leave wet gear under a strap or net,  exposed to the wind and/or sun, in order to dry objects.
when one is cycling and there are one or more road side tables and/or rest  areas, learn to take advantage of these facilities for rest/snack breaks.
there are dirt, splatter, and grease concerns (which tend to be cosmetic)
- keep a clean/dry rag or tissue handy, when applying threadlock.
make sure that the rearbarrel adjustor cable housing is 'in' the ferrule.
if a traveler is going to be late and there are reservations, call the  destination facility and let them know the travel status.
- always have night lighting for a bike on a tour.
theory b: squeezing spoke pairs together will strengthen the wheel.
- teflon does not attract dirt or grit and extends the life or usefulness of metal on metal friction.
no matter the weather conditions or altitude.
if the chain side plates have numerals or characters, many technicians try to lay out the chain so the characters can be read while the chain is on the top of the run between the sprockets.
on occasion, while this has not happened to us, one may ask if anyone left any partially used fuel containers.
when placing a tube in the tire, remember to pre-fill the tube with enough air so as to prevent tube folds and to help evenly center the tire on the rim.
also punch about  5 holes, about .25-.35 inches round, .5 inches from the top, evenly spaced; 5  holes, about .25-.35 inches round, about 1.0 inches from the top, evenly  spaced; and 5 holes, about .25-.35 inches round, 2.0 inches from the top,  evenly spaced.
if a cyclist gets a chain with cosmoline, then clean it off (it gunks up the system and collects/holds dirt and dust).
oil and threadlock are not used in conjunction (as the compounds offset each other's properties).
first of all, avoid this kind of mechanical behavior; slow the bicycle down (under 10 mph/16 kph) and stay in control as soon at the first hint of tail wag.
the handlebar bag can be  big or small in size.
this steering wobble, if allowed to continue,  can result in a loss of steering control.
- holding bike tightly in a death grip - loosen grip, deliberately make little, gentle, left-right steering motions - mountain bikes - check shock setting, air compression, holding air?
in theory, this is like tuning/stressing a guitar string, over  tighten a little and then reset it as desired, in theory the stress takes out  any stretch that may occur over time.
- if faced with a choice of having the pin be positioned properly in the near chain plate or the far chain plate, position the pin for the far chain plate and then move the chain to the front cradle and push in (re-position) the pin on just the front plate.
take  advantage of the directional knowledge by facilitating landmarks to help one  maintain a more or less straight/directed line of travel (or else, one will end  up traveling 300 yards/meters in dense foliage and be forced to take  measurements again - line up trees, rocks, or hill tops to assist in  maintaining a visual straight line of travel).
- start the cleanup water boiling while eating the meal.
- coleman and some other competing vendors,  now, have a1 quart (~.97 l) of mostly naphtha (coleman fuel basis) in a  metal container, which is available in some camping type stores.
btw, this issue is one of the few times that weconsider staying at a koa type campground for an overnight - one can usually use their washing machines and clothes dryers (and warm showers are nice too).
experience: we broke a plastic tire tool/lever, and most are  plastic, while removing a trailer tire to fix an inner tube flat.
force one's landing to one butt cheek or the other by rolling or twisting or using the legs and/or arms.
in theory, tire liners lay between the  inner tube and the tire itself, thus presenting a puncture barrier to thorns,  nails, and other objects that cause puncture flats.
of course some wobbles have nothing to do with resonating frames, it could be a loose fitting somewhere, but be alert to resonance.
experience: we have never had an experience in foreign travel where anyone has lied to us about such things.
- place a stick in the ground at a deliberate angle (usually 45-60° to the earth).
"tour books are  like cookbooks, to be used when in doubt."-
cleaning with gasoline is a safety issue and not a cleaning issue.
[the real problem - an inherent design issue]).beware: by not mounting the stop plate for the b-screw correctly, the bicycle assembly person may accidently cause the rear sprocket/cassette to rub against the 'guide pulley' (aka pilot jockey wheel ).
the main issues are: - other drivers want to know where a cyclist is heading: point in the direction that one needs to go, but don't point in a manner that makes it look like a turn signal.
it is a secondary vibration that results from the first vibration which can generate multiple following vibrations.
restated: if someone were about to hit you in the face and the impact were imminent (it's going to happen - stop denial), does one stiffen up and take the impact (no), one deliberately moves their head backward, thus minimizing force of the impact - one is going to be hit no matter what (so actively minimize the damage!).
sometimes one side of the pin/rivet is out too far and the other side is in too far.
- bicycle trailers offer automatic chain wear.
this was particularly noteworthy after a cattle truck splashed by us, but note that cattle and sheep trucks travel on all roads and all off road biking is done in animal country.
folding frame packing checklist (for bike friday frame style bikes) - bicycle: break-down frame packing checklist (for coupled/s&s style bikes, including tandems) derailer, shifting, and shifter - touring issues: top mechanical issues directory no bike performance issue is more frustrating than not being able to get a fully loaded bicycle into low gear for a big hill climb where the hill is right there in front of the cyclist and the cyclist knows to get into low gear and thesticking derailer will not force the chain onto the correct/desired crank ring.
if a bike has more than two rings on the front crank, the smallest ring is called a granny gear, usually this is a third ring but there can be more rings on the front (like on some tandem bikes).
head\/helmet mounted lights are quite an  annoyance and distraction, especially when looking at a person or riding  directly behind another bike as the constant light bobbing and mirror  reflections are particularly fatiguing and stressful to fellow riders - get  some distance and avoid directing light beams into other people's faces.
- always validate proper chain length.
- another capability is that sleeping bag covers provide additional insulation and warmth and can give some summer type bags usefulness into cooler spring and fall temperatures.
propane/butane canisters typically are 4 oz or 8 oz in size.
this is why the expression, 'a picture is worth a thousand words'.
bicycle tour clothing issues top - see how much do i carry/pack?
loaded handlebar bags make the bicycle top heavy and handlebar bags are the leading contributor to 'parked bike' fall over; be sure to read about thebrake lever strap.
x/y chain terminology, like 7/8, means that one chain exists, now, to serve the needs of a 7 sprocket rear cassette or an 8 sprocket rear cassette.
handlebar bags are frequently detached and carried by the biker into museums and other places of interest (where bikes are not allowed).
note: one does not make business near camp, food, or water systems.
closing one's eyes is usually the action that results in the most body damage and the longest recovery time.
- penatrants are not a lubricant,
- warning: a partial trailer load needs to be stored such that it is balanced and won't be able to shift - loads that shift can be dangerous and cause a cyclist to lose balance, control, or a vibration resonance.
issues/questions to consider: will the traveling take place in one area that consistently has the same  fuel sources available?
we own several  different types of stoves, so our systems familiarity is up to speed.
penatrants can sometimes be used as ashort lasting lubricant depending on its viscosity and the penatrant may be mixed with one or more added lubricants (usually in forms of light oil).
riders often slam a shifter into a gear setting, especially the highest and lowest gear positions and may apply much more force than tested on a mechanic's stand.
this is a little tough on 12 year olds because it is trigonometry and most of them are just starting basic algebra.
bikes with short drive chain runs are very sensitive to cross chaining than bikes with long drive chain runs.
- make sure that all the parts are wiped clean.
loctite (usually found in tool stores or hardware stores): - use loctite 222 (temporary) "purple" (colored fluid - not bottle color) on small bolts of less than 7mm diameter.
usually the first thing one does when pitching a tent is place stakes into  the ground, 1, to hold it in place, and 2, rationalize the layout.
- experience: we have mixed chain links, we have used master links on other brand chains (even with a chain size difference), and we have mixed chain segments from different manufacturers, all with no issues for us and all chain issues were later addressed and corrected later at a bike shop.
*remember; don't use the thumb at all in making your fist.
abouthair dryers (assuming that the hotel does not have a fast inexpensive laundry washing service):
caution: tire removal is very difficult on trailers because the  tire is smaller and fits much tighter on the tire rim.
- nd thread lock compounds are less expensive than loctite's.
clean rags work great for removing excess clean oil and for removing dirty grit on the chain.
- to the best of our knowledge, there is no such thing as a one piece propane/butane canister and stove.
also, banana peels on the  ground are verydéclassé.
keep on cycling - aka road survival (things to know to keep moving): - tire shops are a biker's best friend (after bicycle shops).
- traveling to tour destination, for two people, by flight, with bikes (one each): two options, one for business, the other not: - as a business expense: our personal limitation is four pieces of luggage (for two people) and two carry-on briefcases (one each).
it does not take long to learn  typical cyclist patterns and most people know their classification before  starting a group tour.
- more and more places, especially in the usa and europe, do not allow wood fires or open fires.
in fact anyone  could see an exact outline of the edge of the liner on the inner tube.
the very lightest shelter is a plastic tube.
the 's' driving pattern that  worked for me is about 2 or 3 feet, left and right of an imaginary straight  line track (track being the normal course where one proceeds as desired).
it can be a loose crank fitting/retainer or a worn bearing set or race or both.
the food and clothing supplies risk/planning parameters are as follows: when resupply points are closer together (and known), then cyclists can  travel lighter on food and lighter on clothing.
those times are usually weather or climate related (i.e.:, crossing a desert or hot arid plane, cooler temperatures, head wind days, calmer weather, ...).
- bent tooth on a sprocket or cassette.
other fuel/lubricant standards organizations exist, they are generally just as consistent in their presentation), however the 'w' in the term 20w-30 has a different meaning, 'w' means winter and this means that the cold viscosity measure is 20 weight but as the motorized engine warms up, the oil will thicken and take on the behavior of a 30 weight oil (in this example) - this increase of oil viscosity is achieved through the use of added polymers (polymers are like chemical springs that expand as they get warmer, thus causing the fluid properties to chemically thicken or become more viscous).
sunscreen on the forehead will almost always end up in the eyes.
there are a few gap distance exceptions and if the pulley is ever grinding/rubbing on any sprocket/cog/cassette/gear, then widen the distance.
you are not facing the sun, we need to be travelling northeast.
one may top the mattress off with a couple of breaths and then close the valve but avoid wet/moisture breaths, as this may facilitate bacterial growth inside the bag over time).
- the best placement of a chain holder is to hook the pins on each side of the chain end about 1 inch back from each end, thus the end links are ready to be pinned (or master linked).
- the very lightest shelter is a plastic tube.
once one uses a 4 oz spare, then a  numbering system is needed to indicate a practical and functional usage order  (or one goes through all of the mental gymnastics each time one heats something  or one gets stuck with one stove and no backup - not a fun scenario).
sometimes, it is wise to know when to  'hole up' for a day or two or three for passing monsoons, typhoons, hurricanes,  tropical depressions, and/or storm fronts.
if a traveler is going to be late and there are reservations, call the destination facility and let them know the travel status.
ergo, it is wise to have spare links, pins or master links (as is appropriate) and know how to install them.
many bike shops will not allow heat blowers in their facility.
- the cyclist is in the incorrect lane and needs to change:
most tandems have two bottom brackets (which may go by different component names) but a few tandems have three bottom brackets (for independent shifting).
the noise can also come from a pin or rivet that in not filly inserted or it is over inserted (or for other reasons).
in many cases a good channel lock type of pliers can perform many bike wrench requirements/functions.
hardware issues: be sure that any white gas stove, minimally, also burns unleaded gasoline.
alcohol: one needs a taller flame to obtain the highest heat  output.
this is an adjustment better made with the bike upright or in a rack (as opposed to upside down).
mark  it with something small and identifiable that won't blow away.
re-mount intructions - go to the shifter lever/grip/device (for the front derailer, usually on the handlebar, usually on the left side) and (if this exists) set the shifter's ferule out 1-2 full turns from all the way in (one may have to loosen and re-snug the shifter's adjustment barrel's lock ring).
(1) when lighting hits a tree, one of four things happen (not mutually exclusive): - maybe nothing (it happens).
we also put about a one inch depth of baby wipes into a quart sized  plastic zip bag and keep it handily available along with the toilet paper  (which is also stored in a waterproof plastic sandwich bag).
- before re-mounting the chain, insure that the sprockets have been cleaned - the sprocket tooth brush works best.
there usually are no commercial replacement parts or seals, so what you take out must go back in.
- always be analyzing.
some handlebar bag map cases are mounted by snap-on rivets.
it is highly advised (for safety and warranty) that when one installs a 'new' sram 7, 8, or 9 speed chain, one should use a new powerlink(s).
[=2/16] of an inch, then the chain is to be replaced with a new chain (the chain is worn enough to start mal-affecting the rings and sprockets - replace it! -
bike shop or home shop repair: mount the bike on a stand such that it will be easy to work on the cable retainer - usually the best working height is between the waist and chest heights.
- oil refineries (aka distilleries) work very hard to remove wax from raw oil because of the wax's damaging effect in heated enclosed automobile engines.
some long range bike 'tourers' melt some solder into the front derailer cable wire, in the area of where the derailer's pinch bolt meets the cable and at the cable's end/tip.
it was discovered that certain spoke lacing  patterns gave wheels a better/improved strength, flexibility, and durability  over other patterns.
it is wise to: have cooking and cleanup done by night fall.
if the wag is not brought under control by gently but  rapidly slowing down, the wag shake force and wag frequency may increase to the  point of loss of control.
deet cautions: - never apply deet with gloves on - it will ruin the gloves.
if the rest of the chain is ok, then it is ok to consider replacing just that link section, especially if one happens to have a few spare similarly worn links.
that means that one often stops for an extended lunch and hangs laundry on a bike, fence, or picnic table in order to dry items of use.
- mineral oil is also a penatrant.
- canister stoves, are very reliable and don't need servicing like white-gas stoves.
in some cases one may want to use a different colored highlighter  as sometimes the color hides information written in the highlighter's color.
chains with tour loads can usually go 100 miles (150 kilometers) between re-oiling (with good weather and roads).
in most of the rest of the world, the most available fuel type is  unleaded gasoline however, in remote africa, the middle east (oil poor  areas), and remote china the indigenous populations typically cook on alcohol  stoves, thusalcohol can be the primary fuel in some geographic areas.
does the cleaner have any carcinogen properties or any negative environmental properties?
- pannier bag types range from small to large to expedition sized.
this is not an approval for using explosive fuels, but the products in the class of penatrants are currently the most efficient cleaning liquids (efficient: shortest amount of time to get the job done well).
also, sometimes glue (super glue), a small strip of duct tape, resin/sap from a tree, or candle wax can be used.
no visible oil on the plates to be worked upon and no dirt (one may re-lube the chain after it is connected, if necessary).
fuel (propane or liquid fuel) must be  purchased at the destination; purchasing fuel can be a royal pain and easily  take up the majority of a day if one is not suitably prepared.
it can be a slightly loose saddle and/or seat mount (often the creak noise results from very slight body shift for the down stroke of a particular leg).
experience: during the summer, in colorado mountains, we have had water bottles left on bicycle cages freeze or partially freeze overnight.
sometimes, motel/hotel shower caps work well as a bicycle seat's impromptu rain cover.
some known and common problems are discussed herein and solutions are addressed.
so the safest biker behavior for using a penatrant is to make sure that the penatrant is evaporated/removed before adding any further lubrication.
unfortunately two things happen if spokes arenot pre bent: - spokes wear out faster - the wheel rim comes out of true.
we pack out everything but human waste - we never leave trash anywhere.
borrring the earth rotates 15° per hour - ok, this is interesting
- sun screen works as an oil substitute in an emergency.
this can be interesting in the field, especially when your helper weighs 110 pounds and is lifting the rear end of the bike and the tour load is at about 50 pounds
before first light and maybe have packed the tent in a pannier/trailer by  sunrise and the cyclist may be cooking or eating breakfast just after sunrise.
- a strip of tire inner tube with self stick velcro can be used to wrap around an integrated brake-shifter system (to keep debris out).
it is naturally difficult for any quality drive system to down shift into the lowest gear settings when one is already pedaling up a slope.
if one knows the cause of the impact, then one can work better to reverse the effect of the malevolent vector forces.
if the total test measured distance is between 12 + 1/16 inch and 12 + 1/8
sometimes there is a barrel adjustor at the derailer and/or brake.
the insulated braded wire connecting fuel hose (or  something ruggedly similar) allows one to use a oven system that uses a  reflector around the burner such that the entire system can get quite hot (for  baking) and not get so hot as to superheat a mounted fuel tank.
some online education sources top mechanical issues directory - sheldon brown's bicycle technical information - a seminal array of mechanical information, specifications, and specific maintenance tips: sheldonbrown.com.
we carry a second knife in/with the kitchen ware - it is only to be used for cooking and the chief cook will get very  if the knife is used for anything other than kitchen work - all lasting friendships and relationships have boundaries, learn them.
the overall angle between sunrise and sunset locations on the horizon form  winter solstice to summer solstice is 46.9° (23.4° north of an  east-west line to 23.4° south of an east-west line - also a total of six  fists); this is significant and worthy of attention when conducting ded  reckoning.
there is nothing more symptomatic than a brand new chain on a worn sprocket to bring out the noise effect of a worn sprocket but it can just happen over time.
- theory b: squeezing spoke pairs together will strengthen the wheel.
hint 1: fit the cable into the new retainer before fastening the retainer (as the process of attaching the makeshift retainer may block the ability to easily re-thread the cable through or into the replacement retainer).
- do not use a scribe to mark anything on a bike unless it is a mark for cutting or trimming a component.
we long for the day where we can travel somewhere on a flexible and open time schedule.
this is a classic cross-chain situation to avoid when riding, but it makes mechanical assembly work easier for the bike builder.(note that a 'good touring bike' will allow cross chaining, it is a performance efficiency issue).
chain length: top, mechanical issues directory, chain sub-directory for derailer shift systems: - chain too short rule: the chain length is too short when the chain fits around the bicycle's two largest cogs/rings and the chain only contacts two or less teeth of the pulleys (aka jockey wheels) at any time.
- it takes about 15 minutes of time to determine a good east-west line (in lieu of other signs of nature, not discussed here); field expedient e-w lines can be made in 2 or 3 minutes.
one must pay attention, but we find  auto driver behavior to be consistent.
- tail light(s) are a wise investment and may be legally required.
on  longer tours, good cooks like to start experimenting.
always make a point, at first contact with a manager of a destination bike shop, tolet the manager/owner/supervisor know that you wish to re-use the shipping box at the bike tour's conclusion.
meanwhile, as one may now intuit, shimano has different replacement pins for each chain speed and one should never reuse a pin (for warranty, liability, and safety purposes).
make cage alignment marks on the two cage pieces (like matching plus signs on each side of one end) - a lot of cages can be re-mounted upside down.
[from michael @ criterium bike shop, colorado springs].
oil can be filtered at home but there are few applications for home filtered oil - if you have an application, by all means use it (and let me know about it).
we  usually keep soap, toilet paper, sani-wipes, and trash in separate plastic bags  but located in the same pocket/pannier area (usually in front).
- determine where the links will meet and account for whether it is a pin or masterlink connection.
on longer tours, good cooks like to start experimenting.
rear derailer adjustment:
- only one small bottle needed per tour group.
larger, bulky, and less dense objects tend to be placed in the rear:  sleeping bags and pads, tent, ground cloth, dehydrated food, clothing.
rear wheels require a tool or two to remove the cassette so as to access the cassette side, hub flange's spoke mount.
- we're watching the tip of the stick's shadow, the sharper the better.
in the shop , mechanics have a tool called a third hand, which simultaneously pulls out the cable slack (while not pulling on the pinch arm) and allows the mechanic to reset the pinch bolt.
3) reshaping a damaged cage: field solution: - if the cage is damaged or misshaped and one can get the bike to a bike shop, then do so.
- the back cradle (or far cradle) is designed to work on both (outer) chain plates, the front and back chain plates.
- the inside diameter is the distance between two inner plates, not to be confused with the diameter of the roller but it can be the nominal roller width.
in cities, it is a security issue (bike accessories like lights and  pumps seem to dissapear in cities).
note, this can be an issue for people who ship bikes and reassemble the bikes at their destination.
typically, the at-rest-position is the low (l) gear (chain and cage over the largest cog) position or else apply the following logic to the high (h)
before re-chaining, insure that the shifters are set for the large sprockets.
also consider other liquid fuels of the area/region (alcohol, diesel, kerosene, lamp oil, jp4, or cooking oil; use white gasoline or unleaded gasoline as a last resort [its more volatile but manageable]).
caution and caveat from john salzbach of rema tip top, a popular american talc manufacturer/distributor (who corroborates the previous statements) hints that if a tire and tube have been dressed with talc, then one must clean the area to be patched very well or patch security may become "problematic".
a watch's time is set to a time zone so that many nearby locations may operate from common and shared clock time.
in campgrounds, try to not be next door to the latrine, store, shower, or  next to major walk ways; avoid groups that drink alcohol, play/sing music, or  are loud.
sometimes [rear derailer] body adjustment) screw and it usually only needs to be set once in its lifetime.
general: inner tubes, flats and hints: top mechanical issues directory - schrader air tire valves (the type cars use) can be filled at almost every gas/petrol station in the world and presta valves are just the opposite.
caution: be careful opening threadlock, as the contents may be under a little pressure and be extra cautious at altitude when opening a new container.
- always dry the bike as much as one possible can before packing or shipping.
- note: if there is a handlebar bag, some of these items should be carried there.
leave the cover/guard component alone for 24 hours and then mount the cover/guard to the brake/shifter system (see the next picture).
it is rumored that  columbus likely sailed with existing maps of portions of the new world!
no slack in the top chain run.
at best, the food supply can be contaminated and the food can be replaced, or at worst these food destruction activities cause and end to an otherwise nice bicycle tour.
note that there are times in the field where this may give too much slack and allow the chain end to swing into the dirt/ground.
in the field, one can swing the chain (remove loose pieces first, wink) and one can lay out the chain in direct midday hot sunlight.
- experience: there has been many a time when we were very remote and have removed one full link from a broken chain, re-used the same pin, and finished the tour.
warning 4: always plan an escape route in case of flame (think drop and roll, where to go and where to not go).
this dry or less humid time period may be the right opportunity to patch an inner tube (removed during a super wet rain storm) and it may be the right time to perform any maintenance.
- because of chain length fit, one may need to select an adjacent rear sprocket or change front ring selection.
metal hooks make noise but can be noise dampened with rubber/plastic tube wraps/covers.
it will rub the paint and will eventually wear into the frame but it will allow the cyclist to get out of a remotes area.
use all safety practices, to include: open area, over  dirt, cleared space, not indoors, not in a tent nor under a tarp, never pour  fuel into the stove while it has a flame and note that the flame is often  invisible.
- gasoline (a penatrant) can be dangerous to use, water and water soluble products leave water remnants (rust) or cleaning product (corrosion) hidden in the bicycle chain's friction areas (nooks and crannies), and wax is not a lubricant and can cause problems in the long run (dry metal to metal rub and dam further oil penetration).note that other liquid penatrants exist, like diesel fuel, mineral oil, mineral spirits and others; other penatrants may not be as explosive as gasoline but are still more flammable than oil.
if you have a cook that experiments in the kitchen (first of all, be thankful), get a stove with good control at low flame settings; usually propane systems are better at low heat settings.
keep in mind that tread is needed for traction, control, and safety, so the tire's replacement point will still have a safe amount of tread.
fax 719-632-4607 2725 ore mill road #23 colorado springs, co 80904, usa john barnett ( reader's far left in side image) authored the barnett manual, now only available as an electronic book through bbi the 2010 class was an amazing group of experienced people (middle picture, above).
such an indicator is invaluable for re-aligning a derailer in case of damage, repair, removal, or replacement on the trail or at a foreign bike shop.
usually, in 2012 usd's, this assembly service ranges in the 20-25 usd cost range.
- hint: we use a power link for a lube start and end point on the chain; sometimes we mark a link with a permanent and oil proof marker (which seems to last about a month); some people paint a link.
some work effort can be saved by soaking clothing before washing and in  certain cases, apply some soap directly to a soiled or stained area for soaking.
the tour, itself, was still a  good tour and we thoroughly enjoyed the sicilian people and experience.
if too much threadlock fluid/gel is applied to the object, then immediately wipe away the excess or just wipe it clean and start over.
if one can tell by visual inspection or by feel, then it is already beyond time to get a new rim.
the old fashioned  way, boiling, is performed in three stages.
this has possibilities.
most experienced campers will align the entrance at the bottom of the slope (versus the top of the slope or sideways to the slope).
thread lock compounds are toxic - don't touch, clean hands immediately -  read instructions.
- you are facing southwest.
about stealth camping: stealth camping is described as 'camping in a location where the legal  status of camping is unknown.'
- some bikes have eccentric (adjustable) crank housings, reset to shortest adjustment setting (or neutral housing setting and be sure to not move the eccentric's chain line left or right).
this information is contained in older boy scout and wilderness survival hand books.
this method is ok but may miss some/much side plate gap lubrication (between the inner and outer chain plates).
this is particularly an issue in hot climates or hot days where the cyclist(s) must have an early morning start.
- a few people, especially those with a touch of lesdyxia, are prone to reading errors.
clothes dryer lint makes a great fire starter.
the earth's tilt angle to the sun is 23.44° (which roughly translates  to three fist measures - hold that thought;the result of the earth's tilt angle  is indicated in henges and sun temples but it is not likely that the ancients  made the link to the earth's orbit tilt or even realized that the sun was at  the center of earth's orbit).
synthetic clothing, when worn in a fire/hot atmosphere will damage the  human body more than its organic clothing counterpart, in fact cotton and wool  offer a little protection or burn delay when compared to synthetic clothing.
- the bungee net is worth taking on a bike tour where the tour company supplies the bikes.
when spare batteries are placed in storage, tape or place them such that all positive ends are on the same side -
so that a cyclist won't be stranded somewhere, it is often best to not ask.
when soaping a pot, the thinnest of water and soap mixed will serve (don't worry about thick areas - cleans easily).
itsbenefits to bicyclists is that it has  a distinct greasy feel and it is not soluble in water (it works in wet  conditions without turning to mush) and talc can serve as an effective  lubricant between the tire and the inner-tube to keep them from sticking.
inspect the cage and fix if needed.
- penatrants can help clear the way for proper (more viscous) oil lubrication to a chain.
bar (bar) kilogram/square cm (kgf/cm2 or ksc) 42.7 2.90 2.94 3.00 43.5 2.96 3.00 3.06 44.1 3.00 3.04 3.10 50.0 3.40 3.45 3.45 56.9 3.87 3.92 4.00 58.0 3.94 4.00 4.08 58.8 4.00 4.05 4.13 60.0 4.80 4.08 4.22 70.0 4.76 4.83 4.92 71.1 4.84 4.90 5.00 72.5 4.93 5.00 5.10 73.5 5.00 5.07 5.17 80.0 5.44 5.52 5.62 85.3 5.81 5.88 6.00 87.0 5.92 6.00 6.12 88.2 6.00 6.08 6.20 90.0 6.12 6.21 6.33 99.6 6.77 6.86 7.00 100.0 6.80 6.89 7.03 102.0 6.91 7.00 7.14 103.0 7.00 7.07 7.23 110.0 7.49 7.58 7.73 observation: atmosphere, bar, and ksc are all close enough in value that it does not seem to matter for bicycle tire applications.
all the sophisticated system needs, to be damaged, is one tiny one millimeter stone chip, a piece of bark, or a stucco chip to reduce functionality or even ruin a touring trip.
first of all almost no one carries more than 7 days of clothing.
- road signs: - outside of north america a road sign, with a turn arrow or a road turnoff for an approaching street or city, does not necessarily mean that the turn is the very next road turnoff.
ergo, facing east, north is on the left and  south is on the right, and west is behind.
very often, while camping and remote we leave the panniers mounted  on the bikes and only bring in the content sacks.
another capability is that sleeping bag covers provide additional  insulation and warmth and can give some summer type bags usefulness into cooler  spring and fall temperatures.
we have seen new and remounted bottle cages get in the way of the chain run, the bottles themselves, pannier mount and rack pieces,pannier bottom, and a tire pump get in the way of a clean chain run or block derailer movement.
at about 12,000 feet (3650 m) or higher, liquid gasoline fuel systems burn more efficiently and controllable than propane/butane fuel systems.
those that typically arrive to camp early and those that typically arrive later.
"we woke to deer in  the field this morning."
propane (or other butane blend) and unleaded/white-gas still remain the  most popular, in that order.
- best practice: carry a second chain and alternate chains, about weekly or as a result of poor riding conditions like rain or mud.
also note that many different sized and shaped spokes exist.
the rider must stop for health reasons to let the body rest and  recharge itself, hopefully with water and nutrition.
some touring cyclists do not travel with a handlebar bag; typical reasons for not using a handlebar bag are its added travel weight and weight added to the front-end steering thus effecting speed, response quickness, and maneuverability.
permethrin cautions (proper usage requires prior clothing wash or spray application): - cats die every year from flea and tick baths (containing permethrin) meant only for dogs - kills ticks on contact, kills lice and some mites associated with mice carriers, prevents mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue fever and malaria and probably west nile disease - travelers keep reporting that they are not bothered by insects while on tropical outings (when other people were bothered mercilessly) - is meant for clothing only (do not use on a living body) - is used by spraying clothing or dip washing clothing - seems to be effective up to six clothing washes - complements deet which usually cannot be placed on clothing, especially anything synthetic - has seen prior military and european exposure - is a relatively new insect repellent to the usa public - is not for direct skin contact - read the instructions!
if a cyclist doesn't have a waterproof trailer bag then use waterproof dryseal or plastic/rubber bags for clothing and anything that needs to be dry.
- second of all, many bike derailer hangers can be bent back into alignment with a special bike tool (in a shop - best option), a large adjustable wrench (preferred field option), or large tongue and groove pliers (second field option).
- tuck shoe string ends under the shoe string, especially on the crank rings side (or the shoe string may get caught between the chain and drive sprocket).
the moisture from the breath will rob the bag of its insulating  capabilities.
there is nothing wrong with blackened pot sides, in fact dark exteriors on pots/pans makes them heat faster, one just doesn't want suet on packed cooked ware as it dirties other gear or containers.
however ... caution: sometimes, bikers part ways or loose bikes or equipment (for a  variety of reasons).
freshly applied penatrants can cause oil to fling off a moving bike chain.
[i can say from experience]).
this process is expensive and time consuming
- avoid dense brush/growth areas as there is no way to stop a fast moving fire (started nearby).
this is especially helpful to bicyclists who are often at the end of  a long day and may not want to expend or even have the energy for being lost or  for back tracking.
also, hard pedal pressure meant to bike out of a cage trapped chain often breaks the chain.
a person can reset the rear derailer to contiuously run on just one sprocket.
sometimes the derailers are not labeled and one just has to figure it out.
- tents without bottoms are lighter weight.
the shield is part of a segment of metal chimney stove pipe (already  pre-curved).
if one has a  choice, the small tube is more functional for bike touring than the little  bottles but a little bottle is better than nothing.
the cyclist is in the incorrect lane and needs to change:
liquefied gas (propane/butane) stove advantages and disadvantages: it is not unusual for temperatures in the desserts or mountains to reach  freezing but for us, our propane stove has never been mal affected.
but it is the most efficient bicycle chain cleaning method.
how often should one wash clothes?
perform laundry tasks on warm/hot sunny days; avoid the  necessity of performing laundry tasks on cloud covered, cool, wet humid or  rainy days.
experience: we have learned from our mountain bikes that the bar ends can protect and guard the brake and/or shifter system from damage.
the situation had the potential  for becoming much worse.
- some derailers need to be fit perfectly and that is the only way they will work (to anyone's satisfaction) -
- some derailer to mount bolt threading can be funky.
if the container has a small cap, then a wire or coat hanger may be needed for fetching the chain.
we use the same liquid (green) soap for dishes, laundry, and personal  washing.
see next marking bullet.
note that some rings and cassette sprockets are one piece and that the entire unit may need to be replaced.
- while on tour, apply threadlock to nuts and bolts as they are discovered loose (or for replacement of missing fasteners).
make a hobo stove per the  previous instruction.
- a cyclist usually makes arrangements to have a tent strike (take down)
a cyclist usually makes arrangements to have a tent strike (take down)
the cyclist actually points to the spot that one  need to be.
at the time of this writing  (2007), good computers run $25-50 (usd) and simple computers are available for  $15.
in the field, accept good enough.
the device is pretty much like a metal finger that fits next to the chain egress to insure prompt chain-sprocket separation.
vibra-tite (nd industries; nylok-detroit corporation) - usually found in tools stores: - nd part# 111 (equivalent to loctite 222) - nd part# 121 (equivalent to loctite 242) - nd part# 146 (equivalent to loctite 277) - nd part# 137 (equivalent to loctite 272) - their coloring scheme seems to match loctite's color scheme - their product numbers are different from the part numbers.
if packing a wet tent (it happens): fold wet tent inside the ground cloth and stop to sun dry the tent at the first opportunity (which is often in the mid day sun and it beats waiting for four or five hours for the sun to come up).
the pot will become very black but the places that were soaped will come out shiny clean after a wash.
fuel bottles, usually (to be purchased) should be in about 25-30 ounce  sizes.
no matter the  weather conditions or altitude.
see - aboutautomobile oil viscosity.
sometimes a person may find two cans such that one fits inside the other - use the bigger can for storage and for extinguishing the fire.
sram states that the quick link, for liability purposes, is a onetime use component.
- wax can protect metal.
- touring issue: on camping type tours that are longer than three days, it is wise to have two stoves, period.
foam is heavy, therefore weight/depth trade off compromises exist.
the best option for assembling factory shipped or personal transported bicycle is touse a mechanic's work stand.
food/cooking in tent issues: warning: there is a strong need to not cook in, or have food in, the  tent.
choice, use the existing derailer or remove the derailer!
- many auto parts stores and many specialty lube shops conduct oil recycling.
have water handy, a cover, and/or something like a large  thick flannel shirt.
if spokes aren't bent into shape for their crossing pattern  from the factory, the spokes will eventually become bent for their shape on  their own just by regular bike use over time.
we have found the simple battery inside the led light device (vs separate battery) mounted on the handlebar/steer tube/fender to be quite sufficient for touring, both for seeing and for being seen.
all  lasting friendships and relationships have boundaries, learn them.
- 70-80% of the time, mystery shifting is caused by drive train miss-alignment.
bad things can happen when one's routine gets interrupted or changed.
- dennis struck bicycle assembly issues and lessons (especially for a shipped bicycle): top, mechanical issues directory, assembly/disassembly: overview, issues, and more details, tools assembly work area (for a packed or shipped touring bicycle): 1)
we try not to pause, or it messes up the smooth flow of the other traffic.
if all conditions are the same, the more space that there is between rear sprockets the less likely the effect of cross chaining (causing side rub wear and causing chain noise) - thus improving long distance endurance and dependability.
if a cyclist doesn't have a waterproof  trailer bag then use waterproof dryseal or plastic/rubber bags for clothing and  anything that needs to be dry.
- sometimes, one must ride out with a limited gear selection.
" - lightning does not always seek the tallest tree, it can hit any tree (or any other object for that matter) and lightning can strike the same object more than once.
this method is ok but may miss some/many center rollers.
the better that one understands mechanical systems and processes, the better that one can survive at the edge.
- signage for turnoffs is problematic in old towns.
- burners on top of tall propane/butane canisters are prone to having large pots of food tip over, even from a good gust of wind (because of their narrow canister base).
field emergency replacement: if a walk out is not practical and the cable retainer has been broke to the point that it is missing or is unusable then the rider needs to get real creative for a functional solution.
warning (experience): use the rear brake, as using the front brake seems to exasperate any resonance.
one seldom has time and money at the same time.- dennis struck - self supported, experienced, touring cyclists like, either: - propane stove systems (like optimus or primus systems) with a detached fuel canister.
punch 4-5 holes about 1.5-2 inches up from the bottom, evenly spaced, about .25-.35 inches round.
there are many bikes out there on their original rings and sprockets (those bikes are not used for touring).
alex ramon also has some very good repair manuals published.
the slack while you reset the pinch bolt.
furthermore, soap-water solutions give tires a slightly tacky bead for installing and sealing bicycle and automobile tubeless tires to the rim.
if adding a chain segment (to replace the broken or removed chain segment), add to one end of the chain, now.
choose for tour needs and resolve all compatibility, fitting, and security issues.
it is mounted with electrical conduit  brackets, that are shaped like the letter "p", using very short  carriage bolts, small washers, lock washers, and plastic locknuts.
most money changers will not issue small bills and rarely will they issue coins.
there  is a third spoke adjustment direction (fore/aft-torsion) but only advanced and  very unusual spoke lacing patterns need to address this issue and it's better  left to wheel persons.
the chain actually lines up squarely on the sprockets in varying h/h and l/l combinations - this is good.
- when riding with other bikers, blinking tail lights are quite an annoyance and distraction - run on steady.
the issue is that the cable retainers/channels will likely be damaged (squished, collapsed, or miss-shaped).
tubes  do stick to tires on occasion, just from being pressed together over a time  frame, but it doesn't appear to be cause for tire lube alarm.
doing laundry is especially problematic if one is staying at hotels where there is no laundry service (which is more common than people realize, especially for foreign travel in rural areas [where most bike travelers expect/want to tour]).
- on occasion, a bike accident, crash or fall will have caused the rear derailer mounting point on the frame to bend.
john barnett states that whether a chain has bushings or not does not affect the chain oiling method [barnett manual dx, ver 7, ch 26, 2010].
do not put any stress on the frame or wheels.
- all pin and plate logical solutions can only involve pin pushing.
per tool adjustment action.
night lighting (bike or helmet; head, tail, or other; blinking or steady, battery or generator): top - we generally do not leave our bike light on the bike during daylight hours for mountain trails or rough dirt roads
- cloud top to ground - the top of the cloud is positive charged and the lightning discharge seeks negatively charged ground.
talc color  ranges from white to grey or green and can be used by bicycle mechanics in its  powder form (most common, using a powder brush) or (sometimes) as a wide chalk  like stick.
international travel issues with stoves and fuel: one cannot fly with fuel!
- you are facing  southwest.
- in light traffic in small towns we follow the normal rules of etiquette, to include proper lane selection, but nine times out of ten, everyone one else usually yields to a biker in the circle.
- generally, select and pack clothing for a layers capability.
- when overnighting in freezing temperatures (this can be any mountain in the middle of summer), pay careful attention to not let water freeze.
talc  is particularly effective during the tube inflation process.
- we have seen melted plastic knobs on gasoline and propane stove systems, avoid plastic knobs buy systems with all metal components (or as little plastic as is possible).
we threw sand and dirt on it to put the flame out.
measurements at mid day can be  taxing and difficult.
issues with only text/written directions: each subsequent direction can be based on getting the predecessor  direction correct.
sometimes these systems leak while transported, especially if the fuel  is under pump pressure.
sometimes  on must wait a few hours or in really bad cases, a few day for deep penetration  with wd-40 or liquid wrench type products.
- the best field practice is to alternate between two chains, thus the new spare chain can have time to let the penatrant evaporate (24 hrs).
in addition, all of the reflective material on the saddle bags and clothing help with making a biker much more visible at night.
- there may be tiny (plastic or vinyl) seals; in the field: one should not disassemble any further, just clean out the old dirty grease as best one can.
it is the rollers that wear out (inner diameter and outer diameter) and give cause to replace the chain.
this may not have any meaning but some people suspect that the chinese, whose civilization had and studied the compass before any other known civilization, may have had a compass before the last magnetic pole change on earth.
struck camping and outdoor travel issues top - at all times, on the road or in camp, a cyclist should be able to quickly find the following items: these items and their location should be known while they are on the bike as well as in the tent or in the detached handlebar bag (carried into museums and such).
perform laundry tasks on warm/hot sunny days; avoid the necessity of performing laundry tasks on cloud covered, cool, wet humid or rainy days.
- enter an iteration cycle of adjusting and micro adjusting the derailer longitudinally and angularly and spin the pedals while shifting as needed.
if one doesn't have a waterproof pannier, its better to use waterproof rubber/synthetic storage bags for clothing and for anything that needs to be dry.
- start at the l or h screw that represents the at-rest-position: the at-rest-position is where the cage goes when it is un-connected to the shifter cable.
- subjective opinion about using automobile oil (from cyclist information sharing): why consider auto oil to lubricate a bicycle chain?
about a carry bag/case for bicycle transport: top listed separately is a detailed description ofbicycle packing for shipping or transport please note that there are many times when, if one asks if one can carry a bike on public transportation, the answer will be "no."
there was  absolutely no indication that the touring instructions would be in text,  otherwise we would have bought a bicycle computer.
note: do the best for the situation at hand and think about others that may follow.
- where found in some areas, a four inch hammer stone will work just fine - good campers leave a good stone for the next site user.
this offers thebest risk coverage for  international travel but forces one to carry more fuel/weight.
we have been in some very intense lightning storms and we have sat out many heavy duty thunder showers.
if some other  vehicle is there, if the situation is right, perhaps ask them to position their  vehicle to protect you and/or get their approval to use their vehicle as a  protection barrier.
take a round metal cylinder and flatten it and then fold the sides like a taco.
the tip of the shadow will move east as the sun travels west.
liquid soaps rule (versus powder).
- some bikes have adjustable fore-aft rear axle mounts, reset to shortest adjustment setting (realizing that one can lengthen but not shorten the run).
- taking the chain off the bike and rag scrubbing the chain in a pie-tin or disposable plastic sandwich box or any open container will get a chain fairly clean.
all markings  are the international sign for don't step, dig, or go here.
soap and water works great for cleaning one's self but dirty grimy greasy stains on the hands, arms, or face may last for days and stains on clothing may be permanent in the field but take much effort to remove at home.
better bag systems  have partitions with velcro flanges/edges that allow a cyclist to position  partitions as desired.
it is a weight reduction  measure (by the mfgr) that puts a burden on the cyclist to guard for gear wear.
go for a good test ride.
a double pad is the same weight as two pads,  bulkier to carry for one person, but the benefit is that the pad never  separates and most double pads still allow different fill/pressure levels for  each side.
shape it such that the flat c's wide points are 1.9 to 2.0 inches apart.
it is easy to thread a chain on the wrong side of a tension arm brace in the middle of a tension arm (thus grinding the chain on the cross bar, brace, or guard).
it is wise to consider the dressing customs of destination countries.
lightning can cause a fire in the tree or on the ground.
synthetic sleeping  bag materials tend to be heavier than goose down for the same amount of  insulation r value.
- solutions/answers for stove selection:
- double pads are great for facilitating zip together sleeping bags.
warning: the beginning of a rain shower/storm is statistically the worst time for any vehicle because water on the roadway causes oil spills/drips/seeps to surface - oil floats on water.
cut an old tire inner tube to the shape demonstrated in the picture.
thread lock chemical  compounds, in general: thread lock is an anaerobic (sets without air) expansion compound that  takes on the property of glue.
chain degreaser spray will also work on the bike (repeat use, just like for bottle shake).an advantage is that splatter on the bike can be washed off with a water bottle and rag.
btw, leaning a bike in a public access way or area or against a window or door is considered rude behavior in most of the world ( always set a good example).
- water always freezes at 32° f / 0° c, but at higher altitudes with dry humidity (mountains), it feels warmer!
- penatrants can briefly serve as an emergency lubricant for a short period of time (typically about 2 to 4 hours).
bolts and nuts may (and often do) unfasten in the middle of a tour, possibly leaving a cyclist stranded but more likely adding a couple of unexpected days to a tour in an undesirable location while the cyclist(s) figure a way to manage the effects of a broken or missing bike part.
if one pulls a derailer cable wire by the 'end cap' (aka crimp), one will likely pull off the end cap and the cyclist will not be able to remount the end cap and therefore will have loose strands at the cable's end, thus making it more difficult to grasp the cable end for any derailer maintenance.
- propane/butane canisters typically are 4 oz or 8 oz in size.
this is a non-issue if the bike's frame has the stop plate (versus the stop plate being on the rear derailer).
white gas stoves to be used for international travel should also burn  kerosene & diesel fuels as well as unleaded gasoline (use the lowest  octane automobile fuel).
mark all bottles and/or canisters in the desired usage order (using judgment for different sizes, partial vs full, and when/where for the next supply opportunity).
this is ok for cooking for 1 to 3 people, but not ok for  larger groups (too time consuming, too ineffienct).
screw(there are people who can feel and/or hear a perfect adjustment).
tires  get hot on hot days from the sun and from heavy loads (like from touring), but  tires don't get hot from just riding around (like for autos and trucks).
don't pitch a tent at any low point, river  bed, gully, depression, drain channel, or flash flood area/plain.
dennis had to grab one, once, and run it out of an extra large tent of a wilderness base camp.
- in cold air situations, it is very wise to sleep with the head outside of the bag and to wear a cap on the head (stocking cap is best).
- when travel survival matters, it is better to push a bike for 10 feet now, to coax the shifter & chain into the correct sprocket ring, rather than to push the bike for 10 miles, a minute from now, with a broken chain.
we have a map, a route to travel that requires a northwest heading, but we don't have a compass.
- stuff all unused/extra shipping protection bags into one bag (usually the biggest bag) to help keep them organized for later use - safety reflectors, tape, cloth, and/or flag(s) - wheel grease (2 oz tube available at good bike stores) and/or oil - owners manual, repair manual, packing/assembly manual - owner information demographics list with the cyclist's home and away contact numbers and another dependable number like a close friend or relative that is likely to be around or available during the travel absence (like a parent) - itinerary with accommodation telephone numbers trailer tongue collar:
generally, from experience, we pack wet and move out (in these  conditions).
plastic sheet or ground cloth (aka foot print): place under the tent bottom, protects tent bottom from wear, keeps  dirt/mud off tent, allows clean tent folding/packing, for packing - shake and  the fold ground cloth dirt side to inside.
only one small bottle needed per tour group.
if the rear derailer has the b-screw stop plate mounted to the rear derailer (versus the bike frame having the stop plate)then the bicycle assembly person has to re-set the stop plate in the correct position,unfortuneately there are usually a couple different stop plate mounting position choices (it is often not 'idiot proof'
- north is at 0° which is the same as 360°, east is at 90°, south is 180°, west is 270°.
* chain size for 6 speed chains: 3/32" (2.38mm) i.d.; 7.6-8.0mm o.d. (8.0mm + is common).
use matches up to about 11,500 (3500 m),  then magnesium strikers.